Report No. 521a-Pti                                                                       FILE    Copy
Philippines RLASEQ                                                                        FL  COpy
Appraisal of the Tarlac Irrigation
Systems Improvement Project
December 3, 1974
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
Irrigation and Area Development Division
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. it may nol
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00        =    Pesos (t) 6.72
1 1.00         =    US$0.149
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 hectare (ha)                =    2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)              =    0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)            0.3886 square miles
1 meter (m)                   =    39.37 inches
1 square meter (m2)           =    10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)                  35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (Mm3)  =    810.7 acre feet
1 millimeter (mm)             =    0.039 inches
1 kilogram (kg)               =    2.2 pounds
1 cavan (paddy)               =    50 kg
20 cavans                     =    1 metric ton
INITIALS AND ACRONYMS
APIP           Aurora Penaranda Irrigation Project
BAE            Bureau of Agricultural Extension
BPI       =    Bureau of Plant Industry
CRIS      =    Camiling River Irrigation System
DAR       =    Department of Agrarian Reform
NIA       =    National Irrigation Administration
NISIS     =    National Irrigation Systems Improvement Study
PDD            Project Development Division
SM-ORIS        San Mfiguel-O'Donnell River Irrigation System
TRIS      =    Tarlac River Irrigation System
UPRP      =    Upper Pampanga River Project



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .....................-i
I.  INTRODUCTION... ....                                             1
II. BACKGROUND.. 1
General .      .......................,                   1
The Agricultural Sector..                 .               2
The Critical Role of Water Development .......P....  2
Project Formulation         .      .e*......              3
III.   THE PROJECT AREA .................... . .  4
General ..................... 4
'.limate ........ ,. ......                               4
Topography, Drainage and Soils               ....  5
Land Tenure and Farm Size                   . . .         5
Existing Irrigation Facilities        .      .........   7
Agricultural Production ..........................   7
Transportation                                            7
IV.   THE PROJECT ...................................... .   8
Project Works .        .... ........ ...                  8
Water Supply, Demand and Quality         . . .            9
Status of Engineering ...................... ..., 10
Groundwater Pilot Project                ....... 11
Water Management Training                ...             12
National Irrigation Systems Improvement Study .... 12
Cost Estimates             ...13
Financing                      ...  14
Procurement         ................ . ,....     . .,.   14
Disbursements .       .................. .               15
Accounts and Audit           ...                         15
Environmental Effects ..                .................... 15
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. E.G. Giglioli, R.L.P. Harris (Bank), S.J. Baker and H.R. MacDonald
(Consultants).



-2-
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT       ...........................  15
Project Management .............. . ........  15
Supporting Agricultural Services ...      ....... 17
Recovery of Cost ...............  ..     ........ 18
P-
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM
INCONES .................................................   19
Production  ....   ...................................  19
Market Prospects    .................................   20
Prices ...    .......................................  20
Farm Incomes ..     ..................................  20
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ......   .....................   21
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..     ..............  22
ANNEXES
1.  Central Luzon Irrigation Development
2.  Climatological Data
3.  Land Tenure and Reform
4.  Project Works
5.  Water Supply, Demand and Quality
6.  Groundwater Pilot Project
7.  Water Management Training
8.  National Irrigation Systems Improvement Study
9.  Cost Estimates
10.  Equipment List
11.  Schedule of Expenditure and Disbursements
12.  Organization and Management
13.  Supporting Agricultural Services
14.  Present and Projected Cropping Patterns and Production
15.  Marketing and Prices
16.  Crop and Farm Budgets
17.  Farm Labor Analysis
18.  Economic Analysis
CHARTS
Implementation Schedule No. 8923
Proposed Organization for Project Construction No. 8921
Proposed Organization for Operation and Maintenance No. 8920
Proposed Organization for Loan Projects Coordination No. 8922
Proposed Cropping Calendars No. 8919



- 3 -
MAPS
Central Luzon Basin No. 10769R
Project Area: SM-ORIS and TRIS No. 11137
Project Area:  CRIS               No. 11138






PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECI
SUMMARY
i.        The Government of the Philippines has requested Bank Group
assistance to carry out the Tarlac Irrigation Systems Improvement E'roject
located in Central Luzon. The project consists of the rehabilitation of
three existing irrigation systems now serving a total area of 21,000 ha
and the construction of new systems on some 13,000 ha. The project: also
provides for a groundwater pilot project to assess the technical and
economic feasibility of supplementing surface irrigation with groundwater
- and a training program for water management staff. In addition the
project includes provision for carrying out a study of the nationaL irriga-
tion systems to prepare a pipeline of system improvement projects.
ii.       According to the Bank's Agriculture Sector Survey, an annual
total of 50,000 ha of newly constructed or rehabilitated irrigation de-
velopment on rice lands would have to be carried out over the remaiLnder
of the decade to allow the country to achieve foodgrains self-suff:iciency.
The modern high yielding rice varieties demand improved water control for
optimum results. The proposed project would be the third in a ser:Les
of Bank-assisted projects aimed at improving irrigation for rice cropping
in Central Luzon, the largest rice producing region in the Philipp:Lnes.
The first was the Upper Pampanga River Project (Loan 637-PH) and the second
the Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation Project (Loan/Credit 984/472-PH). To date
all Bank assisted irrigation projects in the Philippines have been aimed
at providing greater water supplies for dry season irrigation by building
storage dams. The proposed project would be the first Bank-assisted project
to improve and expand existing run-of-the-river systems without providing
additional water from storage.
iii.      Total project cost, including the groundwater and training elements
together with the systems improvement study, is estimated at iP 228.5 million
(US$ 34.0 million) of which US$12.7 million, or approximately 37%, would
be in foreign exchange. The Bank would finance the foreign exchange com-
ponent as well as US$4.3 million of local currency requirements. Civil
works costing US$ 16.2 million would be carried out by contract. Because
of their nature the works would not be suitable for international competi-
tive bidding. The total cost of equipment to be put to international
competitive bidding would be US$3.5 million. The Government's executing
agency, the National Irrigation Administration (NIA), would employ consult-
ants to provide general guidance and expertise and to assist with the
training required for the groundwater pilot project, the systems improvement
study and the water management training program. The project would take
four years to execute.



- ii -
iv.       The Government of the Philippines would be the borrower and NIA
would be the executing agency for the project. All elements of the project
would be implemented by the Upper Pampanga River Project (UPRP) office.
The UPRP is well staffed with competent personnel and with the employment
of consultants would be able to implement the project successfully. An
Agricultural Development Coordinating Council (ADCC) would be established
in the project area to ensure coordination of the Government agencies pro-
viding agricultural supporting services to the farmers.
v.        At full development, nine years after project commencement, annual
paddy production from the project area is expected to reach 155,000 tons
compared with a current level of production of 94,000 tons. The increased
production would make a contribution to the national campaign for self-
sufficiency by providing enough rice to feed a third of a million people
per year.
vi.       Under the Government's agrarian reform program share cropping has
been declared illegal and title to land in holdings of 24 ha or more is now
being transferred to the cultivators. When the transfer is completed, ten-
tatively the end of 1974, two thirds of the project area lands will be farmed
by owner-operators and the rest by leasehold tenants of small landlords. The
project area is cultivated by some 17,700 farm families working an average
unit of 1.9 ha. The project would result in rises in annual per capita in-
come on an average farm size from about US$95 at present to US$135 at full
agricultural development in 1983. These levels of income would still be
low in comparison with the national average.
vii.      The project would require a tighter cropping timetable to allow
for irrigation over a larger area and would not provide for any significant
increase in cropping intensity or labor requirements. The economic rate
of return of the project is expected to be about 15%. The rate of return
is sensitive to increases in cost and delays in benefits. However, even
under extremely adverse conditions, the rate of return would not fall below
11%.
viii.     The proposed project is suitable for a Bank Loan of US$17.0 million
for a period of 25 years, including a 7-year grace period. The borrower
would be the Republic of the Philippines.



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJEC'T
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Philippines has requested Bank assLstance
in financing the Tarlac Irrigation Systems Improvement Project in Central
Luzon. The project would provide a dependable water supply to irr:Lgate
about 34,000 ha of rice in the wet season and 6,200 ha in the dry season.
1.02      The National Irrigation Administration (NIA) prepared the
feasibility study for the project. This report is based on the findings
of an appraisal mission which visited the Philippines in April/May 1974,
composed of Messrs. E.G. Giglioli, R.L.P. Harris (Bank), S.J. Baker and
H.R. MacDonald (Consultants).
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      The Philippines covers about 298,000 km2 scattered over more than
7,000 islands between the Pacific Ocean and the China Sea. The 45 largest
islands account for 98% of the area. The population is around 40 million
(1973), growing at 3% per year. Real GNP grew at 5 to 6% during the last
decade. Economic performance improved dramatically in 1973 when real GNP
grew by 10% led by booming exports, strong recovery in agriculture after
the 1972 floods and an improved investment climate. 1974 shows similar
buoyancy despite the adverse effects of the energy crisis. Major remaining
economic problems are inflation, unemployment and unequal income distribution.
Per capita GNP in 1972 was about US$220. 1/
2.02      Out of a total land area of some 30 million ha, more than half is
in forests and about one-third under cultivation or in plantations. About
2.0 to 2.5 million ha of fairly level land is still available for growing
crops, though some 1.0 million ha of this is cogon grassland which would
be hard to reclaim. Bringing this additional land under cultivation would
be insufficient by itself to meet increasing food needs or to improve
rural incomes significantly. These goals call for increasing production
from currently cultivated areas through yield improvements and increased
cropping intensity where water is available.
1/   World Bank Atlas, 1974.



-2-
The Agricultural Sector
2.03      Agriculture accounts for about one-third of net domestic product,
one-half of total employment and 70% of commodity export earnings. During
the 1960s the rate of growth of agricultural output accelerated gradually
and averaged 4.7% per year for the 1965-70 period, stimulated by the spread
of improved rice varieties. Employment in agriculture, on the other hand,
leveled off toward the end of the decade. Most of the increase in the labor
force between 1965 and 1970 was in non-agricultural employment, and the
unemployment rate in rural areas has remained high.
2.04      With the growth of agricultural output and little change in employ-
ment, productivity per worker in agriculture increased between 1965 and 1970,
while non-agricultural labor productivity remained much the same. The result
has been to narrow the gap in incomes between workers in agriculture and in
other sectors, although agricultural incomes are still substantially lower.
Farmers using improved technology, such as the new rice varieties, have
shared in the higher incomes, but those continuing in traditional ways have
been largely unaffected.
2.05      There is considerable pressure of people on land in the Philippines,
where the population density is 131 people/km2 compared with the Asian
average of 86. Lowland areas best suited for rice have been fully occupied
for over a decade. Migration is heavy from the overcrowded regions of
Central Luzon and the Visayas to the Cagayan Valley in northeastern Luzon
and Mindanao in the south.
2.06      Agricultural sector performance will be crucial in determining
whether the drive towards a more rapid but more equitable income expansion
succeeds. The major goals are self-sufficiency in cereals, particularly
rice and corn; expansion of agricultural exports; intensification of
agrarian reform; better conservation of natural resources; and strengthening
of institutional support.  Self-sufficiency in cereals is important not only
to strengthen the balance of payments, but also to raise incomes for much
of the rural population.
The Critical Role of Water Development
2.07      The Philippines cannot reach self-sufficiency in rice without
substantial investment in irrigation expansion and improvement. Performance
of irrigation systems in the country falls far short of their potential.
The Sector Survey 1/ estimates that, out of a total of 960,000 ha which
could be served by existing irrigation systems, only 630,000 ha are served
in the rainy season and 254,000 ha in the dry season. Almost all of the
irrigated area is devoted to rice. The NIA's gravity systems are the main
component. In addition, NIA has constructed or rehabilitated a substantial
1/   IBRD Agricultural Sector Survey, Philippines, May 2, 1973 (Report No.
39a-PH).



- 3 -
part of the small privately operated communal systems, averaging 250-300
ha. The Irrigation Services Unit, now under NIA's administrative super-
vision, is responsible for pump irrigation schemes. The 104 NIA gravity
systems, varying in size from 130 ha to 83,000 ha, are usually run-of-the-
river schemes with insufficient control structures in the canals, inade-
quate drainage and little provision for access. Even when the systems are
new, water distribution is uneven during the wet season and limited during
the dry season. Maintenance has been minimal due to shortages of staff
and funds and the lack of access roads for maintenance machinery. A vicious
circle has developed by which lack of maintenance discourages farmers from
paying operation and maintenance charges, which in turn precludes f-urther
maintenance.
2.08      This unsatisfactory situation began to change in the late 1960s.
The NIA was reorganized, more advanced irrigation designs were introduced
and much higher levels of water management aimed at. SimultaneousLy the
need for intensified agricultural supporting services on irrigation projects
was realized. The Bank-assisted Upper Pampanga River Irrigation Project
(Loan 637-PH) (UPRP) and the Angat-Magat Integrated Agricultural Development
Project, assisted by the Asian Development Bank, typify the new approach.
The pattern of rehabilitation, new construction and operation exemplified
by these projects is essential for large-scale rice production. Indeed,
to meet domestic rice demand in the 1970s, a program of rehabilitation and
new construction in the rice lands of 50,000 ha per year will be needed for
the remainder of the decade. The proposed Tarlac Irrigation Systems Improve-
ment Project would thus fit in well with Government objectives for water
resources development.
Project Formulation
2.09      This would be the first Bank-assisted irrigation project in the
Philippines to improve existing run-of-the-river systems without providing
additional water to expand dry season cropping. As such it would be a
prototype for future projects to be prepared under the proposed National
Irrigation Systems Improvement Study (NISIS) (paras 4.18-4.19). Such
projects are low-cost, quick-yielding, reach large numbers of small farmers
and are therefore of widespread relevance for all regions of the Philippines.
Although the Central Luzon Irrigation Development Study (Loan/Credit 984/
472-PH) will establish investment priorities for irrigation development in
the entire Central Luzon basin, it is reasonable to proceed with the Tarlac
project at this time for the following reasons:
(a) the improved Tarlac systems would be able to handle
additional dry season flows from either storage or
groundwater sources. The proposed project would there-
fore be the logical next step towards intensifying rice
production in the Tarlac area. Besides being tech-
nically and economically justified in its own right,
it would shorten the time to full development of future
projects identified by the Central Luzon Study and/or
the proposed groundwater pilot project (paras 4.12-4.15);



-4-
(b) in terms of soils, land use, farm size and existing
level of irrigation facilities, the project area is
highly suitable for modernization of rice cultivation,
being similar to the various systems being rehabili-
tated and expanded under the UPRP;
(c) as an extension of an ongoing project, it would take
full advantage of the organization and facilities set
up to construct and operate the UPRP. In particular,
it would benefit from economies of scale in operation
and maintenance and development of coordinated agri-
cultural supporting services.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project is located in Central Luzon, the largest rice producing
region in the Philippines, which contains about 20% of the area planted to
rice annually and accounts for 27% of total national production. The mean
rice yield in the region is about 30% above the national average. This is
due to the existence of irrigation systems in the area and the rapid adop-
tion of high yielding varieties developed by the International Rice Re-
search Institute (IRRI) and the College of Agriculture of the University
of the Philippines at Los Banos. Irrigation development in Central Luzon
and the role of the proposed project in that development are described in
Annex 1.
3.02      The proposed project covers some 34,000 ha located mainly in the
province of Tarlac with small portions in Nueva Ecija and Pangasinan, about
120 km northwest of Manila. The project area includes 21,000 ha of rice
land in the existing Tarlac River Irrigation System (TRIS), the San Miguel-
O'Donnell River Irrigation System (SM-ORIS) and the Camiling River Irri-
gation System (CRIS). In addition, the systems would be expanded to include
a further 13,000 ha of currently rainfed rice land (see Map 10769R).
3.03      There are a number of small towns scattered throughout the area
with populations between 5,000 and 10,000. The larger towns, including
the provincial capital of Tarlac, provide banking, storage and processing
facilities as well as supplies of inputs to the surrounding agricultural
areas. A good highway network and a railroad connecting the project area
with Manila ensure an easy inflow of supplies and outflow of produce.
Climate
3.04      The climate in the project area is tropical and monsoonal.  Warm
temperatures throughout the year allow a twelve-month growing season with
irrigation. About 80% of the average annual rainfall of 2,000 mm falls in



the wet season from May through October, during which heavy rains occur,
and typhoonal storms may pass through the area causing floods and some
damage to crops and engineering works. The rainfall, together with river
flows in the wet season, is generally adequate for a single rice crop.
Dry season cropping, however, entails considerably more risk and suipple-
mental irrigation supply is essential for an assured crop. Further
climatic details are presented in Annex 2.
Topography, Drainage and Soils
3.05      Lands in the TRIS and SM-ORIS portions of the project area are
gently sloping to relatively flat. The general slope of the land is from
west to east. The whole area is dissected by small creeks or channels
serving as natural drainage ways, and, in some instances, as localized
irrigation sources. Drainage is mainly to the Chico river forming the
eastern boundary of the project. The Chico ultimately drains into the
Pampanga basin. Areas adjacent to the O'Donnell and Tarlac rivers are
subject to flooding during periods of heavy precipitation and high stream
runoff. Lands in the CRIS portion of the project area are more undulating.
Mountains flank the western side of the service area and there are several
hilly areas within the CRIS boundaries. The flat irrigable area is
dissected by a large number of creeks and channels draining to the north
and northeast into the Agno basin.
3.06      Soils in the SM-ORIS and TRIS areas are light colored, structure-
less, medium to fine textured with slightly acidic reactions and slow
internal drainage. Soils in the CRIS area are dark brown to black, compact,
fine textured, with neutral to alkaline reactions, and slow internal drainage.
All soils in the project area have good cation holding capacity and can
retain appreciable amounts of nutrients for plant growth. The soils are
well suited for rice, which has been grown for many years without problems
in the project area.
Land Tenure and Farm Size
3.07      Since the beginning of the century successive governmenls in the
Philippines have introduced a series of laws to improve the lot o.E tenant
farmers. Until 1963 the main objectives were to define and regulate share-
cropping, to restrict grounds for eviction and to encourage a change from
sharecropping to cash tenancy. While these measures produced some improve-
ments, inequitable sharecropping remained the main form of land tenture.
Since 1963 under the Agricultural Reform Code, the aim has been to gradually
transfer ownership of rice and corn lands to the tenant cultivators. The
progression was to be from sharecropper to leaseholder, to amortizing
owner 1/ to full owner-operator. Progress through 1971 was modest, with
only about 5% of all sharecroppers affected by the land reform.
1/   An ex-tenant during the period of purchase of his holding under the
Agricultural Reform Code.



-6-
3.08      Since the declaration of martial law in 1972, the Government has
pursued a vigorous program of agrarian reform aimed at the rapid transfer
of land ownership to tenant farmers on rice and corn lands. Presidential
D,ecree No. 27, the basic legislation of the new program, provides for the
immediate transfer to the tenant, whether sharecropper or leaseholder, of
t1he land he tills up to 3 ha in an irrigated area and 5 ha in a rainfed
area. The landlord may retain up to 7 ha if he tills the land himself.
Since there are some 2 million rice and corn farmers on about 4 million ha,
of which less than 1 million ha are irrigated, there is little prospect
of achieving the 5 ha rainfed and 3 ha irrigated family farms nationwide.
Furthermore, some 80% of the landlords have holdings of less than the 7 ha
retention limit. The Government does not want to antagonize these small
landowners and is looking for an equitable solution. The Department of
Agrarian Reform (DAR) plans to complete the transfer to tenants of all land
in holdings over 24 ha by December 31, 1974. The next category will most
likely be the entire 7 to 24 ha range. In the meantime, to prevent abuses
pending the issue of implementing legislation, evictions are forbidden
and sharecropping has been declared illegal and is being replaced by cash
tenancy.
3.09      DAR surveys show that some 17,700 farm families, averaging six
members for a total of 1062,000 people, live in the project area. The
average farm unit is 1.9 ha with about 60% of the farms, covering 64% of
the area, falling between 1 and 3 ha.  The farm size distribution is as
follows:
Farm Size            Farm Holdings              Cultivated Area
(ha)…_…  %                                 -
Less than    1                  30                         13
1-2                 39                         34
2-3                 21                         30
3-4                  5                          9
4-5                  3                          7
More than    5                   2                          7
100                       100
As of December 1973 the land in the project area was owned by some 11,500
people, 95% of whom held less than 7 ha. However, this group accounted for
only 40% of the area. Two percent of the landowners with 24 ha and above
accounted for 13,000 ha or 38% of the land. Under the current phase of the
agrarian reform this land is being transferred to some 6,000 tenant culti-
vators. When this phase is complete, 62% of the project area will be
cultivated by about 9,700 owner operators, or 55% of the farmers. Until
the Government reaches a decision on what to do with small landlords, it
is not possible to determine the ultimate tenure picture. The most likely
coutcome would be a further increase in owner operators, the total dis-
appearance of sharecropping and its replacement by a better controlled



and more equitable form of leaseholding. It is unlikely that there would
be any significant change in farm size distribution (Annex 3).
Existing Irrigation Facilities
3.10      Approximately 21,000 ha of land in the project area fall within
the existing CRIS, SM-ORIS, and TRIS operated by NIA. The three systems,
portions of which were completed between 1913 and 1959, suffer from insuf-
ficient maintenance and an inadequate number of control structures, leading
to wasteful use of water in the higher reaches of canals and shortages in
the lower reaches. Only some 5,000 ha can be irrigated during the dry
season because of low flows in the Camiling, O'Donnell and Tarlac rivers.
Outside the three systems there are small areas served by privately owned
pumps and communal irrigation systems built by groups of farmers using
their own funds, with or without financial assistance from the Government.
These systems account for only a few hundred hectares and also suffer from
water shortage in the dry season.
Agricultural Production
3.11      Rice grown by transplanting is by far the most important: crop in
the area. There is some smallholder sugarcane grown in rainfed areas, but
farmers switch to rice as soon as there is an assured water supply. In the
irrigated areas most farmers have adopted high yielding rice varieties,
while in the rainfed areas there is a much greater use of lower yielding
but hardier traditional varieties. Fertilizer and agrochemical use is
generally low, particularly in the rainfed areas. In the irrigated areas
the average yield is 2.5 ton/ha of paddy for both the wet and dry seasons.
The yield of rainfed paddy averages 2.3 ton/ha. The low yields are due
partly to bad water management and partly to poor farming practices, such
as inadequate weeding and insufficient use of inputs.
3.12      Most farmers rely entirely on animal power for land preparation,
but a few employ a combination of animal drawn and mechanical equipment.
Small power tillers are just being introduced. Use of machinery is more
frequent in land preparation for the dry season crop where timing is im-
portant. Approximately three-fourths of the present crop is threshed
mechanically. Nearly all mechanical equipment is operated by contractors.
Transportation
3.13      The project area is traversed by National Highway 3 from Manila
to northern Luzon via the west coast and the national railroad from Manila
to La Union. National Highway 13 runs northwest from Tarlac City through
Camiling towards the Lingayen Gulf. An all-weather gravel road running
parallel to and east of Highway 3 serves the low-lying rice producing area
of TRIS. This road was severely damaged by the 1972 floods but has since
been upgraded, and the former wooden bridges have been replaced with per-
manent concrete structures. There is a good network of provincial, munici-
pal and feeder roads connecting the barrios to the municipal towns and



- 8 -
neighboring provinces. Under the project feeder roads would be rehabilitated
and new roads constructed to handle the increased production.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The project would upgrade to standards adopted in the UPRP the
existing TRIS, SN-ORIS and CRIS and would extend these systems to include
an additional 13,000 ha of currently rainfed rice land. It would include:
(a)  Rehabilitation of three existing irrigation and drainage
systems now serving a total area of about 21,000 ha;
(b)  Extension of these systems to serve an additional area of
about 13,000 ha;
(c)  Upgrading of about 55 km of existing project roads and
construction of 370 km of additional roads; and
(d)  Procurement of vehicles and equipment.
The project would also provide for a groundwater irrigation pilot project,
a National Irrigation Systems Improvement Study (NISIS) and a water manage-
ment training program. Consultants would be engaged to assist the NIA with
the groundwater pilot project, the NISIS and the water management training
program. A detailed description of the project works is given in Annex 4.
Project Works
4.02      The TRIS, SM-ORIS and CRIS, now delivering water to about 21,000
ha, would be rehabilitated and upgraded by repairing existing canals and
structures and providing additional control structures and turnouts to
manage water deliveries more effectively. New irrigation works would be
constructed to serve about 13,000 ha of rainfed lands adjacent to the
existing service areas. Adequate control structures and turnouts would
be provided on the canal systems for efficient water control and delivery.
4.03      The project would be brought to the same standards of on-farm
water distribution and drainage as the UPRP, which are the highest in the
country. Rice has been grown in the project area for many years and the land
is reasonably level and well laid out with little fragmentation of land hold-
ings. Therefore, no land leveling, boundary realignment or land consolidation
would be provided. The canal systems would have a turnout for each 10 ha
from which farm ditches built as part of the project would provide direct
delivery to about 80% of all holdings. Each 10 ha block would also be served
by a collector drain. With minor exceptions where bank erosion now occurs
annually, all canals would be unlined. Small buildings would be provided
for Water Management Technologists operating 500 ha of irrigated land Apiece
(para 5.04). Some roads would be improved and, where needed, new ones would



be built. Road$ for operation and maintenance would be built along the
major canals,
Water S1Ply. Demand and Quality
4.04      lach of the three Tarlac irrigation system  gets its water from
a separate river source using its own diversion and conveyance system.
There is no regulatory storage azd only 182 of the project area would
have water during the dry seaon. Rowever, additional dry season water
supplies my be identified by the Central Luzon Irrigation Development
Study end/or the proposed groundwater pilot project (para 4.12-4.15).
4.05      The CRI  gets its water supply from the Camiling river.  Reliable
stream flow records are available for a nine year period. These were
extended to 23 years by correlation with the discharge record of the nearby
Pila river. The IN-OR  gets Its water supply from the O'Donnell river.
A discharge record also available for nine years was extended to 23 years
by correlation with the Agno river. The Bulsa river is the main water
soure for the TRZI. Disaharge records for 13 years were extended to 23
years by correlation with the Camiling river. In estimating the runoff at
the TB divtersion da  the eatimated flow at the SM-ORIS divorsion dam
upstroam on the O'onnell river wee excluded. The records of discharge
of the three riven are long enough to enoure that reliable syntheisied
flows at the river diversions were obtained.
4.06      Water requirements for the project were b"ad on two rice crops
Per yeaft Taking into acunt the higher fan irrigation officioncies
mP meted after project development, anticipated conveyance and operational
losses ad  1 fetitv  fatnfall, annual diversion requirements are estimated
to total 1.75 a, of Which nearly 1.5 a would be required in the dry season.
The poposed erepptag calendar would maximise the use of rainfall for both
Wet nd drY season eps without exceeding local anpower constraints.
4,0?      The atis  of the project area was determined from simulated
Peration stUiAes UiIng the 23 year period of synthesimed discharge records
al ash diversion and the esttmated seasonal water requirements for rice.
The itwigable  reas seleeed for the project and the currently irrigated
areas are as lelloWnI
J3uGt  lBkSSu   IR _15    TOTAL
9eleeted Irtrlable Area (ha)
Wet Reason                140000       9,800    10,200   34,000
Dry season                 2o000       2,300     1,900    6,200
urrently Irrigated Ara (ha)
Wet feason                  l,500      4,800     7,350   20,650
Dry Reason                 i,soo       1,330     1,800    4,650



- 10 -
In sizing the project area, no account was taken of any diversions upstream
of the system diversion dams. Such diversions are known to exist along the
Tarlac, O'Donnell and Camiling rivers, but only a few of these have approved
water rights. These rights do not pose a problem since most of them are
applicable only during the rainy season when stream flows far exceed irri-
gation water requirements, and such rights are normally granted by the
Government on condition that they may be canceled if the Government needs
the water for water resources development projects. The only issue in-
volving water rights concerns the SM-ORIS. The San Miguel main canal runs
through the Hacienda Luisita sugar estate. Under I Contract signed in 1926
and amended in 1947, the estate has a right to 2 m /sec of water during the
dry season for irrigation and the general needs of the sugar mill. For many
years the water has been used only for operation of the sugar mill, and has
been returned to the system for use by farmers downstream, outside the estate.
Assurances were obtained that the Government would take the necessary action
to ensure that irrigation water in the San Miguel irrigation system abstracted
by the sugar estate would continue to be returned to the system for use by
farmers downstream of Hacienda Luisita.
4.08      Tests of water samples from the Camiling, O'Donnell and Tarlac
rivers and from the main canals of each system indicate good water quality
with total dissolved solids under 200 ppm. The waters are of low salinity,
slightly alkaline and are free of toxic elements. The O'Donnell river
since 1913 and the Camiling and Tarlac rivers since the late 1950s have
been used for irrigation in the project area without evidence of any harm-
ful effects, and no difficulties are expected from their continued use.
Further details on water supply, demand and quality are presented in Annex 5.
Status of Engineering
4.09      Project planning studies and designs and estimates of the irriga-
tion and drainage systems and associated works were carried out by NIA.
Surveys were made of existing canals and laterals, and cross sections were
taken at 20 to 100 m intervals to determine excavation quantities. Surveys
of the proposed main canals in the extension areas were made to determine
construction quantities and existing maps were used for lateral locations
and cost estimates. A sample area of drainage requirements was prepared
for each irrigation system to determine unit drainage costs and these where
applied to the total area. Farm ditch and drain requirements within the
rotational areas were also prepared by the sample area method. Canal
structure requirements in the rehabilitation areas were determined in the
field by NIA inspectors and costs were estimated for repair, replacement
or additions. Structure requirements in the extension areas were determined
according to basic irrigation design practices. Operation and maintenance
roads were based on canal capacity and needs within the service area, and
were checked in the field to ensure that adequate access to project works
would be provided. Needed work on river diversion structures was determined
from field inspection of each structure. Sufficient investigations have



- 11 -
been made to assure that suitable materials are available for construction
of canal embankments and maintenance roadways.
4.10      Detailed mapping of the project area is currently underway.
Aerial photography was completed in December 1973 and establishment of
horizontal and vertical controls was nearing completion in mid-1974. De-
tailed topographic maps at a scale of 1 to 5000 and with a 1/2-m contour
interval are being prepared. The topographic maps of CRIS are scheduled
for completion by January 1975 and those for TRIS and SM-ORIS by August
1975. Final designs and cost estimates for the irrigation and drainage
systems will be prepared using the topographic maps and from field surveys
and investigations. Final designs are scheduled to begin in August 1975
as the topographic maps are released.
4.11      The proposed construction schedule is described in chart: No. 8923.
Work on the TRIS and CRIS service areas would begin in 1975 and on the SM-
ORIS service area in 1976.  The groundwater pilot project would be carried
out in 3-1/2 years and the NISIS in three years. All project works are
expected to be completed by June 1978. Water management training would
continue through 1979.
Groundwater Pilot Project
4.12      The main problem facing agriculture in Tarlac province and in
Central Luzon generally is the lack of a dependable water supply for year
round irrigation. A series of investigations has been carried out in the
Central Luzon basin to assess the possibilities of increasing the area under
irrigation in both the wet and dry season. Although the main emphasis has
been on potential surface water storage projects, some work has also been
done on groundwater. The geology of the Philippines is generally favorable
to the occurrence of groundwater and exploratory work has been going on
both with assistance from the United Nations Development Program (UNDP)
and as part of the Bank-assisted Central Luzon Irrigation Development Study.
4.13      The proposed groundwater pilot project would follow from and
supplement these two ongoing efforts.  Its main objectives would be to
investigate the aquifer system in each of the three Tarlac irrigation areas
to evaluate recharge, discharge and storage capabilities as well as groundwater
movement; to evaluate the technical and economic feasibility of dry season
irrigation by groundwater pumping; to assess the potential for conjunctive
use of surface and groundwater resources in the project area and prepare a
preliminary development plan if such potential exists; and to provide training
for NIA staff in groundwater hydrology and well drilling techniques.
4.14      There would be a 300 ha pilot area for each of the three irriga-
tion systems, with about six production wells per pilot area serving about
50 ha each. Project works would include the construction of about 18 wells
equipped with deep well turbine pumps and diesel motors, the necessary
laterals and farm ditches to connect up with the gravity system, as well
as specialized equipment for operating, monitoring and evaluating the pilot



- 12 -
project.  Preliminary investigations in the project area indicate that enough
groundwater of suitable quality is available to justify the proposed pilot
investigation. NIA has sufficient drilling rigs to undertake the proposed
drilling program. The wells would be constructed by NIA personnel and equip-
ment under control of the UPRP organization.
4.15      The Project Development Division (PDD), which is also responsible
for the Central Luzon Study, would evaluate results of the pilot project.
Consultants would be employed to provide general guidance and expertise
as needed to reinforce UPRP staff, and to assist in training selected NIA
technical staff in groundwater resource exploration, use, management and
evaluation. After operating the pilot areas for two years, NIA, assisted
by consultants, would prepare an evaluation report. Should the results of
the pilot project warrant, the report would include a framework plan and
preliminary cost estimate for the conjunctive use of surface and ground-
water in the project area. Further details on the proposed groundwater
pilot project are provided in Annex 6.
Water Mlanagement Training,
4.16      Irrigation efficiencies on NIA gravity systems are low due to lack
of terminal facilities, poor maintenance and inadequate staff. NIA has
recognized the need for more and better water management staff and is puttirg
a Water Management Technologist (WMT) in charge of every 500 ha of irrigated
land. The WMTs are all agricultural graduates. The newly recruited staff,
including the graduates, is not well versed in water management, crop
production aspects of irrigation or in methods of communication with
farmers. The proposed water management training program would provide
training facilities in each of the five UPRP operational districts (para
5.04) to teach water management methods, rice production techniques and
farmer organization, over a five year period, to about 300 WMTs required
by the UPRP, Penaranda and Tarlac Projects.
4.17      The training program would be based on pilot water management units
of 500 ha which would be established in each of the five operational dis-
tricts.  Theoretical training would be reinforced by putting every traintee
through a range of field situations on the pilot units where he could apply
his new knowledge.  The training staff would be drawn mostly from regular
NIA personnel with extensive technical knowledge and field experience.
Provision would be made for consultant assistance as required.  The training
facilities centered on the pilot units would continue to provide refresher
training after the initial five year period and would produce WMTs for
other national irrigation systems. Further details on the proposed water
management training program are given in Annex 7.
National Irrigation Systems Improvement Study
4.18      The NIA operates about 100 gravity irrigation systems covering
some 400,000 ha and ranging in size from 130 ha to 83,000 ha. The systems
are usually run-of-the-river schemes with insufficient control structures
in the canals, a marked lack of terminal facilities, inadequate drainage
and little provision for access. Tfhe low efficiency of the systems has



- 13 -
been reduced further by lack of maintenance caused by a shortage of funds
and equipment. With assistance from the Bank and the Asian Development
Bank, NIA is currently upgrading and extending a number of systems in
Central and Northern Luzon and in Mindanao. Despite this ambitious program
over half the area under the national systems remains untouched and continues
to deteriorate.
4.19      The proposed National Irrigation Systems Improvement Study (NISIS)
would inventory existing NIA systems and select a total of about 150,000 ha
with the highest priority for improvement. In addition to economic factors
consideration would be given to institution-building aspects and to the
general poverty of the region. The area selected would be divided into
convenient packages for the preparation of four feasibility grade studies.
The first report would be completed by mid-1976 and would be followed at
six month intervals by the remaining three studies. In addition to de-
veloping a pipeline of system improvement projects, NISIS would develop
NIA's project preparation capability and review the organization and
implementation capacity of NIA's regional offices. Further details are
provided in Annex 8.
Cost Estimates
4.20      Total project costs are estimated at US$34.0 million, of which
US$12.8 million or 37% is foreign exchange. Project costs are based on
quantity estimates from feasibility designs and unit prices prevailing in
the UPRP area in May 1974. All unit prices were adjusted for inflation
to a January 1975 level. Unit prices for equipment, materials and supplies
are based on quotations received by NIA, adjusted for expected price in-
creases to January 1975. NIA's costs for design and construction super-
vision are included under engineering while consultants' fees are included
in the cost estimates for the groundwater pilot project, the water manage-
ment training and the NISIS. A physical contingency factor of 20% was
applied to the costs of the irrigation and drainage systems and a factor of
15% was applied to the groundwater pilot project, the water management
training and the NISIS. Costs due to expected price increases equal 35%
of the cost of the project, including physical contingencies (Annex 9).
4.21      Details of the project costs are presented in Annex 9 and are
summarized below:



- 14 -
Foreign
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Exchange
---Pesos Million---  ----US$ Million---   ---%----
Irrigation Systems         75.7  32.7  108.4  11.3  4.9    16.2          30
Operation & Maintenance
Equipment                0.7  10.4   11.1   0.1   1.5    1.6          94
Groundwater Pilot Project   1.5   5.4    6.9   0.2  0.8    1.0           80
Water Management Training    1.8   2.6    4.4   0.3  0.4    0.7          57
NISIS                       8.1   6.2   14.3   1.2  0.9    2.1           43
Base Cost Estimate    87.8  57.3  145.1  13.1  8.5   21.6           39
Physical Contingencies     15.3   8.3   23.6   2.3  1.2    3.5           34
Expected Price Increases    39.7  20.1   59.8   5.9  3.0    8.9          34
Total Project Cost        142.8  85.7  228.5  21.3  12.7   34.0          37
Financing
4.22     The proposed Bank loan of US$17 million would finance the full
foreign exchange costs and about 20% of the local costs of the project. It
would cover 50% of total project costs. The Government would provide the
remaining P 114 million (US$17 million) to NIA out of annual budget a-
propriations. To ensure the continuous and timely flow of funds, the
Government has agreed to set up a special fund for the project and to
replenish it at monthly intervals to a level equivalent to the estimated
requirements for the next three months. The fund would help ensure
rapid payment of civil works contractors, which would help attract small
contractors. Establishment of the special fund would be a condition of
effectiveness of the loan.
Procurement
4.23     Equipment and vehicles for force account construction, operation,
maintenance, the groundwater pilot project, water management training and
t:he NISIS, costing about US$3.5 million would be procured after international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A preference
limited to 15% of the cif price of imported goods, or the custom duty, which-
ever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of
bids. Procurement of off-the-shelf items costing less than US$10,000 each
would be exempted from international competitive bidding and would be purchased
through normal government procurement procedures which are satisfactory. The
total for all such items would not exceed US$250,000. A detailed list of
equipment requirements is given in Annex 10.
4.24     Works on the project service area (US$16.2 million) would be
scattered over a large area and include a large proportion of rehabilitation
works. These would have to be planned and executed on short notice to
avoid the growing season and bad weather and would have to be phased with
Lrrigation releases. When similar works were advertised under UPRP the NIA



- 15 -
failed to attract even local contractors. It is unrealistic, however, for
NIA to expect to undertake all of its planned construction program in
UPRP, the Aurora-Penaranda Project and the proposed project by force account.
An assurance was obtained that NIA would investigate ways of expanding
the execution of civil works by contract, so that the amount of work done
by force account would not exceed 20% of the total cost of the work. The
balance would be tendered after advertising according to contracting pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursements
4.25      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the cif
cost of directly imported equipment, 100% against the ex-factory cost of
locally manufactured equipment and 65% for imported equipment procured
locally.  For services of foreign consultants and for overseas training,
disbursements would cover the actual foreign exchange cost, while for services
of local consultants disbursements would be at 60% of total costs.
Disbursements for civil works would be at the rate of 43% of certified
monthly progress payments or expenditures.  For civil works contractors'
mobilization and equipment, disbursements would be at 100% of foreign ex-
change cost.  It is expected that disbursements would be completed by June 30,
1980, approximately one year after the end of construction. An estimated
schedule of expenditures on the project and a semi-annual disbursement
schedule are given in Annex 11.
Accounts and Audit
4.26      The NIA is a Government agency and its accounts are audited
annually by the Government's Corporate Auditor's Office. Assurances were
obtained that NIA would maintain separate accounts for the project, and
that satisfactorily audited financial statements, together with the auditor s
comments, would be sent to the Bank within four months of the close of each
financial year.
Environmental Effects
4.27      There is no schistosomiasis in the project area or in the island
of Luzon generally. Malaria is almost non-existent, except for about ten
cases per year reported near Capas at the southwestern corner of SM-ORIS.
The Government runs an effective control program based on house spraying
with residual insecticides. The main health problems in the area are pro-
tein deficiencies and enteric diseases. The proposed project would have
little impact on these.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Proj.ect Management
5.01      NIA was created in 1964 and given responsibility for developing,
operating and maintaining all national irrigation systems in the Philippines.



- 16 -
NIA is also authorized by Government to levy and collect water rates from
beneficiaries of the national irrigation systems to defray operation and
maintenance (0&M) costs. The Government finances the NIA through the sale
of bonds or from appropriations. A Board of Directors is responsible for
the Agency, and the Administrator, who is appointed by the Board with the
approval of the President of the Philippines, handles management.
5.02      A special project office under the direction of a Project Manager
was established to carry out the UPRP. The organization has proved effective
and NIA has decided to entrust construction of the proposed project to the
UPRP. Construction in the three Tarlac systems would be carried out by a
newly constituted Division, wholly similar to the four Divisions now engaged
in the same kind of work in the Pampanga and Penaranda service areas.
5.03      The Project Development Division (PDD) of UPRP would supervise
and evaluate the groundwater pilot project and would also carry the main bur-
den of the NISIS.  The PDD was recently created to enhance NIA's project pre-
paration capability and was put into the UPIRP because its main task was
the Central Luzon Irrigation Development Study. NIA recognizes that the
PDD's widening scope of activities makes its position as part of the UPRP
:Lncreasingly anomalous. Assurances were obtained that NIA would review
PDD's organizational location and consider alternative arrangements which
would better integrate the planning and management of foreign assisted proj-
ects for which NIA is the executing agency. The reorganization is expected
to be completed by the end of 1975. In the meantime, the location of PDD
in the UPRP organization would not impart a regional bias to the execution
of the NISIS. The PDD currently consists of some 30 professionals and 80
;sub-professionals. NIA would strengthen the Division to deal with its in-
creased tasks, and would engage consultants under terms of reference already
approved by the Bank to provide guidance, special technical services and
training to the staff engaged in both the groundwater pilot project and the
NISIS. Assurances were obtained that NIA would provide additional personnel
as needed by PDD and that, within three months of loan signature, NIA would
engage engineering consultants satisfactory to the Bank for the groundwater
project and the NISIS.
5.04      A fifth Irrigation District would be set up within the UPRP organi-
zation to operate and maintain the Tarlac systems service area. The latter
would be divided into 50 ha irrigation units. A ditchtender would supervise
two such units (100 ha) while a graduate Water Management Technologist (WMT)
would control five ditchtenders (500 ha). A Supervisor would be responsible
for a water management division which includes five WMTs (2,500 ha). Three
to four divisions would constitute a zone under a Superintendent. The pro-
posed Tarlac Irrigation District would consist of three zones. Details of
the organization are given in Annex 12 and Charts No. 8920 and No. 8921.
5.05      NIA would appoint a Director to supervise and coordinate the water
management training program (Annex 7). The Director would be responsible



- 17 -
to the UPRP Project Manager. A Field Supervisor would be attached to each
of the five Irrigation Districts to be in day-to-day charge of the program.
Training personnel would be drawn mainly from well qualified and experienced
O&M staff and from specialized NIA units such as the Agricultural Development
Division. Provision is made for consultant assistance, should it be required.
Supporting Agricultural Services
5.06      An Agricultural Development Coordinating Council (ADCC) has been
set up in the UPRP to coordinate the work of the various agencies providing
services to the farmers. The arrangement is still new, but it appears to
be working well. The proposed Tarlac project would be managed as an integral
part of the UPRP and should be brought under an ADCC. Since the Tarlac
systems are in a different province, a separate ADCC based on Tarlac prov-
ince would be set up for the proposed project. The UPRP and Tarlac: ADCCs
would have some members in common, as both provinces are in the Central
Luzon administrative region.
5.07      A number of Government agencies provide extension services in the
project area. Under the "Masagana 99" program aimed at increasing rice
production, a total of 130 agricultural technicians was used in the project
area municipalities. The technicians, all college graduates, came from
various Government agencies with the Department of Agrarian Reform supplying
the majority. The ratio of extension workers to farmers worked oul: at one
to 300. Under the project the existing extension coverage would be strength-
ened by addition of the water management staff (para 5.04).
5.08      Current fertilizer consumption in the project area amounlts to less
than 4,000 tons per year, with urea accounting for about half the t:otal. At
full development the project area would require some 7,000 tons of fertilizer,
on the basis of 60 kg/ha nitrogen and 30 kg/ha phosphate per crop season.
Existing supply channels would handle the increased demand without difficulty.
The certified rice seed requirement at full development would total 400 tons
per year and no problems are expected in obtaining the amount.
5.09      The substantial increase in the irrigated area, slightly higher
cropping intensity and better farming practices resulting from the project
would require a large increase in production credit. Under the agrarian
reform and Masagana programs the Government has strengthend the credit
institutions and eased credit to small farmers, previously dependeat on the
landlords for their requirements.  A system of "supervised credit" is used
which includes the provision of technical services to the borrower to ensure
that recommended practices, such as variety, fertilizer and agrochemical
inputs, are adopted. Under the system no collateral is required. The Rural
Banks in the project area and the Philippine National Bank granted loans
totalling p 22.3 million (US$3.4 million) for the 1973 wet season crop. At
full project development, production credit requirements are estimated at
about P 36.0 million (US$5.4 million) annually. The existing credit institu-
tions would be able to meet the requirement.



- 18 -
5.10      The UPRP's Agricultural Development Division would be responsible
for monitoring such aspects of the project's progress as: deployment of
extension and water-management personnel, pace of land reform, cropping
patterns, use of inputs and credit, incidence of pests and diseases, crop
yields and farm incomes. The Division is already carrying out such work o
UPRP.
Recovery of Cost
5.11      Republic Act No. 3601 establishing NIA gave it the authority to
"collect from the users of each irrigation system constructed by it such
fees as may be necessary to finance the continuous operation of the system
and reimburse within a period of not less than twenty-five years the cost
of construction thereof." NIA's record of irrigation fee collection has
shown a steady improvement over the last five years. The total collection
has risen from P 4.8 million in FY69 to P 7.9 million in FY73. Over the
same period the collection rate as a percentage of fees charged has
increased from 53% to 65%.  The better recovery is attributed to improved
and more timely billing, the use of more collectors, rehabilitation of
some of the irrigation systems, withholding of water to delinquents and
incentive collection bonuses.
5.12      Irrigation fees on the national irrigation schemes are now levied
at the rate of P 25/ha for wet season rice and P 35/ha for dry season rice.
The NIA Board approved an increase in fees equivalent to two cavans of
paddy per ha in the wet season and three cavans in the dry season, to be
applied uniformly to all national irrigation systems. At the existing
Government support price for paddy the new fees would be equal to P 80
and P 120/ha, respectively. The existing irrigation fees account for
about 4% of the current net income of a farmer in the Tarlac systems area,
while the new rates would be equal to about 7% of the farmer's current income
and about 5% of the estimated net farm income at full development. The
O&M costs of the project are estimated P 95/ha/annum (US$14.1). The rates
proposed by NIA would cover O&M costs, but would contribute almost nothing
toward capital recovery.
5.13      As an exception to the uniform rate policy, the Government has
agreed to raise water rates on the UPRP and Aurora-Penaranda project areas
at full development to the equivalent of 3.5 cavans of paddy/ha in the
wet season and 4.4 cavans in the dry season. Water rates for the proposed
project would be the same as for the UPRP. This would be equivalent to
P 140 and P 175/ha in the wet and dry seasons, respectively, at the current
official support price, or a weighted average of IL 170/ha for a cropping
intensity of 118% over the project area, to be reached gradually over a
period of five years from completion of construction. Such a rate would
be within the farmers' repayment capacities and yet permit NIA to recover
a substantial amount of the investment in the project. At a discount rate
of 10%, the present worth of such a charge over the 50-year life of the



- 19 -
project would be P 48 million. The present worth of the project cost 1/
plus 0 & M costs at 10% is P 130 million, indicating a recovery ratio of
about 37%.
5.14      To ensure sound operation and maintenance practices and an equitable
contribution by the beneficiaries toward recovery of the capital cost of
the project, the Government has agreed that:
(a)  the NIA would make adequate annual budgetary provisions
to supply the funds necessary for operation and maintenance
of the project. Total annual expenditure for operation
and maintenance in 1974 constant prices is estimated at
P 1.3 million beginning in 1977, rising to P 3.2 million
(US$0.5 million) thereafter;
(b)  irrigation fees would be levied to provide NIA with
sufficient funds to maintain and operate the project and
to allow for the recovery of investment cost within not
more than 50 years, taking into account farmers' incentives
and capacity to pay.  A gradual increase in irrigation fees
over a period of five years from completion of construction
to a level equivalent to about 3.5 cavans of paddy per
ha in the wet season and 4.4 cavans in the dry season
would meet the requirement; and
(c)  the NIA would take all necessary actions to ensure full
and prompt collection of the irrigation fees.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES
Production
6.01      Upon completion of the project the area cropped would increase
from about 38,600 ha per year at present, of which 13,000 ha are rainfed
during the wet season, to 40,200 ha of irrigated land. Since the project
would not provide additional dry season irrigation water, the cropping
intensity would increase only slightly from 114% to 118%. Better water
1/   Cost of investments for the project service area of P 127.7 million
excluding price contingencies. In this analysis both costs and
revenues are evaluated at constant prices.



- 20 -
control, improved extension services and expanded credit facilities would
encourage increased planting of high yielding rice varieties, heavier
fertilizer applications and greater use of crop protection chemicals. The
use of machinery for land preparation and threshing would increase to meet
more exacting crop calendars. It is expected that at full agricultural
development in 1983 almost all threshing would be mechanical and most
farmers would use a combination of machinery and animal-drawn implements
for land preparation.
6.02      At full development, paddy yields from the wet and dry season
crops are expected to average 3.8 and 4.1 ton/ha respectively. It is
estimated that in the currently irrigated areas these yield levels would
be achieved five years after the introduction of water control, while in
the existing rainfed areas the projected yield levels would be reached six
years after the provision of water. Total paddy production from the pro-
ject area would be about 155,000 tons at full development, compared with
94,000 tons at present and an estimated 104,000 tons in future without the
project. Details of present and future yields and production are given
in Annex 14.
rsarket Prospects
6.03      One of the main goals of Government policy is to attain self-
sufficiency in basic foods, especially rice and corn. The deficit in rice,
the main staple food crop, has been a persistent problem for the Philippines.
Based on population forecasts of 50 million in 1980 and assuming that
present annual per capita absorption of milled rice of about 100 kg would
remain the same, total demand for rice in the Philippines in 1980 would be
around 5.0 million tons, equivalent to 7.2 million tons of paddy. To meet
the higher demand, local production would have to increase by about 4.5% to
5.0% per year between 1974 and 1980. While the Government's recent campaign
to increase rice production has met with considerable success, there is still
some doubt about the Philippines' ability to attain self-sufficiency by
the early 1980s. In any event the additional production from the project
area should be readily marketable.
Prices
6.04      The Bank projects the world market price of Thai 25%-35% broken
rice normally imported by the Philippines to fall from US$450 per ton fob
Bangkok in 1974 to around US$190 per ton (at constant 1974 prices) in the
1980-85 period. These projections have been used to estimate the present
and future farm gate prices of paddy in the economic analysis. The corre-
sponding farm gate prices fall from P 2,000 per ton (P 100 per cavan) in
1974 to P 910 per ton (P 45 per cavan) in 1980 and beyond (Annex 15).
Farij Incomes
6.05      Farm models have been prepared for three typical farm sizes.
The estimated present incomes and those projected at full development for
the three different models are presented in Annex 16 and summarized below:



- 21 -
Farm Income /a
Present         Future
Farm Size                      Rainfed    Irrigated   Irrigated
(ha)                        -------------…(P)…--------------
1.0                         1,800        2,000       2,800
2.0                         3,400        4,100       5,500
3.0                         4,700        5,700       7,600
/a   Rounded to nearest P 100.
6.06      Taking the 2.0 ha farm as the average for the project area,
present net farm incomes before making land amortization payments of between
P 3,400 (US$505) on rainfed land and P 4,100 (US$610) on irrigated land
would rise at full project development to P 5,500 (US$820). There is little
information on off-farm income in the project area, but observations and
interviews in the field indicate that such income is small relative to returns
from farm work. Although comparisons of farm incomes based on farm budgets
with income data based on national accounts aggregates must be interpreted
with caution, they do present a rough picture of the relative income position
of project beneficiaries. The present per capita farm incomes in the project
area, based on the farm budget for a 2.0 ha farm and family size of six,
vary from P 570 (US$85) to P 680 (US$100), or about 40-45% of the. current
per capita GNP of around US$220. At full development in 1983 per capita
farm income on the same size farm in the project area would rise to P 920
(US$135) which would still be only about 40% of the per capita GNP, which is
projected to rise to US$330 by 1983. These comparisons indicate that the
project would not do much to narrow the income gap between the project area
and other parts of the country. It would, however, prevent the gap from
widening and would set the stage for future improvements in relative incomes
of project beneficiaries if and when dry season irrigation water is available
to serve the whole project area.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The proposed project would increase yields on about 34,000 ha
currently dependent on run-of-the-river irrigation and rainfed cultivation
b'y providing better water control, improved drainage and the necessary
agricultural supporting services. Rice would be the only crop grown in the
area. Assuming a 50-year project life, prices for rice and fertilizer
based on the Bank's commodity price projections through 1985 and a seasonally
variable shadow wage rate for unskilled farm labor, the economic rate of
return on the project would be about 15%. (Annex 18).
7.02      Sensitivity of the rate of return to several of the basic assumptions
made in the economic analysis was tested. These factors were chosen to test
the project's sensitivity to cost overruns and delays in construction such as



- 22 -
those experienced in the development of the UTRP; to likely changes in the
terms of trade between agricultural and manufactured goods; to failure to
achieve the project's ambitious cropping calendar; and to difficulties in
hiring additional farm labor in months of peak agricultural activity. In no
case did the rate of return fall below 11%.
7.03      Improved water management and scheduling of inputs and supporting
services throughout the project area would introduce a more taxing cropping
calendar and farmers would have to replace some animal draft power by
machinery for timely land preparation. Since the project would not provide
additional water for substantially increased double cropping, it would not
give rise to substantially increased use of farm labor. In fact, depending
on the rate of mechanization and adoption of the more intensive cropping
calendar, the project might result in a slightly reduced demand for farm
labor. On the other hand, the increased rice production would tend to
generate additional jobs in the transport, processing, marketing and serv-
ice sectors. The Government is aware of the employment effect of intensi-
fied agriculture in run-of-river irrigation systems and is doing all it can
through the Central Luzon Study and the proposed groundwater pilot project
to identify dry season water supplies, to increase both production and em-
ployment.  The improved farming practices brought about through the proposed
project would make it easier to shift to full double cropping if and when
dry season irrigation water becomes available.
7.04      At full agricultural development rice import savings due to the
project would amount to US$7.2 million per year at the projected world
market price cif Manila (in terms of constant 1974 prices). After deducting
the incremental cost of imported fertilizers and chemicals, the net foreign
exchange savings as a result of the project would amount to about US$6.0 million
per year.
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement with the Government was reached on
the following principal points:
(a)  irrigation water abstracted from the San Miguel section of
SM-ORIS for use in the Hacienda Luisita sugar estate and mill
would be returned to the systemi for use of farmers downstream
of the estate (para 4.07);
(b)  NIA would strengthen the PDD to deal with its increased
responsibilities under the project and would review its
organizational location because of the widening scope of
PDD activities (para 5.03);
(c)  NIA would make adequate annual budgetary provisions to supply
the funds necessary for operation and maintenance of the
project (para 5.14);



- 23 -
(d)  NIA would take all necessary action to ersure full and prompt
collection of irrigation fees; and would gradually increase
the level of fees over a period of five years from completion
of construction to a level equivalent to about 3.5 cavans of
paddy/ha tn the wet season and 4.4 cavans/ha in the dry season
(para 5.14).
8.02      A condition of effectiveness of the Loan would be the establishment
of a special fund for the project.  The Govenmment has agreed to establish
the fund and to replenish it at monthly intervals to a level equivalent
to the estimqted requirements for the next three months (Para 4.22),,
8.03      The proposed project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$17.0
million, with a 25 year maturity and a grace period of seven years. The
borrower would be the Republic of the Philippines.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Central Luzon Irrigation Development
General
1.        The Central Luzon basin covers approximately 1,800,000 ha of land
in eleven provinces of which about 87% or 1,570,000 ha lie in the five prov-
inces of Bulacan, Nueva Ecija, Pampanga, Pangasinan and Tarlac. Som,e
820,000 ha are considered potentially suitable for irrigated agriculture.
2.        Land is one of the main resources in the basin and agriculture,
together with agriculturally based activities, is the major contributor to
the region's economy. The principal problem facing agriculture in Central
Luzon is the lack of dependable supplies of water for year round irrigation.
Rainfall is usually sufficient to support crops during the wet season, but
it is erratic as to time and place of occurrence and is unquestionably de-
ficient during the dry season. In rainfed areas agriculture is limited to
the wet season and the land is idle in the dry months. Even on the 190,000
ha of land served by national gravity irrigation systems in the basiln during
the wet season, only about 30 to 40% are irrigated during the dry season.
3.        Mean annual rainfall in the basin varies from 1,600 mm to 3,000 mm.
About 90% occurs during June through November. The estimated annual runoff
in the basin is over 21,000 Mm3, about 45% originating in the Pampanga river
watershed, 50% in the Agno river basin and the remaining 5% from smaller
coastal drainage areas.
4.        In 1966, a water resources survey team from the U.S. Bureau of Re-
clamation (USBR) prepared and submitted to the Government of the Philippines
a report on the Central Luzon basin. The report identified potential stor-
age projects within the region, outlining the possible functions of each
scheme. The report set the stage for a program of irrigation development
in the basin in which the Bank Group has played a significant part.
The Upper Pampanga River Project (UPRP)
5.        A USBR team prepared the feasibility study of the project which
was appraised by the Bank in late 1968, and financed under Loan No. 637-PH.
The project includes the construction of Pantabangan dam and reservoir on
the Pampanga river, the rehabilitation of about 49,500 ha in existing Na-
tional Irrigation Administration (NIA) systems and the construction of a



ANNEX 1
Page 2
new system to serve 34,000 ha. The project will supply enough water to
grow two rice crops per year on 78,500 ha, and a wet season crop on 5,000 ha,
for a cropping intensity of 194%.
6.        The UPRP is the first major irrigation project in the Philippines
with such a high cropping intensity. The degree of on-farm development on
the project is also markedly in advance of traditional NIA standards. Build-
ing of the project has progressed well; work on the dam is finished and all
construction work is expected to be completed by 1975. In the process of
building and operating the UPRP, NIA has significantly increased its capa-
bilities to deal with large and complex projects. The UPRP office of the
NIA, created to carry out the project, has proved to be a highly effective
organization.
The Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation Prolect (APIP)
7.        The feasibility study for the APIP was carried out by NIA with
Bank Group assistance under Loan No. 637-PH. The project was appraised in
late 1973 and receives Bank Group assistance under Loan/Credit 984/472-PH.
The project includes the construction of two diversion dams to lead water
from the Aurora basin through a transbasin diversion channel into the
Pantabangan reservoir, the rehabilitation of 16,700 ha of the existing
Penaranda river irrigation system and extension of the system to serve an
additional 8,600 ha. The entire 25,300 ha will be supplied with sufficient
water to permit double cropping of rice. On-farm development will be at
the same level provided on UPRP.
8.        The UPRP organization is executing the APIP which is expected to
be completed by mid-1978. The project will be handled as an integral part
of the UPRP both from the construction and operations points of view. At
full development the UPRP-APIP complex will cover about 109,000 ha of irri-
gated land, supporting some 45,000 farm families, comprising 250,000 people.
The Central Luzon Irrigation Development Study
9.        The APIP includes provision for carrying out an irrigation devel-
opment study in Central Luzon with the following objectives:
(a) to undertake a comprehensive inventory of the basin's land
and water resources;
(b) to review the present status of water resources development
in the basin and to determine present and future develop-
ment needs in the light of current government plans and
policies on irrigation, power, flood control, municipal
and industrial water supply, and other uses of water;



ANNEX 1
Page 3
(c) to formulate a plan of irrigation development for the
region, giving thorough consideration to other potentia]L
beneficial uses of the water resources; and
(d) to identify specific potential projects which would meet:
immediate and future water requirements in the basin.
10.       The UPRP office of NIA, assisted by consultants, is responsible
for carrying out the study, which is expected to be completed by mid-1977.
The study will give particular attention to the potential for increasing
dry season cropping in the basin by development of additional supplies of
water, either from storage or from groundwater. The plan to be prepared
under the study will provide guidelines for the integrated implementation
of irrigation projects in a logical sequence within the region.
The Tarlac Systems Improvement Project
11.       The three existing NIA gravity systems in Tarlac province are
fed by the O'Donnell, Tarlac and Camiling rivers which belong to the Agno
basin. The Tarlac systems are the largest existing irrigation systems in
the western section of Central Luzon and their improvement to UPRP stand-
ards is an obvious need which does not require confirmation by the Central
Luzon Study. The proposed project for improvement of the Tarlac systems
would not preclude eventual additions to the existing water supplies from
storage and/or groundwater that might be established by the Study. In
fact, the substantial physical improvement of the systems and the better
water management envisaged in the project would facilitate the effective
use of any additional sources of dry season water that might be developed
later.



PHILIPPINES
TARlAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Climatological Data
Hacienda Luiaita
TRainfall1J                    Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr    May    Jun    Jul    A         Sep    Oct    Nov    Dee    Total
Average (mm)                 3.6   11.1   19.9   53.3  21,4.3  294.1  333.5  441.2  355.5  163.1   96.8   34J8   2,021.2
Maximum (mm)                21.1  115.6   72.9  229.2  556.3  626.9 1588.8  889.0  640.1  339.1  315.9  156.2   3,449.1
Minimum (mm)                 0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   48.0   82.6  182.4   88.o  101.6    5.6    0.0    0.0   1,389.1
Number of rainy days2J         2      1       3      5     15      18     24      23     22     10       6      4        133
Relative humidity?' (%)       82     79      73     71     78      85     89      86     89     85      81     83
Tarlac
Temperature2/
Minimum (OC)                19.5   19.9   21.2   22.3   23.0   23.2   23.1   22.9   22.7   22.6   21.2   20.0
Mean (0C)                   25.2   26.2   27.1   29.9   28.6   27.0   27.2   27.0   27.1   27.4   26.2   24.4
Maximum (0C)                32.6   33.2   34.8   35.1   34.4   32.3   32.0   31.2   32.2   33.2   32.5   32.1
EvaporationkV (mm)             168    186    235    242    188    136    120    114    110    133    134    146   1,912
1   Period of observation  1951-1972.
-/  Period of obaervation  1968-1972.
Period of observation  1951-1970.
Period of observation  1958-1970.                                                                                           V



ANNEX 3
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Land Tenure and Reform
Background
1.        Since the beginning of the century successive Governments in the
Philippines have introduced a series of laws to improve the lot of tenant
farmers. Until 1963 the principal objectives were to define and regulate
sharecropping arrangements by formalizing share-tenancy contracts, to re-
strict grounds for eviction, and to encourage a change from sharecropping
to cash tenancy or "leaseholding". While these measures produced some im-
provements, sharecropping remained the main form of tenure. The resulting
inequities in the distribution of income from land continued to produce
sporadic agrarian unrest.
2.        The Agricultural Reform Code (RA 3844) became law in 1963.  The
aim was to transfer ownership of rice and corn lands to the cultivators
by a gradual process, leading to the ultimate abolition of tenant farming.
The first stage in the transition would be the replacement of sharecropping
by cash tenancy or leaseholding with regulated land rentals. The second
stage would be the purchase by Government of the land farmed by the lease-
holders for resale to them, thus transforming them into amortizing owner-
cultivators. The third and final stage would be reached after the new
owners had paid off for the land and become freeholders.
3.        By 1971, little more than 50,000 sharecroppers, or about: 5% of
the total, had reached the first stage of leaseholding. The second stage
of amortizing ownership had been attained by only 3,400 former tenants.
Since the declaration of martial law in 1972, the Government has pursued
a vigorous program of agrarian reform aimed at the rapid transfer of land
ownership to tenant farmers on rice and corn lands. Presidential Decree
No. 27 (PD 27), the basic piece of legislation of the new program, provides
for the immediate transfer to the tenant, whether sharecropper or lease-
holder, of the land he tills up to a total of 3 ha in an irrigated area and
5 ha in a rainfed area.  The landlord is allowed to retain up to 7 ha pro-
viding he cultivates them himself. The Decree lays down a system of valuing
the land and provides for the tenant to pay for it in 15&-equal annual instal-
ments at an interest rate of 6% per annum.
4.        In early May 1974 the Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) had
obtained information on about 600,000 tenants on a little less than 1.0 mil-
lion ha. While data gathering continues, it is estimated that the total



ANNEX 3
Page 2
number of rice and corn tenants is about 1.1 million on some 1.3 million ha
owned by about 220,000 landlords. Some 80% of these landlords have holdings
of less than 7 ha. In addition the total number of rice and corn farmers
probably exceeds 2 million, while the total area of rice and corn lands is
not much more than 4 million ha, of which less than 1 million ha are irri-
gated. There is therefore little prospect of achieving the objective of
5 ha rainfed or 3 ha irrigated family farms.
5.        A recent survey by DAR reports that 38% of the tenants on 24% of
the tenanted area are under landlords with holdings smaller than the 7 ha
limit set by PD 27 for owner retention. This class of landowner accounts
for 83% of all landlords. The Government is anxious not to antagonize the
small landowners and is looking for a solution to the problem which would
be equitable to both the tenants and the landlords. A possible outcome
that is being investigated would be a tightly enforced leasehold with
security of tenure and some form of cooperative association between owner
and tenant. To prevent abuses pending the issue of rules and regulations
under the various decrees, evictions are forbidden and sharecropping has
been declared illegal and is being replaced by cash tenancy. In the mean-
time, DAR has proceeded vigorously with the transfer of land in holdings
over 24 ha and by the beginning of May 1974 had issued land transfer cer-
tificates to 168,000 tenants covering 300,000 ha in 58 provinces of the
Philippines. DAR expects to transfer to the tenants all land in holdings
over 24 ha by the end of December 1974.
Situation in the Project Area
6.        DAR surveys show that 11,500 people own 38,000 ha in the project
area, including about 4,000 ha that are out of command. Some 80% of the
owners have holdings of less than 3 ha and 95% have properties of less
than the 7 ha limit for possible landlord retention set by PD 27. How-
ever this group of owners accounts for only 40% of the area. Owners of
holdings of 24 ha and over, the existing operational limit of land reform,
account for only 2% of the landlords but occupy 38% of the land. The land
ownership pattern in the project area by size of holding as of December 1973
was as follows:
Size of Holding                    Owners                Area Owned
(ha)                       No.        %             Ha
Less than    3                  9,193      80           13,024      34
3-  7               1,779       15           5,916       16
7- 12                 308        2           3,006        8
12- 24                  85        1           1,368        4
24- 50                  69        1           2,263        6
50-100                  56   )   1            3,858       10
More than  100                     41   )   1            8,379      22
Total                     11,531     100          37,814      100



ANNEX 3
Page 3
There is considerable variation in the degree of skewness of land ownership
in the three systems in the project area. The Camiling River Irrigation
System (CRIS) shows the least inequality with the San Miguel-O'Donnell River
Irrigation System (SM-ORIS) at the other extreme and the Tarlac River Irri-
gation System (TRIS.) in the middle. The variations in land distribution
between the three systems are as follows:
Size of Holding            TRIS              SM-ORIS               CRIS
(ha)           % Owners  % Area   % Owners  % Area   % Owners' % Area
Less than   7           93       53         76       15         98       80
7-24          6        15         9         6         1        11
More than  24            1        32        15        79         1         9
Total             100      100        100      100        100      100
7.        The average farm unit in the area is 1.9 ha with about 60% of the
17,700 farms, covering 64% of the area, falling between 1 and 3 ha.  The
farm size distribution is as follows:
Farm Size                 Farms                Cultivated Area
(ha)                     (%                    (,    )
Less than  1                     30                         13
1-2                    39                        34
2-3                    21                        30
3-4                     5                         9
4-5                     3                         7
More than  5                       2                         7
Total                      100                        100
There is little difference between the mean CRIS farm size of 1.7 ha and
the TRIS average of 1.6 ha. However, the SM-ORIS average of 3.1 ha is
considerably larger.
8.        The tenure situation within the project area at the timie of sur-
vey in December 1973 was as follows:
Tenure                    Farmers                  Area
No.       %            Ha        Z
Owner-Operator             3,840       22         7,910       23
Leaseholder                5,805       33        12,556       37
Sharecropper               8,100       45        13,534       40
To tal                17,745      100        34,000      100



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Owner operators accounted for a little more than 20% of the farmers and
the remainder were all tenants, of whom more than half were sharecroppers.
The differences in tenure between the three systems were as follows:
Tenure                               % Farmers
TRIS          SM-ORIS           CRIS
Owner-Operator             15               36              23
Leaseholder                43               52               9
Sharecropper               42               12              68
Total                100              100             100
Conditions at SM-ORIS and CRIS once again tend to be at opposite ends of
the range with TRIS falling between them. CRIS is more isolated than the
other two systems, most of the landowners are small, many of the share-
croppers are members of the landlords' families; these factors seem to
have produced a more cohesive and conservative attitude. The larger and
more uniform farm sizes, higher incidence of owner-operators and lease-
holders and unusually low proportion of sharecroppers at SM-ORIS are the
result of conversion of a large part of the system from an estate to a
land settlement after World War II.
9.        The DAR plans to complete the issue of land transfer certificates
to all tenants on land holdings of 24 ha and over by December 31, 1974. In
the project area this would mean the transfer of about 13,000 ha, equivalent
to about 40% of the project area, to just under 6,000 tenant cultivators.
The attainment of even such a limited objective would result in some 21 ,300
ha, or 62% of the project area, being cultivated by 9,700 owner operators,
equivalent to 55% of the farmers. Until a decision is reached on the issue
of the small landlord it is not possible to determine what will be the ul-
timate tenure picture. The most probable outcome would be a further in-
crease in the number of owner operators, the total disappearance of share-
cropping as a form of tenure and its replacement by a better controlled and
more equitable form of leaseholding.  However, it is unlikely that there
would be any significant change in the existing farm size distribution.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IIIPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Works
1.        Service Area.  The Tarlac Irrigation Systems Improvement: Project
would improve three existing national irrigation systems currently built
to serve 22,700 ha and would extend these systems to serve an additional
11,300 ha. 1/ The improvements would include new water regulating and
delivery structures, the construction and/or enlargement of canals and drains
and access and maintenance service roads. General features of the! improved
irrigation systems would include additional canal structures such as checks,
control structures and turnouts to more effectively control water deliveries
and to provide water more efficiently to each field as needed. Constant
head orifice turnouts to sub-laterals would be provided for water deliveries
to rotational areas of about 50 ha. Turnouts would be provided fcor each 10
ha unit from which farm ditches, constructed as part of the project, would
convey water directly to most farms. A few farms would still recetive water
through their neighbors' fields. Canals, except where specific reaches are
identified, would be unlined. Working stations for Water Management Tech-
nologists (WMT) would be provided for about each 500 ha of irrigated land.
The principal works are discussed separately for each irrigation system and
are summarized in Table 1.
2.        The Tarlac River Irrigation System (TRIS) was constructed in 1959
for an area of 8,600 ha, but only 8,500 are irrigated. The system would be
improved by repairing canals and structures and constructing additional
sub-laterals, farm ditches, turnouts, drains and associated works. New
irrigation works would be constructed to serve extension areas of about
5,400 ha. Concrete lining would be provided for 1.2 km of the main canal
in two reaches downstream from the canal headworks where bank erosion
occurs annually. The intake structure and main canal would be rehabili-
tated but would not have to be enlarged to serve the extension area since
they were designed to serve 18,000 ha. Extension area "A" would be served
by extending the main canal 9.3 km and by enlarging Lateral F. Two new
laterals branching from Lateral F, with a total length of 13 km, would
also be constructed. Extension area "B" would be served by extending
Lateral D 9.3 km. Additional laterals with a total length of 17 km would
be constructed.
1/   For explanation of discrepancies between area irrigated of 21,000 ha
and area "served" of 22m700 ha, see paras 2-4 below.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
3.        The San Miguel-O'Donnell River Irrigation System (SM-ORIS) is the
oldest of the three systems. The San Miguel portion was completed in 1913
and the O'Donnell portion in 1927. The existing system covers 5,100 ha
although only 4,800 ha are currently irrigated. The system would be im-
proved and new irrigation and drainage facilities would be constructed for
a 4,700 ha extension. The existing canal intake structure, which serves
the main canals for both the San  Uiguel and O'Donnell sub-systems, would
be replaced by a new intake structure with a capacity of 19 m3/sec instead
of the present 11 m3/sec. The sluice gates on the diversion dam would be
repaired. Concrete lining would be placed in the San Miguel main canal
for the first 5.6 km to stabilize the canal banks. The O'Donnell main
canal would be enlarged for the first 5 km. Laterals E and E-1 would also
be enlarged for a combined distance of 6 kniT.
4.        The Camiling, Piver Trrigation Systen (CRIS) was completed in 1957.
Tlie existing system covers 9,000 ha, although only 7,350 ha are currently
irrigated. The system would be improved in the same way as TRIS and new
irrigation and drainage works would be provided for a 1,000 ha extension
area. The concrete ogee weir section of the diversion dam would be resur-
faced and the sluice gates in the dam would be repaired. The intake barrel
at the head of the main canal would be desilted and rock excavation would
be performed in the first 100 P. of the canal to lower the invert to design
grade.  The intake structure and canal would not lhave to be enlarged since
they were designed to serve 10,000 ha.  INo concrete lining would be required
in the main canal.  Lateral C would be enlarged from a capacity of 1.9 m3/sec
to 4.0 m3/sec for a distance of 5 km.  NIew canals with a total length of
10 km would be constructed.
5.        Roads.  Roads would be constructed on the canal banks according
ito the following criteria: for canals and laterals with a design capacity
greater than 5.0 m3/sec, operation and maintenance roadways would be pro-
vided on both banks; for canals with capacities between 2.0 and 5.0 m /sec,
a road would be provided on only one bank; and no roadway would be provided
for waterways with capacities less than 2.0 n3/sec. In addition, the exist-
ing roads in the irrigated areas would be improved by widening and gravel
surfacing.
6.        On-Farm Water Distribution and Drainage.  The proposed level of
on-farm water distribution and drainage is similar to what is being implemnented
on the UPRP and would be a substantial improvement over the existing system
which makes no provision for access or for distribution beyond the sub-
lateral. Rice has been grown in the project area for many years and the
land is reasonably level and well laid out with little fragmentation of land
holdings. Therefore no land leveling, boundary realignment or land con-
solidation would be provided at this stage. The NIA is now building a
1,000 ha pilot scheme on the UPRP to test the feasibility, costs and local
acceptability of full on-farm development, including land consolidation,



ANNEX 4
Page 3
land levelling and individual farm access to irrigation and drainage. The
pilot scheme will determine the effects of full on-farm development on yields,
ease of operations and efficiency of water use and the findings would be
applicable to the proposed project as well as the rest of the UPRP.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTDES IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Summary of Irrigation Facilities to be Provided or Rehabilitated
TRIS     SM-ORIS    CRIS        Total
Rehabilitation Area (ha)           8,600     5,100     9,000      22,700
Main Canal Kkm)
Rehabilitation                   17         21        28          66
nmlargement                        0         5          0          5
Laterals (km)
Rehabilitation                  162        109       262         533
Enlargement                        6         6         5          17
Drains (km)                       143        113       238         494
Farm Ditches (km)                  436       261       533       1,230
Farm Drains (km)                   373       131       313         817
Cross Drainage Structures            2         4        12          18
0&M Roads w/Project (km)           112        92       138         342
Extension Area (ha)                5,400     4,700     1,200      11,300
Canals & Laterals (km)              60        49        10         119
Drains (km)                         89       109        26         224
Farm Ditches (km)                  335       304        62         701
Farm Drains (km)                   234       125        35         394
Cross Drainage Structures            3         1         2           6
O&M Roads (km)                      42        36          7         85



ANNEX 4
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTBKS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1/
Irrigation Facilities - Cost/Ha.7
System s
TRIS     a4-ORIS    CRIS      Average
---------------(US$/ha)--------------
1. REHABILITATION
a)  Canal system                    105       251       109         139
b)  Drainage system                  65        53         79         68
c)  Road system                      44        35        41          41
d)  On-farm distribution            141       147       158         149
and drainage
Sub-Total
2. EXTENSION AREA
a)  Canal system                    140       268       192         199
b)  Drainage syptem                  63        55        66          60
c)  Road system                      26        58        25          39
d)  On-farm distribution            180       187       150         180
and drainage
Sub-Total                     949         &        im         UR
TOTAL                                                          4214
1/  Not including contingencies (20%) and engineering supervison and admini-
stration (10%).



ANNEX 5
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Water Supply, Demand, and Quality
1.        Water Supply. Each of the three Tarlac irrigation systems gets
its water supply from a separate river source using its own diversion and
conveyance system. In the dry season some use is also made of return flows
and water found in small localized ponds and tributary streams. There is
no regulatory storage on any of the systems and none would be provided with
the project. The project would not develop new irrigation supplies, but
would improve and extend existing irrigation systems and, by using water
more efficiently, would enable them to serve an expanded area. Only 18%
of the project area would have water during the dry season. However,
additional water supplies for expanding dry season irrigation may be iden-
tified for future development by the Central Luzon Irrigation Development
Study (Loan/Credit 984/472-PH) and/or the groundwater pilot project (Annex 6).
2.        The Camiling River Irrigation System (CRIS) gets its water supply
from the Camiling river. Reliable streamflow records for the Camiling river
at a gauging station about 3 km upstream of the Magsaysay Diversion dam are
available from March 1964. The monthly discharge records of this station
correlate closely with monthly runoff of the Pila river, which has discharge
records dating from 1946. Therefore, flows of the Camiling river at the
gauging station were synthesized from the discharge record of the Pila river
for the period 1946 to February 1964. The flows at the diversion dam were
then correlated on an area basis with the actual and synthesized discharge
at this station to obtain correlated monthly flows for project use.
3.        The San Miguel-O'Donnell River Irrigation System (SM-ORIS) gets
its water supply from the O'Donnell river at a diversion point downstream
of the confluence of the Bangat and O'Donnell rivers. The discharge records
of the O'Donnell river at a gauging station between the confluence and the
diversion point proved unreliable. Therefore, a discharge record at the
diversion site was developed on an area basis from the actual and synthe-
sized discharge records at a gauging station on the O'Donnell river about
5 km upstream of the confluence. These records date from November 1958 to
November 1967, and correlate closely with those of a gauging station on the
Agno river which date from September 1945 to December 1971. The Agno river
records were used to extend the O'Donnell records from 1946 to October 1958
and from December 1967 to December 1971.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        The Bulsa river is the main source of water for the Tarlac River
Irrigation System (TRIS). The diversion dam is located just downstream of
the confluence of the Bulsa and O'Donnell rivers on the Tarlac river. Dis-
charge records for the Bulsa river at a gauging station about 15 km upstream
of the diversion dam are available from August 1960. This record was ex-
tended back to 1946 by correlation with the Camiling river discharge record.
The total flows at the diversion dam were then computed on an area basis
using these recorded and synthesized flows. In estimating the runoff at
the TRIS diversion dam the estimated flow at the SM-ORIS diversion dam up-
stream on the O'Donnell river was excluded.
5.        Water Demand.  It was assumed that transplanted rice would be the
only crop grown in the project area in both the wet and dry seasons, using
120-day, non photosensitive varieties. Water requirements were based on
the following cropping calendar:
Dates
Operation                         Wet Season                 Dry Season
Land Preparation
and Nursery                  mid-MIay    - mid-Aug.    end Sept. - end Nov.
Transplanting                  early July - late Aug.   end Oct.  - early Dec.
Harvesting                      late Sept. - late Nov.   late Jan. - late Feb.
6.        Land preparation and nursery were estimated to take 25 days with
water requirements for saturation, flooding, evaporation and percolation
of 280 mm in the wet season and 240 mm in the dry season. The consumptive
water use for rice was estimated using the Class A Pan Evaporation Method
since previous studies by NIA and the United States Bureau of Reclamation
in Central Luzon showed good correlation with this method. Pan evaporation
data are available in the project area from 1958. Field percolation losses
were estimated to be 2.0 mm per day based on permeability studies in repre-
sentative parts of the project area. The effective rainfall was determined
from observed daily rainfall records, allowing water depth to fluctuate with
the growth of the rice plants and limiting maximum depth to 150 mm.
7.        Overall irrigation efficiency was estimated to be 39% in the wet
season and 48% in the dry season at full development, based on farm irri-
gation wastes of 42% in the wet season and 30% in the dry season, system
operation losses of 15% and canal seepage losses of 20%. Monthly project
water requirements and average river flows for each irrigation system are
shown in Table 1. Seasonal and total annual diversion requirements are
developed in Table 2.
8.        The size of the project area was determined from simulated opera-
tion studies using the 23-year period of synthesized discharge records at
each diversion and the estimated seasonal water requirements for rice.
The cropping calendar was chosen to maximize the use of rainfall without



ANNEX 5
Page 3
exceeding local manpower constraints.  No use of return flow or other
localized water sources was assumed, although as much as 10% of the area
currently irrigated in the dry season uses water from these sources. This
conservative 'assumption will offset lower farm irrigation efficiencies
during the project development period. Irrigation losses were limited
to a nominal 15% in each season for 20 out of the 23 years of study. The
shortages occurred mainly in dry season months, although some shortages
were indicated in the wet season as well. The irrigable areas selected for
the project and the currently irrigated areas are as follows:
IrriRation System
TRIS    SM-ORIS      CRIS      Total
Selected Irrigable Area (ha)
Wet Season                        14,000     9,800     10,200    34,000
Dry Season                        2,000      2,300      1,900     6,200
Currently Irrigated Area (ha)
Wet Season                         8,500     4,800      7,350    20,650
Dry Season                        1,500      1,350      1,800     4,650
9.        Water Quality.  Tests of water samples from the Camiling, O'Donnell
and Tarlac rivers and from the main canals of each system indicate good water
quality with total dissolved solids under 200 ppm. The waters are of low
salinity, slightly alkaline (pR 7-8) and are free of toxic elements. The
O'Donnell river since 1913 and the Camiling and Tarlac rivers since the late
1950s have been used for irrigation in the project area without evidence of
any harmful effects, and no difficulties are expected from their continued
use.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Water Requirement and Supply
Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.   May    Jun.   Jul. | Aug.   Sep.   Oct.   Nov.   Dec.
Wet Season paddy (34,000 ha)                                                                    T+M                  H
LP + N                         Drainage'
Dry Season paddy (6,200 ha)                      H                                   _
LP = Land Preparation, N   Nursery, T   Transplanting, M = Management, H = Harvest
Water Requirement
Land prep. & nursery    (ita)                                      21      92    108       59       7     74    112       47
Consumptive use           (mm)    175       53                                     43    114    130    104        92    169
Percolation               (mm)      55      16                                     21      58     60      41      42      62
Crop water req'm't.       (mm)    230       69                     21      92    172    231    197    219    246    278
Effective rainfall        (mm)       3       9                     21      91    171    199    180    145         91      35
Water req'm't.at farm   (m)    227          60                      0       1       1      32      17     74    155    243
Overall irr. efficiency (%)    47.5   47.5                         39      39      39      39     41      42      47   47.5
Diversion req'm't.        (mm)    480    125                        0       2       2     80      40    175    331    515
Cropped area              (ha)
TRIS                                                           _         -           14,000      .            2,000
SM-ORIS                                   .,-                                 -       9,800       -        _ 2,300 -
CRIS                                                                          -      10,200                   1,900 -
Volume water req'd.       (Mm3)                                                                                .
TRIS                            9.6    2.5                       0    0.3    0.3   11.2    5.6   16.6   10.2   10.3
SM-ORIS                        11.0    2.9                       0    0.2    0.2    7.8    3.8   12.2    9.8   11.8
CRIS                            9.1    2.4                       0    0.2    0.2    8.2    4.1   12.4    8.9    9.8
Diversion req'm't.    (M3/sec)
TRIS                            3.6    1.0                       0    0.1    0.1    4.2    2.2    6.2    3.9    3s9
SM-ORIS                         4.1    1.2                       0    0.1    0.1    2.9    1.5    4.6    3,8    4.4
CRIS                            3.4    1.0                       0    0.1    0.1    3.1    1.6    4.7    3.4    3.7
Water Available (M3/sec)
23-Year Average
TRIS                            9.5    8.0    6.5    6.8   16.7   44.5   75.0  137.4  134.2   56.9   28.0 | 17.j
SM-ORIS                         6.8    5.6    5.1    5.3    7.0   10.4   17.6   27.5   25.0   19.6   13.3   -'_
CRIS                            6.0    4.9    4.2    4.1    7.4   23.0   39.7   58.0   58.9   30.6   17.8   11.6
5 Critical Year Average
TRIS                            5.7    5.0    4.2    4.8    4.9    6.5   28.7   46.5   75.5   39.3   16.2   10.0
SM-ORIS                         7.2    5.4    4.7    4.5    4.5    5.2   10.5   13.4   17.4   11.5    8.9    5.8
CRIS                            3.2    3.0    2.6    2.8    2.8    5.7   14.5   23.3   36.6   19.8    8.6    5.2
WVorld Bank-891.'



ANNEX 5
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATIONS SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Water Requirements
Units: mm
Land Preparation (25 days)       Wet season             Dry season
Saturation & Flooding              130                      77
Evaporation                        100                     113
Percolation                         50                      5
Sub-total                     280     Annually        240
Total                                    520
Crop W4ater Requirement        (92 days)                 (84 days)
Evapotranspiration                 400                     480
Percolation                        185                     170
Sub-total                      T                      6
Total                                  1, 235
Total Crop Water Requirement         865      1,755          890
Less Effective Rainfall              755        945          190
Farm Water Requirement               110         810         700
Farm Irrigation Efficiency            58%                     70%
Farm Irrigation Reqmt (at turnout)  190       1,190        1,000
Seepage Losses (20%)                            300
System Operation Losses (15%)                   260
Total Diversion Requirement        280      1,750        1,)470
Overall Irrigation Efficiency       39%        46%



ANNEX 6
Page1
PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Groundwater Pilot Proj ect
General
1.        The main problem facing agriculture in Tarlac province and the
Central Luzon basin in general is the lack of a dependable supply of water
for year round irrigation.  Rainfall is usually suffici ent to support crops
during the wet season, but it is erratic and deficient during the dry sea-
.son. Consequently, cropping is limited to the wet season on rainfed areas
and the land is idle during the dry season. Even in the irrigation systems
no more than 20% of the area can be irrigated during the dry season as a
result of low river flows.
2.        A series of investigations has been carried out in the Central
Luzon basin to assess the possibilities of increasing the area under irri-
gation in both wet and dry seasons. The main emphasis has been on poten-
tial storage proj ec-ts, but some work has also been done on evaluation of
the groundwater potential. Five production wells have been drilled in the
Guimba area with assistance from the United Nations Development Program
(UNDP). The Bank assisted Central Luzon Irrigation Development Study
(Loan/Credit 984/472-PH) provides among other things for a two year survey
to assess the groundwater potential of the basin and to locate the areas
of greatest promise. The groundwater element of the study would complement
the investigation of storage potentials.
3.        The basin and range topography and high monsoon rainfall, charac-
teristic of the bigger islands in the Philippines, provide favorable condi-
tions for the occurrenice of large volumes of groundwate'r. Volcanic activity,
continuing through the late Quaternary period, resulted in a thick accumu-
lation of sediments in the intermDntane basins and alluvial valleys. The
permeability of the sediments varies greatly, but discrete, often highly
permeable aquifers are found frequently at sufficiently shallow depths to
encourage development. Alternating periods of volcanic activity and erosion
have formed a sequence of semi-confining and more permeable horizons. Most
aquifers therefore contain confined groundwater and free flowing wells are
not uncommon.
4.        As part of the Central Luzon Study, UNDP is currently carrying
out an exploration program with four heavy drilling rigs to determine the
occurrence, thickness and hydrologic properties of the aquifers in the



ANNEX 6
Page 2
project area. Two of the proposed 19 wells have been completed and are
yielding about 105 1/sec with drawdowns between 20 and 23 m. While the
exploration program will make a valuable addition to the current knowledge
of groundwater in the area it will not provide any information on the ex-
ploitation potential of the resource. The proposed Groundwater Pilot Proj-
ect would meet this requirement.
Objectives
5.        The objectives of the pilot project would be to:
(a) stress the aquifer system in each of the three irrigation
areas to evaluate recharge, discharge and storage capabili-
ties as well as groundwater movement;
(b) evaluate the technical and economic feasibility of dry
season rice irrigation by groundwater pumping;
(c) assess the potential for conjunctive use of the surface
and groundwater resources of the project area and prepare
a preliminary development plan; and
(d) provide special training for NIA staff in groundwater
hydrology and well drilling techniques.
Project Works
6.        The groundwater project would consist of one 300 ha pilot area for
each of three irrigation systems. Each pilot area would be served by about
six production wells, or one well to 50 ha. In the Guimba area, production
wells were designed to serve 80 ha, but mutual interference reduced their
yield and too little water was available for a dry season rice crop.
7.        Project works would include the construction of about 18 wells
equipped with deep well turbine pumps and diesel motors, together with the
necessary laterals and farm ditches to connect up with the gravity system.
The laterals would be provided with checks, turnouts and measuring devices.
The production wells would be about 140 m deep with a pump chamber 45 cm
in diameter and 40 m deep. The wells would be equipped with totalizing
meters to determine total pumpage. In addition to the production wells,
about nine observation wells would be drilled and equipped with automatic
water stage recorders. A meteorological station would be established on each
of the pilot areas to obtain data on rainfall, evaporation and temperature.
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
8.        Effective rainfall during the dry season crop period is negligible
and the project would be entirely dependent on the groundwater pumped from
the 18 deep wells. Water supply is calculated on the basis of a 50 ha



ANNEX 6
Page 3
service area per well and a yield of 100 1/sec. Water demand is based on
the cropping calendar shown in Table 1, assuming a requirement of 258 mn
for land preparation and nurseries over a 30 day period, a farm irrigation
efficiency of 70% because of good management and limited water supply and
a conveyance efficiency of 90% because of the closeness of the wells to
the irrigated land. The water demand for the groundwater pilot project is
atypical of that for the project area as a whole as presented in Annex 5.
This is because the cropping calendar for the pilot area is designed to stress
the groundwater aquifer, whereas the calendar for the rest of the irrigation
system was designed to make maximum use of residual soil moisture and late
season rainfall in October and November. The cropping calendar proposed for
the pilot area would also leave little time for maintenance of the irrigation
system. Water supply would meet the demand with a 16 hour pumping day, giving
about 1800 hours of pump operation per year.
9.        Groundwater in the area is of the calcium-magnesium type and is
suitable for rice irrigation. The total dissolved solids are below 340 ppm,
with chloride concentration at 40 ppm and pH 6.9. Continuous use of ground-
water in the dry season is not likely to cause harmful accumulation of salts
due to leaching during the wet season.
Implementation
10.       The wells would be constructed by National Irrigation Administra-
tion (NIA) personnel and equipment under the control of the Upper Pampanga
River Project (UPRP) organization. Consultants would be employed to provide
general guidance to the project and expertise as needed to reinforce the
UPRP staff. Construction would be the responsibility of the Tarlac Division
(No. 5) to be set up within the UPRP. The evaluation aspects of the project
would be under the control of the UPRP Project Development Division (PDD),
which is also responsible for the Central Luzon Study. The PDD is organized
in five sections:  Investigations, Economics and Land Resources, Hydrology,
Plan Formulation, and Social and Environmental Aspects. The Division has a
staff of approximately 30 professionals and 80 sub-professionals. With con-
sultant assistance the PDD staff would be fully competent to execute the
project satisfactorily.
11.       In addition to data gathering on the hydrological and geological
aspects of the project, studies would also be made to optimize the use of
expensive pumped water. Records would be kept of all production costs of
groundwater irrigated crops, together with similar data from neighboring
gravity irrigated farms growing only wet season rice and growing rice in
both seasons.
12.       The project would also include a training program for selected
NIA technical staff. It would provide suitable technicians an opportunity
to widen their knowledge in the fields of groundwater resource exploration,
utilization, management and evaluation. The training would cover all as-
pects of the work and would include on-the-job training as well as academic



ANNEX 6
Page 4
courses. The consultants employed by NIA for the project would assist with
the training, which would include both in-country and overseas training.
Consultants
13.       NIA would employ under terms of reference already approved by the
Bank a firm of consultants to assist with the project. NIA staff would
carry out most of the data gathering, while the consultants would provide
guidance, review and special technical services as required. The consult-
ants would recommend the location of the three pilot areas after considering
the results of the exploration program. The consultants would be responsi-
ble for reviewing and evaluating the adequacy of all data, quantifying the
amount of groundwater available for irrigation in the project area and de-
termining the economics of groundwater use. They would ensure that work
on the pilot project was coordinated with the needs of the Central Luzon
Study. The consultants would also prepare a report giving the results of
the pilot project, together with supporting background information. In
addition they would assist with the training of NIA personnel in ground-
water technology.
Report
14.       After not less than two full years of operation of the pilot
project, a report would be prepared which would include an evaluation of
the groundwater resource in the Tarlac systems area and an assessment of
the economics of development and use of the resource. Should the results
of the pilot project warrant, the report would include a framework plan
and preliminary cost estimates for the conjunctive use of surface and
groundwater in the project area.
Costs
15.       The pilot project is estimated to cost a total of US$1.2 million,
including a foreign exchange component of US$0.9 million for the purchase
of equipment, vehicles, materials and supplies, consultant services and
for training costs for NIA personnel. Details of the cost estimate are
given in Annex 9 and a list and cost of the proposed equipment to be pur-
c:hased is shown in Annex 10.



PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
GROUNDWATER PILOT PROJECT
Estimated Dry Season Crop Irrigation Requirements
Oct.     Nov.     Dec.    Jan.      Feb.    Mar.      Ap.      May
Dry Season Paddy (900 ha)                                       LP                 T+M
___~~~~ 1 1IŽ~~    _
LP = Land Preparation, N = Nursery, T   Transplanting, M = Management, H = Harvest
Total
Land preparation and nursery (mm)                          0        98      155         5        0        0        0       0           258
Croo Consumptive Use (mm)                                  0          0       58      175      218      247       66       0           764
Crop Water Requirements (mm)                               0         98     213       180      210      247       66       0         1,014
Effective Rainfall  (mm)                                    0        50       34        3        9       17       45       0           158
Crop Irrigation Requirements (mm)                          0        48      177       177      201      230       21       0           854
Farm Delivery Requirement 70% Eff. (mm)                    0         69     253       253      287      329       30       0         1,221
Diversion Requirements 10% Canal Loss (mm)                  0        77      281      281      318      366       33       0         1,356
Cropped Area (ha)
TRIS                                                                            -   300  -
SM-ORIS                                                                              300
CRIS                                                                                 300
Vol. of Water Required (Mm3)                                0       .69    2.53    2.53    2.86    2.84          .30        0        11.75
Vol. of Pumped Water Available (Mm3) *                      0      3.11    3.21    3.21    2.90    3.21    3.11             0        18.75
Pump Operation (Hrs/Mo/Pump)                                0       106      390      390      441      438       46        0        1,811
World Bank-8917
* Assuming pump operates 16 hrs/day.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Water Management Training
Background
1.        Irrigation efficiencies on the National Irrigation Administra-
tion's (NIA) gravity systems are generally lowq. Lack of terminal facili-
ties, poor maintenance and inadequate staff have contributed to wasteful
use of water. Low efficiencies are particularly prevalent in the wet
season when there is no perceived need to economize on water.  On most
systems, dry season cropping, which relies almost entirely on irrigation,
can only take place on about 307 of the wet season area.  The Upper
Pampanga River Project (UPEP) has made double cropping on the entire
area possible by providing additional water from storage and by greatly
improving the degree of on-farm development. The same will be true of
the Penaranda project. The physical improvements proposed for the Tarlac
systems would result in a 50% increase in the area irrigated during the
wet season and in a smaller increase in the dry season area from the exist-
ing run-of-the-river sources. However, double cropping and the expansion
of the area irrigated will not be feasible without a substantial improve-
ment in irrigation efficiency.
2.        On the UPRP and Penaranda projects the physical prerequisites
for high irrigation efficiencies and the subsequent increase in cropping
intensity are being provided. The NIA recognizes that improvements in
infrastructure can only achieve their objective if accompanied by more
and better operational staff. The NIA proposes to base project operations
on a 50 ha rotational irrigation unit containing about 20-25 farmers. Ten
such units would be controlled by a Water Management Technologist (WMT)
assisted by five ditchtenders (DT).  The W2MTs are agricultural graduates,
while the DTs have some secondary education.  The main function of the WMfTs
will be to improve water management practices, to educate the farmers to
make better use of water and to gradually prepare the farmers to assume
more active roles in operation and maintenance of the facilities at the
field level.
3.        At the present time, newly recruited NIA personnel, including
graduates, are not well versed in water management or crop production
aspects of irrigation or in methods of communication with farmers. The
proposed Water Management Training program would meet this requirement.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
ObJectives
4.        The objectives of the program would be to:
(a) provide training facilities in each of the five UPRP
operational districts aimed at teaching water manage-
ment methods, rice production techniques and farmer
organization. The emphasis would be on learning by
doing; and
(b) over a five-year period to train about 300 WMTs re-
quired to staff a total of some 143,000 ha of irrigated
land covered by the UPRP, Aurora-Penaranda and proposed
Tarlac projects.
Pilot Units
5.        The training program would be based on pilot water management
units. Each of the five O&M districts covered by the UPRP organization,
namely, San Jose, Talavera, Santa Rosa, Penaranda and Tarlac would set up
a 500 ha pilot unit. The District Chiefs and the Head of the Agricultural
Development Division would thoroughly evaluate the physical aspects of the
pilot units to ensure that they are functional from both the engineering
and agricultural points of view, as well as being typical of what the WMTs
will have to handle after completion of training. Each pilot unit would
have a field office with storage for supplies and equipment, as well as
suitable facilities for group discussions.
6.        In addition to their training functions, the pilot units would
also serve as channels for introducing and demonstrating inputs such as
fertilizer, herbicides, the use of hand tractors and row seeders, etc.
Each unit would be provided with a range of equipment and supplies to
facilitiate demonstration. The concepts of water management would be
crystallized through supervised field experience on the units.
Scope of Training
7.        The principal emphasis of the training would be on water manage-
ment. Training would include reading of flumes and other water measuring
devices; computing the amount of water needed for a given area; simple data
collection of rainfall, evaporation, seepage and percolation rates; using
water balance models to compute field needs; supervision of field deliver-
ies of water; control of drainage and other surface losses, including sys-
tematic checking of canals and laterals to achieve desired rates of water
discharge. The training would be reinforced by putting every trainee through
a range of field situations on the pilot units where he can apply his new
knowledge.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
8.        The success of the WMT will be dependent on his relationship with
the farmer who will come to him with production problems as well as with
water problems. To be effective the WMT will have to be suitably equipped
with the latest knowledge of rice technology. He should be in a positipn
to help the farmer in such areas as a field identification of insects and
diseases, fertilizer application, weed control and other matters. The WMT
would not usurp the function of the existing extension services but would
reinforce them by taking advantage of his close and constant association
with the farmer. To equip the WMTs for these activities the training pro-
gram would arrange for trainees to take part in one of the crop production
training programs available in the Philippines. One such program is the
Rice Production Training Program of the International Rice Research Insti-
tute, Los Banos, which has a two week and a six month course.
9.        Irrigation, as an input, differs markedly in character from other
inputs such as credit, fertilizer, machinery and agro-chemicals. It is
a sustained activity. The farmer irrigates during land preparation, drains
the field for transplanting, irrigates throughout the vegetative, reproduc-
tive and grain ripening stages, and drains the fields two weeks before har-
vest. In the course of these activities the farmers interact with water
management personnel throughout the cropping season. It is therefore logical
to think of water as the major single commodity around which to organize
farmers. The training program would teach the water management staff how
to conduct farmers' meetings, how to distribute information and how to keep
simple records to evaluate what is happening. The training would provide
for the organization of farmers through NIA personnel, as ultimately both
groups would be responsible for the routine running of the irrigation system.
Implementation
10.       The UPRP, APIP and proposed Tarlac project would have a total re-
quirement of some 300 WMTs and about 1,450 DTs. The training program would
be aimed at producing the needed WMTs over five years. Allowing for attri-
tion, there would be an annual intake of 65 trainees, or 13 candidates for
training on each of the five pilot units.
11.       The program would be under the control of a Director responsible
to the UPRP Project Manager. The Director would administer the program,
coordinate the field aspects, negotiate with outside institutions for spe-
cialized training or research inputs, and formulate and revise the content
of the program in the light of experience within the pilot units and else-
where in the project areas. There would be a Field Supervisor attached to
each District Chief who would be responsible for day to day running of the
program within the District. The training staff would be drawn mostly
from regular NIA personnel such as District Chiefs and other O&M staff with
extensive technical knowledge and field experience. Specialized NIA units
such as the Agricultural Development Division would contribute both staff



ANNEX 7
Page 4
and facilities to the program. The training facilities centered on the
pilot units would continue after the end of the five-year period to provide
refresher training and to produce WMTs for other national irrigation systems.
12.       The program would produce operation manuals for the WMTs and the
DTs and would prepare training aids for use by the WMTs in development of
group leaders among the farmers. Experience on pilot projects on UPRP has
shown that a cadre of group leaders is essential for spreading new ideas
and technology as well as obtaining effective feedback. About three group
leaders per 50 ha rotational unit appears to be the right degree of cover-
age. On this basis some 8,500 group leaders would have to be developed by
the WMTs.
13.       There is considerable training expertise in the Philippines which
NIA could draw upon for assistance. However, consultant input might be re-
quired in some aspects of water management, crop production and training
for group organization. As it is difficult to predetermine the nature and
amount of consultant services that would be required, the possibility is
covered by a lump sum provision in the cost estimates.
Costs
14.       The training program is estimated to cost a total of US$0.75 mil-
lion, including a foreign exchange component of US$0.44 million for the
purchase of equipment, vehicles, materials, supplies and consultant serv-
ices. Details of the estimate are given in Annex 9 and a list and cost of
the proposed equipment to be purchased is shown in Annex 10.



ANNEX 8
Page I
PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
National Irrigation Systems Improvement Study
General
1.        The National Irrigation Administration (NIA) operates about 100
gravity irrigation systems throughout the Philippines. They cover some
400,000 ha and range in size from 130 ha to 83,000 ha. Approximately 65%
of the systems are smaller than 3,000 ha and account for about 20% of the
irrigated area. The national systems are usually run-of-the-river schemes
with insufficient control structures in the canals, a marked lack of terminal
facilities, inadequate drainage and little provision for access. The limited
efficiency of the systems has been reduced further by lack of maintenance
caused by a shortage of funds and equipment. The traditional form of reha-
bilitation, consisting of desilting of canals and repair of broken struc-
tures, is actually deferred maintenance and only restores the system tc its
original unsatisfactory state.
2.        With assistance from the Bank and the Asian Development Bank (ADB),
NIA is currently upgrading and extending the Upper Pampanga, Penaranda and
Angat-Magat systems in Luzon and the Davao del Norte system in Mindanao. Ali
existing canals and structures are being rehabilitated, new ones are being
added, drainage is being provided for, the road density is being increased
and water management and rotational irrigation practices are being intro-
duced. In addition the Pampanga, Penaranda and Angat systems have been sup-
plied with year-round water through the provision of storage. Despite this
ambitious program over half of the area under the national systems remains
untouched and continues to deteriorate.
3.        The proposed National Irrigation Systems Improvement Study (NISIS)
would inventory existing NIA systems and select a total of about 150,000 ha
with the highest priority for improvement. In the process a pipeline of
systems improvement projects would be developed.
Objectives
4.        The objectives of the study would be to:
(a) Compile an inventory of the national gravity systems,
cataloguing all relevant data and material needed to
give comprehensive information on each system;



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(b) Select from the inventory a total of about 150,000 ha
of irrigation service area for upgrading. In addition
to economic factors consideration would be given to
institution-building aspects and to the general poverty
of the region. The area selected would be divided into
convenient packages for the preparation of feasibility
grade studies;
(c) Develop the project preparation and planning capability
of the NIA;
(d) Review the organization and implementation capacity of
the NIA regional field offices; and
(e) Provide special training to senior regional personnel
in all aspects of systems improvement, through on-the-
job and consultant assisted training programs in the
Philippines and elsewhere.
Implementation
5.        The Project Development Division (PDD) of the UPRP would be given
the primary responsibility for carrying out the study. The PDD would ob-
tain assistance from other specialized units of NIA as needed and would
work closely with the NIA regional offices throughout the Philippines.
The PDD would be assisted by consultants, who would provide general guid-
ance in the study and technical back-up as needed to reinforce NIA staff.
The PDD is organized in five sections: Investigations Economics and Land
:Resources, Hydrology, Plan Formulation and Soil and Environmental Aspects.
The staff consists of about 30 professionals and 80 subprofessionals for
field work, drafting, transportation and administrative support. With
support of consultants and assistance from other headquarters units and
the regional offices of NIA, the PDD staff would be competent to execute
the study.
6.        The first task of the study would be to collect data on the na-
tional irrigation systems and to assess their potentials for benefits after
upgrading. The PDD would produce an inventory of the systems and would
select systems for further study. It is anticipated that a total of about
150,000 ha of existing systems would be identified at this stage.
7.        The second part of the study would consist of four feasibility
surveys, each covering an irrigation system or package of systems totaling
some 30,000 to 40,000 ha. For the feasibility studies information would
be collected on rainfall, run-off, percolation, land classification and
ownership, farm size and tenure, farming practices, cropping patterns,
yields and incomes, together with data on the irrigation layouts and their
existing condition. The feasibility surveys would be expected to develop



ANNEX 8
Page 3
parameters to justify the degree of rehabilitation or upgrading that is
proposed for the selected systems. The level of facilities provided in
the UPRP would be taken as standard, but more or less sophisticated sys-
tems may be called for, depending on factors which would vary from system
to system.
8.        The improvement study would take three years to complete.  The
first nine months would be devoted to compilation of the systems inventory
and to selection of systems for further study. The remaining 27 months
would be allocated to the production of the four feasibility reports. Each
report would require about nine months for preparation. The NIA proposes
a stepped method of scheduling report preparation by which each report would
overlap the next report by three months. This schedule would enable NIA to
speed up the flow of projects for appraisal and would also result in proj-
ects conveniently sized for a reasonable construction period. Assuming the
improvement study would start in early 1975, the sequence of events would
be as follows:
Period                                   Activity
January 1975 - September 1975            Inventory and system selection
October 1975 - June       1976            Feasibility Report No. 1
March   1976 - December  1976             Feasibility Report No. 2
October 1976 - June       1977           Feasibility Report No. 3
March   1977 - December  1977             Feasibility Report No. 4
9.        The study would also provide a training program for NIA technical
personnel. The main objective of the training would be to strengthen NIA's
project preparation capability. During the period of inventory compilation
the consultants would emphasize on-the-job training of selected personnel
both in the Philippines and abroad. The proposed scheduling of report
preparation would also permit additional on-the-job training, as partici-
pants would be given increasing responsibility with each subsequent report.
Consultants
10.       NIA would employ consultants, under terms of reference already
approved by the Bank, to assist with the study. NIA staff would carry out
most of the data gathering, while the consultants would furnish guidance,
review and specialized technical services as required. The consultants
would set up inventory check lists for all information needed to assess
the present status and future potential of the systems, review the col-
lected information and assist in the selection of systems for upgrading.
The consultants would assist NIA personnel in preparing the feasibility
reports and would be responsible for training NIA staff in project prepara-
tion. The consultants would review the organization of NIA's regional
offices covered by the feasibility studies and make recommendations for
changes needed to implement the proposed program of system improvement. They
would also outline a training program for regional staff to execute the
improvement projects.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
Costs
11.       The study is estimated to cost a total of US$2.5 million including
a foreign exchange component of UTS$1.0 million for the purchase of equip-
ment, vehicles, materials and supplies, consultant services and training for
NIA personnel. Details of the cost estimate are given in Annex 9 and a list
and cost of the proposed equipment to be purchased is shown in Annex 10.



Annex 9
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimate
Local       Foreign        Total                     Local         Foreign       Votal            Foreign
-------- (Pesos '000)                                ____ _____-_ (US$ '000) -------              Exchange
1. PROJECT SERVICE AREA
Rehabilitation - TRIS                   13,370         7,130        20,500                     1,990         1,060         3,050               35
Rehabilitation - SM-ORIS                11,290         5,380        16,670                     1,680           800         2,480               32
Rehabilitation - CRTS                   15,250         8,130        23,380                     2,270         1,210         3,480               35
Extension Area - TRIS                   10,080         4,770        14,850                     1,500           710         2,210               32
Extension Area - SM-ORIS                11,830         6,120        17,950                     1,760           910         2,670               34
Extension Area - CRIS                    2,350         1,140         3.490                       350           170           520               33
Sub-Total                         64,170        32,670        96,840                     9,550         4,860        14,410              34
Contingencies 207,                      12,830         6,450        19,280                     1,910           960         2,870               34
Engineering Su,pervision & Adm. 10%    11,570                       11,570                     1,720           -           1,720                -
Sub-Total                          88,570        39,120       127,690                    13,180         5,820        19,000              30
2. OPERAT]ON & MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT            670        10,420        11,090                       100        1,550         1,650               94
3. GROUNDWATER PILOT PROJECT
Civil Works                                  940           505        1,445                       140             75          215               35
Consulting Services                          300           840        1,140                        45            125           170              74
Equipment                                    170        3,730         3,900                        25           555           580               96
Training                                     100           335          435                         15           50             65              77
Contingencies                                235           910        1,145                         35          135           170               79
Sub-Total                            1,745         6,320         8,065                       260           940         1,200              78
4. WATER MANAGEMENT TRAINING
Project Personnel                          1,345           605        1,950                       200             90          290               31
Civil Works                                  135            35           170                       20             5             25              20
Consulting Services                          100           505          605                         15           75             90              83
Equipment                                    235        1,445         1,680                         35          215            250              86
Contingencies                                270           370           640                       40             55            95              58
Sua-Total                            2,085         2,960         5,045                       310           440           750               59
5. NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS
IMPROVEMENT STUDY
Project Personnel                         2,485            335        2,820                       370             50          420               12
Contractual Services                      4,535         4,705         9,240                       675           700         1,375               51
Equipmenit                                1,075         1,175         2,250                       160            175          335               52
Contingencies                             1985             505        2,490                     _295              75         _70                20
Sub-Total                           10,080         6,720        16,800                     1,500         1.000         2,500              40
SUB-TOTILL PROJECT COST                 _032,50        655L40 Q     16§,9O                     15,350         %750         25,100               39
ExPected Price Incresases                 39,650        20,0          59,0                       5,900         3,000 58,900                     34
TOTAL PROJECT COST                  142,800        85,700       228,500                    21,25         12,750        34,000              37
1/ Based on Annex 9 , Table 6



ANNEX 9
PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS DMPROVEMENT Pi'OJECT
PROJECT SERVICE AREA
Cost Estimate
Local      Foreign        Total
--------(U$ Ooo)----------
1. REHABILITATION
a) TRIS
Canal System                         560          340           900
Drainage System                      410          150           560
Road System                          210          170           380
On-farm distribution & drainage      810          400          1210
Sub-Total                     1990         1060          3050
b) SM-ORIS
Canal System                         880          4oo          1280
Drainage System                       200          70           270
Road System                           100          80           180
On-farm distribution & drainage       500         250           750
Sub-Total                     1680          800          2480
c) CRIS
Canal System                         600          380           980
Drainage System                      520          190           710
Road System                           200         170           370
On-farm distribution & drainage      950          470          1420
Sub-Total                     2270         1210         3480
Sub-Total Item 1              5940         3070          9010
2. EXTENSION AREA
a) TRIS
Canal System                         520          240           760
Drainage System                       250          90           340
Road System                            80          60           140
On-farm distribution & drainage       650         320           970
Sub-Total                     1500          710          2210
b) 9M-ORIS
Canal System                         830          430          1260
Drainage System                       190          70           260
Road System                          150          120           270
On-farm distribution & drainage      590          290           880
Sub-Total                     1760          910          2670
c) CRIS
Canal System                         150           80           230
Drainage System                       60           20            80
Road System                            20          10            30
On-farm distribution & drainage       120          60           180
Sub-Total                      350          170          520
Sub-Total Item 2              36'0         1790         5400
Project Area Total                        9550        4860         14410
Contingencies 20%                         1910         960          2870
Engineering Supervision & Adym. 10%       1720           -          1720
TOTAL                        ?.3180        5820         19000



ANNEX 9
Table j
PHILIPPINES
TARIAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEKENT PROJECT
GROUNDWATER PILOT PROJECT
Cost Estimate
Local       Foreign       Total
--------(US$TI 000-------
1. Civil Works
a)  Well construction                  45           65           110
b)  Irrigation works                   75            10           85
c)  Engineering supervision            20            -            20
Sub-Total                      140           75           215
2.  Consultant Services                      45          125           170
3. Equipment and Materials
a)  Imported equipment                 -           365           365
b) Materials                           25          190           215
Sub-Total                       25          555          580
4. Training                                  15            50           65
Sub-Total Items 1-4            225          805         1 ,030
Contingencies 15%                        35          135           170
Total                      260          940         1_200



ANNEX 9
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEKS 3MPROV34ENT PROJECr
WATER MANAGEMENT TRAINING
Cost Estimate
Local        Foreign         Total
-Loca      (uniVm -  -----------
1.  Project Personnel                       200             90           290
2.  Consulting Services                      15             75            90
3. Buildingo                                 20             5             25
4. Equipment, Supplies and Materials
a)  Office supplies, materials
and furniture                      25            20             45
b)  Farm equipment                      5            20             25
c)  Vehicles                            -            55             55
d)  Hydro-met equipment                              20             20
e)  Fuel, oil, spares                                35             35
f)  Field supplies and materials        -            50             50
g)  Sundries                            5            15             20
Sub-Total                35            215           250
Sub-Total Items 1-4     270            385           655
Contingenciea 15%                        40            55             95
Total               310            440           750



ANNEX 9
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTES DPROVEKIENT PROJUC
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTlKS 3IPROVWENT STUDY
Cost Estimate
Local       Forign         Total
- (US$'o000)---------
1. Project pemel
a) Salaries                           345           -            345
b) Traming                             25          50             75
Sub-Total                        370          50            420
2. Contractual Services
a) Survy &Kappig                      525           _            525
b)  onsultant                                     700            8
Sab-Total                        675         700          1,375
3. Equipment, Supplies & Materials
a) offiee & Field Supplies            120           -            120
b) Ixported  puiment                   -          175            175
c) Sundries                            40           -             40
Sub-Total                        160         175            335
Sub-Total Item  1-3            1,205         925          2,130
Contingencies 15%                     295          75            370
Total                          1,500       1,000          2,500



PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Expected Price Inicreases
Calendar Year:                                      1976                           8         im            Total
1.  Civil Works  /
a)  Foreign Exchange US $'000           580         1,190        2,720         1,865            -          6,355
Annual Inflation Rate %   /          15            12            12           12            12
Expected Price Increases USSOO0   45            260           990           985            -          2,280
b)  Local Currency US $1000  2        1,375         2,805        6,410          ,390            50        15,030
Annual Inflation Rate %  2/          20            12           12            12            12
Expected Price Increases US$'00o  140            760         2,725         2,615            40         6,280
2.  Equipment US $'000 /                  2,455         1,185            25           25            25         3,715
Annual Inflation Rate % 2/               11           7.5           7.5           7.5          7.5
Expected Price Increases US$'000    1j       5        180                         10            10           240
Total US $'000                        4,410        5,180         9,155         6,280            75        25,100
Expected Price Increases US$'000        320        1,200         3,720         3,610            50         8,900
1/ Based on Annex 9, Table 1.
2/  Calculated by compounding the estimated rate of price increase in prior year and one half the rate of
increase in the year concerned.
y/  Based on Annex1O, Tables 1-5



ANNEX 1 0
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Equipment for Fbrce Account Work
Unit: US$ 1,000
Quantity         Unit Total
Items                          TRIS SM-ORIS CRIS Total Cost Cost
Tractor, Crawlerp D-4 equivalent          1     1      1    3    29    87
Crane, Crawler, 18T w/ 3/4 yd bucket      1     1      1    3    70   210
Grader, Motorized 125 hp                  1     1      1    3    41   123
Loader, Wheeled, 1-1/2 yd                 1     1      1    3    29    87
Tractor., Industrial w/backhoe-loader     1     1      1    3    20    60
Truck, Dump 6 yd                          2     2       2    6    14    84
Truck, Flatbed 6T                         1     1      1    3    12    36
Truck, Pickup 3/4T 4xh                    1     1      1    3      8    24
Jeep, Wagon jx4                           2     2      2    6      8.5  51
Jeep, bx4                                 3     3      3    9      7.5 67.5
Mixer, Concrete 1 cu. yd.                 2     1      1    4    12    48
Vibrator, Concrete                        2     1      1    4      1     4
Pump, Water 4 in.                         2     2      2    6      1     6
Radio Transceiver (Single side band)      2     2      2    6      3    18
Sub-total                                                         905.5
Spare Parts                                                              44.5
Total                                                             950
-~~~~~~~~



Annex 10
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Equipment for Operation and Maintenance
Unit: US$1,000
Quantity    Unit   Total Cost
Items                         TRIS 1/CRIS   Cost   TRIS   CRIS
Tractor, Crawler 180 hp                     1            72     72
Tractor, Crawler 140 hp                    1      1      56     56      56
Tractor, Crawler 90 hp                     2      1      29     58     29
Crane, Crawler 18T with 3/4yd bucket       2      1      70   1&0       70
Loader, Crawler with 1/2 yd backhoe        1      1      40     40      40
Loader. Wheeled, 1-1/2 yd                 2      1      29     58      29
Grader, Motorized 125 hp                   2      1      41     82    41
Roller, Vibrating 15T w/tractor 50 hp      I      1      25     25      25
Truck, Tractor (w/25T trailer)             IF            44  -44
Tractor, Industrial w/backhoe-loader       2      1      20     40      20
Truck., Water                              i2J           16     16
Truck, Mbbile Repair & Lubrication         1?.           30     30
Truck, Dump 6 yd                           6      4      14     84    56
Truck, Flatbed 6T                          2      1      12     24    12
Truck, Pickup IT                           2      1       9     18       9
Truck, Pickup 3/4T 4x4                     1      1       8       8      8
Jeep, Wagon 4x4                            2      1       8.5  17        8.5
Jeep, 4x4                                  6      3       7-5  45       22.5
Motor Bike                                58     24       0.7   41      17
Mixer, Concrete 1 cu. yd.                  2      1      12      24    12
Ptum, Water 4 in.                          3      2       1      3       2
Radio Transceiver (single s.b.)            2      1       3      6      3
Weed Cutter                              240    100       0.3   72      30
Miscellaneous Equipment
(Compressor, Welder, Tools)  lump sum                         40     40
Sub-total                                                1,043    530
Spare Parts                                                     4 7    30
Sub-total                                                 _____ ____
Project Total                                                1,650
1/ Includes SM-ORIS
3/ Common Use.



ANNE 10
-Table3
PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEKS 3MPROVEMENT PROJECT
GROUNIWATER PILOT PROJECT
Equip.ent, Materials & Supplies
Item                                                    Estimated Cost
I. Vehicles
2 - Wagons 4 x 4                                           18,000
3 - Pickups, half-ton                                      20 000
Sub-Total:
II. Well Materials
Masing and screens for 18
production wells                                        *85,ooo
Miscellaneoua drilling chemicals                            5 000
Sub-Totalt
III. Pumping Reluipnnt
Pmp, turbine w/gear drive, 20 units                       130,000
Engine, diesel, 60 hp, 20 units                           130,000
Spare parts, lump 8Um                                      30,000
Sub_Totalt    290,000
IV. Instrumentation
Meter, water totalising, 18 units                           9,000
Recorder, gauges height, 24 units                          20,000
Portable pH meters, conductivity
meters and other instruments, lump sum                    4,000
Meteorological instruments, including
recording rain gauges, wind speed
recorders, thermometers, wet & dry
bulbs and evaporation pans, lump sum                      4 000
Sub-Totalt
Total:     550,0ooo



ANNEX 10
Table 4
Page 1
PH:LIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
WATER MANAGEMENT TRAINING
List of Equipment and Vehicles
Item                                                    Estimated Cost
-                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(US$)
I. Office and Training Equipment
Typewriter, 5 units                                           3,000
Mimeo machine, 5 units                                        4,00
Desk calculator, 10 units                                     1,000
Slide projector w/screen, 5 units                             1,000-
Camaera, 5 units                                              1,000
Movie projector, 1 unit                                       2,000
Pablic address system, 5 units                                5,000
Tape recorder w/cassettes, 5 units                            1P500
Moisture meter, 5 units                                       1,500
Sub-Total:       20,000
II. Fazm feipoent
Row seeder, 5 units                                           1,000
Transplanter, 5 units                                         1P500
Rotary weeder, 50 units                                       15,oo
Hand tractor w/attachements, 5 units                          5,000
Boom sprayer, 5 units                                         1,000
Thresher, 5 units                                            102000
Sub-Total:       20,000
III.  Vehicles
Bicycle, 10 units                                             1,000
Motorcycle, 10 units                                          6,0O0
Pickup, half-ton, 5 units                                    33,000
Bus, 40 seat, 1 unit                                         15,000
Sub-Total:       55,000



ANNEX 10
Table 4
Page 2
Item                                                  Fotimated Goat
IV. Etudrmet lB  to
Portable FPrhill flues,
water level recorders, raingauges
and evaporation panas, lmp sum                           20,000
V. Misc*1lane  &!Umt
PrOi'osiJotl for unilisted ite of
eqtip4mnt, apparatw and inrtruenta,
lump gm                                                  10,000
Total:       1 25,00O



ANNUX 1 0
Table5
TL.AC IRIGATION S,T,         I?ROVUW   PROJET
MATI3IN.AL IIGATION S!STIAS MPROVM T STUDY
Equnt~, JIaor±a1a & SSaple
Estimaed CoBt
I. Vehicoes
Aircraft, twin engines, 6 seatu,l unit                  75,00O
Jeep 4 s 4, 6 units                                    )452000
Sub-Total:     120,000
II.   &jiE mct
Survey & H drioftric Equ±pmut
imup su                                                 55iooo
Total:         175,000



PHILIPPINES
TARIUC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEVENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
Total
Item                           Cset       FI751/      F176       F7 77        Pr 78   FY 79
----------- ----- 7us$  °°°T - --------------------
Tarlac River Irrigation System        6,920       140         980        2,780       3,020         -
SK-O'Donne3lRiver Irrigation System   6,800        60         370        2,720       3,650         -
Ca,iling River Irrigation System     5,28o         60       1,180        2,040       2,000         -
O & M Equipment                      1,650        -         1,65o          -           -           _
Groundwater Pilot Project             1,200        50         905          170          75         -
Water Management Training               750        50         285          165         120        130
National Irrigation Systems
Daprovoment Study                    2,1%0       260       1,215          805         220         -
Sub-Total                         25,100       620       6,585        8,680       9,085        130
Expected Price Increaaes              8,900      .220       2,330        3,o80       3,220         5
Total Project Coat                34O840                 8490       10760       12 , 3 So
l/ IBRD Fiscal Years



ANNEX 11
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS DMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                                  Accumulated Disbursements
and Semester                                       US$ '000 Equivalent
Fiscal Year 1976
1st                                                        800
2nd                                                      2,500
Fiscal Year 1977
1st                                                      4,500
2nd                                                      7,700
Fiscal Year 1978
1st                                                     10,200
2nd                                                     14.,000
Fiscal Year 1979
1st                                                     15,500
2nd                                                     16,500
Fiscal Year 1980
1st                                                     17,000



ANNEX 11
PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IKPROVEYENT PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Proceeds of Loan
Costs                  Proposed
Total        Foreign        Loan/Credit
---- (U~ >Mllion)--------------
Ct~e_gory
I.  Civil works:
TRIS, SM-ORIS, ORtS 1/                      13.2          4.0
Grcm;indwater Pilot Project 2/               0.4          0.3
Water Management Training 3/                 0.3          0.1              10.5 *
Nat..Irrig. Systems Improvement Study 4/    0.5            -
rExpecd P:-ice increase 5f                   7.9          1.8
Sub-Toal 7a6
M   (which (a) uS$1.6 million for mobilization and contractors' equipment and (b)
iS$SZi., million for other civil works. Disbursement for (a) will be 100% of
foroig,n exchange and for (b) 43% of total cost.
II.  Equipment 6/                                 3.7          3.7               3.7
Disbursement will be 100% of foreign exchange
III.  Consultants & Training:
Groundwater Pilot Project                    0.2          0.2
'Water Management Project                    0.1          0.1
Nat. Irrig. Systems Improvement Study        1.5          0.7
Sub-Total                            -51.0                           1.0
Disbursement will be 100% of foreign exchange
IV. Unallocated:
Physical Contingencies 7/                    3.5          1.2
Expected Price Increases 8/                  1.0         o.6
Sub-Total                             4.5          l.6               1.8
(Admin. and Engineering)                    (1.7)
Total                                 34.O        12.7              170
1/ Force account equipment, US$0.9 million (Annex 10, Table 1) excluded and transferred
to Cat. II.
2/ Excludes cost of consultants & training (US$0.2 million) and equipment (US$0.5 million)
Annex 9, Table 3).
3/ Excludes cost of consultants and equipment (US$0.4 million) Annex 9, Table 4.
4/ Excludes cost of consultants, training & equipment (US$2.0 million) Annex 9, Table 5.
5/ Excludes price increases for equipment and consultants (US$1.0 million) Annex 9, Table 6
6/ Includes equipment for force account (US$0.9 million) O&M (US$1.6 million) Groundwater
(US$0.6 million) Water Management Training (US$0.3 million) and Improvement Study
(US$0.3 million) Annex 10, Tables 1-5.
7/ See Annex 9, Table 1.
8/ Includes price increases on equipment (US$0.3 million) and consultants (US$0.7 million)
Annex 9, Table 6.



ANNEX 12
Page   1
PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Organization and Management
1.        Since 1964 the overall respcnsibility for the national irrigation
systems in the Philippines has been vested in the National Irrigation
Administration (NIA). The NIA was set up under Republic Act No. 3601 to
investigate, study, improve, construct and administer all national irriga-
tion systems. It was given the power to carry out investigations into
all available water resources in the country in order to utilize them for
irrigatior. and to collect water rates from the beneficiaries of the national
irrigation systems. The NIA is financed by the Government through the
sale of bonds or from appropriations.
2.        The governing body of the NIA is the Board of Directors, composed
of a Chairman and six members. Its management is vested in an Administrator
appointed by the Board, with the approval of the President of the Philippines.
The NIA is organized into five departments at headquarters, eight regional
and two sub-regional offices managing the field services and a number of
special projects offices. Consultants were employed under the provisions
of the Bank-assisted (Loan 637-PH) Upper Pampanga River Project (UPRP) to
make recommendations for a program for the improvement of NIA's operations,
organizational structure and financial management. Most of the recommenda-
tions have been implemented or are in the course of being put into effect.
3.        A special project office under the direction of a Project Manager
was established to carry out the UPRP. The organization evolved both for
construction and for maintenace has worked well. The UPRP now employs
nearly 7,000 people of whom over 2,000 are engineers, agriculturists,
economists and other professionals. The NIA proposes to entrust execution
and operation of the Tarlac project to the UPRP organization. A fifth
engineering Division would be created to assume responsibility for con-
struction in the area covered by the three Tarlac systems (Chart No. 8921).
The new Division would be completely similar to the four Divisions presently
constructing the UPRP service area.
4.        The project Development Division (PDD) of the UPRP would be
responsible for supervision and evaluation of the Groundwater Pilot Project,
while drilling of the wells would be done by the Groundwater Section of NIA.
However, the irrigation infrastructure in the three groundwater pilot areas
would be built by the Tarlac Engineering Division. The PDD would also be



ANNEX 12
Page   2
responsible for implementation of the National Irrigation Systems Improve-
ment Study (NISIS). The PDD will require assistance from other specialized
NIA headquarters units as well as from the regional offices.
5.        The PDD is a recently created unit set up to enhance NIA's project
preparation capability. It was put into the UPRP organization because its
main task was the Central Luzon Irrigation Development Study, which is a
function of the UPRP. NIA recognizes that the PDD's widening scope of
activities makes its position as part of the UPRP increasingly anomalous.
NIA is also considering a closer integration of the special organizations
set up to implement foreign assisted projects (Chart 8922) to avoid duplica-
tion and increase transfer of experience between projects. The on-going
re-organization of NIA is due to be completed by the end of 1975.
6.        The proposed organization for operation and maintenance (O&M)
is shown in Chart No. 8920. The O&M of the three Tarlac systems would be
catered for by creation of a fifth Irrigation District. The smallest
physical sub-division in the system would be a 50 ha irrigation unit. Two
such units would be the basic organizational entity and would be supervised
by a ditchtender. Five of the latter, or 500 ha, would form a water manage-
ment section under a Water Management Technologist, who would be an agri-
cultural engineering graduate. Five sections, or 2,500 ha, would make
up a water management division under a Supervisor. Three to four divisions,
7,500 to 10,000 ha, would constitute a zone, under a Superintendent. The
proposed Tarlac Irrigation District would be divided into three zones.



AINNK 12
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
TARIAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS OMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Cost of Operation aid Maintenance
Annual Cost
P/7ha
Salaries and  ages                          56.35
Equip nt Costs                              36.35
Materials and Supplies                        2.00
Total:                                95 .0o



ANNEX 13
Page   1
PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Supporting Agricultural Services
Extension
1.        A number of Government organizations currently has dealings with
the farmers. The principal agencies are:
(a) The Bureau of Agricultural Extension (BAE);
(b) The Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI);
(c) The Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR);
(d) The Agricultural Credit Administration (ACA);
(e) The Department of Local Government and Community
Development (DLGCD); and
(f) The National Irrigation Administration (NIA).
In addition there are the non-Government Rural Banks (RB).
2.        In the Upper Pampanga River Project (UPRP) the need for coordi-
nating the various agencies providing services to the farmers was clearly
felt. In September 1972, the respective heads of the NIA, the ACA, the
DAR, the Central Bank of the Philippines, the National Food and Agricultural
Council on behalf of the BAE and BPI and the Federation of Nueva Ecija
Rural Bankers signed a memorandum of agreement. The latter set forth in
detail the responsibilities of the various agencies within the UPRP and
provided for coordinating machinery. Day-to-day control is exercised by
the Agricultural Development Coordinating Council (ADCC) consisting of the
Provincial Heads of the participating agencies. While the arrangement is
still quite new, it seems to be working well. As the proposed Tarlac project
would be operated as part of the UPRP, similar coordinating arrangements
would be made. The existing ADCC is organized on a provincial basis and is
located in Cabanatuan City in Nueva Ecija province, some 40 km from Tarlac
the capital of the province in which the proposed project is sited. A
separate ADCC, based on Tarlac, would be set up for the project. The two
Councils would have some members in common, as both provinces are in the
Central Luzon administrative region.



ANNEX 13
Page   2
3.        The BAE is mainly responsible for agricultural extension, with
technical back-up provided by the BPI. Under the "Masagana 99" program
aimed at increasing rice production, a total of 130 agricultural technicians
was used in the municipalities covering the project area. The technicians,
all graduates, came from the BAE, DAR and BPI, with DAR providing some 60%
of the total. This worked out to a ratio of one extension worker to
about 300 farmers.
4.        The project would be organized on the basis of irrigation units
of 50 ha in the same manner as the UPRP. The 20-25 farmers in such a unit
would be given every incentive to work together as a group. The NIA would
schedule irrigation on a rotational basis thus promoting a uniformity of
operations within each unit at any given time. The rotational area would
also be the basic unit for the provision of credit and the building block
for the eventual organization of irrigation associations and cooperatives.
In UPRP the NIA is assigning a Water Management Technologist, who is an
agricultural graduate, to every 10 units. The same staffing pattern would
be applied to the Tarlac systems (see Annex 12). The water management
staff, all of whom would be trained agriculturists, would supplement the
existing extension personnel provided by the various government agencies
and would help to increase density of extension coverage in the project area.
5.        New extension work items to be emphasized would include improved
irrigation and drainage practices; the importance of scheduling of opera-
tions; the use of good quality seed and even planting; proper fertilizer
application; weed and pest control; and the use of tillage and threshing
machinery.
Research
6.        There is no agricultural research station in Tarlac province but,
the Maligaya Rice Research and Training Center is situated some 40 km
northeast of Tarlac town and is within the UPRP boundaries. The Center is
operated by the BPI and is engaged in selection and breeding, fertilizer
application, weed control, crop protection, water management and storage
and processing investigations on rice. It also works on possible rotation
crops to rice, as well as being responsible for seed production, certifica-
tion and testing for rice and other crops. The Center has training facilities
and is being used by UPRP for training of staff. The Central Luzon State
University, located at Munoz some 45 km northeast of Tarlac town, already
works with UPRP on water management investigations. The UPRP also has
good working relations with the International Rice Research Institute and
the Agricultural College of the University of the Philippines. The project
would be able through UPRP to draw on research back-up from all these
sources.



ANNEX 13
Page   3
Fertilizer
7.        Annual consumption of fertilizer in the project currently amounts
to less than 4,000 tons, of which about 50% is urea. Application rates
for all fertilizers in the wet season run at a level of about 90 kg/ha. In
the irrigated dry season crop the rate of application averages 130 kg/ha
of which just under 45 kg/ha are nitrogen. At full development the project
area would require some 7,000 tons of fertilizer annually, of which about
60% would be urea and the balance di-ammonium-phosphate. The average rate
of application per crop season would be of 60 kg/ha nitrogen and 30 kg/ha
phosphoric acid. There are six ACA fertilizer outlets in the project area
in addition to 60 commercial distributors. The supply channels are
adequate to handle the increased demand.
S;eed
8.        Some 2,500 tons of rice seed per annum are presently used in the
project area. Seeding rates tend to be unnecessarily heavy as an insurance
against the risk of seedling losses. Seed is obtained by retention from
the farmers' commercial production and from seed-growing cooperatives.
The Maligaya Center produces foundation and registered seed for bulking by
selected seed-producing cooperatives. At full development the project would
use approximately 2,000 tons of rice seed per annum. The decrease over
present consumption, would be achieved by a reduction in the seed rate
to 50 kg/ha. On the assumption that rice seed would be renewed every five
years, the estimated annual requirement of quality seed for the project
area at full development would amount to 400 tons. No difficulties are
envisaged in supplying this amount.
Farmers' Organizations
9.        As part of the Land Reform program the Government through the
DLGCD is promoting the formation of pre-cooperative farmers' organiza-
tions, based on the barrio or hamlet. The organizations would serve as a
channel for the inflow of technical services, credit and inputs and as an
assembly point for produce intended for market. It is hoped that at a
future date the organizations would grow into full fledged, formally con-
stituted cooperatives. This approach to cooperative organization fits
in well with the 50 ha irrigation unit approach adopted by NIA in the
existing UPRP. The organizations are new and still unproven but they
appear to hold out considerable promise and would be extended from the
UPRP to include the project area.
10.       The NIA is committed to the creation of irrigation associations
amongst the farmers which would eventually assume a large part of the
responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the national irrigation
systems. Without losing sight of the ultimate objective, the main thrust



ANNEX 13
Page   4
of NIA's efforts in UJPRP has been to organize the farmers within the 50 ha
units primarily for production and water management. The immediate aim
is to demonstrate to the farmers that working together and using water
efficiently is possible and profitable. Once this has been established
a realistic framework for setting up irrigation associations would exist.
The project area would be expected to follow on the exmaple and gain from
the experience of the UPRP.
Credit
11.       Some 10-202 of the farmers in the project area finance their
requirement of fanm inputs and hired labor from their own resources.
The remainder use some form of credit. The principal sources are:
(a) banks, notably the Rural Banks (RB), the Philippine
National Bank (PNB), the Development Bank of the
Philippines (DBP) and private banks;
(b) the Agricultural Credit Administration (ACA);
(c) input dealers, marketing organizations and millers; and
(d) money lenders.
Twelve of the 16 RBs in Tarlac province are within the project area.
12.       To ensure the success of the accelerated Land Reform program set
in motion by Presidential Decree No. 27 of October 1972, the Government
has proceeded to strengthen the credit institutions and to facilitate the
granting of production credit to small farmers who previously depended on
the landlords for their requirements. RBs have been authorized rediscounting
privileges of 100%, Government guarantees of up to 85% of the loans made
and low-cost money from the Central Bank. The easier credit thus made
available is employed under a system of "supervised credit", which includes
the provision of technical services to the borrower to ensure that recom-
mended practices, including variety, fertilizer and agrochemical inputs,
are adopted. All loans granted under supervised credit are not secured by
collateral, but are covered by a Government guarantee; the interest is at
12% per annum and the loan is for a period of 5 to 6 months. During the
1973 wet-season crop a total of P 22.8 million (US$3.4 million) was issued
as production credit to rice farmers in the province. The RBs accounted for
about 60% of the total, the PNB for 30% and the balance was contributed by
the ACA. The area covered by the credit amounted up some 51,000 ha.



ANNEX 13
Page   5
13.       Under the "Masagana 99" program production credit was given at
the rate of P 700/ha, made up of p 380 for inputs and P 320 for services,
which iticluded an element of subsistence. The Government proposes to raise
the rate to P 1,000/ha. Such an increase would be adequate to meet the
greater production costs estimated at full development. Assuming that at
full project development about 10% of the farmers in the project area
would find their requirements of inputs and hired labor from their own
resources, some 16,000 farmers would need credit from institutional sources.
Should a loan level of P 1,000/ha be used, the total annual credit require-
ment at full development would amount to P 36.0 million (US$5.4 million).
The existing credit institutions are expected to be able to meet the
requirement.



ANNEX 14
Page   1
PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Present and Projected Cropping Patterns & Production
Present Cropping Pattern
1.        Some 21,000 ha included in the three Tarlac systems are currently
cultivated to rice in the wet season. During the dry season flows in the
O'Donnell, Tarlac and Camiling rivers are only sufficient to permit
cultivation on 4,650 ha, giving an overall cropping intensity on the
existing systems of 120%. In the rainfed areas adjoining the three systems,
that would be developed under the project, only a wet season rice crop is
grown on 13,000 ha. The present overall cropping intensity in the project
area is about 114%. Rice is by far the most important crop in the area.
There is some small holder sugarcane grown in the rainfed areas, but
farmers change to rice as soon as irrigation is provided. Annual paddy
production is estimated at 94,300 tons. The present cropping pattern and
production estimates and projected future conditions without the project
are given in Table 1.
2.        Wet season rice is grown between May and December.  Transplanting
is spread over a 12-week period between July and September and harvesting
takes place over a 12-week period between the beginning of October and the
end of December. The dry season crop is grown between November and April,
planting and harvesting is spread over an eight-week period in December-
February and harvesting takes place between February and April. All rice
is transplanted from field nurseries on to previously puddled land. The
extended period of transplanting is mainly due to the difficulties experi-
enced in obtaining adequate and timely irrigation and consequent heavy
reliance on rainfall.
3.        Most of the farmers in the existing systems grow short-strawed
high yielding varieties, while in the rainfed areas only about one-third
of the farmers use the high yielding varieties, the majority relies on the
lower yielding, but hardier traditional varieties. The average paddy
yield in the rainfed areas is about 2.3 ton/ha, on the irrigated areas the
yield in both wet and dry season is 2.5 ton/ha. The low yield levels are
partly due to unsatisfactory water management and partly to poor farming
practices. The latter are exemplified by random transplanting, high weed
infestations, insufficient use of fertilizers and agrochemicals and untimeli-
ness of operations.



ANNEX 14
Page   2
Future Cropping Pattern
4.        In the absence of the project the rate of increase in yield in
the rainfed areas is estimated at 1.0% per annum and would most probably
be due to a slow enlargement of the area under high yielding varieties.
In the existing system the yields in both the wet and dry season crops are
estimated to increase by some 1.3% per annum as a result of better cultiva-
tion, more weeding and improved plant protection. The use of inputs would
be expected to increase with the availability of greater supplies of credit,
and more extension effort as part of the Government's campaign for national
self-sufficiency in rice. There would be no change in the existing cropping
intensity due to shortage of water in the dry season.
5.        The expected changes in the cropping pattern and in crop produc-
tion under the project are shown in Table 2. The project would provide wet
season irrigation to the 13,000 ha of rice currently dependent on rainfall
and would also allow for an increase of about 1,500 ha in the area irrigated
during the dry season through better water management and improved facilities.
Cropping intensity in the project area would rise from the present 114%
to about 118%. The proposed cropping pattern based solely on rice is
consistent with soils and topography and with the customs of the local
people.
Future Yields
6.        With good water control, adequate supplies of credit and inputs
and a strengthened extension service, future paddy yields are expected
to be 3.8 ton/ha and 4.1 ton/ha for the wet and dry season crops respec-
tively (Table 2). In the presently irrigated area these yields would be
achieved five years after the introduction of water control, while in the
rainfed areas it is estimated that the projected yields would be reached
six years after the provision of water, or nine years after the inception of
construction.
7.        The improved yields would be obtained from the introduction of
high yielding varieties throughout the project area, better land prepara-
tion through greater use of machinery, certified seed, row planting,
heavier fertilizer input and greater expenditure on crop protection and
weed control. The improved road network envisaged under the project would
allow better access to the farms, thus facilitating the inflow of inputs
and outflow of produce. The projected yields are already being obtained by
some farmers in the irrigated areas who are using good farming practices.
Development Constraints
8.        The project would bring a change in the cropping calendar, a small
decrease in labor requirement, a greater degree of mechanization partic-
ularly in land preparation, and a demand for additional drying and storage
facilities. The most important issues are examined briefly.



ANNEX 14
Page   3
9.        Cropping Calendars - To ensure efficient utilization of resources
and the avoidance of technical and organizational bottlenecks, cropping
calendars must be prepared as a basis for extension and water management
activities. The attached Chart No. 8919 shows a provisional calendar. The
main differences between the proposed and existing practices are to be found
in the shortening and bringing forward of the land preparation and trans-
planting periods of the wet season crop, which is reflected in an earlier
harvest. In the dry season crop land preparation would begin one month
earlier, thus taking advantage of residual soil moisture. Transplanting
would be brought forward to a six week period in October-December from the
current eight weeks in December-February. Harvesting would be completed by
February, leaving a period of sixty days in March-April during which the
irrigation system would be shut off for maintenance. The main emphasis of
the proposed crop calendar is on the maximum utilization of rainfall during
the wet season.
10.       Labor Availability.  The supply and demand for labor with and
without the project are examined in detail in Annex 17.
11.       Mechanization - At present some 63% of the farmers rely entirely
on animal drawn equipment for land preparation. About 7% use only mechanical
equipment, usually small tillers, and the balance uses a combination of animal
drawn and mechanical equipment. There are no differences between practices
in the wet and dry season crops. With the improvement in water management,
better access to the fields and the need for tighter scheduling of operations
to maximize water use, it is estimated that the use of machinery would
increase to the point that some 65% of land preparation in the wet season
crop would be mechanical. It is anticipated that the machinery would be
operated mainly by contractors, as is currently the practice.
12.       Harvesting - The rice is harvested by sickle and the bundles may
be left for a few days in the field to dry, depending on the weather.
Threshing is either carried out manually by beating the panicles on a
slatted table or by mechanical threshers. The latter are fairly large
machines and need firm ground conditions. At present a surprisingly high
75% of the crop is mechanically threshed. Under project conditions of much
better access to the fields and improved field drainage it is assumed that
the entire crop would be threshed mechanically. This should not present
any difficulties as the existing contractors can be expected to meet the
requirements.
13.       Drying and Storage - At the present time the bulk of the threshed
paddy is sun-dried on whatever suitable surfaces are available. A few of
the rice mills own small artifical driers, but they are seldom used because
of the high operating cost relative to sun-drying. Ail mills have sun-drying
capacity. The arrangements appear to be adequate for the present paddy crop
of 94,000 tons. At full development the annual paddy production from the
project would total 155,000 tons. Production of the wet season crop would



ANNEX 14
Page   4
increase by about 60%, while the increase in the dry season crop would be
over 100%. The harvest of the latter should present no problems as it
would take place mainly in January-February, two of the driest months in
the year. Some expansion of drying facilities, both solar and mechanical,
would be required to deal with the increased output for the wet season crop
harvest in the wetter October-November period. No difficulties are
anticipated in providing the additional facilities as the milling industry
is enterprising and is aware of the need for drying. Storage capacity
within the project area is adequate for present production, but would need
to be expanded to meet the increased crop yields. In addition to on-farm
storage, there are public and private sector storage facilities. The latter
are expected to increase storage space to meet rising paddy production
from the project area.
Processing
14.       There are 311 privately owned rice mills and hullers in Tarlac
province. Assuming a 12-hour working day and a 200-day milling season,
the mills have an annual capacity of about 345,000 tons of paddy, compared
to the current provincial paddy production of some 230,000 tons. Millers
are now importing paddy from Northern Luzon to utilize spare capacity.
Under the circumstances there are unlikely to be any difficulties in milling
the additional production from the project area.
Marketing
15.       The farmer has a choice of selling the paddy surplus to his
requirements to a middleman, storing it in a private or Government owned
warehouse in the hope of obtaining a better price, having it milled and
selling the rice to a trader or selling the paddy to the National Grains
Authority at the Government support price. He may use all of the above
methods of disposing of his crop. While Government is involved in the
marketing sector, there is no authority with specific responsibility for
marketing. The part played by Government agencies and farmers' marketing
cooperatives is remarkably small. With the emphasis presently being
placed on development of the cooperatives, as an essential support to the
land reform program, it is likely that at the time of full project devel-
opment farmers' cooperatives would play a larger role in marketing of the
paddy.



PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Present Production from the Project Ar-ea -1/
Gross Value                 Net Value       Net Returns
Area     Paddy  Farm Gate            of         Production      of              from
Yield    Price         Production        Cost      Production       Project Area
(ha)   (ton/ha)   (P/ton)        ---…---(P/ha)…-------------                   (P million)
Wet Season
Irrigated Rice                   20,650      2.5       2,000           5,000          935         4,065               83.9
(2.8)     (900)          (2,520)         (545)      (1,975)             (40.8)
Rainfed Rice                     13,350      2.3      2,000           4,600           810         3,790              50.6
(2.5)     (900)          (2,250)         (465)      (1,785)             (23.8)
Drv Season
Irrigated Rice                    4,650      2.5      2,000           5,000        1,045         3,955               18.4
(2.8)     (900)          (2,520)       (615)        (1,905)              (8.8)
Total                            38,650                                                                             152.9
Cropping Intensity 4/   114%
1/ Projected future conditions without the project, wherever different from the present, are shown in parentheses.
2/ Based on Annex 16, Table 1. Excludes the cost of labor.
3/ Without accounting for labor.
4/ Based on a net irrigable area of 34,000 ha.



PHILIPPINES
'AR-LAC IRRIGATION SYS TEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Production from the Project Area at Full Development
Gross Value                 Net Value        Net Returns
Area    Paddy    Farm Gate            of       Production        of              from
Yield       Price        Production      Costs       Production       Project Area
(ha)  (lxn/ha)    (P/ton)        ----------     (P/ha)----------------           (P million)
l/            2/
Wet Season
Irrigated Rice                   34,000   3.8          900           3,420           855        2,565                87,2
DUy Season
Irrigated Rice                    6,200   4.1          900           3,690           890        2,800                17.4
Total:                           40 200                                                                             104.6
Cropping Intensity-=18
1/ Based on Annex 16, Table 1. Excludes the cost of labor.
2/ Without accounting for labor.
3/ Based on a net irrigable area of 34,000 ha.
_



ANNEX 14
Table 3
PH:LIPPINES
TAFfAAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS I4PROVEMENT PROJECT
Sumnar of Cropping Pattern & Production
Cropped Area              Padcly Production
Present     Future           Present     Future
-      (ha) - -        --------- _00  tonsT---
Wget Season
Irrigated Rice                  20,65o      34,000            51.6        129.2
Rainfed Rice                      -350        _               30.7
Sub-Total      2      h_SOOO      34,o00            02.3        129.2
Dry Season
Irrigated Rice                   4,650       6,200            11.6          25_4
Sub-Total            4h,650        6,200            11.6         25.4
Total                  3865o 00,200                             _15.
3rcpping Intensity               114%        118%



ANNEX 15
Page   I
PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Market Prospects and Prices
Market Prospects
1.        One of the main goals of Government policy is to attain self-
sufficiency in basic foods, especially rice and corn. The deficit in rice,
the main staple food crop, has been a persistent problem for the Philippines.
Official figures show that for 1963-67 the Philippines imported an average
of about 300,000 tons of rice annually. Although there were no imports of
rice in 1969 or 1970, rice stocks declined in those years. Rice imports
were again over 300,000 tons in 1971, rose to 456,000 tons in 1972 due to
the disastrous floods that year and were 336,000 tons in 1973.
2.        Official estimates as of May 1974 indicate that paddy production
was about 5.5 million tons for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1974. This
is some 25% above the poor 1972/73 harvest and 3-4% over the previous high
of 1970/71. With population around 40 million, converting paddy to milled
rice at the official average recovery rate of 67% and adding 300,000 tons
consumed out of imports, per capita absorption of milled rice in 1973/74 was
about 100 kg. Based on the current population forecast of 50 million in 1980
and assuming that annual per capita absorption of milled rice remains at
100 kg, total demand for rice in the Philippines in 1980 would be around
5.0 million tons, equivalent at the official average recovery rate to
7.2 million tons of paddy. To meet this demand, paddy output would have
to increase by about 4.0% to 5.0% per year between 1974 and 1980. This is
approximately the rate achieved during the late 1960s when high yielding rice
varieties were first introduced. While the Government's Masagana campaign
to increase rice production has met with considerable success, there is
still some doubt that the Philippines will be self-sufficient in rice by
the early 1980s. In any case, no difficulties in marketing the additional
production from the project area are foreseen. The project area has tradi-
tionally supplied milled rice for consumption in Manila and neighboring
Pangasinan province as well as locally, and it is expected that this
pattern will continue with the project.
Prices
3.        Since 1957 the Government has set an annual farm gate support
price for paddy to encourage production and to allow some purchases of paddy
by Government to build stabilization stocks. Responsibility for operating



ANNEX 15
Page' 2
the system rested with an independent body, the Rice and Corn Administra-
tion, which operated unsatisfactorily. On September 28, 1972 the respon-
sibility for rice and corn price stabilization was transferred to a National
Grains Authority under the Secretary of Agriculture.
4.        During the 1950s and early 1960s the support price remained
virtually unchanged and was P 9.5 per cavan 1/ (P 216/ton) in 1961. There-
after, it was gradually increased and by 1971 it reached P 20.0 per cavan
(P 454/ton). Although no precise figures are available to compare the
annual average market and support prices for paddy before 1965, the Sector
Survey 2/ shows the market price about 10% higher in 1965, and the support
price about 10% higher from 1966 to 1970. Since 1971 the market price
has tended to exceed the support price.
5.        The behavior of market prices in relation to the support price
is consistent with the record of domestic paddy output during the past
decade. In the early 1960s, domestic production was unable to meet the
growing demand for rice and this tended to raise market prices abQve the
support price. After the mid-1960s, increased production as a result of
the spread of high yielding varieties improved the balance between domestic
production and consumption and tended to depress market prices. During
the last three to four years the trend has reversed and the support price
has become increasingly less operative. As a result of continuing inflation
and to encourage farmers to increase paddy production, the Government has
continued to raise the official support price for paddy, which in mid-1974
was P 40 per cavan (P 800/ton). At the same time the market farm gate price
in the project area was P 50-55 per cavan (P 1,000 - P 1,100/ton).
6.        Through 1972, the farm gate support price for paddy and the
domestic consumer price for rice kept pace with changes in the world market
price for rice. Since then, however, in an attempt to keep domestic prices
down in the face of unprecendentedly high world market prices for rice,
the Government has decided at least temporarily to subsidize consumers in
urban and rice deficit rural areas. The low official ceiling price for
rice and the correspondingly low farm gate price for paddy are maintained
by Government sales of imported rice on the domestic market below cost.
Although official figures on the amount of the subsidy are not available,
and the transaction is obscured by a large proportion of government-to-
government and barter arrangements, a rough calculation indicates the order
of magnitude. The Bank's commodity analysts give the 1974 price for Thai
25Z'-35% broken rice typically imported by the Philippines as US$450 per ton.
1/   Before 1974 a "cavan" or sack of paddy was equivalent to 44 kg.  Since
1974 the official weight of a cavan of paddy is set at 50 kg.
2/   IBRD Agricultural Sector Survey, Philippines, May 2, 1973 (Report No.
39a-PH). Annex 10, Table 13.



ANNEX 15
Page   3
Adding US$40 ocean freight yields a cif Manila price of US$490 (P 3,290) per
ton. The official domestic consumer price in mid-1974 was P 1.9 per kg or
P 1,900 per ton, which represents a subsidy of P 1,390 (US$207) per ton.
Assuming that 300,000 tons of imported rice are consumed in 1974, the total
subsidy would be some US$60 million.
7.        The Bank projects the world market price of Thai 25%-35% broken
rice to fall (at constant 1974 prices) from US$450 per ton fob Bangkok
in 1974 to around US$190 per ton in the 1980-85 period. These projections
have been used to estimate the present and future farm gate prices of
paddy in the economic analysis. The corresponding farm gate prices fall
from P 2,000 per ton (P 100 per eavan) in 1974 to P 900 per ton (P 45 per
cavan) in 1980 and beyond. It is assumed that over this period the Govern-
ment will maintain the current price ceiling for rice of P 1.9 per kg and
support price for paddy of P 40 per cavan (at constant 1974 prices). This
implies that by 1980 the subsidy to consumers will fall to zero and the
market farm gate price will be about 10X above the support price for paddy.
The projected price structure for rice from 1974 to 1980 and beyond as
used in the economic analysis is presented in Table 1.



PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROE CT
Price Structure for Rice, 1974-80 and beyond
(f/ton at constant 1974 prices)
1974      1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980 and beyond
Rice
Export price Thai                   ($450)    ($345)    ($300)    ($252)    ($216)    ($196)                ($190)
25%-35% broken fob Bangkok           3,024      2,318      2,016     1,693      1,452      1,317             1,277
Ocean freight                        ($40)      ($40)      ($40)      ($40)      ($40)      ($40)            ($402
269        269       269        269        269        269              269
Manila Handling Charges                  30        30         30         30         30         30               30
Transport Tarlac to Manila            -120       -120       -120       -120      -120       -120              -120
Price of rice ex-Mill, Tarlac        3,203      2,497      2,195     1,872      1,631      1,496             1,456
Milling Costs (equivalent to
value of by-products)               -          -          -          -          -         -
Paddy
Paddy equivalent price, Tarlac
(63% recovery)                     2,018      1,573      1,383     1,178      1,028        943               918
Handling & transport costs,
farm to mill                       - 18       - 18       - 18      - 18       - 18       - 18              -18
Farmgate price of paddy              2,000      1,555      1,365      1,160      1,010        925               900
(P/cavan)                (100)       (78)      (68)       (58)      (50)        (46)              (45)



ANNEX 16
Page   1
PIIILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Crop and Farm Budgets
1.        The existing and proposed cropping patterns are given in Annex 14.
This annex shows the following:
(a) Production costs for irrigated and rainfed rice under
present and future "with" and "without" project
conditions (Table 1). Present costs are based on the
results of a survey carried out by NIA and interviews
in the area during appraisal. In the absence of the
project little change in the level of inputs is expected
in the rainfed areas. In the irrigated areas some improve-
ment in husbandry is assumed. The input levels for future
"with project" conditions are based on recommendations
by the Bureau of Soils and the Bureau of Plant Industry and
the assumption of increased mechanization of land prepara-
tion and threshing.
(b)  'lonthly labor requirements for the dry and wet season
rice crops based on present and proposed cropping
calendars (Table 2). It is assumed that under project
conditions the labor requirement for land preparation
and harvesting would be reduced by the use of machinery
while there would be an increase in the labor requirement
for crop management, covering such activities as weeding,
fertilizer and pesticide application and irrigation.
(c) Crop budgets under present and future conditions "with"
and "'without" the project (Table 3).
(d) Farm budgets for typical family farms of 1.0 ha, 2.0 ha
and 3.0 ha (Table 4). The budgets are calculated on a cash
flow basis and only hired labor has been costed. The monthly
requirement for hired labor was calculated by comparing
the labor requirement with the availability per farm of a
maximum of 40 man-days/month and a total of 480 man-days/year
of family labor. Future water charges are at the level which



ANNEX 16
Page   2
NIA has agreed should be applied to the Pampanga and
Penaranda projects at full development, namely 3.5 cavans
of paddy/ha in the wet season and 4.4 cavans/ha in the
dry season. Payment for land is calculated in accordance
with Presidential Decree No. 27 on the assumption that
the majority of farmers would be amortizing owners under
the Agrarian Reform program.



PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Ricet ro Production Costs 1/
Present                              Future Without Proi et              Future With Protect  2/
Wet Season            Dry Season             Wet Season            Dry Season        Wet Season   Dry Season
Cash Inputs  P/ha)               Rainfed   ri ated    Irriat R Irrited ---ted                                             Irrirjated    Irri&ated
Cultivation                       110         110           110                115         120           120               130            130
Seed                              140(70)    150(75)        185(95)             65          65            80                60             60
Fertilizer                        150(95)    210(140)       275(180)            85         120           155               205            205
Agro-Chemicals                      30         40             50                60          80           100                230           240
Harvesting                        360(180)   400(200)       400(200)           110         125           125                170           185
Other                              20          25            25                 30          35            35                 60            70
Interest                              (40)      _   °u                         -_ . (4Q)     .j45Q1                          _Z _             70
Total Cash Inputs               8I0(545)   935(640)   1,045(715)             465(505)   545 (590)    615(665)            855(925)       890(960)
Labor.Lnputs 3/
(man-days/ha)
Land Preparation                   35          31            29                 30          26            24                 20            20
Planting                           33          33            38                 33          33            38                 33            33
Crop Management                    19          18            22                 22          21            25                 32            35
Harvesting                         38          38            41                 35          35            38                 25            27
Total Labor Inputs              125         120           130                120         115           125               110            115
1/ Economic prices based on world market prices for rice and fertilizer for use in economic analysis.  Figures in parentheses are financial prices
prevailing at appraisal for use in farm budgets. Costs at present are higher than in future because world market prices for rice (seed) and
fertilizers are projected to fall (at 1974 constant prices) and because threshing, which is now done in part hy hand on a crop-sharing basis is
expected to become complctel7 mechanized bv the time of full development, with or without the project.
2/ Based on the following assumptions at full development
a) Cultivation - Mechanical 65% @ P 150/ha
Animal      35% @ P 100/ha
b) Seed rate 1 cavan /ha @ P 60/cavan
c) Fertilizer - Urea 110 kg/ha; DAP 65 kg/ha
Urea @ P 1.10/kg; DAP P 1.30/kg
d) Agro-Chemicals - Lump sum
e) Harvesting - Mechanical threshing @ 5% of yield value
f) Interest @ 12% per year on production credit for 9 months on 90% of cash inputs
3/ Excluding labor handling farm machinery, the cost of which is included tinder cash inputs.



PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS DMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Monthly Labor Requirements for Various Rice Crops (man-days/ha)1' 2'
Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr   May    Jun    Jul              Sep    Oct    Nov    Dec    Total
Wet Season
Irrigated Rice  P              -       -      -       -     6      6      18     24      22      16     16      12      120
W              -      -       -      -     6       6     17      24     21      16     16       9      115
W                             -      -     2       7     30      32     11      14     14       -       110
Rainfed Rice    P               -      -      -       -     3       8     19      25     25      17     16      12      125
_              -      -       -      -     2       7     17      24     26      19     16       9       120
W              -      -       _      -      _      _       _      _       _      _       _      _        _
Dry Season
Irrigated Rice  P             34      38     21       5     _       _      _       _      _       -     10      22      130
Wt            29     39      23      2      _      -      _       _       -      -      10     22       125
W             18     17       -      -      _      _       _      _      2      14      39     25       115
-/P - Present
W -   Future Without Project                                                                                                  > 3
W V   Future With Project                                                                                                     a 
2/ Excluding Labor Handling Farm Machinery



PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Rice Crop Budgets 1/
Present                            Future Without Project                Future With Proivct
Wet Season            Dr-l_eason            Wet Season              Dr Season        Wet Season    Dry season
Rainfed    Irrigated    Irri gated          Rainfed    Irrigated       Irr&ated         Irri&ated      Irigated
Yield (ton/ha)                     2.3          2.5          2,5               2.5         2.8            2.8               3.8            4.1
Farm Gate Price (P/ton)          1,000        1,000        1,000               900         900            900               900            900
Gross Value of Production
(P/ha)                     2,300        2,500        2,500              2,250      2,520           2,520            3,420          3,690
Production Costs,
Excluding Labor (P/ha)             545          640          715               505         590            665               925            960
Net Value of Production
Excluding Labor (P/ha)           1,755        1,860        1,785             1,745      1,930           1,855             2,495          2,730
Labor Requirements
(man-days/ha)                      125          120          130               120        115             125               110            115
1/ Financial costs and prices are used, based on Table 1



PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
FamBdjits
----- 1.0 ha Farm -----                ----- 2.0 ha Farm------                  ----- 3.0 ha Farm------
Future                                 Future                                  Future
Present              with              Present             with                Present             with
Pro l S                                Pmjec t                                   oJ
Rainfed   Irrijated   IrriEted         Rainfed   Irriated   IrriRated         Rainfed   Irr_jated   Irriated
Transplanted Rice           (ha)   1.0         1.1          1.2            2.0         2.3         2.4            3.0         3.4          3.5
Total Croped Area           (ha)   1.0        11           1.2            2.0         2.3         2.4            3.0         3.4          3.5
Cropping Intensity          (M)    100         114          118            100         114          118            100        114          118
Total Paddy ProductionL'  (ton)   2.3          2.7          4.6            4.6         5.7         9.2            6.9         8.5         13.4
Gross Value of Production 1/(P) 2,300        2,700        4,140          4,600       5,700       8,280           6,900      8,500       12,060
Production Costs
(Excluding Labor)           (P)    545         710        1,115          1,090      1,495        2,235          1,635       2,205        3,255
Cost of Hired Farm Labor 2/(p)       -          -            -             100          60          240            530        485          680
Net Value of Production
(Before Water CharRes)      (P)  1.755       1,990        3,025          3,410      4,145        5,805          4,735       5,810        8,125
Water Charges 3/             (P)    -            30         175            -            60          350            -            90          510
Net Value of Production
(After Water Charges)       (P)  1,755       1,960        2,850          3,410       4,085       5,455          4,735       5,720        7,615
Annual Payment for Land 4/ (P)    475           515         785            950        1,030       1,570          1,425       1,545        2,355
Net Crop Income             (P)  1,280       1,455        2,065          2,460        3,055       3,885          3,310      4,175         5,260          >
Farm Labor Requirement                                                                                                                                 X X
(man-days)                          125        133          133            250          279         266            375         412          387        i s
CN
1/ Based on Annex 16, Tables I & 3.
2/ Based on maximum of 40 man-days/month and a total of 480 man-days/year of family labor.
3t Based on present charges of P25/ha in the wet season and P35/ha in the dry season and proposed
future charges of P140/ha and P175/ha for wet and dry seasons respectively.
4/ Based on amortizing owner with annual payments over 15 years @ 6% compound interest on the unpaid balance.



ANNEX 17
Page   1
PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Parm Labor Analysis
Labor Supply
1.        Based on surveys conducted by the National Irrigation Administra-
tion (NIA), and data from the Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) and the
1970 Census of Population and Housing, it is estimated that at present
about 17,700 farm families live in the project area. The average farm
family contains six persons, three of whom are of working age (15 to 64 years).
Prom this potential labor force, one person is usually assigned to domestic
housework and is not available for farm work. Therefore, the currently
available family farm labor supply is about 35,000 workers. Assuming 240
days per worker per year, the annual family farm labor supply would be 8.4
million man-days, or an average of 0.7 million man-days per month. Assuming
a rural population groth rate of 1.0% per year in the project area (com-
pared to an expected national population growth rate of 3%), 1/ the family
farm labor force would increase to about 38,000 workers at project full
development in 1983. The annual family farm labor supply would be 9.2
million man-days, or an average of 0.8 million man-days per month.
2.        In addition to the farm families in the project area, there is
roughly an equal number of non-farm families engaged in commerce, trans-
portation, local manufacturing industries and a variety of services. These
families are concentrated along the major roads, and in the towns in the
project area. During periods of peak agricultural activity, these families
supply hired labor to supplement the family farm labor force. Assuming
that each non-farm family supplies one farm worker at peak periods, the
total monthly farm labor force in and around the project area in peak
seasons is estimated to be about 50% greater than that supplied by farm
families, or about 1.0 million man-days per month at present and 1.2 million
man-days per month at the time of full project development.
1/   From 1960 to 1970, while total population in the Philippines grew by
about 3% per year, urban population grew by some 11-12% and rural
population by less than 1% per year. Available data for the municipalities
in the project area for the same period indicate similar results. Source:
1970 Census of Population and Housing and E. M. Pascual, "Internal
Migration in the Philippines," First Conference on Population, 1965,
pp. 344-345. It is assumed that these trends will continue through the
1980s.



ANNEX 17
Page   2
Labor Demand
3.        Estimates of average monthly and annual labor requirements per ha
for different rice crops are given in Annex 16, Table 2. At present the
annual labor requirement per ha in the project area is about 25% higher
than that in other parts of the Upper Pampanga River Project (UPRP) area
because much less mechanical power is used in Tarlac for cultivation. Cropping
calendars in the project area vary widely. Land preparation ih particular
is spread out over many months, depending on the local availability of water
and draft animals. The resulting diversity makes water management and the
scheduling of inputs and supporting services difficult. In future without
the project, it is assumed that some additional mechanization would take
place, thereby slightly reducing per ha labor requirements. With the project,
scheduling would be essential to permit adequate irrigation of the whole
area. This in turn would require the replacement of draft animals by small
power tillers for most land preparation, and a corresponding reduction in
labor requirements measured in man-days. At the same time, it is expected
that mechanical threshing on a custom hire basis would become more widespread.
Labor requirements at full project development are therefore estimated to be
about 20 man-days per ha less than at present.
4.        Estimates of total monthly labor requirements are given in Table 1.
The present requirement is about 4.8 million man-days per year, or about
60% of the family labor supply. The demand for labor in the project area
has a pronounced seasonal pattern. Peak monthly demand in August and
September uses all available family labor plus some hired labor, while dry
season demand from January through May averages less than 20% of available
manpower. In future without the project the total annual labor require-
ment would fall slightly to about 4.6 million man-days due to increased
mechanization. The seasonal employment pattern would remain as at present.
Since it would not provide additional irrigation water for dry season
cropping, the proposed project would not fully use the available labor force.
In fact, in order to achieve the project's production benefits through
improved water management and scheduling, the total demand for farm labor
would fall from "without project" conditions by about 170,000 man-days
per year, or some 700 farm workers. The seasonal peak demand would shift
to July and August and would be more pronounced than at present to reflect
the proposed tighter cropping calendar. The dry season labor requirement
would be pushed forward to make better use of late rains and residual soil
moisture for land preparation, and to allow time for system maintenance
in March and April under dry conditions.
5.        It is difficult to evaluate the trade-off between this apparent
loss of jobs and the need to increase rice output to feed the fast growing
population. However, the labor situation with the project is likely to
be better than the foregoing figures indicate because the increased rice
production in the project area would generate additional jobs directly in
the transport, handling, processing and marketing sectors, and indirectly



ANNEX 17
Page   3
in the services sector as the result of increased farm incomes. Further-
more, the improved agricultural practices brought about through small scale
mechanization, improved cropping calendars, water management, inputs and
supporting services would make it easier to shift to full double cropping
in the project area if and when supplementary dry season irrigation water
becomes available. Sources for such water will be evaluated as part of
the Central Luzon Irrigation Development Study (Loan/Credit 984/472-PH)
and the proposed Groundwater Pilot Project (Annex 6). If storage and/or
groundwater proves technically and economically feasible for the Tarlac area,
labor demand for 200% cropping intensity would increase to some 7.6
million man-days per year (83% of family farm labor supply at the time of
full development), and seasonal fluctuations in employment would be much
reduced.
Economic Cost of Farm Labor
6.        Detailed information on wages actually paid in the project area
is limited. Most work is done by unpaid family labor and traditional
"exchange" labor. Information on off-farm employment is even less reliable.
The wage for hired labor in peak agricultural seasons ranges around p 5
to 6 per man-day, which is assumed to reflect the opportunity cost of labor
to the economy at such times. In months of high rural unemployment, which
characterize most of the year, the opportunity cost of labor would be much
lower. The economic cost of farm labor in the project area was therefore
estimated by taking account of the generally prevailing rural unemployment
and extreme seasonal fluctuations in labor demand.
7.        It is postulated that the marginal opportunity cost of farm labor
in the project area can be approximated by an S-shaped curve (Figure 1).
The marginal opportunity cost is positive at all levels of labor demand
and increases as more labor is employed in farm work. The increase is slow
initially, reflecting the scarcity of alternative productive employment,
but becomes more rapid as the labor supply becomes fully used. At the
employment level corresponding to full employment of available family labor
in the project area, the marginal opportunity cost is assumed equal to the
market wage of P 5 per man-day. The rural labor force in the Philippines
is highly mobile, and it is expected that at the market wage of P 6 per
man-day, large number of laborers could be attracted to the project area
from nearby areas if needed.
8.        It is reasonable to approximate the S-shaped curve by three
straight line segments. Three points determine the position of the curve.
Point A represents the minimum opportunity cost of farm labor which is
estimated to be P 2 per man-day, equal to P 1.5 as the economic value of
alternative employment (casual non-farm labor, fishing, house repairs, etc.)
plus P 0.5 to supply the additional food requirements of more strenuous
farm work with the project. Point B indicates that at full employment



ANNEX 17
Page   4
of family labor the opportunity cost would equal the market wage of P 5 per
man-day. The horizontal segment to the right of Point C indicates that at
p 6 per man-day as many hired laborers as needed would be available for farm
work in the project area.
9.        The monthly marginal opportunity cost may be read directly from
the curve at the corresponding level of labor demand. With the project,
it varies from P 2.1 per man-day in dry season months of high unemployment
to P 6.0 per man-day in the peak months of July and August.   The total
economic cost of farm labor is then the area under the curve up to the
level of employment. Computed this way, the future economic cost of farm
labor would be P 13.1 million with the project at full development and
P 11.8 million without the project, or an incremental cost of P 1.3 million.
The incremental cost is positive despite the lower annual farm employment
with the project because work would be slightly more concentrated in the
peak season when the marginal opportunity cost is higher. If all farm
labor were priced at the peak season market wage of P 5 to P 6 per man-day,
the incremental labor cost would be negative because of the reduced total
employment.



PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Total Monthly Labor Requirements ('000 man-days) -/
Area
(ha)     Jan    Feb   Mar    Apr    May    Jun    Jul    Aug    Sep    Oct    Nov    Dec    Total
Wet Season
Irrigated Rice  P  21,000    -      -       -      -     126    126    378    504    462    336    336    252    2,520
W  21,000    -      -      -       -     126    126    357    504    441    336    336    189    2,415
W  34,000    -      -      -       -      68    238  1,020  1,o88    374    476    476       -     3,740
Rainfed Rice    P  13,000    -      -       -      -      39    104    247    325    325    221    208    156    1,625
W  13,000    -      -      -       -      26     91    221    312    338    247    208    117    1,560
W            -      -      -       -      -      -       _      _      _      _       _      _       _
Dry Season
Irrigated Rice  P  5,000   170    190    105       25     -      -      -       -      -      -       50    110      650
W   5,000   145    195    115      10     -      -      -       -      -      -      50    110       625
W   6,000   108    102     -       -      -      -      -       -      12     84    234    150       690
Total        P  39,000   170    190    105      25    165    230    625    829    787    557    594    518    4,795
W  39,000   145    195    115      10    152    217    578    816    779    583    594    416    4,600
W  40,000   108    102     -       -      68    238  1,020  1,088    386    560    710    150    4,430
J P - Present
I - Future Without Project
W - Future With ProJect



PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Opportunity Cost Curve for Farm Labor
C
6.0
4. 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
5 .0_                                                                            _ _ _ _ _ _ _
044
0~
--
2                                   40
_       ~l                I 1                                         6
2.0               I
1 .C                                                                       ____________ __:
0             0.2            0.4             0.6            0.8            1.0             1.2            1.4
FARM LABOR DEMAND (MILLION MAN-DAYS/MONTH)
World Bank-8918



PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Economic Cost of Farm Labor at Full Project Development
Jan.  Feb.  Mar.  Apr.  My   Jun.  Jul.  Aug.  Sep.  Oct.  Nov.  Dec.    Total
Labor Requirement        W1/  0.1   0.1    -       -    0.1   0.2   1.0   1.1   0.4   0.6   0.7   0.1           4.4
(million man-days)       i/  0.1   0.2   0.1    -    0.2   0.2   0.6   0.8   0.8   0.6   0.6   0.4              4.6
Marginal Opportunity    W    2.1   2.1    -        -    2.1   2.4   6,0   6.0   2.5   3.7   4.4   2.1
Cost (P man-days)        W    2.1   2.4   2.1    -    2.4   2.4   3.7   5.0   5.0   3.7   3.7   2.5
Economic Cost of
Farm Labor            W    0.2   0.2    -       -    0.2   0.4   3.5   4.1   0.9   1.5   1.9   0.2          13.1
(P million)              7    0.2   0.4   0.2    -    0.4   0.4   1.5   2.4   2.4   1.5   1.5   0.9            11.8
Incremental Economic
Cost of Farm Labor
(P million)             W-W    -   -0.2  -0.2    -   -0.2    -    2.0   1.7  -1.5    -    0.4  -0.7             1.3
1/ W = Future with project.
2/ W = Future without project.



ANNEX 18
Page   1
PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IITROVEMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        The following assumptions were made in evaluating the project's
rate of return:
(a) Benefits - The expected paddy yields, prices, gross
returns, production costs, net returns (without accounting
for labor costs) and labor requirements per ha are shown
in Annexes 14 and 16. Farm gate prices for paddy used in
the economic analysis are based on the Bank's world market
price projections for milled rice and are derived in Annex 15.
Table 1 shows the expected project benefits at full agri-
cultural development.
(b) Investment Costs - All investment costs except costs due to
expected price increases (US$8.9 million), the costs of the
Ground Water Pilot Project (US$1.2 million), the Water
Management Training Program (US$0.8 million) and the
National Irrigation Systems Improvement Study (US$2.5 million),
have been included in the economic analysis. The incremental
cost of the Water Management Technologists is included under
annual 0 & M costs.
(c) Development Period - According to the project implementation
schedule, 40% of the currently irrigated areas would be
improved in time for the main wet season 1977 crop, and the
remaining improvement and extension areas would be completed
in time for the wet season 1978 crop.   It has been assumed
that projected yield levels on the improvement areas would
be achieved over five years in equal instalments from the
year of completion (1977 or 1978) inclusive, while in the
extension areas projected yields would be obtained over six
years in equal instalments from 1978 inclusive. Full project
benefits would be achieved in 1983.
(d) Pricing of Labor - Farm labor was evaluated at a shadow
wage rate, which varies seasonally and averages p 3.0
per man-day over the year under "with" project conditions
at full development, compared to a full employment market



ANNEX 18
Page 2
wage of P 5.0 per man-day. A detailed analysis is
presented in Annex 17. The use of unskilled labor in
construction and development works is limited and all
labor employed in such works was valued at the market
wage rate.
2.        Using the foregoing assumptions and discounting project benefits
and costs over a 50 year project life, the economic rate of return is
estimated to be 15% (Table 2).
Sensitivity Analysis
3.        Several of the basic assumptions made in the economic analysis
have been varied in order to examine their impact on the rate of return.
These factors were chosen to test the project's sensitivity to cost over-
runs and delays in construction such as those experienced in the develop-
ment of the Upper Pampanga River Project (UPRP); to likely changes in the
terms of trade between agricultural and manufactured goods; to failure to
achieve the project's ambitious cropping calendar; and to difficulties in
hiring additional farm labor in months of peak agricultural activity. The
effects of these assumptions on the rate of return are as follows:
Alternative                                    Rate of Return
(%)
(a) a two-year delay in reaching full project
benefits due to failure to complete construction
on time                                                      13
(b)  a 20% increase in construction costs                         13
(c)  a combination of a two-year delay in full project
benefits and a 20% cost overrun                              11
(d)  a 25% increase in the world market price of rice             19
(e) a combination of a 25% cost overrun and a 25%
increase in the price of rice                                16
(f) a 15% decrease in project benefits due to a com-
bination of decreased yields and area resulting
from failure of farmers to adopt fully the proposed
cropping calendar                                           11
(g) a market wage (and opportunity cost) of P 8 instead
of P 6/man-day to attract hired agricultural labor
in peak season                                               14



PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis - Net Value of Production
Gross Value                Net Value      Net Returns
Area    Paddy    Farm Gate          of       Production       of             from
Yield I/  Price ,   Production         Costs 2/  Production       Project Area
(ha)  (ton/ha)   (P/ton)       --------------(P/ha)----------------        (P million)
Wet Season
Irrigated Rice   W              20,650    2.8         900           2,520         545        1,975              40.8
W              34,000    3.8         900          3,420          855        2,565              87,2
Rainfed Rice     W              13,350    2.5         900           2,250         465         1,785             23.8
W                -         -         900            -             -           -
Dr Season
Irrigated Rice  W4               4,650    2.8         900           2,520         615         1,905              8,8
W               6,200    4.1         900          3,690          890        2,800              17.4
Total:           W               38,650
W              40,200
W - with project - W without project                                               W            w
--(P Million)--
1/ From Annex 14, Tables I and 2
2/ From Annex 16, Table l                         Total Net Value of Production  73.4          104.6
3/ From Annex 17, Table 2                         Before Costing Labor
Less Imputed Cost of Labor 3/  11.8          13.1
Total Net Value of Production  61.6          91.5                       X
Net Incremental Value of
Production at Full Project                                                CD
Development.                                 29.9



PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
(IuS$ '000)
Project Costs                                 Incremental
Year                     Capital     0 & M     Total                    Pro ect Benefits
1     (1975)            2,480          0       2,480                              0
2     (1976)            3,690          0       3,690                              0
3     (1977)            8,340        190       8,530                           61o
4     (1978)             6,140       480       6,620                         1,920
5     (1979)                 0       480         480                         2,250
6     (1980)                 0       480         480                         3,090
7     (1981)                0        480         480                         4'°50
8     (1982)                 0       480         480                         4,200
9-50  (1983-2024)            0       480         480                         4, 450
Economic Rate of Return                                                       15%
ID IX
too



PH-ILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1975                            1976                             1977                             1978                             1979
WODRK ITEM-                                                             -                                     --                               ---
J F MIAMIJ JA SOND JIFIMIAM  J JAISIONODJ  IMIAMIJ JA SON DJ F MA M  J JA S 0N O   FM A MJ J A S  N D
TARLAC SYSTEM (TRIS)
Mobilization (for TRIS and SM-ORIS)
Rehabilitation of existing systems (8,600 has.)
Constr,ction of ness areas (9,400 has.)                                                                                                                                                   .
Construction of roads                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
Irrigation service facilities
SAN MIGUEL-O'DONNELL SYSTEM (SM-ORIS)                                                                                  
Rehabilitation of existing systems 10,100 has.)l.    %X
Construction of ness areas (4,700 has.)
Construction of roads
Irrigation service facilitiesX
CAMILING SYSTEM  (CR(S)                                                                X
Mobilization                                                                                                   X
Rehabdiiation of existing systems 19,000 has.)lX
Construction of sass areas (1,200 has.)                                        X
Construction of roads                                                                                                                                                                                                      .
Irrigation service facilities                                                                                                                      "
GROUNDWATER PILOT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                  X
Mobilization                                                  I I
System construction (900 has.)****
Operation and evaluation                                                                                                     I     EiI
WATER MANAGEMENT TRAINING**********                                                                                               ************
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT STUDY  *         ****                                                                          
NOTE:
Shading indicates met season months
World Bank-8923



PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Proposed Organization for Project Construction
NIA BOARD
NIA
ADMINISTRATOR
I
Z JTAUDITOR          -MM- - -                U                  - - --                      CONSULTANTS
ASS ISTAN T |
PRJECT                                                               PROJECT
MAPAGER                                                             MANAGER
DIVISIOAMIITRTIENNGNERNG                                   AGICLTR LD                  PROJRE ECT  DEVELP.OIR PANN
DIVISION  DIVIN  D                                  EEVELOTIEMEVNTDDVI
|    OIV   Z    ADMIN. SERVICES |    ADMIN. SERVICES
OFFICE ENGINEERING|       FC   ENGIINEERING|
FIELD ENGINEERING       FIELD ENGINEERING
DIVISION 5 |
*|ADMIN. SERVICES 
OFFICE ENGINEERING                              * Responsible for Grou..d-ater Pilot Project
*Resp'onsible for Tarlac Irrigat-o Systems
I mprovement Prol.ct
FIELD ENGINEERING|
OPERATION
& MAINTENANCE                                                                World Bank-8921



PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Proposed Organization for Operation and Maintenance
NIA BOARD
NIA
ADMINISTRATOR
I UPRP            I
PROJC MANAGER
EQUIPMENT           DEVELOPDAM-RESERVOIR                                DMINISTRATIVE
DIVISION           DIEVELOPMENT                 DIVISION               DIVISION
DIVISION~ ~        ~ ~                     DVIIO 
DISTRICT 1     DISTRICT 2          DISTRICT 3           DISTRICT4DITCT
SAN JOSE      ~TALAVERA             STA. ROSA           PENARANDA           TALG
I ZONE        ii
I SUPERINTENDENTS
-771
DIVISION
SUPERVISOR
I (14)I
rVV-ATER
MANAGEMENT
TECHNOLOGIST
J(68)
1/ Personnel requirements shown in parentheses
r % Proposed addition to UPRP organizational chart for
LJ  operation and maintenance
DITCH TENDERS
(340)
World Bank-8920



PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Proposed Organization for Loan Projects Coordination
NIA
BOARD      1
NIA
ADMINISTRATOR
.~~~
LOAN PROJECTS
COORDINATOR
|ENGINEERING  |  |AGRICULU                     FINANCE    |      DMINISTRATIONk|
World Bank-8922



PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Proposed Cropping Calendars
J     F    M      A    M      J   J        A     S     0     N     D
I
I~~~
Wet Season
Rice                             II                  T
(34,000 Ha)                      l                     M
H
System
I Maintenance..           -      -     -      -
I  I                      ~~~~~~~N
Dry Season                       l          I                               T
R ice
(6,200 Ha)                       I '
I            I
Rainfall mm                              355
Notation:29
C: Cultivation
N: Nursery21
T: Transplanting
M: Management                                                                  163
H: Harvest
J     F    M      A     M     J     J      A     S    0       N     D
World Bank-8919






120°30'                                               121=00=
PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
_'. > t°°  >/C2AN                                        A             ',CENTRAL LUZON BASIN
OF                                                                                                   LW(  .    , ZJ TARLAC SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT AREAS
TARLAC SYSTEMS EXTENSION AREAS
UPPER PAMPANGA RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT[LOAN 637-P`H
0 p VItX /                                                                                         t AURORA PEPIARANDA IRRIGATIONA PROJECT(LOAN CREDIT
B OUNDARY OF CENTRAL LUZON IRRIGATION DEVELORPMENT
LA   UNION         N                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~STTDVILOAN/CREDIT 984/472-PX)
LA  U N I N- 3-  MAN ROADS
-1 0330F                                                                 SWAMPS                                      16F03T
I   -                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING TAME AND REXERVO RS
AMBULAX TAM                                -j PROVINCAL BOUNDARIES
,NAFA \r                                     ij    N \         j
Co                   V '7 '- 'BEHOUET/n: \i r       ,        ,     ) 
111 I'';  ,, T, '                                                   5   FR0 15=    2   25  30
/                                                 KILOMETERS
- S
(SAN ROQUE      -   N                         04
D~~,,@ C                                                                <
4   cT           >      <            S        J       \              .             'I
16°00'  .   ,0                              t                       P                       vx \      V     v            'i                                   16°00'
t \ S 0 SX uPANTA'                 TONFTRUOIONI
CAM   NG  R44RE      N
RRIGAT    -SYST EM                                       _
DIVERSI  TAMON
15°30 '/  x TARA                                                             <> ttXttenF-PER PpAN`C Nt;_                                                      15o30-
{7               SSN MIGUEL- ODONNE
IRRIGATION
<~~~~~~( )                      /             tt                       (levw 
Ti a     Fi o   d                      /   ( \  '  \   
i '  - 20-XA , ! g ,' t ;~~~~-    IZi .L
ZAMB SATAAN
X               )          ~      ~~~~~~~~MMÆAT/A HTAY    \'/                                                                 w 
120 30'  /                                            A IA                                                   12103D    so






T. Monc-d)                                                                                                            PHILIPPINES                               JULY 1974
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEUENT PROJECT
PAN)XI                                                                         San  Miguel-O'Donnell River Irrigation  System   (SM-ORIS)
Tarlac River Irrigation System (TRIS)
Exisfing Main Canals
New Main Canal
Lateral Canals
,_  / To Guimbo N.E.                    Propased Groandwater
r\Irgation Pilot Area
Impravement Areas
Extensian Areas
c* /  4tp,    _   /  <BouHacienda Luisita
X"~'*                                                    Sugar Cane Area
~~~~~~~~~~~~
0      Sugar Mill
-  Diversian Dams
ToG,mbn N.E.       --    Flaad Pratectian Dike
AR4EA                           I      tIA                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Natianal Highways
Other Raads
4                  TTZ   Rivers ar Creeks
Baundary between
TRIS adSM-ORIS
--       - Municipal Baundaries
Provincial Boundcries
KILOMETERS
AZ               To Zorugorn N.E.
SAN Ml ~   ~             ~           ~           ~           L2                           ,/ ~
GU EL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h ~n~e ~oe ~hsso i s
-ORIS~~~~~                                                                                                                      b0
120.          l122            24-
CHINA     LZO
SEA      LUO
s                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~16'  160
EXTEN'SJON  ARE                                                                                  r( PHILIPPINE
~~~>  Copas ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~MANILIAe
I   ~ ~ ~~~-4'                                     140
CONCEPCION                                                                                             4
To Monilo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1200    1220    ?4






IBRD-1 1 138
JULY 1974
PHILIPPINES
TARLAC IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Comiling River Irrigation System (CRIS)
To eugallon             >
Existing Main Canal             _          Diversion Dam
\\ \\  - -  New Main Canal                  =:=         Rivers or Creeks
\ > \ \  :**_ Lateral Canals               --      }-National Highways
1 rProposed Groendwaoer                                 Other Roads
IrrigationPilotArea               -        Munic pal Boundaries
Improv\\ extensn    Areas     P- -Provincial Boundaries
I TA\/N,                          !
STA. IGNAC AIA   ~         PthtPPNPSE
\ r ) /11bst     I . i T, I.c
____ _ __ _ __r o  1gv   A   .t.   3      4 
KIOETR



