CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1080 PH
Loan Agreement
(Tarlac Irrigation Systems
Improvement Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JANUARY 27, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1080 PH
Loan Agreement
(Tarlac Irrigation Systems
Improvement Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JANUARY 27, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 27, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "NIA" means the National Irrigation Administration, an agency
established by the Borrower's Republic Act No. 3601 as amended by Presidential
Decree No. 522;
(b)   "Tarlac irrigation systems" means the Camiling River Irrigation System,
the San Miguel-O'Donnell River Irrigation System, and the Tarlac River Irrigation
System collectively;
(c)   "Project Area" means an area of about 34,000 hectares, located mainly
in Tarlac province with small portions located in Nueva Ecija and Pangasinan
provinces, now served by the Tarlac irrigation systems and to be served by such
systems as proposed to be expanded;
(d)   "UPRP" means the Upper Pampanga River Project described in
Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank dated
August 18, 1969 (loan number 637 PH); and
(e)   "Penaranda irrigation system" means the PENRIS as defined in Section
1.01(g) of the Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the
International  Development   Association  dated   May 14,    1974   (credit
number 472 PH) and as proposed to be expanded in Schedule 2 thereto.


﻿4
ARTICLE H
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to seventeen million dollars ($17,000,000). -
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project shall be awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight per cent
(8%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Set,ion 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through its NIA with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial,


﻿5
administrative, engineering and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B and
Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall, within three months from the date of
this Agreement or within such other period as may be agreeable to the Bank,
cause NIA to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. The Borrower may
also cause NIA to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank in order to assist
the Borrower in carrying out Part C(l) of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) In carrying out Part A, Part B(3), and Part C(2) of the
Project, and to the extent contractors are employed therefor, the Borrower shall
employ or cause NIA to employ contractors whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause NIA to investigate ways of increasing the
portion of Project civil works done under contract.
(c)   The Borrower shall also cause NIA, as and when required for its
increased tasks under Parts B and D of the Project, to employ appropriately
qualified additional personnel in the Project Development Division of NIA.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or shall cause NIA to furnish,
to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction, work and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall, or shall cause NIA: (i) to maintain records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and


﻿6
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) to enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) to furnish to the Bank all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall grant all water rights required to enable
NIA to carry out and operate the Project and shall take such action as is required
to ensure that no private rights are granted which could adversely affect the water
supply for the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rIhts in respect
of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project.
Section 3.07. Without limitation of its obligations under Section 3.01 of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall establish and maintain, under arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank, a Special Fund from which NIA may draw without
restriction to meet expenditures in respect of the Project. The Borrower shall adjust
and replenish the amount in the Special Fund at monthly intervals to a level at
least equivalent to the estimated amount of payments to be made for goods and
services required for the Project, less the estimated amount of payments to be
made directly by the Bank to suppliers, consultants, or contractors for such goods
and services, during the next three months' period.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower and the Bank
that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority over the Loan by way of
a lien on governmental assets.
(b)   To that end the Borrower (i) represents that at the date of this
Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets as security for any external
debt except as otherwise disclosed in writing by the Borrower to the Bank, and
(ii) undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien
shall be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at no cost to the Bank,
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan and in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that


﻿7
effect. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such
lien.
(c)   The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for payment of the purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in
the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets" means assets of the
Borrower or of any agency of the Borrower including the Central Bank of the
Philippines or any institution performing the functions of a central bank for the
Borrower.
(d)   The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits of the laws
in force in its territories, it will make the foregoing undertaking effective with
respect to liens on the assets of its political subdivisions and their agencies, and
to the extent that the Borrower is unable within the limits of the laws in force
in its territories to make this undertaking effective, the Borrower will give to the
Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause NIA to maintain separate records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations in respect of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause NIA to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements in respect of the Project (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable Lo the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of NIA and the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause the works and facilities included
in the Project to be operated and maintained in accordance with sound agricultural,
engineering and financial policies and practices, and shall make available sufficient
funds to NIA for such purposes.


﻿8
(b)   Without limitation of its obligations under paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Borrower undertakes to do, or, to the extent required, to cause NIA
to do, the following:
(i)         to make adequate budgetary provision to operate and maintain
the Project; and
(ii)        except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, to take all necessary
action to ensure that charges for the use of irrigation water are
levied and collected from the users of the Project and that such
charges will provide NIA with revenues sufficient to cover all
operating and maintenance costs of the Project, and, in addition,
to provide for the recovery, within a period not greater than
50 years, on reasonable terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, of the monies invested in the Project, without impairing
the users' incentives and capacity to pay.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause NIA to carry out, and operate and maintain
the works and facilities in, Part A of the Project through its UPRP office or under
other arrangements within NIA satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all necessary action to ensure that
irrigation water in the San Miguel-O'Donnell River Irrigation System withdrawn
from the San Miguel main canal for the use of the Hacienda Luisita sugar estate
and the Central Azucarera de Tailac shall continue to be returned to the system
and made available for use by farmers located downstream of the Hacienda Luisita
sugar estate.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The establishment of the Special Fund referred to in Section
3.07 of this Agreement is specified as an additional condition to the effectiveness
of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The date April 27, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿9
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary of Finance
Department of Finance
Manila, Philippines
Cable address:
SECFINANCE
Manila
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Eduardo Z. Romualdez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan /. " ated             % of
(Expr - d in            Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works
(a)  mobiliza-                 1,600,000          100% of foreign
tion and con-                               expenditures
struction
equipment and
vehicles for
civil works
contractors
(up to 50% of
the value of
each contract)
(b)  other civil               8,900,000          43%
works
(2)   Equipment (includ-            3,700,000
ing vehicles)
(a)  directly im-                                 100," of foreign
ported equip-                               expenditures
ment
(b)  locally manu-                                100% of local
factured equip-                             expenditures
ment                                        (ex-factoiy)
(c)  imported equip-                              65%
ment procured
locally


﻿12
Amount of the
Loan Allocated               % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(3)   Consulting ser-                 1,000,000          100% of foreign
vices and over-                                    expenditures or
seas training                                      60% of total
expenditures
(4)   Unallocated                     1,800,000
TOTAL         17,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, and for goods or services supplied from, the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any such taxes
included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,


﻿13
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:     Upgrading, Rehabilitation, and Expansion of Existing Tarlac Irrigation
Systems
(1)   The repair of existing canals and structures and the provision of
additional control structures, turnouts, and collector drains;
(2)   the construction of additional irrigation and drainage works to serve
about 13,000 hectares of land adjacent to the existing service areas of the Tarlac
irrigation systems;
(3)   the construction of small buildings for use by water management
technologists approximately in the ratio of one for each 500 hectares of irrigated
land in the Project Area; and
(4)   the upgrading of existing roads and the construction of additional roads
in the Project Area, including roads for operation and maintenance along main
canals and laterals.
Part B.     Groundwater Pilot Project
(1)   The investigation of the aquifer system  in the area of each of the
Tarlac irrigation systems as proposed to be expanded in order to evaluate recharge,
discharge and storage capabilities as well as groundwater movement, to evaluate
the technical and economic feasibility of dry season irrigation by groundwater
pumping, and to assess the potential for conjunctive use of surface and groundwater
resources in the area of each system;
(2)   the training of NIA staff in groundwater hydrology and well drilling
techniques;
(3)   the selection of about three pilot areas of about 300 hectares each
for the Tarlac irrigation system, and the construction in each such pilot area selected
of about six production wells and necessary laterals and farm ditches for connection
with the gravity systems, and the installation of specialized equipment for operating,
monitoring, and evaluating each pilot area; and


﻿15
(4)   the preparation of an evaluation report after operation of pilot areas
for about two years, including, if warranted on the basis of the evaluation, a
framework plan and preliminary cost estimate for conjunctive use of surface and
groundwater in the area of each system.
Part C:     Water Management Training
(1)   The training of about 300 water management technologists in water
management methods, rice production techniques, and farmer organization for the
UPRP, Penaranda and Tarlac irrigation systems; and
(2)   the provision of facilities for such training in each of the three existing
UPRP operational districts, in the existing Penaranda irrigation system operational
district, and in an operational district for the Tarlac irrigation systems.
Part D:     National Irrigation Systems Improvement Study
The inventory of existing NIA irrigation systems, the selection of an area
of about 150,000 hectares of highest priority for improvement, the completion
of four feasibility grade studies considering, inter alia, economic factors, institutions
and income levels in the area, and the review of the organization and
implementation capacity of NIA's regional offices.
Part E:     Equipment and Vehicles
The procurement of equipment and vehicles in connection with the carrying
out of the other Parts of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
April 15, 1982                                   220,000
October 15, 1982                                 230,000
April 15, 1983                                   235,000
October 15, 1983                                 245,000
April 15, 1984                                   255,000
October 15, 1984                                 265,000
April 15, 1985                                   275,000
October 15, 1985                                 290,000
April 15, 1986                                   300,000
October 15, 1986                                 310,000
April 15, 1987                                   325,000
October 15, 1987                                 335,000
April 15, 1988                                   350,000
October 15, 1988                                 365,000
April 15, 1989                                   380,000
October 15, 1989                                 395,000
April 15, 1990                                   410,000
October 15, 1990                                 425,000
April 15, 1991                                   445,000
October 15, 1991                                 460,000
April 15, 1992                                   480,000
October 15, 1992                                 500,000
April 15, 1993                                   520,000
October 15, 1993                                 540,000
April 15, 1994                                   560,000
October 15, 1994                                 585,000
April 15, 1995                                   605,000
October 15, 1995                                 630,000
April 15, 1996                                   655,000
October 15, 1996                                 685,000
April 15, 1997                                   710,000
October 15, 1997                                 740,000
April 15, 1998                                   770,000
October 15, 1998                                 800,000
April 15, 1999                                   830,000
October 15, 1999                                 875,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar eqnivilents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿17
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  3/4%
More than three years but
not more than six
years before maturity                           2-1/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                    3%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                           4-3/4%
More than sixteen years but
not more than twenty-
one years before
maturity                                        6-3/4%
More than twenty-one years
but not more than
twenty-three years
before maturity                                 7-1/2%
More than twenty-three years
before maturity                                    8%


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions set forth or referred to in Part A.1 of this
Schedule:
(i)         civil works may be carried out either (A) by NIA under force
account, or (B) by contract awarded under procedures consistent
with the Guidelines, but without international competitive
bidding, provided that the aggregate cost of civil works carried
out by force account shall not, without prior consent of the
Bank, exceed 20% of the total cost of all civil works in the
Project; and
(ii)        any contract for the procurement of equipment, materials,
supplies and vehicles not exceeding the equivalent of $10,000
may be awarded on a competitive basis consistent with the
Borrower's normal procurement practices without international
competitive bidding, provided that the aggregate expenditure for
such items so procured shall not exceed the equivalent of
$250,000.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿19
2.    Goods manufactured in the Republic of the Philippines may be granted a
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the Republic of
the Philippines if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction  of  the  Borrower  and   the  Bank   that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value added therein
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in the
Republic of the Philippines.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.


﻿20
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.    With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more and all contracts for equipment and vehicles estimated to
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   Review of prequalification. If bidders are required to prequalify, the
Borrower shall, before qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in that procedure
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with
a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for
its comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b)   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.
(1)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(2)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall
inform the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective
amounts of the bids.
(3)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank
of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and the reasons for the intended award and shall furnish
to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿21
(4)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids
were asked or prequalification invited.
(5)  Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submission
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by paragraph I of this Part, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copic. of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


