Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11308-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
JANUARY 22, 1993
Agriculture Operations Division
China/Mongolia Department
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of September 1992)
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
$1.00 = Y 5.50
Y 1.00 = $0.1818
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)             =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (cu m)    =   35.31 cubic feet
1 kilometer (km)        =   0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)          =   2.47 acres (ac)
I mu                    =   0.067 ha
I ton (t)               =   1,000 kg
=    t2,205 pounds Qbs)
1 kilogram (kg)         =   2.2 pounds Qbs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
bcm          billion cubic meters
BWR          Bureau of Water Resources (province)
CMIEC        China Machinery Import and Export Corporation
CPLG         Central Project Leading Group
ECH          Engineering Construction Headquarters
GOC          Government of China
ICB          International competitive bidding
LCB          Local competitive bidding
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MWR          Ministry of Water Resources
NEPA         National Environmental Protection Agency
O&M          Operation and Maintenance
PMO          Project Management Office
PPLG         Provincial Project Leading Group
SFCH         State Flood Control Headquarters
SOE          Statement of Expenditures
TBA          Taihu Basin Authority
TBWRPB    Taihu Basin Water Resources Protection Bureau
TBWRPC    Taihu Basin Water Resources Protection Committee



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CIINA
TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
LOAN/CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         People's Republic of China
lBenfidary:       Ministry of Water Resources (Taihu Basin Authority)
Amount:           Loan: $100 million
Credit: SDR 72.8 million ($100 million equivalent)
Termn:            Loan: 20 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
Credit: IDA standard terms with 35 years maturity.
Objectives and
Desaiption:       The project would  control floods and  improve land  drainage
in China's most industrialized and highly productive agricultural area.
The project would also improve the quantity and quality of raw water for
the Shanghai City water supply, and expand and improve inland waterway
transportation. Flood control and land drainage would be effected through
river channelization of the Wangyu and Taipu Rivers to evacuate flood
water to the Yangtze River, flood diversion through the Hang-Jia-Hu river
system to Hangzhou Bay, and increased flood regulation in Tai Lake
through strengthening and upgrading of the lake's perimeter dikes. The
enlarged Wangyu River channel would be used to divert water from the
Yangtze River to augment water supply in the basin during dry seasons.
Inland waterway transportation would be improved through more stable
and controlled water levels and additional shiplocks constructed in rivers
and canals. Institutional capability would be strengthened through better
facilities for flood monitoring and forecasting, communication, staff
training, technical assistance, and equipment.
Benefits and
Risks:          The main benefit is prevention of flood damage and losses. The cost of
long-term annual average flood damage and losse that would be prevented
is estimated at $77.6 million. The improved drainage on 86,000 ha of
cropland would provide annual incremental production of 43,000 tons of
grain and rapeseed valued at about $4.5 million. Other benefits, not
readily quantifiable, include: (a) enhanced quantity and quality of raw
water for Shanghai's polluted water supply; and (b) improved and
expanded inland waterway transportation within the Taihu Basin. The
project faces no significant technical risks. The engineering concept is
sound and the solutions have been derived after years of studies and
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
planning. The effects of any unprecedented flood exceeding the designed
value would be substantially reduced by the project works and through
flood forecasting system and contingency plans to be provided under the
project. Organizational and institutional risks would be compensated by
staff training in project implementation and management.
Estimated Project
Co6t: A                                          Local   Forei4n   Ttl
…$---- $ million ----…-
Land acquisition                 32.0     0.0       32.0
Compensation                     21.4     0.0       21.4
Earthwork.                       82.1    49.3      131.4
Civil works                      69.6    69.6      139.2
Machinery & equipment             3.6    33.0       36.6
Buildings                         1.6     1.0        2.6
Other engineering                12.4     5.3       17.7
Training & tech. assistance       0.1     1.7        1.8
Design, supervision & mgm't       8.6     2.5       11.1
Base Cost                       231.4   162.4      393.8
Physical contingencies           23.1    16.3       39.4
Price contingencies              42.7    21.4       64.1
Total Prolect Cost        297.2   200.1       497.3
Ftnandng Plan:
Government                      297.2     0.1      297.3
IBRD/IDA                          0.0   200.0      200.0
Total                     297.2   200.1       497.3
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank/IDA FY   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998
------------  (S million) -_________
Annual           20     35      55     50      25     15
Cumulative       20     55    110    160    185    200
Ec_nomIc Rate
of Return:       27 percent
La Project is exempt from taxes and duties.



- iii -
CONTENTS
1    Badkground            ...........................................                       1
A. Project Origin             .......................................                   1
B. Flood Control in China              .................................                1
C. Bank Group Lending for Water Resource Development .             .............        3
D. Rationale for Bank Group Involvement ........................                        4
2     h  Project Area  .......................................                               5
A. Principal Features .....................................                             5
B. Climate and Hydrology  .................................                             6
C. Water Resource Issues and Management .......................                        6
D. The 1991 Flood  ......................................                               8
E. Institutional Management  ................................                          10
F. Infrastructure ........................................    10
3    TMeProjed  .        ..........................................                         11
A. Project Formulation and Objectives .11
B. Project Description .11
C. Principal Features .12
D. Schedule for Design and Construction.                                              15
E. Cost Estimates and Financing.                                                      15
F. Procurement .17
G. Disbursement .19
H. Accounts and Audits .20
I. Environmentea and Social Impacts.                                                   20
J. Environmental Mitigation and Management .21
K. Land Acquisition, Relocation and Compensation .22
This report is based on the findings of a preparation mission in April 1992 comprising Lang S.
Tay (Mission Leader), W. T. Smith (Bank/IDA), Colin Fairn, M. Sydor and T. Whitington
(Consultants), and appraisal missions August 1992 comprising Lang S. Tay (Mission Leader),
R. Reidinger, R. Vick (Bank/lDA), Lee Travers, Bi Mingjian and N. Odd (Consultants). Poer
reviewers were Messrs. J. Berkoff, U. Kuffner (EMTWU); R. Vick (ASTIN); and A. Ghani
(ASTEN). The China/Mongolia Department Director is Mr. Shahid Javed Burki and the
Agriculture Operations Division Chief is Mr. J. Goldberg. Project Task Manager is Lang S.
Tay.



- lv -
4   Project Management and Coordination .......   26
A. Project Organization         ...................................    26
B. Financial Management ..................................   27
C. Execution and Supervision of Project Works ....................   28
D. Operation and Maintenance ...............         ................    29
E. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting ......... ..      .............   32
5   Justifilcation and Beneffts ..................................   34
A. General    ..................... ......................    34
B. Economic Evaluation and Analysis ..........................   35
C. Risks ..........................................                       37
6   Agreements Reached and Recommendation ......................   38
ANNEMS
1 Statistics    ..40
Table 1 - Taihu BasinArea Staistics .40
Table 2 - Taihu Basin Area Agricultural Production (1989) .41
Table 3 - Taihu Basin Area Economic Statistics (1989) .42
Table4 - Meteorological Data .43
Table 5 - Tidal Levels in Yangtze and Huangpu Rivers .44
2 Cost Estimates.                                                             45
Table 1 - Project Components Funded Entirely by Local Funds.             45
Table2 - Project Cost .46
(a) Project Cost Summary    ..46
(b) Summary Account Cost Summary    ..47
(c) Summary Account by Project Components    ..48
(d) Project Components by Year                 ..50
Table 3 - Procurement of Major Works by ICB and LCB .52
Table 4 - Procurement of Machinery, Equipment and Materials .55
Table 5 - Retroactive Financing Estimates and Program .56
Table 6 - Estimated Disbursement Schedule and Profile .57
Table 7 - Training Program .58
Table 8 - Technical Assistance Program .59
3 Economic Evaluation and Analysis ..........      .................... 60-74
4 Long-term Basinwide Environmental Management Plan .....      ............ 75-76
5 Plan for Relocation, Compensation and Land Acquisition .....  ........... 77-94
6 Project Planning and Hydraulic Modeling .......................... 95-100
7 Tdlemetric Monitoring and Communication System   .....    ............. 101-108



v -
ANNEXES (cont'd)
8 Study for Contingency Plan for Management of Catastrophic Floods ........ 108-111
9 Summary of Review of Water Quality Studies and Modeling ............. 112-130
10 Monitoring and Evaluation ...........      ....................... 131-132
Table 1 - Key Monitoring Indicators  ..........................  131
Table 2 - Proposed Bank/IDA Supervision Input ...................  132
11 Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File .................  133
CHARTS
1 Project Organization .134
2     Organization for Operation and Management (TBA) .135
3     Organization of the Taihu Basin Water Resources Protection
Committee .136
FIGURES
1    Implementation Schedule .............. 137-139
2     Disbursement Schedule ..............    140
MANs
IBRD Map No. 23915 - Areas Affected by 1954 and 1991 Floods and System Network for
Flood Monitoring and Communication
IBRD Map No. 23916 - Location of Project Works
TABLES IN TE TExr
2.1    Comparison of Rainfall and Return Periods for 1954 and 1991 Floods        9
3.1 Project Cost Summary .16
3.2 Procurement Arrangement .18
3.3 Disbursement Arrangements .19
3.4    Mitigation of Construction-induced Impacts .23
4.1    Division of Operation and Maintenance Responsibilities for
Completed Project Works .29
4.2    Operating Water Levels for Designed Floods in Subbasins .30
4.3    Typical Operational Water Levels in Tai Lake .30
4.4    Estimated Operation and Maintenance Budget by TBA .32



I



1
BACKGROUND
A. PRoJEer OIuGIN
1.1         In the summer of 1991 China was struck by severe monsoon floods, especially
in the eastern provinces in the Huai River and Taihu Basins. In all, 18 provinces and
municipalities in east, north, central, and southwest China were affected. Some 21 million ha
of farmland and 220 million people were affected, and 2,295 people died. Total national
economic losses were estimated at $13 billion. The Taihu Basin, centered about 120 km west
of Shanghai City, suffered extensive flooding, especially the industrialized cities of Wuxi,
Suzhou and Changzhou and the highly productive agricultural areas around the Tai Lake. Total
losses in this region were estimated to be at least $2.0 billion; 80 percent in industry (including
township and village enterprises) and 20 percent in agriculture. The Basin is one of the most
highly developed areas of China with an annual gross output of more than $70 billion. The State
Council in October 1991, recognizing the Basin's importance to the nation's economy, instructed
the Ministry of Water Resources (MWR) to complete the Taihu Basin Flood Control Project by
the end of 1995. This project had been under consideration since the mid-1970s but planning
for it was stepped up following the formation of the Taihu Basin Authority (TBA) in 1984. The
overall plan was approved by the State Planning Commission in 1987, and more detailed plans
for the main components were completed in 1988. The project as now proposed is the product
of extensive consultations and negotiations between the three major jurisdictions involved,
Jiangsu Province, Zhejiang Province, and Shanghai Municipality. Negotiations centered on such
issues as managing flood flows so as to avoid an undue burden on any area, the capacity needed
to augment dry season flows by diversions from the Yangtze, and the sharing of costs.
Agreement has now been reached on all the issues. The Government has requested Bank Group
assistance in financing the proposed flood control program on an urgent basis in order to protect
and sustain the security and economy of the Basin. A Bank Group mission identified and
prepared the proposed project in October 1991 and another mission preappraised the project in
March 1992. Appraisal of the project was carried out between July and September, 1992. Due
to the urgency of the project, construction of some high priority works began in December 1991.
B. FLOOD CONTROL IN CHINA
1.2          Achievenents and Issues. China is prone to seasonal floods due to climatic and
topographical factors. The Yellow River was well known in history for its disastrous floods,
although each major basin, including that of Tai Lake, has recorded catastrophes of horrifying
proportions. The 800,000 km2 of land area threatened by floods contain about 40 percent of
total population and 60 percent of the national industrial and agricultural output value. Since
1950, flood control works have been progressively constructed to varying degree of completion



- 2 -
for each of the seven major river/lake basins.l/ These works consist mainly of regulats
resevoirs in the upper catchments, river dikes, flood detention basins, and river training works
in the middle and lower reaches. The capacity to control floods up to 1 in 40-S0 years in many
of these basins has been considerably increased, thus protecting some 32 million ha of farmland
and 322 million people, and basically ensuring development of industry and agriculture as well
as safety of cities and townships along the major rivers. However, despite significant
achievements in flood control works over the last 40 years, problems and constraints still exist,
as summarized below:
(a)    By comparison to other countries, China's flood protection worcs along major
rivers were designed to a comparatively lower return period. Except for some
major cities, like Beijing, Harbin and Guangzhou, with protection up to 1 in 100
years, most of the flood protection works cater to 1 in 40 years for the middl
stretches of the Huai River, 50 years for the Yellow, Yangtze, Hai Rivers and
the lower reaches of Huai River, and only 10-20 years for some of the flood
regulating reservoirs along the Yangtze River. The flood protection standard
would need to be raised and rationalized with rapid economic development in
each basin.
(b)    Due to population pressure and demands of rapid economic development, large
tracts of flood plain, detention basins, lake basins and river banks have been
reclaimed for cultivation and other economic activities. This has led to lou of
river channel efficacy to discharge floods and flood detention basin capacity to
retard floods. These occupied lands are under constant threat of floods and
whenever flooding occurs, flood disaster management becomes increasingly
difficult due to their uncontrolled development. Although statutory laws and
regulations exist2/ to control use and development of such land, their rigid
enforcement is facing some difficulties.
(c)    Soil erosion leading to rapid siltation of river courses, lakes and reservoirs has
been a major problem confronting flood control works in China. River beds are
elevated as a result of sediments deposited, raising flood peak levels which pose
greater danger to existing age-old flood protection dikes. The Yellow River
deposits about 400 million tons of its 1.4 billion tons of average annual
sediments in its lower reaches, causing the river bed (already well above the
surrounding land) to rise annually about 10-15 in. Several major reservoirs and
lakes are also rapidly filling up, losing their capacity to regulate or retard floods.
(d)    Lack of coordination and local jurisdictions' conflict of interest in regional
planning for flood control have caused delay in implementation of major flood
control programs for years. A case in point is the proposed project in the Taihu
Basin (para. 2.06).
11    The river/lake bsins are: Yangtze, Yellow, Huai, Hai, Songhua-Liao, and Peal Riv., md
Tai IAke.
21    Tles an: The Watr Laws of 1988, the River Channbls Managemen Regulto  of 1988, dh
Flood Control Regulion of 1991 and the Watr and Soil Convation Laws of 1992.



- 3 -
1.3         Institutions Responsible for Flood Control.  As a principal department
responsible to the State Council, the central Ministry of Water Resources (MWR) is responsible
for flood control through its six river and one lake basin commissions which carry out overall
planning, construction and management of works. Beside these commissions, provincial Bureaus
of Water Resources are responsible to their respective provincial governments for flood control
works within each province, with technical guidance provided by MWR. The State Flood
Control Headquarters (SFCH), chaired by a Vice Premier with the Minister of MWR as deputy
chairman, operates in Beijing during the monsoon season from April to September. The SFCH,
supported by the MWR's Hydrological Forecasting and Water Control Center and the Remote
Sensing and Application Center, issues overriding orders to the river/lake commissions and
provincial governments on flood control measures to be taken in the event of major flooding.
Hydrological and flood data are collected at regular intervals and transmitted by the river/lake
commissions to MWR for analysis and forecasting of floods. Some of the network systems are
incomplete, and enhancement in hardware and software would be necessary to provide more
effective flood forecasting.
1.4          Strategies for Flood Control. Due to limited cultivable land (particularly land
under economic irrigation command) and population pressure to grow more food, and the
accompanying problems of soil erosion and siltation, flood control is becoming more complex
with the passage of time. The MWR's long-term strategies I/ are to: (a) continue the long-
term measures of soil and water conservation in river catchments; (3) implement engineering and
nonengineering measures in tandem to prevent threat by normal floods and to minimize effect
of damages arising from floods exceeding the protection standards; (c) continue the practice of
flood regulation by reservoirs and attenuating flood peaks through releases into flood detention
basins, and investing in construction of such capital works; (d) continue to strengthen flood
protection works and management of flood detention basins; and (e) maximize flood regulation
by reservoirs by instituting safety inspection and maintenance programs and resolving
outstanding resettlement problems within the reservoir areas.
C. BANK GROUP LENDING FOR WATER REsouRcE DEvEwpMEiT
1.5          The Bank Group has assisted in the financing of 13 agriculture projects in China
with major water resource components, with associated lending of about $1.3 billion since 1982.
Most of these are aimed at improving existing irrigation and drainage systems but some included
developing uncultivated land. In addition to the physical works involved, all projects include
a wide range of supporting infrastructure and services. The total command area served by Bank
Group financed projects is approximately 3.7 million ha. A Project Performance Audit Review
on the North China Plain Project (Credit 1261-CHA), the first Bank Group irrigation project,
reported that the project had been highly successful. Progress to date on most other water
resource projects suggests that the favorable experience with the North China Plain Project will
be repeated. Many of the projects, although not directly aimed at flood control, include major
surface drainage components which help significantly to reduce flood damage by draining away
surplus water. Among these is the Chao Hu component of the recently completed Pishihang-
Chaohu Area Development Project (Loan 2579/Credit 1606-CHA) which had a major impact in
reducing damage in Anhui Province (the most severely affected province) during the 1991
floods. Future projects where flood control is one of the major objectives include the proposed
I/    Reforence: Development of Water Resources in China" draft papr by Ministry of Water
Resources, May 1989



Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Project under preparation on the Yellow River and the proposed
Yangtze Basin Water Resources Project now being prepared for the provinces of Hunan and
Hubei.
D. RAnONALz FoR BAN  GRouP INvoLvzENr
1.6          The proposed project would support China's priority plan to improve flood
control in a major basin with highly developed industries and agriculture, thereby ensuring the
economic well-being of some 36 million people. Through the project design and technical
assistance provided, better basinwide water management techniques would be introduced,
enhancing TBA's authority to take action for the common (regional) good, and overcome the
jurisdictional conflicts of the past. Using computer models, a basinwide operation plan would
be developed for the control and evacuation of flood water during monsoons, diversion of water
from the Yangtze River during droughts, and monitoring and control of water quality in the
Taihu Basin. The provision of a monitoring and communication network system covering the
whole Basin to be constructed under the project would significantly enhance the telemetric
collection of hydrological data for more effective realtime flood forecating and management,
and would also improve communication within the Basin, and computing capability at TBA
Headquarter's flood control and dispatch center in Shanghai.
1.7          As a first major interprovincial flood control project in China, the MWRJTBA
would also acquire valuable experience in international competitive bidding (ICB) procurement
of major civil works (water control gates, pumping stations, etc.) and equipment, including bid
document preparation and processing, contract administration and management.



-5-
2
THE PROJECT AREA
A. PRINCIPAL FEAIUES
2.1          The Taihu Basin is roughly triangular in shape and bounded to the north by the
Yangtze River, to the south by Hangzhou Bay of the East China Sea, and to the west by a range
of hills. With an area of 36,560 km2 and a population of 36 million, the Basin is one of China's
most densely populated and productive regions; with only 0.4 percent of the country's land area
the Basin accounts for 17 percent of China's gross output. Major commercial and industrial
centers such as Shanghai, China's largest city, and the five cities of Changzhou, Wuxi,
Hangzhou, Huzhou and Suzhou lie within the Basin. Of the Basin's total area, 53 percent falls
within Jiangsu Province, 33.4 percent in Zhejiang Province, and 13.6 percent in Shanghai
Municipality, which has the status of a province. Administrative units in the basin consist of
eight municipalities, 34 counties, 1,237 townships and 15,463 villages. The Basin's 1.6 million
ha of farmland supports a highly productive and diversified agriculture with some of the world's
highest yields. Basic statistics of the Basin are given in Annex 1, Table 1. IBRD Map No.
23915 shows the Taihu Basin.
2.2          The plains surrounding the Tai Lake and extending to the Yangtze and the sea
are covered by a dense network of natural and man-made waterways. The Huangpu River,
which flows through Shanghai, is the Basin's largest river and has its source in a chain of lakes
to the east of Tai Lake. Another important waterway is the Wangyu River which connects the
northern end of the lake to the Yangtze. The Grand Canal, which traverses the Basin from the
Yangtze to Hangzhou Bay, is part of an ancient system of waterways which gave the region an
important place in China's history. Following the establishment of the People's Republic of
China, a surge in the construction of canals, the widening and deepening of rivers, the
construction of water control structures, and the expansion of irrigation and drainage systems,
laid the foundation for the rapid economic development of recent years.
2.3          The Basin is a major factor in China's production of basic goods such as steel
and chemicals, and manufactures such as motor vehicles, aircraft, and electrical and electronic
equipment. About 55 percent of the Basin's gross area is devoted to agriculture, water bodies
account for 18 percent and forests 10 percent, cities, towns, roads and other infrastructure make
up the balance of 17 percent. Paddy occupies some 1.4 million ha, 82 percent of the cultivated
area. In Jiangsu and Shanghai the common cropping pattern is wheat-paddy but on the remaining
35 percent in Zhejiang the farmers triple crop (wheat-paddy-paddy). The land is irrigated and
drained by a dense network of channels. A high standard of water management is achieved
throughout the Basin through close cooperation and coordination of operations by the townships,
villages and farmer groups. Water management involves a considerable amount of pumping by
communal and private pumps. Paddy yield averages 7 tons per harvested ha. Agricultural
production and economic statistics of the Basin are given in Annex 1, Tables 2 and 3.



-6-
B. CLIMATE AM HYDROLOGY
2.4          The Basin has a monsoon climate with warm wet weather from April through
September and cool relatively dry weather from October through March. Average annual rainfall
ranges from 1,200 mm in the north of the Basin to more than 1,700 mm in the south along
Hangzhou Bay. About 75 percent of the rain falls in the April to September period.
Temperatures exceed 30°C in the summer and seldom drop below freezing in the winter.
Prolonged and widespread storms can occur between May and August, and these monsoon-
induced storms can cause severe flooding over large parts of the Basin. Typhoons can cause
shorter, less widespread but extremely intense storms in August and September; these can
produce severe but more concentrated flooding than the monsoon storms. Meteorological data
for the Basin are given in Annex 1, Table 4.
2.5          The Tai Lake, China's third largest freshwater lake with a water surface area of
2,300 kmn2, is the dominant hydrologic feature of the Basin. The lake is supplied by rivers
draining the high ground to the west. There are four major outlets from the lake. First, in the
southeast corner, is the Taipu River which flows into the Huangpu River and thence to the
mouth of the Yangtze through Shanghai. The second outlet is the Wangyu River in the northeast
which discharges into the Yangtze. The third outlet is the Dongtai Lake flowing eastward into
the Wusong River. Dushangkou River, the fourth outlet, flows northward into the Yangtze
River. The tidal range at the control structures on the Taipu River and the Wangyu River
averages about 0.5 meters. Lands along the southeastern part of the Basin drain into Hangzhou
Bay. During the dry season, water can be brought into the lake from the Yangtze along the
Wangyu River and via 14 other river outlets along the Yangtze River equipped with pumping
stations. The main hydrologic problems at present are inadequate outlet capacity to release water
from the basin during storms, and inadequate pumping capacity to bring water in from the
Yangtze to meet shortages during droughts, and to improve water quality.
C. WATER RESOURCE ISSUES AND MANAGEMENT
Flooding and Waterlogglng
2.6          Except for some hilly ground on the west, the basin is flat with elevation ranging
from 5-8 m on the periphery and 2.5-3.5 m towards the center of the basin. Flow in the river
systems is sluggish due to very flat ground gradients (1/50,000-1 /100,000) and tidal backup from
the Yangtze River and the sea. About 40 percent of the basin area is below the flood level of
the main river systems. Due to these unfavorable topographic constraints, compounded further
by the lack of adequate river outlets and an irrational use of the floodway and construction of
polders (528 kim2), the basin is prone to monsoon floods and waterlogging. Historic floods
causing severe damage occurred in 1921, 1931, 1949, 1954, 1957, 1962, 1963, 1969, 1980,
1983 and 1991. Areas affected by the 1954 and 1991 floods are shown in IBRD Map No.
23915. Although some river channel improvements were carried out in the late 1950s and early
1960s, these works were inadequate and ineffective in handling major floods. An earlier plan
drawn up for comprehensive flood control of the Basin was stalled due to differences and
conflicts among Jiangsu and Zhejiang Provinces and Shanghai Municipality in reaching
agreements over engineering solutions and the allocation of resources.



-7 -
Irription and Drainage
2.7          About 87 percent of the Basin or 1.4 million ha of the 1.6 million ha of
cultivated land is planted with paddy and wheat (double-cropped and triple-cropped). Two thirds
of the irrigated areas, mainly in Jiangsu Province and Shanghai Municipality, are doubled-
cropped (wheat-paddy), whilst the remaining one third of the area in Zhejiang Province is triple-
cropped (wheat-paddy-paddy). Total grain yields are extremely high, ranging from 10.5-12 tonsl
ha/yr for the double-cropped areas and 12-14 tons/ha/yr for the triple-cropped areas.
Supplementary irrigation is required and the annual water deficits are met by drawing water
mainly from the Yangtze River and Tai Lake. As the Basin has a very dense network of water
courses and lakes, no separate irrigation canal systems have been constructed. Crop irrigation
is mainly by pumping water from the natural or man-made water courses and lakes, which are
also extensively used for navigation. Drainage is also effected through these water courses to
the river/lake systems. However, due to high water table conditions, large tracts of agricultural
land suffer from poor drainage and waterlogging during the rainy seasons. Drainage measures
undertaken include extensive poldering and compartmentalization with pumped drainage. This
form of irrigation and drainage involving pumping is expensive and also hinders rapid evacuation
of flood water.
Water Supply
2.8          The Basin has an annual water deficit of about 2.0 billion m3 for normal years
and 10-12 billion m3 for dry years. Diversion from the Yangtze River has to be carried out, but
is currently limited by the capacity of the diversion works. Total demand for municipal and
industrial use is estimated at about 4.4 billion m' per year or 25 percent of the total quantity used
in the Basin. The demand for municipal and industrial water supply is increasing rapidly. Over
the last decade, rivers and lakes supplying the municipal and industrial water have been seriously
polluted by industrial and urban effluent, forcing shifting of intakes to Tai Lake and other
sources. Shanghai Municipality's water supply intake on the Huangpu River is now seriously
threatened by pollution, tidal intrusion, and diminishing base flows. The least-cost solution to
augment and improve Shanghai's long-term water supply problem (six alternatives have been
studied) is to release water from Tai Lake into the Taipu/Huangpu River system to dilute and
cleanse the Huangpu River, thereby improving its water quality. This will require virtually all
the works proposed in this project for flood control purpose, except for upgrading the dikes
around Taihu.
Water Quality Problems
2.9          Some 3.6 billion tons of polluted effluent is discharged annually in the Basin,
80 percent of which has not been treated. Consequently, water quality has dropped to Class IV
standard and below (out of five classes of the Chinese system of water quality classification) in
about 55 percent of the 1,200 km of main river channels. Tai Lake receives urban and
agricultural drainage, sewage, and industrial effluent from numerous sources. Water quality
over most of the lake meets Class II standards but, until the flushing action of the 1991 floods,
the quality in the northern part (10 percent) of the lake had deteriorated in recent years to
Class m. The Grand Canal, which is not connected to the lake, is heavily polluted over most
of its length, especially in the vicinity of major cities. There is a growing problem of pollution
in the lower reach of the Huangpu River where Shanghai takes its water. During an unusually
dry spell in 1990, the water at the site of the new intake was heavily polluted. The flow in this



- 8 -
reach is seldom sufficient to overcome tidal effects (the normal range is about a meter and can
reach over two meters) and pollutants are trapped. In 1987 Shanghai's water intake was moved
upstream and it is to be moved again in the near future under the Shanghai Environment
Protection Project currently under preparation for Bank Group financing.
Inland Waterway Navigation
2.10         The main Jiangnan Grand Canal, 312 km in total length, runs across the Basin
from Zhenjiang to Hangzhou linking various cities (Changzhou, Wuxi, Suzhou, Jiaxing,
Hangzhou, etc.) and a network of inland waterways totaling some 13,000 km. Some 47,000
boats of various capacity use these waterways to carry about 200 million tons of freight annually.
Navigation in the Grand Canal is affected by an unstable water level-high water during floods
and low during dry seasons. Inadequate ship locks, in numbers and sizes, also have hindered
navigation from the Yangtze River into the Basin, especially during high and low tides. Most
of the boats are concentrated in the vicinity of major cities along the Canal and their domestic
waste disposal into the Canal has contributed to the pollution of the Grand Canal water. Despite
these problems, inland waterway navigation will continue to play an important role in the
economic development of the Basin.
D. THE 1991 FLOOD
2.11         Persistent monsoon rain came unusually early in late April, 1991. By May 1,
the water level in Taihu Lake reached its alert level-the highest recorded on that date in history.
During early June the tropical high pressure system moved northwards and met a northern cold
belt lingering between the lower reaches of the Yangtze and Huai Rivers, resulting in intensive
rain storms. From June 12 to 19, the Basin average 7-day rainfall was 220 mm, with storm
centers at Jindan, Changzhou and Wuxi reaching 300 mm. Rainfall to the west of Taihu Lake
was rated at a return period of 1 in 100-150 years. Some 2.0 billion mn of flood water entered
the lake, raising its level rapidly from El. 3.46 m to El. 4.28 m. The early flood-filling of the
lake greatly reduced its flood regulating capacity for the normal rainy season in July.
2.12         On June 26, the State Flood Control Headquarters (SFCH) in Beijing instructed
that Taipu Gate on the lake (not opened in the last 33 years) be opened and the flood water was
released through four rivers and East Tai Lake. This brought down the water level to
El. 4.09 m by June 30. But on June 30, the second wave of rain storms hit the northwest area
and spread further to Suzhou, Jiatin and Zhongmin. The Basin average 7-day rainfall computed
was 250 mm with intense 300-400 mm storm centers (return period 1 in 100-200 years) on the
western part of the Basin. Flood levels were further raised, ranging from 0.3 to 0.7 m in the
already flood-swollen rivers and lakes, with most of the historic records exceeded. On July 16,
the water level in the lake reached its record high of El. 4.78 m with an estimated inflow of
about 3.0 billion m'. The cities of Changzhou, Wuxi and Suzhou suffered severe losses as a
result of intense rain storms and the flood water from Tai Lake. The city of Huzhou in the
south was also threatened. The threat from Tai Lake was not eased until its level dropped to
El. 4.20 m on July 31. It was estimated that the measures taken to release water from Tai Lake
reduced the peak level by about 0.22 m and the number of days the water level remained above
El. 4.20 m by 15 days. The relief provided would have been greater had there been adequate
major river channels to lead the flood water more rapidly to the Yangtze River and the sea.



-9-
2.13        Total flood damage was estimated at Y 10.9 billion (about $2.0 billion):
80 percent incurred by city factories and township and village enterprises, 20 percent in
agricultual losses. Details of flood damage in the various municipalities are summarized in
Annex 3, Table 1. Some 22,300 factories and enterpriss were affected and ceased production
totally or partly during the flood. About 811,500 tons of grain were lost. Some 663,000
families were affected by the flood.
2.14        Compared to the 1954 flood, the most serious flood in this century prior to 1991,
the 1991 rain storm was of shorter duration with very intense storm centers (estimated at 1 in
100-200 years return period) located in the northwestern part of the basin, whereas the 1954
storm was more prolonged and widespread throughout the basin.1/ The 1954 and 1991 flood-
affected areas and isohyets are shown in IBRD Map No. 23915. Table 2.1 compares the rainfall
for different durations and their corresponding return periods for the 1954 and 1991 floods.
Table 2.1: CONPARISON OF RAnAFL AND REruRN PERIODS
FOR 1954 AND 1991 FLODS
Region     Duration           1954 Flood                  1991 Flood
and area    (days)    Rainfall  Return period   Rainfall  Return period
(mm)       (years)         (mm)        (years)
Whole
Basin          90         892           50            820            20
30         353            5            476            25
3         120            5            148            10
West of
Tai lake       30         297            5            631       100-200
3         116          2-5            248           100
North-
East of
Tai Lake       30         306          2-5            565           100
3          75            2            202            50
Hang-Jia
Huzhou
Area           30         395           20            341          5-10
3         135         5-10             85             2
Zhej iang
West
Area           30         511           20            391           2-5
3         190         5-10            131           2-5
Source: Taihu Basin Authority.
I/    See raonk  of 10 historical floods by year and tota rainfall for difformt durtion peiods in
AnLex 6 Appnix1.



- 10-
E. INSITrU1moNAL MANAGEMENT
2.15          Each jurisdiction in the Taihu Basin is responsible for its own water resources
development and management through its hierarchy of Bureaus of Water Resources, from the
provincial bureau down to county departments. This led to problems and difficulties in the past
in coordination and resolution of conflicts in basin-wide water resources management. Ihe
Taihu Basin Authority was established in December 1984 as a unit under the MWR with primary
functions of and responsibility for: (a) overall water management of the Taihu Basin; (b) direct
control and operation of key works (raipu Gate and Wangyu Tidal Gate for the time being and
others to be decided later); (c) overall basin-wide flood control management and carrying
directions from the State Flood Control Headquarters during major floods; (d) water quality
management in Tai Lake; and (e) resolution of conflicts in water management among the
provinces and municipality. These functions and responsibilities would have to be reviewed
under the project to provide TBA with more regulatory power to enforce provisions of statutDry
laws relating to water management in the basin more effectively upon completion of the project
(para. 3.12).
2.16         The management of flood (and drought) crises for the basin is well-defined and
TBA plays a leading role. However, responsibilities for pollution control and water quality
management are vague as these are administered and managed by many diverse departmens and
agencies under the provinces and municipality. There is a need to coordinate the present efforts
by various departments and agencies to provide more effective measures in basin-wide water
pollution control, abatement, monitoring and management (para. 4.14).
F. INFRAmSuTuURE
2.17         The Basin has excellent communication and transportation systems. The main
Shanghai-Nanjing and Shanghai-Hangzhou railway lines run through the Basin with the main
hubs at Shanghai and Hangzhou. The Basin is well served by a network of roads. Further
improvements and development are currently underway, including a Bank Group-financed project
(Jiangsu Provincial Transport, Loan 3316/Credit 2226-CHA). Supplementing the road network
is the 312-km Grand Canal and a dense network of 13,000 km of inland waterways. Shanghai
Port and the lower reaches of Huangpu River cater to sea transportation. Numerous inland river
ports provide outlets for the Basin into the Yangtze River. Both international and domestic
airlines fly into Shanghai, with Wuxi, Hangzhou, Suzhou and Changzhou served by domestic
airlines. The national Eastern Grid provides the main source of electricity of about
20,000 megawatts total capacity for the Basin. This is more than sufficient to meet the
incremental energy demand of about 27 megawatts for the three proposed pumping stations under
the project.



- 11 -
3
THE PROJECT
A. PRojEcr FoRMULAIIoN AND OBECiV
3.1          The proposed project will serve a number of purposes of which the most
important is to reduce the depth and duration of flooding resulting from monsoon or typhoon
runoff. The primary means of accomplishing the flood control purpose are to (a) increase the
capacity of the Wangyu River which connects the lake with the Yangtze, (b) increae the
capacity of the Taipu River which flows into the Huangpu which in turn discharges into the
lower reaches of the Yangtze, (c) increase the drainage capacity of channels south of the lake
discharging into Hangzhou Bay, and (d) raise the height of the dike surrounding the lake to
permit safe storage of flood waters. The project has been under consideration for some years,
and its planning has entailed lengthy negotiations between the provinces and municipalities
concerned. The formulation now proposed represents a practical solution to the flood problem
and has been agreed to by all the parties following the 1991 flood. In addition to flood
management, other important functions of the project will be to protect the quality and augment
the supply of water for Shanghai, and increase the capacity for supplementing the Basin's water
supply and improving water quality in the lake and surrounding areas. The project would also
enhance inland navigation and improve drainage of agricultural land.
3.2          There are references to 35 great floods in the Basin's history dating back to
1121 A.D. Of these, 19 are judged by Chinese hydrologists to have been more severe than the
1954 flood, the most severe since the founding of the People's Republic of China. For purposes
of project planning, the 1954 storm was selected as the design storm. The design has been
checked for the 1991 storm which was of comparable severity. In addition to the four main
components described above, the overall project developed by the TBA contains six smaller
components for local improvements in flood disposal and drainage. The impact of these smaller
components on the primary purposes of the project would be small compared to the four key
components. Although the Government's target is to complete all ten components by the middle
of 1997, highest priority is attached to the four main components and some work on these was
already started in December 1991. Therefore, the project proposed for Bank Group financing
covers the four main components together with a program to aist TBA in improving hydraulic
system operation and monitoring. While the project will have a major beneficial impact on water
quality it is not designed or intended to address sources of pollution which are controlled,
monitored and managed by numerous agencies other than the TBA, the main agency responsible
for this project.
B. PROJcr DESCREMIION
3.3          As illustrated in IBRD Map 23916 the principal project components are:



- 12 -
(a)    The Taipu River Component which involves widening and deepening of the
Taipu River over a length of about 44 kIm; a 300-m'/sec capacity pumping
station near the existing control structure; the provision of new gates for the
existing control structure; construction of bridges across the river; and provision
of control gates and small ship locks on existing waterways joining the river.
(b)    The Wangyu River Component which includes widening and deepening the
Wangyu River over a length of about 60 km; a new control structure where the
river enters the Yangtze together with a 180lm'/sec capacity pumping station;
renovation of the existing control structure; an inverted siphon to convey the
flow of the Wangyu River under the Grand Canal; construction of bridges across
the river; and provision of control gates and small ship locks on existing
waterways joining the river.
(c)    The Hang-Jia-Hu South Component which involves widening and deepening
some 98 km of existing waterways south of Tai Lake together with the provision
of water control structures and bridges; and the construction of two major
control structures and a 200-m3/sec capacity drainage pumping station.
(d)    The Tathu Perimeter Dikes Component which will extend, raise and strengthen
270 km of dikes surrounding Tai Lake.
(e)    The System Operation and Monitoring Component which will improve the water
management capability of the Taihu Basin Authority by provision of equipment
for collection of hydrologic data and basin-wide monitoring of the hydraulic
regime for flood and water quality management.
(f)    The Institutional Development and Strengthening Component which will include
technical assistance for developing computerized models for basin-wide hydraulic
facility operation and water quality studies, staff training, and equipment and
facilities for operation and maintenance and water-related environmental
management.
C. PRNCIPAL FEAURE
Talpu River Component
3.4          The Taipu River originates at the southeast corner of the Taihu and has a length
of 57 km. It passes through numerous small lakes and intersects the Grand Canal before
entering the Huangpu River which flows through Shanghai to the mouth of the Yangtze. At
present, the Taipu River is the main outlet from Taihu Lake but the river's capacity is inadequate
to carry flood releases or to convey the required flow in the dry season. Widening the channel
will increase the flood discharge capacity from a present capacity of less than 100 ro/sec to
700 m'/sec (the actual capacity will depend on the water level at the lake and the tides at the
mouth of the Huangpu River).
3.5          A control structure, built in 1958 a short distance downstream of the lake,
regulates the flow into the Taipu River. The regulator has 29, 4 m wide openings, and requires
refurbishing with new gates and hoists to be installed. A new pumping station with a capacity
of 300 m3/sec will be built at a site near the regulator. This will operate to augment the outflow



- 13 -
during floods, and also at low lake levels in the dry season when water is needed to prevent a
back flow of polluted water upstream in the Huangpu River to the water supply intake for
Shanghai. Some excavation of the Taipu River was carried out in the 1950s and again in the
1970s and the first 12 km is at the design cross section. The river will have a bottom width of
150 m and a depth of 6 m at the regulator, and a width of 137 m and depth of 9 m at the
downstream end. Work is now in progress on the downstream reach of 15.7 km under three
dredging contracts awarded in December 1991 and scheduled to be completed in December
1993. The required volume of dredging in this section is about 15 million m3 and the progress
at present is close to 1 million m3 per month. The remaining section of 28 km in length will
require dredging of 13 million in.
3.6          The excavated material will be used to form an embankment along both sides of
the river. Gates will be provided at all locations where existing channels flow into the river.
These gates will be operated by the villages along the river either to drain their land or to retain
water when needed for irrigation. The farmers in the Basin have a long tradition of skillful
water management. In its present condition, the river does not have the capacity to evacuate
runoff during the normal wet-season storms and hence the surrounding land, especially the area
to the south of the river, suffers from poor surface drainage. After the channel excavation is
completed, the river will be lower during storms and allow more effective drainage. The
dredging of the channel will also eliminate seasonal navigation problems, since during the low
flow period only shallow draft vessels can reach the lake under present conditions. Also eight
new bridges across the Taipu River are to be built to improve communications in the area.
The Wangyu River Component
3.7          The Wangyu River extends 61 km from the northen end of the lake to the
Yangtze River. About 38 km of river, south of the Yangtze, was excavated in the late 1950s
to widths of 30-50 m and a bed at El. -1.0 m. The remainder is still a natural channel with
widths of 10-15 m and a bed at El. 0.5 m. A tidal control gate with 15, 4-m wide openings was
built in 1960 at the head of the river on the Yangtze. The river will be widened to widths
ranging from 80 to 90 m and deepened to a bed level of El. -3.0 m. A new outlet structure will
be built close to the existing one with an opening of 42 m and the existing structure will be
renovated. A pumping station with 180 m3/sec capacity capable of pumping in both directions
will be built near the new structure. To prevent flood flows into the Grand Canal, the Wangyu
River will be carried under it in a concrete siphon (9 bays of 9x6.5 m) presently under
construction. Dredging of 18 km of the Wangyu River near the Yangtze River (with
12 million ml of earthworks) is under progress by two local competitive bidding (LCB)
contracts. The remaining 34 km up to Tai Lake with 13 million m3 of earthworks will be
carried out by an ICB contract expected to be awarded in early 1993. The enlargement of the
river will increase its capacity from less than 50 to 450 m3/sec. This will lead to more rapid
disposal of flood waters into the Yangtze during floods and greatly increase the capacity for
replenishing the lake in the dry season. As in the case of the Taipu River, embankments will
be built along both banks and provided with control gates. Eleven highway bridges and four
farm-road bridges will be built.
The Hang-Jia-Hu South Component
3.8          The Hang-Jia-Hu area, lying to the south of the lake, is drained in part towards
the Taipu River and in part to Hangzhou Bay. Runoff from heavy storms in the southwest
corner of the lake also tend to drain across the area from west to east. This west-east flow will



- 14 -
be intercepted in future by the recently completed excavation of a new and wider channel for the
Tiaoxi River where it enters Taihu Lake. The purpose of the Hang-Jia-Hu South Component
is to channel more storm runoff to the Hangzhou Bay and hence reduce the drainage load on the
Taipu River. The necessary improvements in the existing drainage system will also greatly
improve conditions for some 160,000 ha of cultivated land which suffer every year from lack
of drainage. A total of 98 km of channels will be deepened and widened. Two new outlet
structures and a 200 m3/sec drainage pumping station will be built on the shores of Hangzhou
Bay. Other works will include 42 water control gates of various sizes, 3 tidal control gates and
111 bridges.
The Taihu Lake Perimeter Dikes Component
3.9          During the dry season, the lake level is normally at about El. 2.8 m and rises
close to El. 4.0 m during the monsoon; the highest level reached was El. 4.8 m during the 1954
and 1991 floods. With the project it is planned to operate the lake so that at the beginning of
each flood season the lake is at El. 2.8 m, and during floods it will be allowed to rise to
El. 4.65 m. Dikes with a total length of 270 km exist around virtually all of the lake's
perimeter. Over much of their length the dikes need to be raised and strengthened to ensure
safe containment of the lake when it reaches its highest design level of El. 4.65 m. Depending
on location and exposure to wind setup of the lake level, the crest of the dikes will be at
El. 7.0 m to El. 7.8 m, the crest width will be 6 m and the side slopes will be 1:3 on the lake
side and 1:2 on the land side. Total earthworks to bring the dikes to the new design standard
will amount to 9.4 million e3 and some 670,000 m3 of stone pitching will be placed. Over 200
streams and rivers flow into the lake and at present 55 have control gates at the point of entry.
These gates are operated by the villages and townships to control water levels for agriculture-
they are opened for drainage and closed when needed to retain water for irrigation. Except
during extreme floods, the water level on the land is higher than in the lake. In order to improve
water control in the lands behind the dikes a further 65 gates (new and upgrading) and 62 ship
passes will be built.
System Operation and Monitoring Component
3.10         The TBA, the Provinces and Shanghai Municipality consult and cooperate in the
management of the major existing facilities, and water management at lower levels is the
responsibility of the townships and villages. Completion of the four components will allow TBA
and other interested parties to exercise more effective water control during floods, and for water
supply and water quality improvement. In order to enhance the capability of TBA, the project
will build a telemetric-communication system to provide communication to and from the various
bureaus/departments of water resources in the basin. To this system a basin-wide network of
telemetric stations will be linked to strengthen and expand recording and reporting of rainfall,
water levels, stream flow and water quality. The project will also upgrade TBA's computer
capabilities for hydrodynamic flood simulation and water quality modeling. An important
purpose of the modeling will be to examine a range of scenarios in order to develop operating
strategies for flood control and water quality management. More details of the component are
given in Annex 7.
InstiutIonal Development and Strengthening
3.11         Technical assistance would be provided in the form of consultancy services to
assist TBA in developing an operational model for basin-wide flood control and water quality



- 15-
management (8 staff-months) and in studying eutrophication of Tai Lake and dispersal of polluted
water through river systems in the Basin (40 staff-months). A total of 300 staff-months would
also be provided to upgrade the technical skills and capability of TBA through staff training and
overseas study tours. Equipment, vehicles and buildings would be provided under the project
to strengthen TBA's capabilities relating to system operation, maintenance and management.
Details of this component are given in Annex 2, Tables 7 and 8. Assurances were obtainedfrom
the Borrower at negotiations that training and technical assistance would be carried out
according to programs agreed with the Bank/IDA.
3.12         To exercise more effective regulatory control and enforcement of provisions
under the Water Laws of 1988 and other statutory laws, TBA would strengthen its Legal and
Enforcement Division with more staff, equipment and vehicles. TBA's charter enacted in April
1984 would be updated to cover its expanded functions and responsibilities, and in addition,
MWR would enact 'Regulations for Operation and Management of Key Engineering Works in
the Taihu Basin' to reflect increased authority required by TBA to operate and manage the
completed project facilities. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Borrower would
prepare and furnish to the Bank/IlDA by December 31, 1993 proposals to increase 7BA's
authority to operate and manage completed project facilities, and thereafter, would implement
such proposals as agreed with the Bank/IDA.
D. SCHEDULE FOR DESIGN AND CONSrRUCTION
3.13         Detailed designs were completed in August 1992 for the channelization of the
Taipu and Wangyu Rivers. Two ICB bid documents for dredging the remaining sections of these
two rivers were completed in July 1992 and bids will be invited by March 1993. The aim is to
complete dredging of these two rivers by the end of 1995. Detailed designs and preparation of
ICB bid documents for the three new control structures will be completed by October 1993. The
designs for most of the Taihu Dike as well as the channel widening in the Hang-Jia-Hu Plain will
be completed in stages during 1993. Designs for the three pump stations and the remaining
works will be completed by the end of 1993. TBA plans to complete all construction works for
the four main components by mid-1996. The project's implementation schedule is shown in
Figure 1.
E. Cosr ESIATES AND FINANCING
3.14         Cost Estimates. Cost estimates have been derived by applying current unit
prices to detailed quantity estimates for the main components. Unit prices are based on recent
prices for work carried out under local contracts or, for work to be done by force account, by
actual labor and material input costs. Equipment costs are based on recent price quotations.
Base costs are estimated in June 1992 prices. Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been
applied to all items. For costs expressed in $ the expected price increases are estimated at
3.7 percent per year, and when costs are expressed in Yuan the annual rate is 6 percent. The
estimated total cost of the project is $497.3 million of which the foreign exchange component
is $200 million, or 40.2 percent. Table 3.1 shows the project cost summary and detailed cost
estimates of various components are given in Annex 2, Tables 2A to 2D.



China
Taihu Basin Flood Control Project                            Table  3.1
Ministry of Water Resources
Project Cost Summary                                   ---------
Yuan                                   USS                                 % Total
----------------------    ------------------------------    X Foreign          Base
Local    Foreign        Total         Local   Foreign       Total       Exchange       Costs
A. Flood Mitigation Works
1. Taipu R. Channelization         295607.9   251800.1   547408.0         53746.9   45781.8   99528.7             46.0         25.3
2. Wangyu R. Channelization        298501.2   261922.2   560423.4         54272.9   47622.2  101895.2              46.7        25.9
3. Taihu perimeter dyke            201455.1   170843.6   372298.7         36628.2   31062.5   67690.7              45.9        17.2
4. Flood Forecast/Mgm't Sys.        13331.7    23812.9    37144.6          2423.9    4329.6    6753.6              64.1         1.7
5. Hang-Jia South Drainage         167033.1   159421.1   326454.2         30369.7   28985.7   59355.3              48.8        15.1
6. Land Acq. & Compensation        285297.3         0.0   285297.3        51872.2        0.0   51872.2              0.0        13.2
Sub-Total                            1261226.3   867799.9  2129026.2        229313.9  157781.8  387095.7              40.8        98.3                        I'
B. Institu. Strength/Buildg.                                                                                                                                  0N
1. Oper. & Maint. Equipment          1009.0      5081.0      6090.0         183.5      923.8    1107.3            83.4         0.3                          1
2. Technical Assistance               242.4      9735.9      9978.2          44.1    1770.2    1814.2              97.6         0.5
3. Environmental Management          5576.0      7084.0    12660.0          1013.8    1288.0    2301.8             56.0         0.6
4. Office. Lab., Engr. Equip            0.0      1735.0      1735.0            0.0     315.5      315.5           100.0         0.1
5. Office Building & Quarter         4860.0      2240.0      7100.0         883.6      407.3    1290.9             31.5         0.3
Sub-Total                              11687.4    25875.9    37563.2           2125.0    4704.7    6829.7             68.9         1.7
Total BASELINE COSTS                 1272913.7   893675.7  2166589.4        231438.9  162486.5  393925.3              41.2       100.0
Physical Contingencies             127291.4    89367.6   216658.9         23143.9   16248.6   39392.5              41.2        10.0
Price Contingencies                234521.8   117422.2   351944.0         42640.3   21349.5   63989.8              33.4        16.2
Total PROJECTS COSTS                 1634726.9  1100465.5  2735192.4        297223.1  200084.6  497307.7              40.2       126.2
Values Scaled by 1000.0 - 1/22/1993 15:09



- 17 -
3.15         Fbiandng. Financing proposed for the project will be as follows:
S millin                       9
Central Government                            130.4                         26
Jiangsu Province                               78.8                         16
Zhejiang Province                             60.8                          12
Shanghai Municipality                         27.3                           6
Subtotal                                  227.3 2Q
Bank/IDA                                     200.0                          40
iQoal                                     497. 
Financing by various government levels is firm and has been committed.
F. PRocuREMFNr
3.16         Procurement procedures and arrangements satisfactory to the Bank/IDA have
been agreed with the Government. TBA of MWR has retained the China Machinery Import &
Export Corporation (CMIEC) to carry out procurement activities for the project. MOF will have
the overall responsibility to ensure that the procurement activities will be carried out in
accordance with the procurement guidelines of the Bank/IDA. Table 3.2 summarizes the
procurement arrangements.
Works
3.17         Civil works contracts costing $10 million equivalent or more will be awarded
under ICB. These works include contracts with an estimated cost of $71.4 million comprising:
(a) two dredging contracts in Taipu and Wangyu Rivers with estimated costs of about $20
million each; and (b) three contracts for structures (Taipu Pumping Station, Wangyu and
Yanguan gate/pumping station complexes) totalling about $31.4 million. Qualified domestic
bidders competing under ICB will be eligible for a 7.5 percent preference in bid evaluation, in
accordance with Bank guidelines on procurement. Contracts costing less than $10 million
equivalent will be awarded under LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank/IDA. These civil
works comprise numerous packages of small structures and earthwor}s spread throughout the
project area and of no interest to foreign contractors, with a total estimated cost of $136.8
million. The remaining civil works, mainly earthwork, masonry work, small structures, will be
carried out by: (a) simplified local competitive bidding, following procedures acceptable to the
Bank/IDA, for individual contracts with values not exceeding $200,000, to an aggregate of $75
million equivalent; and (b) force account operations, using project beneficiary labor mobilized
by local county and township governments, with progress payments based on unit prices agreed
with the Bank/IDA and aggregating to $75 million equivalent. Buildings (office, quarters,
laboratories, workshops, etc.) valued at about $3.3 million will be constructed through LCB
contracts.



- 18-
Table 3.: PRocuREMENT ARRANGEWmmr
(S million)
Project Elements                      Procurement Methods
ICB     LCB   Other LI  NBF Lb   Total
1. Land acquisition and
compensation                     -        -       -        64.6      64.6
(0.0)    (0.0)
2. Civil works (earthwork,
structures, access roads)    71.4   211.8    75.0           -       358.2
(35.7)  (79.5)  (26.3)              (141.5)
3. Buildings                        -        3.3      -         -         3.3
(1.3)                       (1.3)
4. Machinery, equipment
and materials                   50.9      2.3      1.5       -       54.7
(50.9)   (2.3)   (1.5)               (54.7)
5. Training and technical
assistance                       -        -       2.5       -         2.5
(2.5)               (2.5)
6. Design, supervision and
management                       -        -        -        14.0      14.0
(0.0)    (0.0)
Total                       122.3   217.4    79 0        78.6    497.3
i86.6)  (83 1)  (30.3)    (0 0)  1200.0)
la Other includes force account work, shopping, direct purchases, consultant services,
technical assistance and training.
L NBF denotes non-Bank Group financing.
Note: Figures in parenthesis indicate Bank Group financing.
Goods
3.18         All contracts for goods cost  $200,000 equivalent or more will be awarded
under ICB. These contracts include steel, pumps, constuction and O&M machinry sad
equipment, vehicles, computers, communication and monitoring equipment with an estimated
total cost of $50.9 million. Qualified domestic bidders competing under ICB will be eligible for
a 15 percent preference in bid evaluation, or custom duties and import tax payable by a non-
exempt importer, whichever is less. The remainder, mostly small items of various kinds awn
specialized engineering and laboratory equipment, would be procured through LCB
($2.3 million).  Contracts not exceeding $50,000 per contract and aWegate value of



- 19 -
$1.5 million may be awarded through shopping with at least three price quotations. Except for
a small quantity to be procured locally to meet force account work needs, basic construction
materials (cement and timber) would be included in the ICB and LCB bid prices for civil works
and buildings.
Review of Bid Documents and Contracts
3.19         Bidding documents I/ for all civil works in excess of $2.0 million and goods
in excess of $200,000 will be subject to prior review by the Bank/IDA. This review will cover
all the five ICB contracts for works ($71.4 million in value) and 10 contracts for goods ($50.1
million in value), and about 17 LCB contracts for works (total $136 million in value). Both ICB
and LCB bidding will use standard bid documents issued by the Ministry of Finance for Bank-
financed projects. All other contracts will be subject to selective review after bid awards.
Annex 2, Tables 3-1 to 3-3 and 4 show procurement packaging and scheduling of major items
of works and goods by ICB and LCB contracts.
Technical Assistance and Training
3.20         The selection and engagement of consultants to carry out the technical asistance
programs will be based on the Bank's 'Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by World Bank Executing Agencies - August 1981" All reimbursable training
will be based on programs agreed with the Bank/IDA.
G. DmsumsmENr
3.21         The proceeds of the Bank Loan/IDA Credit would be disbursed as follows:
Table 3.3: DSuRsEmENT ARRANGEMENm s
Category                    Amount             Percentage of
Disbursable          Disbursement
($ million)
I. Works                       140.8         42Z of expenditures
II. Goods                        54.7         1001 of foreign expenditurea;
100S of local expenditures
(ex-factory) or 751 for goods
procured locally
III. Consultant.' services
and training               2.0         1001 of expenditure.
IV. Unallocated                   2.5         -
Total                      200.0
1/    Including prequaification, notice of inviion to bid, bid documenab, bid evaluation ad contch.



- 20 -
Due to urgency and the need to complete initial excavation of the two major river channels
before the onset of the 1992 flood season, retroactive financing has been recommended for
expenditures for channel excavation and construction of some associated structures incurred
between March 1, 1992 and the date of signing of the Loan/Credit Agreements. The total
disbursable amount would be SDR 14.6 million ($20 million equivalent) based on work programs
in Annex 2, Table 5 reviewed and agreed by the Bank/IDA.
3.22         Statements of expenditures (SOEs) will be required for disbursement to be made
against (i) contracts for goods and works costing less than $200,000 equivalent, (ii) force account
works and (iii) training and study tours. SOEs for force account works on earthworks, masonry
works and small structures are to be supported by progress reports showing physical quantities
and unit prices, the latter to be updated annually and agreed by the Bank/IDA. Disbursement
for the Taipu Pumping Station, construction of which is scheduled to begin only after
December 31, 1993, will be subject to submission of an acceptable agreement signed by TBA
and Shanghai Municipality on the purchase of raw water by the Shanghai Municipality Water
Supply Authority at agreed scheduled quantities and prices.
3.23         To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account, to be operated by MOF in Beijing,
will be established in a bank acceptable to the Bank/IDA. The Special Account will have an
authorized allocation of $10 million which is the four month estimated average disbursement
through the Account. MOF will prepare and submit applications for disbursement and
replenishment of the Special Account monthly or whenever the account is drawn down to half
its initial deposit amount, whichever comes first. The project is expected to be completed by
June 30, 1997 and to close on June 30, 1998. The pace of disbursement for water resources
projects in China has been better than average for the Bank Group and the Asia Region. The
estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Annex 2, Table 6 and Figure 2. The
disbursement profile is expected to be faster than most projects due to the emergency nature of
the project and the demonstrated commitment to rapid implementation by governments at all
levels.
H. AccouNTs AND AuDiTs
3.24         Provincial/municipal Project Management Offices (PMOs) will maintain records
of all project expenditures. These records will be forwarded regularly to the TBA PMO which
will consolidate the accounts of expenditure and submit them to the Bank/IDA. At negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the Borrower that PMOs wil maintain consolidated project
accounts which will be audited by an independent auditor. The State Audit Administration wiU
be acceptablefor this auditingpurpose. The auditedproject accounts will be submitted to the
Bank/IDA within six months of the dose of each financial year. The audited accounts are to
include the Special Account and the details on withdrawals from the Loan/Credit account made
on the basis of SOEs, and the auditor's opinion as to whether such withdrawals were made
against expenditures eligible for disbursement by the Bank/IDA.
L  ENVIRONMNrAL ADm SOCAL IMPACTS
3.25         The project will confer significant environmental benefits on the Taihu Basin by
reducing the frequency of normal flooding and the depth and duration of catastrophic flooding,
enhancing water quality, improving drainage of farmlands, and providing drought protection for
the region. This will be achieved without affecting the biological and sediment regime of the
lake. The lake levels during major storms will be marginally lower than in the past but, for



- 21 -
storms of lower frequency, the lake level may be higher for a few days than it would have been
in the absence of the project. For the overwhelming portion of each year lake levels will be the
same as in the past. Thus, the hydrologic regime of the lake will not be materially changed by
the project. The provision of a reliable source of good quality water for Shanghai will lead to
significant environmental benefits, unattainable by any other means than this project, except at
extreme cost. The project will also provide for substantial water quality improvements through
the import of better quality water from the Yangtze River.
3.26         The adverse social effects of flooding-loss of life, damage to housing and
personal effects, enormous loss of industrial assets, production, and jobs, as well as crops and
agricultural stocks, and disruption of social services-will be significantly reduced by the project.
Improved water quality will create public health benefits. Improved drainage of farmlands and
an assured supply of irrigation water will improve incomes and living standards in rural areas.
Disruption due to land acquisition and relocation of dwellings will be mitigated by the measures
described in paras. 3.32-3.34 below.
J. ENVIRONMENTAL M GATION AND MANAGEMENT
3.27         The strategic goals of TBA in environmental management include maintaining
surface water quality designated for urban water supply, improving water quality for the most
polluted stretches of the Basin's waterways, and coordinating management work among the other
water management agencies already in existence within the Basin. In addition to the flood
control project components, TBA intends to assist in the control and management of effluent
discharges from major cities, reduce nutrient loading into Tai Lake, develop a scientific approach
to overall basin-wide water management, work toward improving standards, rules and
regulations concerning water quality, conduct scientific research, and develop models for better
planning and management in the Basin.
Taihu Basin Water Resources Protection Committee
3.28         The creation of the Taihu Basin Water Resources Protection Committee
(TBWRPC) is the focus of the long-term environmental management plan for the Taihu Basin.
The TBWRPC, responsible to the Water Resources Group and the Environmental Protection
Commission under the State Council (the Cabinet of the Government of China), is composed of
a Vice Minister of MWR, a deputy director of the National Environmental Protection Agency
(NEPA), vice governors of Jiangsu and Zhejiang Provinces, vice mayor of Shanghai
Municipality, Director of TBA, and Directors of the Water Resources and Enviromnental
Protection Bureaus in Jiangsu, Zhejiang and Shanghai. The organization of TBWRPC is shown
in Chart No. 3. The Taihu Basin Water Resources Protection Bureau (TBWRPB) of TBA, based
in Shanghai, will be the executing arm of TBWRPC, responsible for coordinating the activities
of various bureaus and agencies in the monitoring and management of water-related environment
throughout the Basin. The main functions and responsibilities of TBWRPC include: establishing
water resources policies, organizing and formulating programs and regulations, coordinating and
supervising pollution control work, studying and recommending strategic measures for
comprehensive regional water management, coordinating the work of economic development and
water resources protection, and solving through consultation major problems in the work of
controlling the pollution of transprovincial and municipal rivers, lakes and canals. To avoid
duplication of activities and to achieve more coherent action, TBWRPB would, in consultation
with the various bureaus and agencies, prepare a consolidated annual budget and programs of
activities for each year for endorsement by TBWRPC. Assurances wre obtained at negotiations



- 22 -
that the Borrower would (a) establish the Taihu Basin Water Resources Protection Commttee
(TBWRPC) as a conditionfor effectivenessfor the Loan/Credit, and thereafter maintain It with
composltion,functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank/IDA; and (b) cause TBWRPC
to prepare and furnish annual consolidated budgets and programs of activitiesfor environmental
monitoring and water management to the Bank/IDA for comments by December 31 of each year.
Mitiption of Construction-induced Impacts
3.29         Some minor adverse environmental impacts, mostly induced by construction
activities during project implementation, have been identified. Their mitigation measures,
agencies responsible for carrying out the measures, and their supervision and management are
summarized in Table 3.4. Results of these mitigation measures would be reviewed during
project supervision missions. The GOC and provincial/municipal governments have established
satisfactory environmental standards and guidelines. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that (a) all project activities will conform to these environmental standards and guidelines
satisfactorily to the Bank/IlDA; and (b) appropriate measures will be undertaken under the project
to mitigate the identified adverse environmental impacts induced by construction activities
satisfactorily to the Bank/IDA.
Long-Term Enviromnental Management Plan
3.30         The project's Environmental Impact Assessment (June 1992) and the wSummary
Report for Water Resources Projection in Taihu Basin' jointly prepared by MWR, NEPA and
TBA in 1990, have identified deteriorating water quality, resulting from water pollution caused
by industrial, urban and agricultural effluent discharge into the water system of the Basin, as the
most critical issue of environmental degradation, although one obviously unrelated to the
implementation of the proposed project. So far no effective coordinated effort has been taken
to tackle the problem on a basin-wide basis due to bureaucratic and administrative boundary
difficulties faced by the three jurisdictions in the Basin.
3.31         Upon its establishment, the Taihu Basin Water Resources Protection Committee
would appoint an interprovince and intersector task force to prepare a long-term basin-wide
environmental management plan with the main focus on water quality control, protection and
management. Further details of the task and suggested subjects to be covered by the long-term
management plan are given in Annex 4. TBA through its TBWRPB would coordinate the work
of the task force in the preparation of the plan to be furnished to the Bank/IDA for review by
December 31, 1993. Assurances were obtained at negotiationsfrom the Borrower that a long-
term basin-wide environmental management plan would be prepared under the guidance of
TBWRPC and endorsed by NEPA and firnished to the Bank by December 31, 1993, and
thereafter, it would take all necessary steps to implement such plan as agreed with the Bank/iDA.
K. LAND ACQUIsION, RELOCATION ANm COMPENSATION
3.32         Scope of Work and Status. A land acquisition, relocation and compensation
plan has been prepared by TBA in accordance with the Bank's policy and guidelines on
involuntary resettlement. The plan has been reviewed and, together with several additions
agreed during negotiations, meets the Banks requirements. An executive summary of the plan
is attached as Annex 5. Construction of the project will need to acquire 1,865 ha of land for
permanent use by the project and 3,155 ha for temporary use. About 500 ha of the acquired
land used for depositing dredged spoil will be subsequently reclaimed and returned for cultivation



TAIHJ BASIN FLO.W  C4TRtOL PROJECT                                                              TABLE  3.4
MlTICATION OF COINSTRlUTION-INiDlX    IHWACTS
It..               Potential NegaLiv6                  Hitietion Measures                lIplementing            Implee"ntstion               Supervising 1                Methods of
Impacts                           Proposed                        Agency                   Period                Monitoring Agency                 Control
CCHSTRUCTIiN PHASE
1. Site camps         Temporary problems:              Is) Provid  temporary .*ter supply    Contractors.    Duration of                        Sits and Supervising        Site inspectLion before
() Vter *upply                 fros sells or tsub-elle                                      contrcts.                   o       rs.                  st*r  of construction;
Cb) vista disposal             (b) Proper treatment and disposal                                                        Local healt  personnel.  and periodlc Inspections
c  dieaa ansd sickness         of westa;                                                                                                            theresfter.
(C) Health and sanitary control
sad regular visits to clinics.
2. Disposal of         Intereferenes witb local        Sail dispossl cress to be               Contractors          Duration of                  Sit. and Supervising        Site Inspection before
spoil,             drainage and causing             designated. gt"d culverta or                                 contracts.                  anginara.                   sPoll disposal; periojlc
waterlogging.                   alternative drsing. outall                                                                                            inspections thereafter.
to be provided as conditions
of contract and orbk
epec;fications.
3. Traffic             Interference with               To provide alternative access           Contractors.         Duration of                  Sit* end Superv.iing        Site Inspection before 
pedestrian5 vehicular and    as conditions of contract                                       contracts                    nginrs                      start of constructionI
boat traff                                                                                                                                            and periodIc Inspections
thereafter.
4. Water Supply        Channel odredo l  sisey          in the vicinity of Water supply    Contractors.             Duration of                 Sits and Soup-rviing         Sits inspectio  before
discolor or  necreess            intake  selling bamsn to                                    contracts,                   engineers.                  start of construction;
turbidity of municipal          be use   and wels or tubwells                                                                                         end prlodic inspections
eater supply,                    to be constructod to procid.                                                                                         thereaft.
alternative   urce of ..tLr for
villages and enterprises.
5. Heavy metals       Conta.inatlon and spread         S.pling of dredged saterials           Environmental        Prior  ot dredgin9           Local Environ.ental         Saeplino locstion plans
in dredged bad        of he avy aetel toeicity         for ansaysis of to-icity;               Prot.ctlon Unit of at slected spacing;           Protection Agency.           and results of  saple
materials             to surrounding land.             Jimrcts. and control disposal           litA and Engr.       spoil  'resa to bs                                       analy-si
erase; tr.st-ent of soil  efor.    Con-truction Hqr.  -onitored for 3 y.ara
use for selective cropping,                                  for toelcity levels.
S. Noise from         Noise minly fro  dredgers   Noise levels to be sonitored                 Environ-entl    Niois  l-esle to be             Local Environsntal           Site Inspection before
schilnery           and concret  siers.              at regular intLrvals. nhigt            Protection Unit of sonitor-d at regular           Protection Agency.            tart of construction;
Effects are minimum as  ork  shifts kept to  in;iu, mchine    TBA and Engr.                   intervals,                                              and periodic inspections
sIts. are In rural ar.ss        operstors to swr ir mufflers,           Construction Hqrs.                                                            thereafter.
with scanty population.
mascts on hearing end
s*lep disturbance.
-       - ---  -- -----       - --  - -- - -        ---- -  -- - -- -----  - -- - -- - --------- - -       -     --  - --- -       - --  - --  - -- -  -- - -      -    - - - -



- 24 -
or other uses. In addition, some 33,100 people and 28,500 rooms _/ (800,000 mi2 in total
floor area) will have to be relocated. A total of about $65 million (12.8 percent of total project
cost) has been budgeted under the project for payment of land acquisition and compensation.
More details are given in Annex 5, Table 1. To begin emergency excavation of the Taipu and
Wangyu Rivers and the Hang-Jia-Hu primary drainage works after the 1991 flood, land
acquisition and relocation of inhabitants were undertaken on an urgency basis with the
understanding and cooperation of the inhabitants affected. By May 20, 1992, about 590 ha of
land has been acquired for permanent use and 1,100 for temporary use, and 13,100 inhabitants
relocated. Since then the process is being continued according to the procedures of the plan
prepared for relocation and compensation. Assurances were obtainedfrom the Borrower during
negotiations that all steps necessary to implement the relocation and conpensation plan as
agreed with the BanklIDA would be taken in a manner satisfactory to the Bank/IlDA.
3.33         Policy and Procedures. In China, land ownership belongs to the state and
collectives while individuals only given the rights to use rather than controlling the land. At the
township level, land use rights are allocated to enterprises, farmer groups and individual
households often in the form of long-term contracts. Under the 'Land Management Law of
People's Republic of China' land can be acquired for construction by the State and collectives
with payment of compensation. Norms for payment of compensation are determined by
provision of the "Implementation Regulations of the Land Management of People's Republic of
China" enacted by State Council on January 4, 1991 and the Regulations on the Land
Acquisition Compensation and Relocation for Large and Medium-sized Water Conservancy and
Hydroelectric Projects' enacted on February 15, 1991. Accordingly, under the project equitable
compensation for loss of income from land and the removal and replacement of dwellings is
being paid with funds provided by TBA by the provinces to counties, which will pass on the
proceeds to the townships. Different strategies are adopted by the concerned township
governments. Generally, the township governments use the proceeds to expand or develop
agricultural land to increase grain production so as to offset loss of production as a result of loss
of cropland acquired for construction. The township governments also use the proceeds to invest
in existing enterprises or create new enterprises to provide employment for those who lost
employment and those who are unable to obtain land for cultivation. Individuals will only
receive cash payments for removal and reconstruction of their houses and for the loss of cash
crops. Enterprises relocated, in addition to the determined compensation, are given incentives
such as additional land at new site to expand the enterprise, exemption from payment of land tax
and production tax for a specified period, and low-interest loans.
3.34         Consultation Process.  Most of the affected people are direct project
beneficiaries who live in the river floodplain or along the river banks. They are fully aware of
the Government's plan for the proposed flood control works during the last decade or so. The
majority of them derive 70-80 percent of their incomes from working in the rural enterprises.
Farming is a secondary occupation, normally carried out during spare time or by nonworking
members of families. Under the resettlement plan (under implementation since June 1992),
proper procedures have been established for consultation with the affected people prior to their
relocation. Village-level teams are established by township governments to inform the affected
people through public meeting, public broadcast or notifications on blackboards of the proposed
requisition, relocation arrangements and compensation payments, and schedule of
implementation. Surveys of the affected households are then carried out and inventory of assets
compiled. Signed agreements are obtained from affected households on schedules for removal
2/    Including residential and nonresidential rooms (utility, stori, dwhds and out-ouses).



- 25 -
and relocation. To ease any hardship imposed on the relocatees, the local governments adopt
the principle of "assessment first followed by requisition and use of land; construction of
replacement houses first before removal and relocation."
3.35         Land Acquisition.  Based on the 'Implementation Regulations for Land
Acquisition and Compensation for Relocation for Large and Medium-sized Water Conservancy
and Hydroelectric Projects", compensation for permanent acquisition of land is assessed at five
to eight times the last three-year average annual gross output, and one and half times the output
for temporary use of land, depending on the productivity of the land acquired. For Taipu and
Wangyu River channelization, and the Hang-Jia-Hu South Drainage components, permanent land
acquisition is computed at eight times the annual average gross output plus the value of one crop
loss (totaling Y 4,700-Y 6,090 per mu), or $12,820-$16,610 per ha at current rates of exchange.
For Taihu perimeter dike construction, the rate is five times the annual average gross output plus
the value of one crop loss (totaling Y 3,000 per mu). In most cases the temporary use of land
is for placing dredged spoil for 18 months, after which it is reclaimed and converted to farmland
or other uses (e.g., brick making). The township and village governments readjust and
reallocate land wherever possible to accommodate those who have lost land. Where farmers
have to be placed in nonfarm employment,3/ they are given priority for employment in new
state or T&V enterprises. The township governments also use land acquisition proceeds to create
new enterprises to provide additional employment opportunities.
3.36         Relocation and Compensation. People will be generally relocated within the
community on compensatory land for housing and cultivation wherever possible, or employed
in existing or new state or township and village (T&V) enterprises. For single-story houses the
compensation is at an average rate of Y 70 per m2 (averaging Y 2,100 per room), taking into
consideration the reuse of about 40 percent salvageable building materials. In rural areas, the
township allocates land for construction of a replacement house which the owner will build using
the proceeds of compensation, and in most cases the houses will be relocated near the original
site. In cities and townships, those losing housing will be given rights to relocation in
government housing. Most of the houses to be moved are along the Taipu and Wangyu Rivers.
Up to end of May 1992, about 50 percent of the houses has been relocated and the remainder
will be completed by December 1993.
3.37         Follow-up Monitoring. To follow-up on the socioeconomic well-being of those
relocated, TBA has retained the Engineering Management Department of Hehai University in
Nanjing to monitor and evaluate the socioeconomic well-being of those relocated. Hehai
University has assisted the Bank Group in the studies of involuntary resettlement in China and
is acceptable to the Bank/IDA for the purpose. Based on the monitoring and evaluation of
sampled sites at regular intervals, Hehai University would submit its findings and
recommendations to TBA and the governments for improvement, if any, of the affected people.
Assurances were obtained from the Borrower at negotiations that an independent institution
acceptable to the BankIlDA would be retained by 7hA to monitor and evaluate semi-annually
the socioeconomic well-being of people relocated under the project and tofurnish itsfindings and
recommendations to 7RA and the Bank/lDA; and to implement any such recommendations for
follow-up action as agreed with the Bank/IDA.
I/    As a rult of land acquisition and readjustmnt, tie per capita holding of cultivated land in an
affected vilae or group i le than 0.1 mu, the etre village or goup will be changed from
agiculure to nonagriculture status.



- 26 -
4
PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION
A. PRojECr ORGANZAToN
4.1          General Structure. The TBA of the Ministry of Water Resources (MWR) will
have overall responsibility for the implementation of the project under the guidance of the
Central Project Leading Group (CPLG) set up by the State Council. At the provincial/municipal
level, provincial project leading groups (PPLGs) will guide the provincial/municipal Bureaus of
Water Resources (BWRs) serving as project management offices (PMOs) in implementing works
and activities assigned by TBA and those project components financed by the respective
provinces and municipality. The PMOs would be assisted by various engineering construction
headquarters (ECHs) set up for the various key work components. The general organization of
the project is shown in Chart No. 1. Assurances were obtained at negotiations from the
Borrower that CPLG, PPLGs and PMOs would be maiained wi composition, fimctions and
responsibilities acceptable to the Bankc/DA.
4.2          Project Leading Groups (PLGs). Project leading groups have been set up at
central and provincial/municipal level.
(a)    Central Project Leading Group (CPLG). The CPLG, reporting directly to the
State Council, is headed by the Minister of MWR with representatives from the
State Planning Commission, Ministry of Finance, Jiangsu, Zhejiang and
Shanghai governments, and the Chief Engineer of MWR as members. The main
function and role of the CPLG is to guide TBA of MWR in project policy and
fiscal matters, and to coordinate issues and problems in project implementation
between central and provincial/municipal governments.
(b)   ProvincialMunicipal Project Leading Groups (PPLGs). PPLGs have been
established in Jiangsu and Zhejiang Provinces and Shanghai Municipality. The
provincial PLGs of Jiangsu and Zhejiang are headed by vice goverwrs and the
Shanghai municipal PLG is headed by a vice mayor. Members of the PPLGs
include departmental heads of the Provincial/Municipal Planning Commission,
Finance, Water Resources, Environmental Protection, Transport and Supplies.
The provincial/municipal PLGs will liaise with the CPLG and guide the
provincial PMOs (Bureaus of Water Resources) in policy and fiscal matters and
resolve issues and problems in project implementation.
4.3          Project Management Offices (PMOs). Project management offices have been
set up in TBA and the Bureaus of Water Resources of Jiangsu, Zhejiang and Shanghai.



- 27 -
(a)    TBA Project Management Office (TBA/PMO). TBA, with technical support
from various departments of MWR, will function as the TBA/PMO and be
responsible to the CPLG for the implementation of the key project works to be
funded by the central government. Founded in December 1984 as the last of the
seven basin commissions under MWR, TBA is charged with the overall
responsibility for water resource planning, development and management of the
Taihu Basin, including resolving conflicts in water resource issues between
Jiangsu, Zhejiang and Shanghai.1/ TBA has a staff of 73, of which 58 are
professionals with qualifications and experience in water resource development,
environmental sciences, and other relevant disciplines. To meet the needs of the
project during implementation and subsequent operation, TBA proposes to open
branch offices in Wuxi and Suzhou and to expand its staff to 200. It will also
set up field offices at all of the main water control structures. The organization
of TBA proposed for project implementation is shown in Chart No. 2.
Assurances were obtained from the Borrower during negotiations that 7BA
would be provided with competent staff in adequate numbers for project
implementation and subsequent operation and maintenance, of both the overall
water control system of Taihu and of indiwdual key works.
(b)   Provindal/Municipal Project Management Omces (PPMOs).  Jiangsu,
Zhejiang and Shanghai governments have set up provincial/municipal PMOs in
their respective Bureaus of Water Resources. The PMOs are headed by the
bureau directors with support from various departments within the bureau.
Responsible to the PPLGs, the PMOs would coordinate and manage
implementation of the work components funded by provincial/municipal
governments and assist TBA in the implementation of those portions of the
project works funded by the central government.
4.4          Engineering Construction Headquarters (ECHs). ECHs are being set up for
each of the major engineering work subcomponents to organize local resources, liaise with
county and township governments on land acquisition, compensation and relocation of people
affected by construction, organize construction by force account and let out contcs to local
construction teams, and provide day-to-day supervision of works under construction. ECHs are
responsible to PPMOs and headed by deputy directors or senior engineers of BWR, vice city
mayors or county chiefs. Each ECH will have the following divisions: administration, finance,
land/compensation/relocation, supplies and materials, and engineering construction.
B. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
Flow of Funds
4.5          No Loan/Credit proceeds will be onlent to Jiangsu, Zhejiang and Shanghai
governments, as the Bank/IDA Loan/Credit will finance only those activities previously agreed
to be the responsibility of the central government. The GOC will be responsible for foreign
exchange risk and repayment of the Loan/Credit.
1/    Untl 1984, planning for the Taihu Basin cam under the Yangtze River Basin Commission but
tie Basin's importance in the national economy led to the creation of TBA   a separato
commission.



- 28 -
4.6          Domestic funds, which will finance about 60 percent of the project costs, will
be contributed by the Central, Jiangsu, Zhejiang and Shanghai governments through annual fiscal
budgetary allocations. TBA will reach annual agreements with Jiangsu, Zhejiang and Shanghai
to implement the project works based on mutually agreed annual work programs and budget
allocations. Domestic counterpart funds from the central, provincial and municipal governments
will be deposited in separate accounts in the People's Construction Bank of China.
Ternm and Conditions of Bank Loan/IDA Credit
4.7          Since there will be no onlending of Loan/Credit proceeds to the project provinces
and municipality, w project agreement will be signed between the Bank/IDA and the three
project provinces and municipality. However, MWR/TBA and the three jurisdictions have
executed an internal Project Implementation Agreement (PIA) to (a) ensure adequate funds would
be provided to undertake construction of the other six work components listed in Annex 2,
Table 1 in parallel with the project; and (b) supervise implementation of the project works, and
operate and maintain the completed works thereafter. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the Borrower would cause MWR, Jiangsu, Zhejiang and Shanghai Governments to
implement the internal Implementation Agreement, obligating the three provncal/munidcpality
governments to (a) provide adequate fluids to undertake construction of the six localy fuided
works (ane2. Table 1) and those portions of the project works designated by 7hA; and
(b) supervise construction and carry out operation and maintenance of the sux locallyfuaded
works.  The establishment of the Taihu Basin Water Resources Protection Committee
(para. 3.28) and State Council approval of the Loan and Development Credit Agreements will
be conditions for effectiveness of the Loan/Credit.
C. EXECUON AND SUPERVSON OF PROJECT WoRKS
Execution
4.8          TBA will execute most of the key project works through ICB and LCB contracts
dentified and listed in Annx2, Table 3 by using sample bidding documents issued by the
Ministry of Finance for Bank-financed projects. Other works, small in quantity and scattered
throughout the project area and implementation period, would be packaged for LCB wherever
practicable or executed through force account operations organized by PPMOs in collaboration
with county/township governments. Assurances were obtainedfrom the Borrower at negotiations
that annual work programs together with the proposed budget would be prepared by 7EA and
firnished to the Bank/I  for review by November 30 of each year for project Implementation
in the foUowing year.
Supervidon
4.9          Day-to-day supervision of project works will be accomplished by implementing
departments at relevant levels. Due to staff constraints, TBA will engage well-known survey,
investigation and design institutes within China (e.g., the East China Design Institute in
Hangzhou, etc.) to provide engineering services to supervise some of the key construction
worhm. However, the main bulk of the supervision will be carried out by the various ECHs to
be st up throughout the project area. The required staff would be drawn mainly from the
existing technical bureaus in each province /municipality. To ensure quality of construction



- 29 -
works, MWR would organize teams of experts to carry out semi-annual inspections of the works
under construction and provide their findings to the Bank/IDA.
D. OPERATION AND MAINTNANCE
O&M Responsibilities
4.10            Normal operation and maintenance (O&M) of the completed project works will
be a shared responsibility among the three jurisdictions and TBA. Table 4.1 shows the proposed
division of responsibilities. TBA will be primarily responsible for operating and maintaining the
Tai Lake, Taipu and Wangyu river systems and their control structures and pumping stations.
The municipal, provincial and county governments will continue to be responsible for operating
their own systems in the respective subbasins.
Tabe 4.1i nnymoN or Oineax  AND hADnUtANmI Re oinn   rm CoamZ   lSo5cr WoE
Ites iDecristion
Division/office                          5      ruo cA 1i  Y urtou iH Silc C iRL  Iiirs urc u.
We office office  office  WC office WC office   W.1.
vIanu liver
ain Gat*/P. Station                  -    e          -      -         -        -        -       -
Grand Canal Sipbou                   -   le          -      -        -         -        -       -
_ast bank control gates              -      _ 
Vast bank control fates              -          -   _      e
Bank/.lop  rot*ct on                 -                  e-       -                       
'or1 deriltimt                  -    Yea        -      -        -         -        -       -
oi punf St;t                         _   Y           -      _        _         _        _       _
North baok coutro gates              -      -      Y.       -        -         -        -     Yso
Smuth bank control gats- -                                           -       Y-a -  *
bank/slope protection                -      -      yes               -       Y_ e               _
raihu Parimeter Dlke
Control gates/Pumping Stn            -      -      Yes    Yes       Ts         -      Yes       -
Slope protection                     -      -      Yes    Tos      yes        -       Ye
Ra"-Jia-  South Dr'ag.
Control gates/Pumping stn            -      -        -      -        -       Yen        -       -
Bank/slope protection                -      -        _      _                es
Flood Monitorlng Systm               yes     - 
Noe  Durhg flood ed droga crow TA will _  ove,mil idMg espouasilides for operadio of llm I - m.
/a FCDC: Flood ComUvIDispeb Cawer i IA. Shlngai.
Basin-wide Water Mnagement Plan
4.11            Flood and Drought Crisis Management. Rules covering operating levels in
the Tai Lake and the main channels for flood control and drainage have been established and
agreed with the three main jurisdictions. These, however, will be reviewed and where necesary
revised through more detailed modeling of typical flood events and on the basis of operating
experience. Operating water levels designed under the project for the various subbasins to meet
the 1954 and 1991 floods are summarized in Table 4.2. Reductions in actual flood levels, to be
provided by proposed project works in the event of similar flood situations in the future, are also
given.
4.12            Dry season operation will aim to maintain a predetermined lake level by bringing
Yangtze water through the Wangyu River and various pumping stations in the Huxi area. The
optimal level will probably be around El. 3.0 m which has been found satisfactory in the past.



- 30 -
Tahk 4.2 (O&¶u  WAIm LavmS Ka. Dnatm   O  Iw Stmsupu
Flood event/                                   Subbasina
elevation            Taihu  Dan  Tilo Wuxi  Zhe  Suzhou Ding Chang Jiaxing  Ping
Lake  Yang  Go          Xi           mao  Shu            Wang
1954 Flood
Ground Level                 8.0   -     4-6  -      4-5   -      3-4    3-4    -
Alert level            3.50  5.6  -    3.59  -       3.50   -    3.58   3.50   3.50
Actual level           4.65  7.02 5.22 4.73 6.07  4.37  4.20 4.26   4.38   4.34
Dseigned flood level   4.65  5.57  4.94  3.55 5.45  3.35  3.16  3.25   3.66   3.30
Reduction              0     1.45 0.28  1.18 0.62  1.02  1.04  1.01   0.72   1.04
1991 Flood
Actual Flood           4.78  6.62  6.11  4.88  5.38  4.29  3.77  4.00   4.03   4.16
Designed flood level   4.40  5.00  5.20  4.20  5.00   3.70   -    3.50    3.50   3.0
Reduction              0.38  1.12  0.91 0.68  0.38  0.59   -    0.50   0.53   0.83
The projected operational levels for a 1954 flood event and a 1971 drought event in the Tai Lake
are given in Table 4.3. The flow in the Taipu River will be maintained at a level required to
meet raw water supply needs of Shanghai in terms of quality and quantity. During a flood or
drought crisis, TBA will have overriding responsibility for water resource crisis management for
the whole Basin, including directing the three jurisdictions to carry out orders from the State
Flood Control Headquarters in Beijing. Due to the complexity of operation (flood regulation in
Tai Lake, water transfer by pumping, water level control by gates, tidal backup, etc.) TBA
would develop a set of basin-wide operational procedures based on a system optimization
computer model. Technical assistance would be provided under the project to assist TBA in
developing the model and training staff in its application.
Table 4.3: Typical Operational Water Levels for Tai Lake
(Elevation m)
Month and
operation stage                      Apr   May   Jun   Jul   Aug   Sep   Oct
Max. laval for
flood regulation                      -  2.80  3.80  4.30  4.65  4.20           -
Optimum level
3.00  2.80  3.20  3.50  3.50  3.50  3.10
Min. level for water
supply storage                    2.80  2.80  2.90  2.90  3.00  3.00  3.00
Note: All levels are given in Elevation m above sea level. Levels are average of first 10
days of the month.



- 31 -
4.13         Catastrophic Flood Management. For catastrophic floods exceeding the design
flood (the 1954 flood), TBA will develop a contingency plan based on a study to be carried out
by a team of local technical experts and representatives of local governments. The framework
for the proposed study is given in Annex 8. The study, focusing on nonengineering solutions
to minimize flood losses and damage, would include flood forecasting, warning and protection,
disaster management (evacuation and relief), postemergency activities, assessment and evaluation
of damage. Assurances were obtained at negotiations from the Borrower that IRA %wuld
prepare andfirnish to the Bank/ZDA for review not later than December 31, 1994: (a) a set of
basin-wide operaional procedures for flood and drought management, and (b) a condngency
plan for catastrophicflood management.
4.14         Flood Damage Assessment and Analysis. Although not considered necessary
to establish project benefits, detailed stage-damage functions for flood control works will be
important for development of the basin-wide flood control and protection program in the future
(see Annex 3, para. 6). Derivation and better understanding of the stage-damage functions could
assist in optimization of operational procedures, prioritization and design of additional flood
control works, and cost recovery and financing (of operational and capital costs) for project
works. As flood protection fees would be the main source of financing for operation and
maintenance, more accurate and documented data on flood stage-damage relationships could
provide the basis for allocation of cost recovery among various benefited areas and justification
of cost recovery based on actual flood protection benefits.
4.15         In formulating a set of operational procedures for basin-wide water management
required by December 31, 1994 (para. 4.13), TBA would also consider at the same time to
establish flood stage-damage relationships for each of the ten subbasins. For these purposes,
stage-damage functions for major flood prone areas in each subbasin should be established and
updated periodically. Initial preparatory work will require field surveys to inventory the asse
(by different categories) in the areas, estimation of water level-damage relationships for major
types of assets, and calculation of stage-damage functions for various typical areas. This field
survey could be easily undertaken by Hehai University in Nanjing with participation of
undergraduate students in collating field data and doing the analytical work. An early start to
capture the valuable 1991 flood data should be launched before it is lost with passage of time.
A database for the stage-damage functions should then be developed using the Geographic
Information System (GIS) facilities to be provided under the project. The stage-damage
functions could then be linked with the hydraulic model (para. 4.12 and Annex  to establish
a flood damage simulation model to facilitate estimation and analysis of losses for various levels
of flood.
4.16         Water Quality Management. Water pollution in the basin caused by industrial
and urban effluent and agricultural chemicals is a major cause of existing environmental
deterioration. For water quality control and management in Tai Lake and major river systems,
TBA will undertake special programs to study the present high level of eutrophication of water
in Tai Lake and the dispersal of polluted water among the river/lake systems. The results of
these studies would be used to design measures for their control and management. Technical
assistance would be provided under the project to engage consultants to assist TBA in the stdies
with use of water quality modeling techniques (2 or 3 dimensional models). These studies would
be included in the programs for the Taihu Basin long-term environmental management plan to
be implemented under the project (para. 3.30). A water quality monitoring and manaement



- 32 -
division with 40 staff complete with analytical laboratory and equipment would be established
at Wuxi under the project.
4.17          Cost Recovery Considerations. TBA proposes to charge fees for services and
levy charges on areas benefitted from the flood control works to raise funds to meet annual
O&M costs. TBA estimates that the total annual expenditures, required to operate and maintain
the new hydraulic facilities to be constructed under the project, would be about Y 51.4 million
in 1992 prices. To meet the full annual O&M expenditures, TBA proposes to collect fees and
levy charges as follows: (a) toll of Y 0.30/ton to be collected from ships using TBA-operated
ship locks in the Basin; (b) annual contributions a/ to be levied on benefit areas based on
0.1 percent-0.2 percent of the GDP of the areas and collected through the local governments;
and (c) sale of raw water to water supply authorities at Y 10-20/1000 n3. TBA would present
the above proposals to the CPLG for endorsement. The budget as presented by TBA is shown
in Table 4.4. Assurances were obtained at negotiationsfrom the Borrower that sufficientfunds
would be raised annually to meet at least the fidl annual O&M ependitures of the conpleted
project works, and that an annual statement of proposed eWenditures and revenues, starting
from the year 1995, would be prepared and furnished to the Bank/IDA for information by
November 30, 1994.
Table 44 EBnMAnTD OlERAnoN AND MAWnEiTANcE BuDGkT BY TBA
Incom                           (Y million)          Expenditures         (Y million)
1. Toll collected from                       1. Cosewnication system
30 sbip locks                    10.0        maintenance                    6.0
2. Levy charges collected                    2. O&H works (including annual
from flood benefit areas         27.6        and major repair)             28.2
3. Sale of raw water fors                    3. Znergy cost for pumping water  7.5
(a) Urban vater supply           12.0     4. Desilting of Wangyu River     2.7
(b) Agricultural use              1.8     5. Pumping cost for water
diversion                     4.8
6. Physical contingency          2.2
Total                          51.4          Total                       51.4
E. MoNiTORING, EVALuAnON AND REPORTNG
4.18          Full-time monitoring and evaluation (M&E) units will be established in TBA and
provincial/municipal PMOs to assess regularly the project's progress and evaluate the impacts
of various work components. Key monitoring indicators are presented in Annex 10, Table 1.
There will be four subprograms for monitoring and evaluation.
(a)    Physical and FInauial Progres of Project hnplenentation. Each PMO and
ECH will maintain detailed records on the physical and financial progress of
2/     Based on provisions of 'Regulations for River Channels Management, June 1988'.



- 33 -
each work component, including the six components financed by domestic funds.
Physical records will include quantities of work completed, u  well a
machinery, equipment and materials procured and used. Financial records will
detail all project expenditures, amount and value of contributed labor, and
record of and supporting claims for disbursement against Loan/Credit proceeds.
TBA will consolidate the physical and financial progress reports from PMOs and
ECHs into semi-annual reports for the whole project and furnish them to the
Bank/IDA by July 31 and January 31 of each year.
(b)   Performance and Impact of Key Engineering Works Completed. After
completion of construction of various key engineering works, TBA will monitor
and evaluate their performance against their designs. This will include periodic
monitoring of various hydraulic parameters (stage, discharge, velocity, sediment
load, etc.) of the enlarged Taipu and Wangyu Rivers, especially during flood
stage. Discharge and flow measurements would also be undertaken for major
pumping stations and control structures constructed in these two rivers. In
addition, flood channels and all flood protection works will be inspected by
qualified personnel after the routing of floods through them. Their findings and
recommendations will be presented to TBA for remedial measures or upgrading
to be undertaken.
(c)    Effectiveness of Flood Monitoring System and Responsiveness of Flood
Management. The basin-wide telemetric station network to monitor the
hydrologic regime of the basin will be tested prior and after each flood season
for its effectiveness in transmitting the required data. Similarly, reliability of
data retrieval and processing at TBA Headquarter will also be tested on a regular
basis. Flood forecasting and warnings disseminated by TBA to the various
subbasins will be monitored and evaluated against the responsiveness and success
of flood crisis management by the local governments.
(d)    Socioeconomic Well-being of People Relocated by Construction. Over a five-
year period, the Engineering Management Department of Hehai University,
retained by TBA, would monitor and evaluate semi-annualy the socioeconomic
well-being of those relocated by construction activities under the project and
submit its findings to TBA. This is to ensure that the affected people have
recovered and settled down in their new host environment and have equal
opportnity for advancement (para. 3.36).
4.19         The results of M&E for the physical and financial progress of the project would
be used primarily for project management purposes and for timely correction of any deficiency.
The results would also be used for a mid-term review of project implementation progress.
Information derived from (b) and (c) would enable TBA to improve and upgrade operation of
the basin-wide hydraulic system to achieve optimum efficiency in water management of flood,
drought, inland navigation and water pollution. Results from (d) would enable Government to
take timely measures to correct any deficiency and improve the weil-being of the people
relocated. Assurances were obtained at negotiations from the Borrower dta 74  oud  carry
out periodic M&E programs and furnish their findings to the Bank/MDA semi-annualy for the
projea's physical, financial and resettlement progress, and annually for the pefomance and
impact of key engineering works completed and the effectiveness of the flood monitoring systm



- 34 -
5
JUSTIFICATION AND BENEFfTS
A. GENERAL
5.1          The Government has assigned this project the highest priority of all water
resource investments in the country and, to ensure early implementation, it has undertaken to
finance 60 percent of the project cost through a budgetary allocation (Bank/IDA will finance the
remaning 40 percent). The project's high priority is justified by the need to provide flood
protection for one of China's most productive regions and to ensure a long-term supply of water
for Shanghai, the country's largest city. In summary, the project would:
(a)   reduce the depth and duration of flooding during severe storms of the kind
experienced in 1954 and 1991;
(b)   increase the capacity to transfer water to the Basin from the Yangtze River for
a wide range of users during periods of drought;
(c)   protect and improve quality of water at the main water intake for the city of
Shanghai which would otherwise be increasingly subject to severe pollution
during the dry season;
(d)   improve the water quality in the lake and the waterways of the Basin;
(e)   improve and expand navigation on a number of existing waterways; and
(f)   improve drainage of large tracts of agricultural land.
5.2          There are no viable nonstructural means of achieving the required degree of
flood protection and water quality improvement in the Basin. The region owes its high level of
development and productivity to its favorable physical characteristics such as a strategic location,
excellent communications through a major port city, ample water from the lake and from the
Yangtze, and large tracts of flat and fertile land. However, like all deltas in high-rainfall areas
it is subject at times to severe flooding. There is little if any scope for mitigating or avoiding
flood damage through flood zoning or relocation of facilities-the benefits of location and access
outweigh the costs of periodic flood damage. On the other hand, local structural measures such
as better storm drainage in the cities, dikes and emergency drainage pumping for low areas, and
better drainage of farmland have been and will continue to be undertaken. Such measures will,
however, be rendered more effective by the large scale structural works proposed.



- 35 -
B. ECONOMIC EVALuATION AND ANALYSIS
5.3          The economic analysis compares the estimated costs of the project to the
expected benefits accruing to project investments, with both costs and benefits expressed in
economic terms. Flood control is the primary benefit of the proposed project investments, and
is the focus of the analysis. Drainage benefits have also been included in the analysis.
However, benefits for environmental improvement, water supply and navigation, although
substantial, are difficult to quantify at this time and have been excluded.
Benefits
5.4          Flood Control Benefit.  Flood control benefits are defined as future flood
damages mitigated by the project investments. Since it is impossible to predict the timing and
magnitude of future floods, analysis of the flood control benefit is based on deriving an expected
annual damage under present conditions and than indexing this value to reflect future economic
growth. For the analysis of the proposed project, the expected annual damage, in both the
'with' and 'without project" cases, was obtained by estimating damages that major historical
floods would cause under the current conditions, and the recurrence frequencies of these
damages. The with-project damage was deducted to derive the expected annual flood control
benefit, which was then multiplied by estimated damage growth rates to determine its value
under future conditions. Details of the methodology and assumptions adopted in the analysis are
presented in Annex 3.
5.5          Following this approach of analysis, expected flood damage under current
conditions is estimated to be Y 1,035 ($188.2) million per year for floods with less than 100
year return period. As part of the basin's overall flood control program, the flood mitigation
impact for the proposed project is assumed to be 41 percent of this total damage. The current
expected benefit of the project is therefore estimated at Y 427 ($77.6) million per year, which
is assumed to grow at an annual rate of 6 percent before 2005 and then at a rate of 4 percent in
the remaining project years until 2042.
5.6          Drainage Benefits. A high water table is one of the major constraints for crop
production in the low-lying Hang-Jia-Hu area, particularly for winter crops. The Hang-Jia-Hu
South Drainage component of the project would reduce the water level by about 40 m3 in the
river network covering an area of more than 4,000 km2. About 1.29 million mu (86,000 ha)
of cultivated land would benefit from the investment due to improved drainage conditions.
Based on the experience obtained in existing polder areas where an equivalent amount of water
level reduction has been achieved, the yield increase is estimated to range from 3 percent for rice
to 12 percent for winter wheat, with total incremental production of 43,000 tons of grain and
rapeseed (Ann  3, Table 3). The net incremental benefit of the drainage component is
calculated at Y 25 ($4.5) million per annum at fill development.
5.7          Other Benefits. Other benefits due to project investments are environmea
improvement, assured raw water for Shanghai water supply, and navigation. These benefits are
not included in the analysis, although they are significant. Environmental improvement benefits
will be substantial and widespread. Project works will help control drainage of polluted water
into Tai Lake, the Grand Canal, and the Taipu River; help control the spread of pollution in the
basin waterway network; and improve water quality in a number of major central city area.
Assured raw water will provide additional water of higher quality for Shanghai residents and for



- 36 -
pollution abatement. Navigation benefits are also subsantial, including reduced disrupton of
waterway traffic during floods and increased mileage of navigable waterways. These benefias,
especially environmental improvement and Shanghai water supply, depend on devolution of
adequate authority to TBA for comprehensive management of water resource facilities throughout
the basin.
Costs
5.8          Investment and Operating Project Costs. All investment costs are included
in the analysis except for the proposed Taipu Pumping Station, which is to serve Shanghai water
supply purposes only. Incremental working capital has been calculated based on the funds
needed for the operation of the project works (excluding those for water supply operations) and
the additional inputs for incremental agricultural production. Incremental operating costs for
project works and agricultural production in the Hang-Jia-Hu South Drainage area are also
included in the analysis.
5.9           The estimated investment costs, when converted to economic values, total
Y 2,360.3 million, of which Y 22.8 million is the incremental working capital. The estimated
incremental operating costs for the project works are Y 31.2 million (excluding depreciation) at
full development, and the incremental operating cost for the agricultural production in the
drainage benefitted area is estimated at Y 14.9 million (Annex 3, Table 4).
Economic Analysis
5.10         Conversion Factors.  For the traded items, economic prices were calculated
using their border prices as adjusted for port and transportation costs. The official exchange rate
of Y 5.5/S is used throughout the analysis. For the nontraded items, conversion factors have
been calculated according to the Bank's procedures and applied to derive the economic values.
A standard conversion factor of 0.93 is calculated assuming a shadow rate of Y 5.9/S which is
applied to all the nontraded items without specific conversion factors calculated. For labor cost,
a conversion factor of 1 is used for the project due to the high economic development attained
in the project area. Shortage of labor in the project area does not justify any downward
adjustment of the costs. The standard conversion factor is used for land acquisition costs, as the
economic value of land is very similar to its financial cost. The conversion factors used in the
analysis are listed in Annex 3, Table 6.
5.11         To estimate conversion factors for calculating the economic value of flood
control benefits proved difficult. The diversity of the idustrWial losses makes quantified analysis
formidable, time consuming and expensive. Therefore, the standard conversion factor is applied
to maintain the consistency in analysis. For the agricultural and infrastructure losses, conversion
factors used for other parts of the project are applied in the analysis accordingly.
5.12         Eoooomic Rate of Return and Sesitivity Analysis.  The proposed project
investments would yield an estimated economic rate of return (ERR) of about 27 percent for the
base case scenario. The NPV (at a 12 percent discount rate) is Y 2,556 ($464.7) million
(Annex I, Table 5). Sensitivity analysis shows that a 50 percent reduction of the flood control
benefit would reduce the ERR to 15 percent, while a 50 percent cost overrun would reduce the
ERR to 20 percent. Switching values indicate that the flood control benefits would have to be
reduced by 62 percent before the ERR will decline to 12 percent. Similarly, the investment cost



- 37 -
would have to increase by 190 percent to reduce the ERR to 12 percent. None of these cases
are very likely to occur.
C. RIKS
5.13         Project risks have been identified and meaures incorporated in the project to
mnmize their effect. The egnring concept is sound and the flood control solutions have
boen derived after yeas of stdies ad plnning. 'he risk of floods exceeding the 1954 flood
(return period of 1 in S0 years basin-wide) used for project design would be rare and even
effects of these floods would be substantially reduced by the project works and through
implementation of the flood foroesng system and operation plan to be provided under the
project. The effects of TBA's lack of experience in implementing Bank projects will also be
minimized through training of TBA staff in project implementation, management, procuremet
and disbursement prior to the start of the project. The risk of shortage of local funds would be
minimm as both central and local goverments have now fully committed to the implementation
of the project on a priority basis with firm allocations of resources. The risk of TBA's limited
exisng authority to operate and manage effectively the completed project facilities would be
addressed through revision of Its charter and enactment of additional regulations to provide TBA
with additional authority for operation and management.



- 38 -
6
AGREE1MENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1          Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that the Borrower will:
(a)    carry out training and technical assistance according to programs agreed with the
Bank/IDA (para. 3.11);
(b)   furnish a proposal to increase TBA's authority to the Bank/IDA for review by
December 31, 1993, and thereafter, implement such proposal as agreed with the
Bank/IDA (para. 3.12);
(c)   furnish the consolidated project accounts for annual auditing by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank/IDA and the auditor's report to Bank/IDA within
six months of the close of each financial year (para. 3.24);
(d)    establish the TBWRPC, as a condition for effectiveness, and thereafter, maintain
the TBWRPC with composition, functions and responsibilities satisfactorily to
the Bank/IDA and furnish its annual consolidated budgets and programs of
activities for environmental monitoring and water management to the Bank/IDA
by December 31 of each year (para. 3.28);
(e)    carry out all project activities conforming to environmental standards and
guidelines satisfactorily to the Bank/IDA, and undertake measures to mitigate
such adverse environmental impacts induced by construction activities
satisfactorily to the Bank/IDA (para. 3.29);
(f)    prepare and furnish a long-term basin-wide environmental management plan
acceptable to the Bank/IDA for review by December 31, 1993, and take all
necessary steps to implement the plan as agreed with the Bank/IDA in a
satisfactory manner (para. 3.31);
(g)    ensure that all steps necessary to implement the Resettlement Plan as agreed with
the Bank/IDA are taken in a manner satisfactory to the Bank/IDA (para. 3.32);
(h)   retain an independent institution acceptable to the Bank/IDA to monitor and
evaluate semi-annually the socioeconomic well-being of people relocated under
the project and to furnish its findings and recommendations to TBA and the
provincial/municipal governments, and to the Bank/IDA semi-annually and to
implement any such recommendations for follow-up action as agreed with the
Bank/IDA (para. 3.37);



- 39 -
(i)    maintain the CPLG, and cause provinces/municipality to maintain PLGs and
PMOs with composition, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the
Bank/IDA (para. 4.1);
(j)    maintain TBA  with competent staff in adequate numbers for project
implementation and subsequent operation and maintenance [para. 4.3(a)];
(k)   cause MWR, Jiangsu, Zhejiang and Shanghai Governments to implement the
executed internal Project Implementation Agreement, obligating the three
provincial governments to (i) provide adequate funds to undertake construction
of the six locally funded works (Annex 2, Table 1) and those portions of the
project works designated by TBA; and (ii) supervise construction and carry out
operation and maintenance of the six locally funded works (para. 4.7).
(1)    prepare and furnish a detailed annual budget and work program to the Bank/IDA
by November 30 of each year, for project implementation in the following year
(para. 4.8);
(m)   prepare and furnish a set of basin-wide operational procedures for flood and
drought management and a contingency plan for catastrophic flood management
to the Bank/IDA for review by December 31, 1994 (para. 4.13);
(n)   collect and levy such fees and charges at rates to be revised periodically as
necessary to meet at least the full annual operation and maintenance costs of the
completed project works, and an annual statement of proposed expenditures and
revenues, starting from the year 1995, would be prepared and furnished to the
Bank/IDA for information by November 30, 1994 (para. 4.17); and
(o)   carry out the periodic monitoring and evaluation programs and furnish their
findings to the Bank/IDA at intervals specified (paras. 4.19).
6.2          Submission of an agreement signed by TBA and Shanghai Municipality on the
purchase of raw water by the Shanghai Municipality Water Supply Authority will be condition
for disbursement of expenditures for the Taipu Pumping Station (para. 3.22). The establishment
and maintenance of the TBWRPC (para. 3.28) and State Council approval of the Loan and
Development Credit Agreements will be conditions for effectiveness of the Loan and Credit
(para. 4.7).
6.3          Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable for a Bank Loan
of $100 million with a maturity of 20 years, including a 5-year grace period, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate and an IDA Credit of SDR 72.8 ($100 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity to the People's Republic of China.



CHINA
TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Taihu Basin Area Statistics (1989)
Province/       -- Administrative Units ---           No. of        Population            Total       Water    Cultivated  Effective
City          County    Townships    Villages    Families      Total       Rural     Land Area  Surf. Area      Area    Irrig. Area
<---------- Nos.--------------->   ('000 Nos.)  <-----'000-------->        (km2)       (km2)     ('000 ha)   ('000 ha)
SHANGHAI MUNICIPALITY
Shanghai Municip.           9         211        2570       3853.3     12030.2      3643.6      5150.0       604.0       278.5        274.0
SOUTH JIANGSU
Suzhou City                 6         228        3367       1707.8      5566.1      4199.6      8488.0      2843.7       360.8        359.4
Wuxi City                   3         164        2088       1310.2      4124.2      2892.6      3989.0       1116.2       187.0       164.2
Changzhou City              3         175         1933       730.6      3216.5      2414.0      4359.0       574.9       244.6        174.8
Zhengjiang City             3          57         896        367.2      1719.6      1130.6      2113.0       204.3        101.6        96.3
Sub-total              15         624        8284       4115.8     14626.4     10636.8    18949.0       4739.1       894.0        794.7
ZHEJIANG PROVINCE
Hangzhou City               2          85         1020       689.1      2353.6      1105.3      2873.0        143.7        61.0        54.7
Jiaxing City                5         169         1817       935.9      3136.7      2535.3      3773.0       314.2        225.7       210.2
Huzhou City                 3         148         1772       531.8      2440.7      2001.1      5820.0        373.0       136.6       122.6
Sub-total              10         402        4609       2156.8      7931.0      5641.7     12466.0       830.9       423.3        387.4
TOTAL BASIN                34        1237        15463     10125.9    34587.6      19922.1    36565.0       6174.0       1595.8      1456.1
Source: Taihu Basin Authority, Shanghai
- - - - - - - - - -- - -  - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - -   - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - -



CHINA
TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Taihu Basin Area Agricultural Production (1989)
Province/        Grain Area      -------Paddy -------      <------Wheat -------->  <-------Cotton------->    -----Oil Crops----->  Vegatables   Mulbery        Aquatic
City              Sown       Area Sown      Prodn.    Area Sown      Prodn.    Area Sown      Prodn.    Area Sown      Prodn.    Area Sown  Area Sown   Production
' 000 ha)     ('000 ha)  ('000 tons)  ('000 ha)  ('000 tons)  ('000 ha)  ('000 tons)  ('000 ha)  ('000 tons)  ('000 ha)   ('000 ha)  ('000 tons)
SHANGHAI WJNIC!PALITY
Shanghai Municp.             322.9        252.3      1681.7         70.6       221.4         10.8         6.5         86.9         12.3       103.0          0.0       264.6
SOUTH JIANGSU
Suzhou City                  406.6        269.9      1978.3        136.7       426.4         33.3        33.0         78.6        120.5       119.8          7.8       100.5
Wuxi City                    256.1        155.2      1171.0        100.9       267.3          0.2          0.1        23.5       359.7      n.a.             1.9        64.5
Changzhou City               259.4        164.8      1258.0         94.6       269.4          4.0         2.3         38.5        54.1         68.5         8.6         51.2
Zhengjilang City             123.8         70.8       523.6         53.0       188.9          3.3         2.2         22.7        22.5         15.3         7.2         19.6
Sub-total               1045.9       660.7       4930.9        385.2      1152.0         40.8        37.6        163.3       556.8        203.6        25.5        235.8
ZHEJIANG PROVINCE
Hangzhou City                 95.5         76.1       452.8         19.4        51.9          0.7          0.1         0.9         14.8        46.7        37.5         24.6
Jiaxing City                 320.6       307.1       1847.1         13.5        35.1          5.1         3.9         64.0        110.5       136.9         3.0         43.9      .
P-.
Huzhou City                  248.5        235.3      1376.5         13.2        33.7          0.0         0.0         41.9        67.7      n.a.           22.4         67.4
Sub-total                664.6       618.6       3676.4         46.1       120.7          5.8         4.0        106.8       193.0        183.6        62.8        135.9
TOTAL BASIN                 2033.4       1531.6     10289.0        501.9      1494.1         57.3        48.0        357.0       762.1        490.2        U8.3        636.3
Source: Taihu Basin Authority, Shanghai
)  X



CHINA
TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Taihu Basin Area Economic Statistics (1989)
Province           Total         Of which      Total       Total          <------Per Capita Income------
and             Industry      ThV Enter-    Agric.      Industry
City             Output      prise output   Output      + agric.        Average       Rural        Urban
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__--------------------------------
…----------------- Yuan billion -------------------          ------------Yuan--------------->
SHANGHAI MUNICIPALITY
___________________
Shanghai Municip.             151.S4        26.96        6.06       157.60            2212         1520        2612
SOUTH JIANGSU
______________
Suzhou City                    60.68        14.12        6.02        65.60            1640         1470        1756
Wuxi City                      41.83        12.72        2.82        44.66            1379         1326        1507
Changzhou City                 23.77        6.50         2.69        26.46            1342         1301        1488
Zhengjiang City                10.26         3.68        1.22        11.47            1182          894        1736
Sub-total/average            126.43       38.90        11.75       138.18            1361         1248        1817
ZHEJIANG PROVINCE
Hangzhou City                  20.38         4.43        1.13        21.61            1690         1223        1776
Jiaxing City                   14.92        6.50         3.40        18.32            1328         1231        1737
Huzhou City                     8.44         3.86        2.51        10.96            1292         1210        1683
Sub-total/average             43.74       14.78         7.04        50.78            1403         1221        1726
TOTAL/AVERAGE BASIN           321.71       78.63        24.86       3468.6            1659         1330        1961
__________- --- __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-_____ ____-----_-- __   - --_---  -- - - - - - - - -----------   -------a,                    i
Source: Tnihu Basin Authority, Shanghai.



TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Moteorological Data - Year 1980-1990
---------------------------------------------------------------___------------__----------------------------------------------------
Itm/City       Jan       Feb   Mar          Apr       May      Jun       Jul      Aug       Sep      Oct       Nov      Dec      Total
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__-----------------------------------------------------
RAINFALL (_)
_____________
Shanghai           39.2     68.0    101.9      96.9    107.8    188.7    150.1    181.5    153.8        74.2      66.6     23.6   1211.1
Suzhou             41.0     58.6      93.9     81.3    101.4    148.9    174.1    162.1    126.7        74.0      60.4     23.1   1124.6
Wuxi               33.2     69.1      86.6     88.2      96.7    167.0    182.9    113.5    120.3       77.3      68.8     24.4   1104.7
Changzhou          36.4     67.6      78.8     74.6      92.1    169.6    199.4    114.3    108.2       73.3      67.3     20.2   1070.4
Jiaxing            46.6     71.9    103.9    118.0    186.4    192.1    168.6    120.8    162.0         88.9      46.3     30.7   1306.0
Hangzhou           64.6     89.1    144.3    132.9    144.0    186.8    168.5    181.4    170.6          96.6     72.3     29.0   1478.9
Huzhou             62.8     76.0    132.8    112.2    116.2    213.6    188.2    182.7    152.2          92.2     63.3      26.5   1387.6
Average Basin       44.6     87.0    106.8    100.6    120.7    176.6    176.0    146.8    140.4          79.6     67.4      26.3   1240.3
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__-----------------------------------------------------
EVAPORATION (m)
Shanghai           67.1     68.6      88.9    126.8    168.0    166.8    199.6    190.0    138.3    120.2         84.1     68.6   1453.7
Suzhou             46.4     48.1      78.8    116.2    164.2    142.6    181.1    167.6    118.6        94.2      69.1      68.6   1271.3
Wuxi               48.0     49.3      87.3    117.4    161.0    166.7    186.6    178.8    118.9        99.3      70.7      68.2   1329.2
Changzhou         48.2      61.9      87.2    121.4    178.3    186.1    189.5    179.9    130.3    110.0         76.1     69.2   1398.1
Jiaxing            46.8     49.4      74.8    113.2    144.8    131.2    189.6    167.0        98.0     88.4      67.3     81.4   1201.8
Hangzhou           41.1     41.4      68.1    110.1    147.3    141.7    211.6    169.6    105.6         91.4     66.4      67.7   1252.0
Huzhou             77.0     47.0      88.4    124.4    184.1    160.8    188.3    184.4    117.1         98.9     72.2      59.8   1370.4
Average Basin       51.9     49.4      81.6    118.4    169.7    149.1    189.2    176.3    117.6    100.3         72.3     60.6   1326.2
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
TEMPERATURE (deg. C)                                                                                                              (Average)
______________________
Shanghai            4.1      4.9       8.7     14.3      19.8     23.7      27.8     27.4      23.3      18.5     12.9      8.0      16.9                l
Suzhou              3.4      4.3       8.6     14.6      20.0     23.9      27.9     27.3      22.8      17.8     12.1       6.3     16.7
Wuxi                3.0      4.2       8.6     14.4      20.2     23.8      28.0     27.6      22.7      17.6     11.6       6.0     16.6
Changzhou           3.0      4.0       8.6     14.6      20.4     24.2      27.9     27.3      22.8      17.7     11.7       4.9     16.6
Jiaxing             3.9      4.8       8.6     14.4      20.0     23.8      28.0     27.6      22.9     17.8      12.1       6.7     16.8
Hangzhou            4.2      5.8       9.3     15.4      20.0     24.4      28.3     27.5      22.9      18.2     12.6       6.2     16.2
Huzhou              3.6      4.6       8.3     16.0      20.6     24.2      28.0     27.3      22.6      17.8     11.8       6.1     16.7
Average Basin        3.6      4.8       8.8     14.6      20.1     24.0      28.0     27.4      22.9      17.9     12.1       5.6     16.8
--------------------------------------------------------------------__-------__-----------------------------------------------------
SUNSHINE (hrs.)
______________
Shanghai          127.0    102.6    127.4    168.4    186.1    150.3    210.2    210.0    160.0    147.6    146.6    181.3   1874.4
Suzhou            119.7     98.4    122.4    229.0    176.7    139.5    190.0    199.6    160.7    146.1    142.7    153.1   1888.9
Wuxi              134.1    108.9    141.4    167.6    190.0    161.7    207.8    229.6    162.4    165.6    161.2    162.6   1962.7
Changzhou         127.6    104.0    130.9    168.0    194.1    168.0    196.6    210.1    169.6    169.6    161.0    163.1   1909.4
Jiaxing           122.4    106.2    125.0    163.2    179.4    149.1    224.7    248.3    186.4    164.7    163.9    167.2   1948.6
Hangzhou          107.7     86.4    109.0    144.2    174.4    150.8    220.1    197.9    138.1    142.6    139.4    160.8   1770.1
Huzhou            118.2     97.8    124.3    166.8    186.8    166.8    200.7    208.6    162.3    162.0    146.9    184.0   1869.9
Average Basin      122.4    100.3    126.8    164.9    183.9    161.9    207.0    214.6    164.1    162.4    147.1    180.3   1884.6
RELATIVE HUMIDITY (X)                                                                                                             (Average)
Shanghai             74       74        76       76        77       82        82       82        80        76       76        71       77
Suzhou               7C       77        78       77        77       82        83       83        83        80       77        72       79
Wuxi                 76       77        78       79        80       82        84       84        84        81       78        76       80
Changzhou            74       76        76       76        76       79        82       82        80        76       74       69        76
Jiaxing              80       80        81       90        80       85        85       85        87       83        81       78        83
Hangzhou             76       78        78       77        77       81        79       81        82        79       76       a8        78
Huzhou               78       79        79       78        78       83        83       84        85        82       80        76       80
Average Basin         76       77        78       79        78       82        83       83        88        80       77        72       79
Source: Taihu Basin Authority



-44-                                                      ANNEX 1
Table 5
CHINA
TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
---------------------------------
Tidal Levels in Yangtze and Huangpu Rivers
-------------------------------------------
---------------------------------__------------------------------------------__-------------------------
Rivor  and                Annual  Average  (m)                  Maximum  Tide  (m)                  Minimum  Tide  (i)             Statistical
Stations                  High              Low              Level               Date            Level               Date    Period cover
----------------------------------------------------------------__-----------__-------------------------
YANGTZE RIVER
_____________
Xupu                                 8.78              1.76              8.27           9/1/81               0.67          1/80/79            1964-88
Liuhe                                8.65              1.48              8.46           9/1/81               0.49          1/29/79            1954-88
HUANGPU RIVER
Wusong                               8.26              0.96              6.74           9/1/81               0.03          1/14/87            1966-88
Mishidu                              2.69              1.74              3.80           9/1/81               0.90    12/28/78                 1969-33
Note:
(a) all levels referred to the Wusong Datum.
(b) data for 1960-62 were not available and excluded.
Source: Taihu Basin Authority.



CHINA
TAIHI BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Project Components Funded Entiroly by Local Funds
Province/Project    Benefit  Project                Projoct Content                          Purpose of Project
Area    Cost \n
JIANGSU PROVINCE        (km2)   (Y'-ln)
1. Huxi Pumped                               a) 4 pumping stations - 300 cms        Evacuate 116 am  flood water to Yangtzo River
Drainage Component      7269    416.1      b) River channels improvement          during flood; divert water from Yangtze R.
c) Xinzha gate in Grand Canal         during drought to meet sub-basin water demands.
d) 42 noz. bridges.
2. Hongqitang                                a) Continue channelization of          Serve as main draiange channel for the
Drainage Component      1000      69.9         Hongqitan R.;                      lowost areas north of Jiaxin City.
b) Channel slope protection;
c) Bridges over rivor.
3. Wuchengxi                                 a) Channel improvements;               Drainage and waterlogging alleviation;
Pumped Drsinnge         8699    199.3      b) 4 new pumping stations:             Flood prevention to aress north of
Component                                     Baiqugang -100 cms                  Tai lake and upper region of East Wuchengxi.
Xiagang - 46 cms
Xinguoh- - 60 cms
Zhaogang - 40 cmo
c) Control gates.
Sub-total Jiangsu      16968    684.3 .
ZHEJIANG PROVINCE
4. East/West Tiaoqi                           a) Channelization extension to        To intercept and divert flood waters
Flood Diversion                               4 rivers;                           form East and West Tiaoqi River into Taihu;
Component               6946    274.9      b) Strengthening Xixian Embankment  flood protection to Hangzhou City.
and reconstruction of gates;
S. Hang-Jia-Hu
North Drainage                             a) Channelization of existing          To drain northwest and wostern areas of
Component               1600    119.2          rivers;                            sub-basin into Tai Lake.
b) Structures.
Sub-total Zhejiang       7446    394.1
SHANGHAI MMUICIPALITY                                                                                                                               F 
6. Lanlugang River                            a) Channelization extension of                                                 - 
Channelization          1724    246.5          Lanlugang River;
b) Yuandang Lake diversion;
TOTAL SIX COWONENTS    26187   1324.9
\I include physical and price contingencies.



China
Taihu Basin Flood Control Project
Ministry of Water Resources
Project Cost Sumnary
Yuan                                   USS                                 X Total
---------------------------------    ------------------------------    % Foreign               Base
Local    Foreign        Total         Local   Foreign       Total       Exchange       Costs
A. Flood Mitigation Works
1. Taipu R. Channelization         295607.9   251800.1   547408.0         53746.9   45781.8   99528.7              46.0        25.3
2. Wangyu R. Channelization        298501.2   261922.2   560423.4          54272.9   47622.2  101895.2             46.7        25.9
3. Taihu perimeter dyke            201455.1   170843.6   372298.7          36628.2   31062.5   67690.7             45.9        17.2
4. Flood Forecast/Mgm't Sys.        13331.7    23812.9    37144.6           2423.9    4329.6    6753.6             64.1         1.7
5. Hang-Jia South Drainage         167033.1   159421.1   326454.2          30369.7   28985.7   59355.3             48.8        15.1
6. Land Acq. & Compensation        285297.3         0.0   285297.3         51872.2        0.0   51872.2             0.0        13.2                           0
Sub-Total                            1261226.3   867799.9  2129026.2         229313.9  157781.8  387095.7             40.8        98.3
B. Institu. Strength/BuiLdg.
1. Oper. & Maint. Equipment          1009.0      5081.0      6090.0          183.5     923.8    1107.3             83.4         0.3
2. Technical Assistance               242.4      9735.9      9978.2           44.1    1770.2    1814.2             97.6         0.5
3. Envirorunental Management         5576.0      7084.0    12660.0          1013.8    1288.0    2301.8             56.0         0.6
4. Office. Lab., Engr. Equip            0.0      1735.0      1735.0            0.0     315.5      315.5           100.0         0.1
5. Office Building & Quarter         4860.0      2240.0      7100.0          883.6     407.3    1290.9             31.5         0.3
Sub-Total                              11687.4    25875.9    37563.2           2125.0    4704.7    6829.7             68.9         1.7
Total BASELINE COSTS                 1272913.7   893675.7  2166589.4         231438.9  162486.5  393925.3             41.2       100.0
Physical Contingencies             127291.4    89367.6   216658.9          23143.9   16248.6   39392.5             41.2        10.0
Price Contingencies                234521.8   117422.2   351944.0         42640.3   21349.5   63989.8              33.4        16.2
Total PROJECTS COSTS                 1634726.9  1100465.5  2735192.4         297223.1  200084.6  497307.7             40.2       126.2
Values Scaled by 1000.0 - 1/22/1993 15:09



China
Taihu Basin Flood Control Project
Ministry of Water Resources
Summary Accounts Cost Summary
Yuan                                  uSS                                X Total
---------------------------------    ------------------------------    % Foreign          Base
Local    Foreign       Total         Local   Foreign       Total       Exchange      Costs
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Land acquistion                  175755.0          0.0   175755.0       31955.5        0.0   31955.5             0.0         8.1
B. Compensation                     117792.3          0.0   117792.3       21416.8        0.0   21416.8             0.0         5.4
C. Earthwork by contract            149866.2   108523.8   258390.0         27248.4   19731.6   46980.0             42.0        11.9
D. Earthwork by Force A/C           301874.0   162547.5   464421.5         54886.2   29554.1   84440.3             35.0        21.4
E. Civil work                       382764.0   382764.0   765528.0         69593.5   69593.5  139186.9             50.0        35.3
F. Equipment & installations         19937.2   181169.8   201107.0          3624.9   32940.0   36564.9             90.1         9.3
G. Buildings                          8640.0      5760.0    14400.0         1570.9    1047.3    2618.2             40.0         0.7
H. S & I and Design                  23343.7      7781.3    31125.0         4Z44.3    1414.8    5659.1             25.0         1.4
1. Supervision & Management          24273.9      6068.5    30342.4         4413.4    1103.4    5516.8             20.0         1.4
J. Other engineering cost            68425.0    29325.0    97750.0         12440.9    5331.8   17772.7             30.0         4.5
K. Training & Tech. Assist             242.4      9735.9      9978.2          44.1    1770.2    1814.2             97.6         0.5
TotaL BASELINE COSTS               1272913.7   893675.7  2166589.4        231438.9  162486.5  393925.3             41.2       100.0
Physical Contingencies           127291.4    89367.6   216658.9         23143.9   16248.6   39392.5            41.2        10.0
Price Contingencies              234521.8   117422.2   351944.0         42640.3   21349.5   63989.8            33.4        16.2
Total PROJECTS COSTS               1634726.9  1100465.5  2735192.4        297223.1  200084.6  497307.7             40.2      126.2
Values Scaled by 1000.0 -   1/22/1993  15:10
-I Xt



China
Taihu Basin Flood Controt Project
Ministry of Uater Resources
Sum=ary Account by Project Component
Yuan
Ftood               Land Acq.                          Envirorme   Office.
Taipu R.  Uangyu R.    Taihu    Forecast/   Hang-Jia        *       Oper. *   Technical      ntat       Lab.,      Office
Chametiz  Chametiz  perimeter    Mgm't          South    Cohpiensat    Maint.   Assistanc  Managemen    Engr.      Building
ation      ation        dyke       Sys.     Drainage      ion     Equipment       e          t         Equip    S Quarter
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Land acquistion                         0.0        0.0         0.0     5250.0         0.0   167505.0        0.0         0.0     1500.0        0.0      1500.0
B. Cocpensation                           0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0   117792.3         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
C. Earthwork by contract             104390.0   154000.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
D. Earthwork by Force A/C            183698.0    91630.0    67693.5          0.0   121400.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
E. Civil work                        182410.0   210540.0   220266.0       1450.0   150862.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
F. Equipment & installations          51100.0    49980.0    21240.0    22380.0    43422.0           0.0     5290.0         0.0     5960.0     1735.0         0.0
G. Buildings                              0.0         0.0        0.0      6400.0        0.0         0.0      800.0         0.0     1600.0        0.0      5600.0
H. S & I and Design                    6700.0      9000.0     9040.0      1060.0     5325.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
1. Supervision & Management            9410.0      9123.4     5759.2       604.6     5445.2         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         wS
J. Other engineering cost              9700.0    36150.0    48300.0          0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0     3600.0        0.0         0.0         OD
K. Training & Tech. Assist                0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0     9978.2         0.0        0.0         0.0          I
Total BASELINE COSTS                 547408.0   560423.4   372298.7   37144.6   326454.2   285297.3         6090.0     9978.2    12660.0      1735.0      7100.0
Physicat Contingencies              54740.8    56042.3    37229.9       3714.5    32645.4    28529.7       609.0      997.8      1266.0      173.5       710.0
Price Contingencies                 93353.8    90661.5    65548.9       4255.3    60475.2    31519.0      1171.6     1375.7      1983.7      192.5      1406.7
Totat PROJECT COSTS                  695502.6   707127.3   475077.5    45114.3   419574.9   345346.0        7870.6    12351.8    15909.7      2101.0      9216.7
.......                                          …......................…= l.. =      ========z2           .3-
Taxes                                   0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                   310566.8   320884.3   210723.0    28613.9   197548.8          0.0      6467.8    12041.0      8727.4     2101.0     2791.4
Values Scaled by 1O00.0  1/22/1993  15:09
I-a



China
Taihu Basin Flood Control Project
Ministry of Water Resources
Summary Account by Project Component
Yuan
Physical             Price
Contingencies        Contingencies
Total         X       Amount        X    Amount
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
,......... . . .  . .
A. Land acquistion                    175755.0        10.0    17575.5      10.6    18685.9
B. Comensation                        117792.3        10.0    11779.2      11.7    13774.3
C. Earthwork by contract              258390.0        10.0    25839.0      18.9    48816.8
D. Earthwork by Force A/C             464421.5        10.0    46442.1      14.5    67246.3
E. Civil work                         765528.0        10.0    76552.8      17.8   136126.6
F. Equipment & installations          201107.0        10.0    20110.7      16.1    32423.0                                                '0
G. Buildings                           14400.0        10.0      1440.0     16.1      2314.1
H. S & I and Design                    31125.0        10.0     3112.5      13.1      4064.1
1. Supervision & Management            30342.4        10.0     3034.2      18.9     5737.0
J. Other engineering cost              97750.0        10.0     9775.0      21.9    21380.2
K. Training & Tech. Assist              9978.2        10.0      997.8      13.8      1375.7
Total BASELINE COSTS                 2166589.4        10.0   216658.9      16.2   351944.0
Physical Contingencies              216658.9
Price Contingencies                 351944.0         9.1    31994.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                  2735192.4         9.1   248653.9      12.9   351944.0
Taxes                                    0.0         0.0        0.0
Foreign Exchange                   1100465.5         9.1   100042.3                                                                      rE
Values Scaled by 1000.0  1/22/1993  15:09



China
Taihu Basin Flood Control Project
Ministry of Water Resources
Yuan
Project Components by Year
Base Costs                                   Total
1992/93    1993/94    1994/95    1995/96    1996/97    Yuan      USS
A. Flood Mitigation Works
1. Taipu R. Channelization        10893.0   81697.0  164000.6  212975.6   77841.8  547408.0   99528.7
2. Wangyu R. Chamelization         2897.2  124833.8  189178.1  165404.9   78109.4  560423.4  101895.2
3. Taihu perimeter dyke            4738.1    47910.6  133752.8  108071.2   77826.0  372298.7   67690.7
4. FLood Forecast/Mgm't Sys.          0.0     8880.2    27714.4      550.0        0.0   37144.6    6753.6
5. Nang-Jia South Drainage         1591.6   42434.7   88366.3  103304.9   90756.7  326454.2   59355.3
6. Land Acq. & Compensation       69898.9  130217.8   67854.2   17326.4           0.0  285297.3   51872.2
Sub-total                           90018.8  435974.1   670866.4  607632.9  324534.0  2129026.2  387095.7
B. Institu. Strength/Buitdg.
1. Oper. & Maint. Equipment           0.0        0.0        0.0     2990.0    3100.0    6090.0    1107.3                                            1
2. Technical Assistance               0.0      670.5     3657.0    3715.7      1935.0    9978.2      1814.2                     
3. Environmental Management           0.0     2300.0    4910.0    3400.0    2050.0   12660.0    2301.8
4. Office. Lab., Engr. Equip          0.0      580.0      615.0      290.0      250.0    1735.0       315.5
5. Office Building & Quarter          0.0        0.0     1900.0    5200.0         0.0    7100.0    1290.9
Sub-totaL                               0.0    3550.5    11082.0    15595.7    7335.0   37563.2        6829.7
TotaL BASELINE COSTS                90018.8  439524.6  681948.4  623228.7  331869.0  2166589.4  393925.3
Physical contingencies            9001.9   43952.5   68194.8   62322.9   33186.9  216658.9   39392.5
Price Contingencies               2886.0   39394.0   99115.7  125070.4   85478.0  351944.0   63989.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                101906.6  522871.0  849258.9  810622.0  450533.8  2735192.4  497307.7
Taxes                                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Foreign Exchange                  7496.9  147956.1  333423.9  379301.6  232286.9  1100465.5  200084.6
Values Scaled by 1000.0 1/22/1993  15:30
> -
U 



China
Taihu Basin Flood Control Project
Ministry of Water Resources
Projects Components by Year
Totals Including Contirgencies                                      Totals Including Contingencies
Yuan                                                                 USS
1992/93    1993/94   1994/95    1995/96   1996/97      Total      1992/93   19 9/94    1994/95   1995/96   1996/97       Total
====================S=====S=232=Z55sS==Z====222= ==Z===============  =========5== …======2==UzuzSXS====================z …
A. Flood Mitigation Works
1. Taipu R. Charmelization       12295.2   96872.2  204308.3  276959.2  105067.7  695502.6          2235.5   17613.1   37147.0   50356.2   19103.2  126455.0
2. Wangyu R. ChanmeLization       3271.0  147890.7  235191.9  214849.8  105923.8  707127.3           594.7   26889.2   42762.2   39063.6   19258.9  128568.6
3. Taihu perimeter dyke           5347.5   56770.5  166315.6  140549.7  106094.2  475077.5           972.3   10321.9   30239.2   25554.5   19289.9   86377.7
4. Flood Forecast/Mga't Sys.         0.0   10590.4   33795.5      728.4        0.0   45114.3           0.0    1925.5    6144.6       132.4       0.0    8202.6
5. Hang-Jia South Drainage        1797.5   50152.9  109680.0  134195.3  123749.2  419574.9           326.8    9118.7   19941.8   24399.1   22499.8   76286.3
6. Lard Acq. & Cceensation       79195.5  156389.0   86381.0   23380.6         0.0  345346.0       14399.2   28434.4   15705.6    4251.0         0.0   62790.2
Sub-Total                          101906.6  518665.7  835672.3  790663.0  440834.9  2687742.5        18528.5   94302.9  151940.4  143756.9   80151.8  488680.5
B. Institu. Strength/Bulldg.
1. Oper. & Maint. Equipnent         0.0        0.0        0.0    3785.5    4085.1    7870.6            0.0       0.0        0.0      688.3     742.7    1431.0
2. Technical Assistance             0.0      781.7    4412.4    4648.3    2509.3   12351.8             0.0      142.1     802.2      845.2     456.2    2245.8
3. Envirormentat Management          0.0    2749.7    6025.5    4353.9    2780.7   15909.7             0.0      499.9    1095.5      791.6     505.6    2892.7
4. Office. Lab., Engr. Equip         0.0     673.8      740.9      362.3     323.9    2101.0           0.0      122.5      134.7      65.9      58.9      382.0
5. Office Building & Quarter        0.0        0.0    2407.9    6808.9         0.0    9216.7           0.0        0.0     437.8    1238.0        0.0    1675.8
Sub-Total                              0.0    4205.3   13586.6   19959.0    9699.0   47449.9              0.0      764.6    2470.3    3628.9    1763.4    8627.3
Total PROJECTS COSTS               101906.6  522871.0  849258.9  810622.0  450533.8 2735192.4         18528.5   95067.5  154410.7  147385.8   81915.2  497307.7
=============== ========================== == ====3=3======2==z=z= =S== 322-t==============  = =  =23=3=3=2=
Values Scaled by 1000.0 1/22/1993 15:10
U,
I-
IEms



TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
PROCUAISmNT SCHMUAI FOA CIVIL WORKS
_,q.     CRINA                                              mY majOR  ICR  AND  LC8 CO3^C?U                                               AC_
______________  -' 1 - s                   I_                                   _                                              .*Wsf                                             1-97
I. WANGYU iLyvn
Mono ~     ~        ~       ;i
1. 11yer channelizatioc
_ _  '- 5i  j 34 km '(Ch. 8  '  i i- 42  IC   i19.i2  , ,i 
2. Outlet Gate/Pumaping
Station Complex           LCB      10.0                                                                            4
1.    11                                4   ,    *    -,    w    .    -s    |   T   !   '   *   t   '  i  ';  t.  1. 1 _ ! I _ I t | 1 1 , _ [ | X I X I | i [ W | | j l | l W |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.4   4  49. 
"0 ~~~~~~~*                                                          77    ,,      _     r   fi  I                 I I I  _I;l   I I I  I I I  I I  I I f
3 .Grand CanalSyphon          LCB      12.5o.            ''                                                                                       
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11I.   FC74                                                                  celiUo __t i,    I I I i I  I I   _1 11I r I 1    
341  (Cb  8 - /,2 )  IC}  19 2 n_o    j   ,       ,       |      S ! | ;,   |   |              =        =        =        H   I ! ! z 1 +     ! | 11  _  I  L ' I | "4I 4   4                  I1: _4
*. River chbnnlizatiom                           5                   I        i                                                                                                         I '  .                      i
Chna5gshou stratch        L.C        8.9 'one                .  -                                                             I        iI1
5. River chennelizatia4                                                       ri                                                                                                                       I 4         
Chngsabou lst phase   LCl           5.5            t                                                             ii    I             I I 
6. Shiplock at Outlet    LCk              1                                 4 I                   i                                   I I                             I
Gete,'16xl90.                                           '4          II341
44z        t^,        1       6    x l      9 Xi 3   '   I§ I W   ie I , , g,  [;;Il!llil-l] 'o ,  ,!+1!t1zl lliil ,I , 1I'  IT 11 V-
7. Yintiebhe Shiplock         LC        1.8  _                              I                                 I  II I I                                   I 
12 x     .                           0000-3    .1    I                 I             I   4 I .' .:    I
S. Won Lin Shiplock
12 x 16iDn            LC-D      1.8  .M_D                         =I                                                ;I   IiI !III!Trj!II IIIIIIIIIIiIIIIiIIiIIII
WA.4961W34510                         W'.aAa.2 .T .c0301                                                                                    M1C.- . !;i.i7
. PnsYnmnoSD 1   !mI   is If                             I   C I; Is I - lC$C*. U  5. -0 a'mEYS                                                        " iIh11T  Do-" I   111   1111 1
..aC5e                      bni  a; lI. .ta......,T*t... 0l                                                                  ... CTSUC)Q i *lCtl                  lIgoia7 c 
..aeat a.na?         ss                                            I                                                                                            Ia.z.A$03-DCS IWiO                                            iJ 
en ,na iS Wlow . -A V_.1iD                                            .aa.i~, °. lCISSOotO                                     * Retroective  financing  itffii 
G-,M &LinWATWl 501*  W11aPOW"? l,a.MAT.O'. 00w0tnib""Io
s..w p0                                                    I .oaa  e'
S.-Olood"~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



TAMH BASTN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
PRIOCUNIMAINT SC4W0ULE FOR CIVIL WORKS
________________                      Ut~~~~11. UwaJO   EcUs mm LOU COMU9UCU
II. TAI?U XIVUM
9. Rlver channelizatiA                                                                                                                                
JilAnsu -24km              IGU    19.2                     2                                                                       II
10. Teipu Now PumpingI
Station 300 cac      Ica    11.5 & 
11. leogang Gate/Ship
Lock Complex         LCU     2.0~u                                                            
5I~~~~~~~~~SSe                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~ * 2    I I    I    i I
12. WI.ndtgg8an Ship               1.8                      II                                      I
LAock 12 x 16m......                                                                                                                                                                   
13. LUshuidanShip                                                    I        
III. Taihu Perimeter
Dikes
-  - -    -                                                s   .            - t     I V,                     I V I I   ra  I   W! I vz  I I I I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~22  I r 
14. GaojIAMV Cate/                                         7I 72  2                                                                                  If 
ShiplockComplex        LCU     3.0 aums                                                          '
IS. Eu Kou Cate/Ship                            2                                               L-              -I I  IV              2LMl     V
L,ock Complax         WDR    3.7                      2I2                                      
16. Teipukou atae/                                                 I 
Shiplock Complex      ICR     0.                                                       I~                2  
...1ffl    I~~~sa 2m Ca -.AA    01  c KC*. LA S0    I                                                    I o.SaAfSSf                    fLC-V1
w ~~~~~Looms hoo MINIMUM             me awd'ICSlPS'  TSClO  mait
g.U9YW~0PSSdA&9AASSSAlS             S 05A~l @~A OLICA SfCAI *AS A.ASICmIavvo e M~C   AKSAALS      Retroactive financing itai.



TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
CHMU                             l'YOI~~~~~~~~ROCURINMINT SC IIDULl FOR CIVIL WOADI
CDINA                           DY EA~~~~~~..oD, XCD" IIDLCD COUNRACTs                               W   ________
-'S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
17. Zbekugeng Gate/
Shiploek Complex       LCB    1.3
18. Dutiegang Gate/l                                                                                                            
Sbiplock Complex      LCD    2.0........
19. Tei Go e BShiplock
12 x 160.           LCD    1.8                                                                                                               .. ..           ..4
20. Loulu/Thaen Lu GOCIF
Sbiplock Couplexem    LCD    2.0
IV. HANG_JIA_HU DRIAC
21. Nantalto: Tid:l C  e  CD  r5 4II       III. 
22. Shendanhe Tida      e LCD   0. a
23. Tangueng Xiehe
Gate/Piknping Stn.     ICA  11.3  ~4
".MD                                                                  I jft .. 
V.  DUILD!NCS                                     i'I
24. Flood Control Cti.  LCD   1.4                                                                       I                                            f I     I II I      I 
25. IUxi deter Queli                                     I'.    f                                           'CI
Igt Officee        LCD   0.4  e,                                                                 
26. Suzhou Engr. Off  e LCD   0.4  ~.I
LI1)
~r~~~~ "T.                                        ..... .                                                           .n.nr(O
-~.~6~TMIA000"   4600'O*S'MS 10 NM.   Rtaci                                                                             financing  item



ANNEX 2
-55-                                          Table  4
CHINA
TAIlHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Procurement of Machinery, Equipment end Materiel.
*     . ~~~~:<------Procurement Method                 … ---- 
Item                  Unit       Quantity       Unit       ICB         LID         LCD    :Othera \a       Total
*    .             ~~~~~~Amount  Amount    Amount      Amount        Amount
I. Materiala                                                     (Y'000)   (YOOO0)    (0'000)    (0'000)    (i'000)          (Y'000)
(a)tCmoatructi on;
Stee  bare                               ton        55000         1.80    99000.0         0          0.0         0.0       99000.0
Steel plateel                             ton         600-0         3.2    1920000.0                  0.0         0.0       19200.0
Timber                                     M3        200           1.00    20000.0         0.          0.0        0.0       200000
Sub-total (I).                                                 13D200.O          .         0.0         0.0      1382000
II. Constructimon en  Ohm Equip..
Hlydraulic beckhoe excavator              no.,           2      1440.00     2880.0               0.0        0.0   :.   2880.0
Dredger, 400-600 m3/hr.                   no.,           2     7200.00    14400.0 :          0         0.0        0.0  : 14400.0
Workshop toola & equip.                  got                     640.00        0.0         0           0.0     1280.0  :     1200
Sub-total (II).                                                 17280.0        0           0.0      1280.0:   18360.
III. Vehicles:
Truck., 5-6 tone                          no4                     75.00      300.0         0           0.0        0.0:        300.0
Twin-calb Pickups, 2 tone                 nO.,          15        62.50      937.5         0.0         0.0        0.0         937.5
Field Utility Vehicle. \b                 no             0         0.00        0.0         0           0.0        0.0  :        0 0
Field vehiclee c/w monitoring equip.      no             3      270.00       810.0         0           0.0        0.0  :       10.0
Mobile a/chop vehicl es                   no             4        50.00      200.0         0            .         0.0  :      2000
Due, 4O-paaccngera \b                     n0                       0.00        0.0                     0.0 .0000
Sub-total (III).                                                  2247.5          .         00          0.0        2247.
IV. Pumping Equipment c/w motora s                                                          
Teipu P/Stn., 6 x 50 cmc                  sum                  38750.00    32937.5          0.0      3875.0     1937.5       38750.0
Wengyu P/Stn., 4 x 50 cee                 sum                  30000.00    25500.0          0.0:   3000.0       1500.0       30000.0
Yanguen P/Stn., 4 m 50 cea                sum                  26110.00    22193.5          0.0      2611.0     1305.5       26110.0
Sub-total (IV)                      ,.80631.0                                   0.0     9486.0      4743.0       94860.0
V.  Electrical Equipeent,....
Gene retore                                cat           281  ;        25     7825.0 :         0         0.0 :      0.0        7823.0
Transformers                               eat           155  ;        22     3410.0 :         0         0.0 :      0.0  :     3410.0
Sub-total (V)                                                   11235.0 :       0.0        0.0 :       0.0  : 11233.0
VI.  Office and Laboratory equip.,....
Office equipeent:
Micro-computer., 486/386                  no.           10       46.50         0.0       465.0:        0.0:       0.0         465.0
Copying machine.                          no.            3       35.00         0.0       105.0 :       0.0 :      0.0         105.0
Laptop/ Mote book computers               no.            5           30        0.0 :     150.0 :       0.0        0.0         150.0
Iceperery processor                       no.            1      120.00         0.0:        0.0:       0.0:      120.0         120.0
Dig ttzer/Plottar                         no                     120.00        0            .          0.0      120.0         120.0
Video camcorder                           no   ,         1  :1227.00           0        1227.0         0.0        0.0        1227.0
VCR                                       no.                :       12        0            .          0.0:      60.0  :       60.0
Fax eachine.                              no.,           3       23.50         0            .          0.0       70.5          7085
Typwrter                                  no.,           3       23.00         0           0.0         0.0 :      9.0          69.0
othr misce. equip.                      sum                    145.00.         .0                    0.0       143.0         145.0
Sub-total (VI)                                                       .       1947.0        0.0:   584.5           2331.3
VII. Flood Monitoring and Communication Equip-
Hydrological teleectric equip.             suinm                    10250     8712.5         0.0      1025.0:   512.5         10250.0
Water quality monitoring equip.            sum:    3235                       2749.8         0.0       323.5:    161.8:    3235.0
Satellite communication equip.             sum                 :     7713     6556.1         0         771.3 :    385.7  :     7713.
Computer networking equip.                 sum                 :     4665 :3965.3 :          0.0 :     466.5 :    233.3        4665.0
FCDC equipment                             sum                 :     1211 : 1029.4 :         0.0 :     121.1 :     60.6  :     1211.0
Sub-total (VII),.: 23012.9:                                                      0.0:  2707.4        1353,7:  27074.0
VIII. Eoviroinentel Management Equip.,....
Analytical laboratory equip.               sum:                      3160:  2686.0:          0.0:    316.0:    151.0:    3160.0
Water qual'ity monitorin  boat              no.            1I         700 :      0.0 :         0 :       0.0 :    700.0  :      700.0
Taihu  utropication modeling equip.    csum                      1800      180-0.0       0.0 :       0.0 :       0.0        1900.0
Water pollution diapersal modeling equip  sum:                       1800:   1800.0          0.0:        0.0:        0.0:    1800.0
Sub-total (VIII)                                                  6    288 0     0.0:    316.0:    858 0:    7460.0
Total coat (r - viii)           (0000):: 278892.4                                1947.0: 12509 A     8819.2         3021059.0
USSIOOO                          :50707.7        354 Q      2274.4      1603.5      54'939.6
\a: Include prudent chopping on baeis of at Iseact three bid quotations and off-shelf pu-cheaw
\b: Reeerne procurement not financed by Denk Group, bu,t to bm purchased with ox- domestic fund



-56-                                     ANNEX 2
Table 5
TAIU BASIN PLOWD C4WNL PROJOT
Retroactive FinencIng Work and E.tI..ta.
Description       l-t Phaw.: March 1 - May 31       2nd Ph..e: June 01 - Merch 31       --- Total -----        Bet. Olburent
of work           Quantity   Eat. Velue             Quantity   Est. Value          Quantity   Ert. Vulue       I         Amount
…-- ---- -- --- - -                                                   - - - - …-- -                   - - - -      ---         --… -
T.eiu Rtiver Dredging
Shunohai Mwnicipality:
Earthwork (1000 3)            5070       26290                  6O00        33480             11070        61770          4S       27797
MHnenry  orl (1000 )             0           0                    240        2400               240         2400          48         1060
Structure*:
Lientang Cato/9ridg.                     7000                                440                 0        7440           48        3348
Buildings                       0           0                      1        2000           -     1         2000          48          900
Snid.                           0           0                      1        1900                 1         1900          48         6S
si*T. dilocls-0                        0  O                           4S50                 5         400           48        2025
Teaporary  o0rie                          1700 6OU0                                               0         oS00          s0        2S8O
Sub-tot l                          36990                              S1S20                          68810                   86555
Zhji.ng Provinc.:
Earth.ork (1OOO)            279.5        1580                  602.5        3360               62          4920          4S        2214
Mt4onry work (1000.8)                                               4         400                 4          400          4S          18o
Strucwur--
Ori,dge                         0           0                      1         950                 1          960          4S         420
Water gates                     0           0                               4S00                 0         4S00          48        2025
ToSorwry  orkl                             200                               1000                 0         1200          30          360
Sub-tothl                           1760                              10210                          11970                    S207
J.ingeu Province:
Enrthwork (1000.8)               0           0                   1040        5oO0              1040         seo0          4S        2610
Structures:
Twipu Cte refuri.ihIn           0           0                               2000                 0        2000           4S         900
Winer gat-e                     0           0                               7000                 0         7000          45        8180
Sub-tote l                             0                              14800                          14000                    6660
Total Taipu Rlver                      367S0                              76380                         115260                   50421
Wengyu R. Dred;gng
Ji eanu Plrov ince:
Earthwork (1000.8)            2740       16330                  11300       66540             14240       84870           48       86192
Structwres:
.C. Syphon                      0           0                              12000                 0        12000          48         5400
Gt.et/Bridge.                   0           0                              25000                 0       25000           4S       11250
Other Engineering                0           0                               99S0                 0        9950           30        290S
Total                            16330                             115490                         131620                   57627
i;ng-Jl.-Mu South Drain."-
Zhejiang Province
Earth.ork. (1OOOd)             SOO        2790                  2000       1i116               2500        13930          4S        6276
Structures:
Nentalto. CGt.                   1        1900                              16000                 1        17960          45        6091
Bridge*                          0           0                      1         U40                 1         640           4S         378
Yingu.n % hvn;he n    Ot         0           0                      1        2500                 1        2500           4S        1123
Other enineering                           1000                              10000                 0        11000          30        3300
Total                             5770                              40S00                         46270                    19172
Taihu Perimeter Dll-
Zhe*jI *ng Provi;nce
Earthwork. (1000.8)             284        1610                   1600       12620              2084       14830           80        486
Masonr wrk (1000.)             20.7        3100                    30         8500              60.7        S6o6          4A         300
Sub-total                           4990                             1620                          21310                     7895
J;ang,  Proince
artheorke (1000.3)            121.7         570                   1000        7120            1121.7        7990           s0        2897
Nos nry work (lOOO3)           5.6         950                    40         4000              45.6        4930           48        2225
Sub-total                           lo20                              11120                         12940                     4525
Total                            lUo                                27440                         34250                    12020
tAND TOTAL (Y000)                      67660                             2599;0                        327820                   139439
(U$5 000)                      12301.6                           4726.5                         5 9547.3                   25352
…____._____________________________________ ___________________________________________ _________________________________-----…------…



-57-                           ANNEX 2
Table 6
CHINA
TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Sch-dule and Profile
----------------------------------------
------------------------------------__---------------------------------------__-----
IBRD/IDA                Estimated Disbursement               Disbursement Profile /a
Fiscal Year         ---------------------------------        -----------------------
and Sementer        Semestral Cumulative  Cumulative            Year/      Cumulative
----(USS million)----      (%)             Semester        (X)
FY 1998                                                       Year 1
Jul-Doc 92                0.0         0.0            0                let           0
Jan-Jun 93 \b            20.0        20.0           10               2nd           30
FY 1994                                                       Year 2
Jul-Dec 98              16.0        36.0           18                lot          38
Jan-Jun 94              20.0        66.0           28               2nd           46
FY 1995                                                       Year 3
Jul-Dec 94              26.0        80.0           40                1vt          58
Jan-Jun 96              30.0       110.0           66               2nd           66
FY 1996                                                       Year 4
Jul-Doc 95              30.0       140.0           70                1ct          74
Jan-Jun 96              20.0       160.0           80               2nd           82
FY 1997                                                       Yoar 6
Jul-Dec 96             16.00      175.00           88                1-t          90
Jan-Jun 97             10.00      185.00           93               2nd           94
FY 1998                                                       Year 6
Jul-Doc 97             10.00      196.00           98                lst          96
Jan-Jun 98              6.00      200.00          100               2nd          100
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__-----
Board Approval Date:          Expected February 1993
Completion date:              June 30, 1997
Cloolng date:                 June 30, 1998
/a: Disbursement profile for agricultural sector in China compiled by COD, June 1992.
/b: Including rotroactive financing effective from March 1, 1992 to signing of
Loan and Credit Agreements.



OINMA
TAIhU BASIN FLOD CODTROL PROJECT
Training Program
lt*O/Subjecta                      Target      Duration   Total                Phasing by Year (Y'ODO)                                        Propoed content *nd locations
------------            Croup      (s-day)/   cost                                                                             -              -
------     (s-month) (Y'000)       1992      1993     1994      199S      1996
I. TRADINC:
A. Local Training
1) Project implementation snd management,    Dopertmont/
procurement. disburs_eent, MH               D0'iieon heads  1000 ad        60 0      60 0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0           Joint launch workshop by World 6an/P%ff/MCiF in Shanghai.
2) Wetar resource  engineering and              City and
maneamnt                                    County Chief*    675 ad       33.7       0.0      33.7      0.0       0.0       0.0           Water lMnagement Dept., HR and selected Design Institutes.
3) Flood control and management                 Engineers          900 ad      40.5      0.0       0.0      20.3     20.3       0.0           MM8, TBA and Ministry of Communication.
4) Engineering deaign. construction and         Operation k       1600 ed     81.0       0.0       0.0      40.5     40.5       0.0           Water H negeent Dept., MM and TBA
operation and ma_ntanance                    saint, staff
5) Environmental monitoring                     Eng. eaist.        50o ad      25.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      12.5     12.5           Selected local *nviron-entel research and protection institute&
A technicians
6) Sstellita Imagery and CIS                    Engineer A          0OO Ad    25.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      12.5     12.5           Reeote Sensing Center. ?*R and  elected local institutas.
technic;;na
7) English language                             Technical A         60 so     81.0      40.5      40.5       0.0      0.0       0.0           Language institute in Shanghai.
admin. staff
B. Oversas Trsining
8) Operation modelling                          Engineers A
technicians        12 as    162.0       0.0       0.0    162.0        0.0      0.0           Planning and design of copuothrizd operational model in hos tn
9) PC Appin  in Proj. Hnagement                 Engineers A                                                                                   countries - Canada or LK end other  to be determined later. 
technicians         4 so    140.0        0.0    140.0       0.0       0.0      0.0           Various PC software progrs    at the World Bank, Washington.
Sub-total Training                                             648.2    100.5    214.2    222.8        65.8      25.0
II. OVEtSLEAS STLOY TOURS
1) Flood control and management of lowland   Tech. ateff            3 as    330.0        0.0       0.0    330.0       0.0       0.0           6 staff a 2 weeks to visit Netherlands deltaic areas.
2) Communication snd Telemetry                  Tech, staff          3 a     165.0       0.0       0.0      0.0    165.0        0.0           6 staff a 2 ...ks to visit systems in operation in Japan.
3) Lake  -nironmentl mnagemnt                   Teh, staff           3 *m    330.0       0.0    330.0        0.0      0.0       0.0           6 staff a 2 .eeks to visit the Creat Lakes in ULA.
4) Wate  resources regulation and management Tech, staff             3 *-    330.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0    330.0            6 staff a 2 s*eek  to visit the Thames River Authority in l.K.
5) Proj. Iple_entation A H negent               Tech. staff          3 *     330.0       0.0    330.0       0.0       0.0       0.0           6 staff a 2 weeks; destinations to bh  determined.
Sub-total Overseas Study Tours                                       1485.0       0.0    660.0    330o0    165.0    330o0
TOTAL PROJET (BASE COST)                                          2133.2    100.5    874.2   552.75   250.75         355
Note; ad . stwff-day, me . staff-onth.
lIz1
'D



CHINA
TAIHU BASIN FLOOW CONTROL PROJECT
-------------------------------------
Technical Assistance Programs
Subject                  MHn-           Unit   Estimated                          Brief Description of Activities
----------                 Month         Cost      Cost
(USS'O0O) (USS'O0)
Consultants for Engineering Studies and Design
1) Basin-wide Operational Model
for Water Management                     4            20       80      To assist TBA in developing a basin-wide operational model for flood,
drought and water quality management.
2) Water Quality Modelling
a) Eutrophication of Tai Lake          20            11      220      10 man-month of foreign and 10 man-months of local consultants to
study the present eutrophication of Tai Lake and to develop measures
for its control and  bat ement.
b) Pollution dispersal in                                             10 man-month of foreign and 10 an-months of local consultants to
river and lake systems             20           11       220     study dispersal and control of polluted water among river/lake systems.
8) Review of institutional                                               2 man-months of foreign and 2 man-months of local consultants to
policy and needs to most                4            11       44      review existing policy, regualtions, institutional capacity and
integrated water managemnt                                             needs of TBA to meet integrated water management in the Basin.
4) Design and technical spec.                                            4 man-months of foreign consultants to assist TBA in design and
preparation for Taipu Pumping           4            20       80      preparaing technical specifications for the Taipu Pumping Station
Station (300 cas).                                                    (800 cms), and to pro-qualify bidders and evaluate bids.
Total Project                     52                    644
---



-60-                            ANNEX 3
China
Taihu Basin Flood Control Project
Economic Analysis
1.    The economic analysis compares the estimated costs of the project to the
expected benefits accruing due to project investments, with both costs and
benefits expressed in economic terms. Flood control is the primary benefit of
the proposed project investments, and has been the focus of the analysis. The
other benefits are drainage, water supply, navigation, and environmental
improvement. only the drainage benefit is included in the cost/benefit
analysis along with flood control. The remaining benefits are significant but
have not been included in the analysis because they are difficult to quantify
and generally depend on the degree of authority TBA is given to manage the
facilities comprehensively. In terms of project costs, all the investment and
operating costs except those for the Taipu Pumping Station are included in the
analysis; those costs should be included in the analysis for the proposed
Shanghai Environmental Project which is now under preparation, although
construction and operation should be under the Taipu project for reasons of
overall basin integration and efficiency.
Flood Control Benefits
2.    Mthodoloav.   The flood control benefit of the project is defined as
future flood damages mitigated by the project investments. Since it is
impossible to predict the timing and magnitude of future floods, analysis on
the flood control benefit has to apply a probabilistic approach to derive
expected damages under present conditions and then index this value to reflect
the impact of future economic growth. Although the empirical method used for
the analysis is simplified compared to the engineering approach commonly used
in defining flood control benefits, it is adequate for analyzing the proposed
investments (see para. 6). The actual steps for the analysis are as follows:
(1)      Recorded losses of eight major floods since 1949 were adjusted to
derive their equivalent damages under current conditions (see
para. 3 and Table 1).
(2)      These equivalent flood damages were then ranked, and their
empirical recurrence frequency calculated accordingly (Table 1).
(3)      The losses and corresponding frequencies were then plotted, and a
curve was fitted and extended to derive the losses for floods with
lower and higher frequencies (see figure 1).
(4)      The area under the curve is calculated, which gives the expected
value of annual flood damage under the current conditions.



-61-
(5)      The with-project flood damage is estimated and deducted to derive
the expected annual benefit under present conditions.
(6)      Flood damage growth rates based on expected economic growth rates
were then estimated to derive the stream of benefits for project
investments under future conditions.
(7)      Conversion factors were estimated and applied to derive the
economic value of the benefits, since the benefits were initially
estimated in financial terms.
3.    The major losses for the floods are industrial plant, inventory and lost
output value. In defining equivalent industrial losses for the major floods,
ratios between the recorded damages of each flood and the industrial output
values of the corresponding years were first calculated. The ratios were then
used to multiply the industrial output values of 1990. Impacts of flood
control works and other flood control efforts accomplished since each of the
floods were then deducted respectively to derive the envisaged damages under
the current conditions. The latter was accomplished by deducting from the
calculation the output value of assets protected by the flood control works
constructed during the period. The same analysis was conducted for each of
the major cities in the project area. For the non-industrial losses, a 4%
damage growth rate was used to adjust the recorded losses in deriving their
equivalent damages.
4.    The major advantages of the method are its simplicity.  It also enables
the agencies responsible for preparing the project (TBA/Yangtze River Commis-
sion) to make best use of their detailed knowledge and data. Statistical data
on flood damages are readily available for all the major floods since 1949,
and easily accessible by the analysts of the project authorities. In
addition, the project agencies, which have been in charge of flood control
work for the last forty years, have better knowledge of the incremental area
and assets protected by the flood control works constructed during the period.
All these data are readily available for the analysis.
5.    The weakness of this method is also related to its simplicity.  As large
amount of work in establishing stage-damage relationship required by the
engineering approach was skipped, this simplified method is only a structured
approximation in defining actual flood damages. However, this approximation
is adequate for this case. With conservative assumptions (see para. 7 to 12),
the current analysis shows a very high ERR for the project. The most
conservative assumption relates to the rate of economic growth; the analysis
here uses a maximum annual growth rate of 6 percent whereas annual growth has
averaged 19 percent over the last 15 years (see para. 10). This indicates
considerable room to accommodate errors in the estimation of benefits. In
fact, the flood control benefit would have to fall by 62% to reduce the ERR to



-62-
12% (see para. 23 and Table 5). The statistics for the 1991 flood and the
floods of the 80s are relatively accurate, complete hydrological data for all
the major floods are available and have been taken into consideration in the
analysis, and the potential for flood damage loss is increasing rapidly.
Benefit estimation errors of that magnitude are unlikely.
6.    Compared with the relatively simple empirical approach, the more
commonly used engineering method would imply massive, repeated, and time-
consuming efforts to determine the flood control benefits. Under the
engineering approach, the flood damage-frequency relationship is established
by first deriving the stage-damage functions through detailed field
enumeration and survey of assets, and then correlating them with flood
recurrence frequencies. Due to the wide distribution of the flood susceptible
assets in the basin as well as their diversity and rapid change, substantial
work and time would be required to establish the elevation-damage functions
for major types of assets. In addition, due to the uneven distribution of the
storms and the variation in physical conditions for various parts of the
basin, at least one separate analysis would have to be conducted for each of
the basin's nine drainage zones. The extra time and resources required for
these efforts were not considered necessary to justify the proposed
investments, although they may be justified for future operational purposes.
7.    Assumptions.  The overall project is designed for a 50-year flood.  For
floods with less than 50-year return period, the share of the Bank-financed
project in flood control benefits is estimated to be 48% of the total
benefits. According to the overall plan, the flood control investments are
divided into two major parts; i.e., localized on-farm flood control works, and
ten key sub-projects. The latter are further divided into the four key flood
protection sub-projects to be financed by the Bank (termed "4+1" because the
Bank financed project includes the four key works plus a monitoring system)
and the other six financed by the government alone (total "10+1"). According
to the design, 98% of flood damage would be mitigated by these investments,
for floods with less than 50-year return period.
8.    The ratio of benefits allocation between local on-farm works and the ten
key sub-projects ("10+1") are derived according to their respective share of
the total investment costs estimated at 33:66. The ratio between "4+1" and
the other six investments is based on the respective flood volumes diverted,
and is calculated to be 72:28. Thus, the share for the Bank financed project
alone ("4+1") would be 48% (0.66*0.72) of the total, and the with-project
flood damage would be equivalent to 52% of the total damage. Benefits of
"4+1" are largely independent of the other six components and the local flood
control works; these components, however, depend on "4+1".
9.    Inclusion of benefits for floods with a return period between 50 to 100
years reduces the share of overall benefits claimed for project investments to



-63-
41%. For these floods, a limited benefit has been assumed for "4+1"; i.e.,
10% damage for P=1.2% flood, 15% for P-1.4% and 20% for P=1.6%. The
corresponding with-project damage rates are therefore, 90%, 85%, and 80% of
the damage estimated for these larger floods; some of this damage would be
prevented by the six subprojects financed by government and by local works.
For more than 100-year floods, no benefit has been assumed (see Figure 1).
The proportion of these benefits to total benefits attributed to the project
is relatively small.
10.   Growth Rate of Annual Flood Damage.  The regional growth rate used for
estimating flood damage is a key variable in the analysis. The growth rate is
assumed to be 6% for the period between 1994 and 2005, and 4% for the rest of
the project period until 2043. This assumption is very conservative.
According to the official statistics, the annual economic growth rate for the
project area has averaged around 19% over the last 15 years. In addition, due
to the new open-door initiatives, foreign investment has started to come into
the area on a large scale during the first half of this year. Indeed, the
proposed project has further facilitated the local authorities' efforts in
attracting foreign investments. Under these conditions, it is reasonable to
expect that the strong momentum of economic growth will continue for some
years before returning to a more normal status. The assumed future growth
rate is about 35% of the expected economic growth rate during the period of
analysis.
11.   Historically, the estimated damage growth rates for the various major
floods implied by the equivalent damage approach are around 80% of the
economic growth rates for the corresponding period. This rate is at the high
end of the range of 50-80%, which is reported for China as a whole. However,
it is not unrealistic given the dynamic growth noted in the project area. For
instance, even if the 1954 flood would only cause damages equal to that of the
1991 flood, this ratio (damage versus economic growth rates) would have to be
around 70%. With its much longer duration and larger total discharge, the
1954 flood would have certainly caused much larger overall damages compared to
1991.
12.   Other assumptions.  The period from 1949 to 1991 has been used for the
calculation flood damage recurrence frequencies; i.e., forty-four (m+l) has
been used as the denominator in the frequency calculation. The project life
is assumed to be 50 years from the beginning of construction. This analysis
period is also commonly used in China for flood control projects. In terms of
the phasing in of benefits, it is assumed that the project would realize 40%
of annual benefits in year 3, 60% in year 4, 80% in year 5, and 100%
thereafter.
13.   Flood Control Benefits.   Based on the assumptions described above, the
expected annual flood damage under the current conditions totals Y1,035



-64-
million, of which 76% would be industrial losses. With the benefit sharing
ratios described in para. 7 and 8, the expected annual flood control benefit
under the current conditions is estimated at Y427 million. As indicated
above, this annual benefit is assumed to grow at an annual rate of 6% before
2005 and 4% thereafter.
Drainage Benefits
14.   The high water table is one of the major constraints for crop production
in the low-lying Hangjiahu area. This is especially true for winter crops.
According to Jiaxing Water Resources Bureau, the South Drainage component of
the project, when completed, would reduce the water level in the river network
by 40 cm for an area of more than 4,000 km2. About 1.29 million mu (86,000
ha) of cultivated land would benefit from the investment due to improved
drainage conditions. In order to meet the needs of winter crops, the target
water level at Jiaxing would be generally fixed at 2.6 m during the autumn
planting season and the spring growing season. This compares to more than 3 m
river water level commonly observed at present in the area during March to
May.
15.   Based on the experience in existing polder areas where equivalent water
level reduction has been achieved, the yield increase is estimated to range
from 3% for rice to 12% wheat, with total incremental production of 43,000
tons of grain and rapeseed (see Table 3). Apart from some additional manure
application, no other inputs were assumed necessary for this yield increase.
With these assumptions, the net incremental benefit of the drainage component
is estimated at Y25 million per annum at full development.
Other Benefits
16.   Other benefits of project investments are environmental improvement,
Shanghai water supply, and navigation; although they are substantial, these
benefits are excluded from this analysis. Environmental improvement benefits
for the basin due to project investments will be substantial and widespread.
Project works will help control drainage of polluted water into Lake Taihu,
the Grand Canal, and the Taipu River; help control the spread of pollution in
the basin waterway network; and improve water quality in the central areas of
several large cities. Shanghai water supply facilities will provide
additional water of higher quality for Shanghai residents and for pollution
abatement in the area; these benefits should be included in the analysis of
the proposed Shanghai Environmental Project. Navigation benefits include
reduced disruption of waterway traffic due to floods and increased mileage of
navigable waterways; these benefits more than offset the cost of slightly
increased shipping time due to the additional locks to be constructed under
the project. These benefits, especially environmental improvement and



-65-
Shanghai water supply, will require allocation of more authority to TBA for
comprehensive, real-time management of basin-wide water resources.
Estimation of Costs
17.   Costs Covered by the Analysis. All the incremental investment and
operating costs are included in the analysis except that for the Taipu Pumping
Station, which is required only for Shanghai water supply. Incremental
working capital has been calculated based on the funds needed for the opera-
tion of the project works (excluding those for water supply operations) and
the additional inputs for the agricultural production. Incremental operating
costs for project works and agricultural production in the South Drainage area
are included in the analysis.
18.   Overatina Costs.   In calculating incremental operating costs for
project works, the additional staff needed to manage the works is estimated to
be 1,226 persons according to the relevant guidelines of MWR. Annual staff
coots (all the costs except that for maintenance/repairing, power and fuel,
and depreciation of the works) is estimated at Y5,000 per person. The
maintenance costs are estimated to be 2% for equipment, and 1% for civil
works. The depreciation rate is calculated to be 3.8% for the equipment, and
2.0% for civil works. For the incremental agriculture costs, only limited
additional application of farm manure is assumed in the analysis (see the crop
budget Table 2).
19.   Cost Estimates.  The estimated investment costs, when converted to
economic values, total Y2,360.3 million, of which Y23 million is the
incremental working capital. The estimated incremental operating costs for
project works are Y31.2 million (excluding depreciation) at full development,
and the incremental operating cost for the agricultural production is estimat-
ed at Y14.9 million.
Calculation of Economic Prices
20.   Conversion Factors.  The estimated official exchange rate of Y5.5/USD is
used throughout the analysis. The standard conversion factor of 0.93 is
calculated assuming a shadow exchange rate of Y5.9/USD and applied to all non-
traded items for which specific conversion factors have not been calculated.
21.   Conversion factors for the investment costs are calculated according to
standard Bank procedures. Economic prices for major construction materials
are calculated first by adjusting their border prices with transportation and
other costs. These prices are then used to divide the corresponding financial
prices used in the cost estimate to derive the conversion factors for these
materials. Economic prices estimated by the Bank for transportation, power,
and local equipment are used to derive the conversion factors for these cost



-66-
elements. For labor, the shadow and financial rates are considered to be
equal and a conversion factor of 1 is used for project labor costs. Shortage
of labor in the project area does not justify any downward adjustment of the
costs. The conversion factors used in the analysis are listed in Table 6.
22.   For land acquisition and compensation costs, the standard conversion
factor is used. Land value calculated with economic prices is very similar to
what has been estimated in the financial costs for the project. As there is
no land market in China, actual land acquisition costs could not be
established directly according to market prices. Therefore, net cash flow
from the land is discounted to derive the value of land. The existing farming
system is used in the analysis to derive the net annual cash-flow of the land,
which is around Y420 per mu, and 8.5% is used as the opportunity cost of funds
to discount the cash-flow in deriving the land value. The 8.5% discount rate
is approximately the return a farmer could receive on a bank time deposit.
But it is a conservative estimate, since investment in TVEs in the area can
easily yield a return of more than 15% annually without substantial additional
risk compared to crop production in the area.
23.   Flood control benefits conversion factors were calculated for the
agricultural and infrastructure losses with the data available in other parts
of the project analysis. For industrial losses, the diversity of the losses
makes quantified analysis almost impossible with the data available.  In that
case, the standard conversion factor is applied to maintain consistency of
analysis.
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
24.   The proposed project will yield an estimated economic rate of return
(ERR) of about 27% for the base case scenario. Its NPV at a 12% discount rate
is Y2,556 million (see Table 5). Sensitivity analysis shows that a 50%
reduction of the flood control benefit would reduce the ERR to 15%, while a
50% cost overrun would reduce the ERR to 20%. Assuming the opportunity cost
of capital is 12%, switching value calculations indicate that the flood
control benefit would have to be reduced by 62% to reduce the ERR to 12%.
Similarly, to reduce the ERR to 12%, the investment cost would have to
increase 190%. None of the cases are likely to occur.



Taihu Flood Control Project                                    T
Expected Annual Flood Damage
32
30 -
28-
26
24 -
C       ~~22-
0~ ~ 2
20 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
o           18
16
6)      ~~14
o           12
E                 ~~~~~+
0           1
a   10     1 \  WOP
n   8   ~    1\ \Damage
0
0            6                 4+1"0
iz                      ~~~~~~~~enefit
With~'
2         DaI g
0
0    0.05   0.1   0.15   0.2   0.25   0.3   0.35   0.4   0.45   0.5
Recurrence Frequency
WOP Damage         +   Hist.Flood Damage         -  With "4+1" Damage
With "10+1" Damage



-68-                           ~~~ANNEX 3
-68-                                       Table 1
CHINA
Tsihu Flood Control Project
Estimated Damges of Major Flood Under Existing Conditions
1949 - 1991
(Million yuan, 1991 prices)
Flood Year
1954     1991      1949      1957      1962      1980      1983      1963
Frequency                                          0.023    0.046    0.069    0.091       0.114    0.137    0.160    0.182
Industrial Losses
Jiengsu Province
Shuthou                                       4,550    1,894    1.213         606       303       152       305         0
Wuxi                                          4,928    2,590    1,311         858       329       163       329         0
Changzhou                                      1,750    1,954       211       175          0        0         0         0
Zhengjiang                                      588       361        41        34          0        0         0         0
Subtotal                                   11,816    6,799    2,776    1,471          632       315       634         0
Zhejiang Province
Jiaxing                                       1,720       328       459      229        172        56       114       172
Huzhou                                           826      422       220       110        83        27        55        83
Hangzhou                                         242        0        58        48         48       24        48        48
Subtotal                                    2,788       748       738      387        302       107       217       302
Shanghai Municipality                               22      889         8         5          0        0         0         0
Total industrial losses,                     14,626    8,437    3,522    1,863          934       422       851       302
Other Losses
Crop Unindated ('000 mu)                        8,258    7,125    6,048    5,499        7,581    1,005    4,281    5.631
of which seriously damaged ('000 mu)          5.043       N/A    4,209    2,100       4,658       562    1,375    2,775
Losses of graln production ('000 tone)           1,251      923       N/A       687       317       N/A       N/A       N/A
Grain crops                                        848      683       214       379       466       502       216       225
Cash crops                                         158      171        39       123        196      187       136        94
Others                                           1,854    1,777       192       252       288       381       197       135
Emergency end floodproofing                     742       588       N/A      N/A         51       N/A        60      N/A
Damage of infrastructures                       424       813       N/A      N/A         31       N/A        36       N/A
Housing and personal property                   424       378       N/A      N/A        178       N/A        59       N/A
Damages of farm land                              84      N/A       N/A      N/A         29       N/A        41       N/A
Totel other losses                            2,657    2,630        445       755       951    1,070        549       454
Total Flood Damages                               17,283   11,087    3,967    2,518       1,885    1,491    1,400         756
Expected annuaI flood daeages:                           1,020.90
Expected annual flood control benefit:                     421.79



-69-                                        ANNEX 3
Table 2
1gihu Fl ood Contirl Project
Coro  Budget for Drolnae Area                                (1 hb.)
Paddy             Whoot             Nl9eaed              2nd Paddy
Val%1      --------------     ----_ - -----_ _ _  -- -- -- -- - __-__-____-__ ___ ___ __-
IMIt     Price       mt.      Value    A.       Volvo      mt.      Value    Amt.      Value
With Project
Yield                    t@n                    6.38               2.82                1.79              8.79
Price                    Y/ton                            826              1,115                 9"a                  0
Product value            Y                              5,2S0              2.611               1.724                  0
By-product value /a      Y
Totel  alue              Y                              S,230              2.611               1.724              5,230
Input Coeat
Seeds price                                            0.75               0.7O                1.7                0.78
Seeds                  kg                      1S0       112      225      17T$                 14       150      117
Fert.N                 kg            1.15      678      74        6Oo      O          100      115      675       774
Fart.P                 kg            0.32     1u7        60       to6       so         45       15       167       s0
Fert. K                kg            0.41       20        a        20        6                   0        20        a
Manure                 ton          16.64        4        75        6      149         12      224         4       75
Peatieide                                                 65                14         90       64                 65
Plaestic               kg            6.90        0        0         0        0          0        0         0        0
Draft aniael                                              0                  0                 112                  0
Machinery                                                173                69                 178                173
Irigatlon              Yuan/ha                           SO         0        0         0         0                 86
l4nageant                                                 15                1S                  10                 1S
Others                                                   43                 86                  32                 43
Sutotal                                              1,411              1,214                 7a               1.416
NMt Value                                               2.619                317                (254)             2,614
Labor Re quire*d         Man-day       6.00      150    1,200       185    1,050        1SO    1,200       150    1,200
Income per labor day                                        17                 4                  (2)                17
2,611             2,294               1,973              2,616
Without Project
Yild                    ton                    6.15               2.25                1. 70              S.3"
Price                    Y/ton                            626              1.115                 966                  0
Product Value            Y                              6,075              2,809               1.542                  0
By-product value /a      Y
Totel value              Y                              5,076              2,509               1,642              5,078
Input Costs
Sued price                                             0,75               0.76                1.77               0.75
Suede                  kg                      1SO       112      225      176          6       14       150      112
Fert.N                 kg            1.1      S675      774       60       68         100      115       675      774
Fert.r                 kg            0.82      167       60       16O       86         4S       IS       1S7       60
Fert.K                               0.41       20        S        20        a                            20
Manure                 ton          1 64         4        20        4       75          9      168         4       75
Peatil,de                                                 6s                14         90       64                 6s
Plastics               ke            6.90        0        0         0        0          0        0         0        0
Draft aniel                                                0                 0                   0                  0
MHchinery                                               173                 6                  173                173
Irrigation             1000 cm                            66        0        0         0         0                 6
Mangement                                                 1S                La                  10                 15
Others                                                   43                 JJ                  32                 43
Subtotel                                             1,356              1,1*9                 610              1,403
Net Vlue                                                2,522                290                (161)             2,475
Labor Requir*d           Mon-day       S.00      150    1,200       136    1,060        ISO    1,200       150    1,200
Income per labor day                                        17                 2                  (1)                17
2,5S8             2,219               1,610              2,603
------------------------------___----------------------------__---__----------__----_---------------------------------



Annex III
Table 3
CHINA
Taihu Flood Control Project
Drainage Area: Crop Area, Yield, and Production
Without project                          With project                           Changes
Area      Yield   Output             Area       Yield   Output              Area      Yield   Output
('000 ha) (ton/ha) ('000 ton)        ('000 ha) (ton/ha) ('000 ton)          ('000 ha) (ton/ha) ('000 to
0
Paddy                 80.00     6.15   492.00              80.00      8.33    506.76               0.00     0.18    14.76
Wheat                 43.20     2.25    97.20              43.20      2.52    108.86               0.00     0.27    11.66
Rapeseed              36.80     1.70    62.56              36.80      1.79     65.69               0.00     0.08      3.13
2nd Paddy             80.00     5.63   450.00              80.00      5.79    463.50               0.00     0.17    13.50
Total                240.00           1101.76             240.00             1144.81               0.00              43.05
XX



Annex III
CIINA                                                              ---------
Table 4
Taihu Flood Control Project
Economic Cost and Benifit
(Mi l ion yuan)
Project Years
1        2         3        4         5        6          7        8         9        10       11        12        13       14        15       16
Incremental Benefit
Fiood control benefits          0.00      0.00   159.57   301.41   426.00   564.45    598.31   634.21   672.27   712.60   755.36   800.68   832.71   866.01   900.65   936.68
Drainage benefits               0.00      3.90      9.94    18.84    26.51    33.66       37.75    39.38    40.40    40.40    40.40    40.40    40 40    40.40    40.40    40.40
Total (1)                   0.00      3.90   199.51   320.25   452.51   598.11    636.06   673.59   712.67   753.00   795.76   841.08   873.11   906.42   941.06   977.08
Incremental Costs
Investment cost
Land acquistion              45.48    88.07    36.46       9.49     0.00
Com,peneation                 3.04      6.09      4.03     0.97      0.00
Earthwork by contract         0.00    20.60    76.08   205.32    20.60
Earthwork by Force A/C       18.46   146.81   246.95    63.00    36.65
Civil work                    0.00   140.08   241.17   274.03   192.85
Equipment A installations    0.00    10.29    53.34    65.19    67.81
Buildings                     0.00      3.52    13.42    14.96       8.03
S & I and Design              4.54    17.92    19.19       3.13      2.30
Supervision & management      0.66    10.79    20.98    18.88        8.76
Other Engineering cost        0.00      6.12    30.96    35.66    39.02
Training & tech. assist.      0.00      1.26      2.19     2.38      0.70
Subtotal (2)               72.19   450.56   744.82   693.01   376.72
Incremental working capital   0.00        8.69      4.51     4.63      4.58     0.30       0.17     0.07      0.04    (0.00)    0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
(3)
Operating costs
Flood control                 0.00    12.52    18.78    25.04    31.30    31.30         31.30    31.30    31.30    31.30    31.30    31.30    31.30    31.30    31.30    31.30
Agriculture                   0.00    0°00        4.67     7.43    10.49    13.42       14.17    14.59    14.76    14.87    14.87    14.87    14.87    14.87    14.87    14.87
Subtotal (4)                0.00    12.52    23.45    32.48    41.79    4.72          45.47    45.89    46.06    46.17    46.17    46.17    46.17    46.17    46.17    46.17
Total Costs                72.19   471.77   772.79   730.12   423.10    45.02         45.64    45.96    46.11    46.17    46.17    46.17    46.17    46.17    46.17    46.17
(5-2.3.4)                   ----      ----     ---       ----     ----      ----       ----     ----      ----     ___       ----      ----     ----      ----     ----      ____--   
Net Benefit                   (72.19) (467.87) (573.28) (409.87)   29.41   553.09    590.42   627.63   666.56   706.84   749.59   794.91   826.94   860.25   894.89   930.92
(6-1-5)                         ----      ----     ----      ----     ----           ----       ----      ----     ----      -    ---      ----     ----      ----__   ___       ___f 
NFV (121)                      2,548
ERR                              m27
Note: Total project live ia assumed to be 50 years, with flood control benefit increasing at the rate of 41 per year.  Replaceent costs for equipmnt
are essum_ed at year 25-30.



-72-                                  ANNEX  3
Table 5
CHINA
Taihu Flood Control Project
___________________________
Sensitivity Analysis
--------------------------------------------------------__--------------
Switching
Variation                                  ERR                                  Value  a/
--------------------------------------------------------------------__--
Base  Case                                   27.1Z
Invest. up
50Z                                 19.7%                                  190.0Z
Rev. down
5OZ                                 14.9Z                                   61.5Z
Op. Cost up
5%O                                  25.7Z                                 870.0Z
NPV                  122                   2,548
a---Percentage----change---of-tested---value--to--r--duce--ERR--to-_12--
a/ Percentage change of tested value to reduce ERR to 12Z.



-73-                    ANNEX 3
Table 6
CHINA
Taihu Basin Flood Control
_________________________
Conversion Factors for Major Items
-----------------------------------------------------------------__-----
Standard Conversion Factor a/                                0.93
Machinery/Equipment b/                                       1.30
Energy - Fuel                                                0.78
- Electicity                                         2.35
Transport - Road                                             1.12
- Rail                                            4.00
Steel                                                        1.12
Timber                                                       0.79
Labor - Unskilled                                            1.00
- Skilled/Technician                                  1.51
Earthwork                                                    1.27
Structures                                                   1.10
----------------------------------------------------------------------__
a/ SCF = (Official exchange rate)/(Shadow exchange rate) = 5.5/5.9
b/ For locally made machinery and equipment procured locally.
Note: The other conversion factors are calculated based on the IBRD's
Economic Prices for Project Evaluation in China, April 14, 1992,
and actual financial prices prevailing in the project area.



- 74-                ANNEX 3
Table 7
CHINA
Talhu Flood Control Project
___________________________
Farm-gate Prices for Trad.d Inputs and Outputs
Paddy    Wheat  Rapeseed   Urea       TSP
n/       b/       c/        d/        */
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__----__------------
Not Trade Status                                  X         m        X         M        M
1992 Prices
EPD prices ('91 price)               */ton                 162.0              126.6     121.0
Ocean freight                        t/ton                  26.0               26.0      26.0
CIF or FOB Tianjin                   S/ton       220.0    188.0    190.0    151.6       147.0
CIF or FOB Tianjin                   Y/ton      1210.0  1084.0   1046.0    833.8        808.6
Port charges & margin                Y/ton       -66.0      36.0    -77.3      67.0      67.0
Transport: port to wholesaler        Y/ton         0.0      11.9      0.0       0.0       0.0
Transport: mill to wholesaler
Rail                               Y/ton         0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Road                               Y/ton       -26.0    -26.0    -27.0       26.0      26.0
Price-exmill                         Y/ton      1130.0   1055.9    940.8    916.8       890.6
Processing adjustment                              0.7       1.0      1.0       1.0       1.0
Milling cost A assemblerx morgin    Y/ton         37.8      31.7     28.2      27.6      26.7
Tansport: farm to mill               Y/ton        -3.2      -3.2     -3.2      -3.2      -3.2
Economic price                       Y/ton     826.874   1084.4    966.8    940.1       914.1
Financial price                      Y/ton       756.6    746.1   1599.9   1100.0    1020.0
Procurement                        Y/ton       460.0    470.0   1660.0
Free market                        Y/ton       800.0    860.0   1630.0
2006 Prices
EPD prices ('91 price)               S/ton                 167.6              162.0     180.8
Ocean freight                        S/ton                  26.0               26.0      26.0
CIF or FOB Tianjin                   $/ton       220.0    193.6    190.0    188.0       156.8
CIF or FOB Tianjin                   Y/ton      1210.0   1064.0   1045.0   1034.0       e62.4
Port charges A margin                Y/ton       -55.0      36.0   -77.3       67.0      57.0
Transport: port to wholesaler        Y/ton         0.0      11.9      0.0       0.0       0.0
Transport: mill to wholesaler
Rail                               Y/ton         0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Road                               Y/ton       -26.0    -25.0    -27.0      26.0       25.0
Price-exmill                         Y/ton      1130.0   1085.9    940.8   1116.0       944.4
Processing adjustment                              0.7       1.0      1.0       1.0       1.0
Milling cost A ass.mbl,rs'margin    Y/ton         37.8      32.6     28.2      33.6      28.3
Tansport: farm to mill               Y/ton        -3.2      -3.2     -3.2      -3.2      -3.2
Economic price                       Y/ton     826.674   1116.3    966.8   1146.3       969.6
Financial price                      Y/ton       766.5    746.1   1599.9   1100.0    1020.0
Procurement                        Y/ton       460.0    470.0   1660.0
Free market                        Y/ton       800.0    850.0   1630.0
*/ Rico, China FOB actual, December 1991.
b/ Wheat (Canadian), No.1 Western Red Spring (CWRS) 13.5%, in store Thurder Bay.
c/ Rapeseed, China FOB actual, December 1991.
d/ Ureo (any origin), Bagged, FOB N.W. Europe.
e/ (Triple Superphosphate), Bulk, Fob US Gulf.



ANNEX 4
TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Long-Term Basin-wide
Environmental Manaaement Plan
1.          The Environment Impact Assessment prepared for the Taihu Basin
Flood Control Project in June 1992 and the "Summary Report for Water Resources
Protection in Taihu Basin' jointly prepared by MWR, NEPA and TBA in 1990 have
identified deteriorating water quality, resulting from water pollution caused
by industrial, urban and agricultural effluent discharge into the water
systems in the Basin, as the most critical issue of environmental degradation.
So far no effective coordinated effort has been made to tackle the problem on
a basin-wide basis due to bureaucratic and administrative difficulties faced
by the three jurisdictions in the Basin.
2.          The Taihu Basin Authority (TBA), through the Taihu Basin Flood
Control Project, is taking the initiative to establish a permanent high-
powered "Taihu Basin Water Quality Protection Committee" to guide and
integrate the efforts of various government departments and agencies in the
preservation, control and management of water quality in the Taihu Basin. The
Committee is expected to be formally established by the Central Project
Leading Group at its meeting in November 1992. TBA's Taihu Basin Water
Resources Protection Bureau, based in Shanghai, will serve as the executive
arm and secretariat of the Committee.
3.          Upon it establishment, the Committee will appoint an inter-
province and inter-sector task force to prepare a long-term basin-wide
environmental management plan with the main focus on water quality control and
management. The task force would:
(a) identify the more important topics and determine their priority;
(b) prepare action plan for each identified topic, covering
monitoring, mitigation and management required; set targets and
standards to be attained, and programs;
(c) identify departments and agencies to implement the action plans,
analyze and evaluate results, and document findings; and
(d) estimate resources and inputs required for each topic.
4.          Based on the findings of the environmental assessment report.
referred to in para. (1), the Bank/IDA suggested, but not limited to, the
following topics to be considered by the Task Force:
(i) monitoring and management of surface and groundwater quality;
(ii) monitoring and management of quality of public water supply sources
and potable water;



-76-
(iii) establishment of water source protection areas (catchment areas);
(iv) monitoring, evaluating and managing of nutrient loads (N & P) into
surface water systems - rivers and lakes;
(v) monitoring, evaluation and managing industrial, urban and
agricultural waste discharge into water systems;
(vi) monitoring, evaluating, managing siltation of rivers as result of
water diversion from the Yangtze River into the Taihu Basin;
(vii) integrate and expand existing water quality monitoring
networks into a single basin-wide comprehensive network;
(viii) establish a basin-wide centralized data bank for all the
environmental monitoring activities, including dissemination and
publication of data;
(ix) formulate and recommend strategy to appropriate authorities for
control of land use and development to avoid aggravating the environment
after completion of the project flood control and mitigation works in
the Basin;
(x) review and recommend strengthening laws, regulations, rules relating
environmental protection and enforcement; and
(xi) review and recommend strengthening of institutional capacity and
capability to implement the above long-term environmental management
plan.
5.          Some of the above topics may be currently under study by relevant
agencies in Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Shanghai and by TBA. TBA would coordinate the
work of the Task Force so as to complete preparation of the long-term plan for
submission to the Bank for review by December 31, 1993 after it has been
endorsed by the National Environmental Protection Agency.



-77-
ANNEX 5
CHINA
TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Plan for Land Acquisition. Relocation and Compensation'
Executive Summary /1
Contents
A.    Land Acquisition and Resettlement for Flood Control Works in Taihu
Basin.
B.    Schedule of Implementation
C.    Status of Implementation
D.    Impact of Land Acquisition and Relocation
E.    Relocation Objectives
F.    Policies and Laws
G.    Management Organization and Responsibilities
H.    Consultation Process
I.    Relocation Strategies
J.    Compensation Standards and Norms
K.    Policy Incentives by Local Governments
L.    Employment and Training
M.    Allocation and Use of Compensation Funds
N.    Supervision and Monitoring
Al Based on the revised plan compiled by Taihu Basin Authority
dated December 31, 1992.



-78-
A. Land Acquisition and Resettlement for Flood Control Works in Taihu Basin
1.    The main objectives of the ten key work components in the Taihu Basin
Flood Control Project are aimed at flood control and alleviation of internal
flooding, incorporating other secondary benefits such as navigation, water
supply and improvement of water-related environment. Out of the ten work
components, IBRD/IDA Loan and Credit proceeds will finance four key
components, i.e. Taipu River, Wangyu River, Perimeter Dike and the Hang-Jia-Hu
South Drainage works. These four components shall play an important role in
the overall basin-wide flood control of the Taihu Basin as a whole,
accounting for 72% of the total flood benefits.
2.    The other six work components, entirely locally-funded, will focus on
local flooding and drainage improvement. These six work components form an
integral part of the overall Basin flood control scheme and will be
implemented in tandem with the four key components to be financed under the
proposed project. The six components are: Huxi Pumped Drainage, Wuchengxi
Pumped Drainage, Dongxi Tiaoxi Flood Diversion, Hang-Jia-Hu North Drainage,
Hongqitang and Lanlugang Rivers Channelization.
3.    For ease of reference, the four key components are grouped under Part I
and the BiX locally-funded components are grouped as Part II. The same
process for land acquisition and relocation will be applied to both the Part I
and Part II. The scope of land acquisition and relocation of people affected
is summarized in Table 1. Under Part I (four key components under the
project) a total of 27,970 mu (1,865 ha) will be acquired for permanent use,
47,345 mu (3,155 ha) for temporary use, and a total of 33,1002 persons to be
relocated as a result of land acquisition and removal of their housing. Under
Part II (six locally-funded components), a total of 18,285 mu (1,220 ha) will
be acquired permanently, 26,295 mu (1,753 ha) for temporary use, and a total
of 13,300 persons to be relocated.
4.    The four main work components under Part I involves 13 counties in 5
cities as follows:
Suzhou City: Wuxian, Changshu and Wujiang
Wuxi City: Yixing and Wuxi
Changzhou City: Wujin
Shanghai Municipality: Qingpu
Jiaxing City: Haiyan, Haining and suburban area of Jiaxing City
2: The total is the aggregrate of the maximum numbers of people
affected by either land acquisition and/or relocation of
residential houses under each sub-work component.



-79-
TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Table I - Sumary of Land Acquisition and Relocation
---------------------------------------------
Work          Prov.     Land Acquisition         Relocation        --------No. of People Affected by ------
Ite                    Permnent  Temp.      Families Buildings      Land Acquisit.  Relocation      Maximum
--------  ------     -------- --------    llWorkers   Total   of houses       Total
(iu)    (mu)         (no.)   (sq-m.)    (persons) (persons)  (persons)   (persons)
PART I (Bank-financed Project)
Wangyu River      Jiangsu         7605    14160          816   190826        4246      7400       29f8         7400
Taipu River       Jiangsu         2019     4467          894   107228          909     1608       3129         3129
Zhejiang         696      381           12     3167         627      916          46          918
Shanghai       a3O6      9866           70    30019        1486      2098         40         2098
Subtotal      6221    14204         976   140414         3022     4624        8216        6145
_________ -----        -----        -----    -----       ----     --_  -      -- -    :     - -
Taihu Dikes       Zh-jlong        6862        0            0        0         3176     6423          0         6423
Hangjiahu South
Drainage          Zhejiang        8082    18996         4230   486000         3327     7318      14120        14120
TOTAL PART I                  27970    47356         8022   797239       13771    24665       20303        33088
PART II (Locally funded)
Huxi Pumped Dr.    Jlangsu        9876     9615         1090   265380        3750      6260       5915         0260
Hongqitong R.      Zhejiang/
Channelization    Shanghai Mun     766      930          133    20790         380       640        483          640
Dongxl Tiaoxi
Flood Diversion     Zhejiang      2610     7440            0        0         790      1310          0         1310
Wuchengxi
Pumpped Drain.      Jiangsu        830      990          60      8940          180      300        210          300
Hangjiahu North     Jiangsu/
Drainage            Zhejiang      2475     2010          264    38100         1200     2000        890         2000
Langlugang R.       Shonghai
Channelizatlon      Municip.      2730     4710          492    73830        1680      2800       1722         2800
TOTAL PART II                  18285    26296         2629   396040        7980    13300        9220        13300
TOTAL PART I A II                46265    73661         8661  1192279       21761    37965       29623        46388
_________________               ------   ------       - -----  ------       -- --    -- --      --  - --       - -
----- ---- ----- ---- ---- ----- ---- -----  ---- ---- ----- ---- ---_------__-    ----- ---- ----  ----- ---- ----



TAIIJ BASIN FLOOD CrIROL PROJEC                               Tabi. No. 2
Plann.d and Actual Land Acqu iition A Ralocation
Work                         ------Permanent Land Acqiiit.o--------    -------T.apora.-y Land U..- -----------                           -----Relocati.on of Rtaid-nt.  - -------
Co0on.nt                        1992    1993    1994   1i99      1996  Total         19      1993    194    1995    1996  Total            1992    1993    1;94    1995    1996  Total
PArT I (Bank-fi.ancd)                  ---  -  --------    ,   -----------            ---   --------------      -  u   -- - ----------        -    --------    -        o  i
7aip. Ri,er Chann.lization
Planad        4122    2099        0       0        0    6221        9746    445        0        0       0   14203          e6    3129        0       0        0    3215
Actual  : 4122                                                     9746                                                   6
Wavny.  R. Channel ization
Plannd        78o6        0       0       0        0    7805        93;68    4768      0        0       0   1416:        2968        0       0       0        0    2960
Actual       7806        0       0       0        0                936o                                                 2968
TFi. huPerimeter Dikh-
* I nnd      4483    1379        0       0        0    5862           0       0        0       0       0        0         10        0       0        0       0       10
Actual       4483                                                     0       0       0        0       0                  10        0       0       0        0
lHngjiahu. So.uth Drainage
Planned       1402    3030    3650        0        0    8062        1100    9S67    8279        0       0   1696         3065    587        5160     0       0   14120
Actual  :    1402                                                  1100                                                 3068
TOTAL PART I
Planned      17612    6S06    3860        0        0   27970       20214   1832    6279         0       0   47325        6129    9004    5180         0       0   20313
Actual      17812                                                 20214                                                 6129
PART 11 (Local ly-fundad)
Huai Pumped Draionag
Planned        680    1100    3800    3995         0    9375           0     180    2000    2680    4615    9416          504    1360    1860    2171         0    5915
ActUal        6                                                       0                                                  540
Nongeitang R. Channalization
Planned          0      500     265        0       0     765           0     100      480     430       0    1010           0      293      190       0       0      483
Actual                                                                0a
DongXi Tisogi Floo Dioersion
Planed:    2010           0     600       0        0    2610        1960    1200    3100    £180        0    7440           0        0       0        0       0        0
Actua I      2010                                                  1960
lng jiahu North Drainage
Planned          0        0    1230    1245        0    2475           0       0      250    1100    1260    2610           0        0     600      290       0      890
Actual:         0                                                     0                                            :        0
Wuchangai Puapd Drainaga
PlAra          1330    200        0       0        0     330           0     300      390     300       0      990         45      140      25        0       0      210
Actual  :     130                                                     0                                            :      45
Langlogang R. Channalization
Planned          0        0    2000     730        0    2730           0       0    100   2910         0    4710           0        0    1606      114       0    1722
Actual:         0                                                     0                                            :       0
TITAL PART 11
- -- -       - - -   pl anned      2620    1600    7695    8970         0   16265        1960    1780      02O   8570    5675   26175          649    1813    4283    2575        0    9220
Actu    :   220                                                    1960                                            :    549
TOTAL PART I A 11
P d 2062    8306   11345    5970     0   46255       22174   20582   16299    8570    5875   73500          6676   10617    9463    2575         0   29533
Actual  :20632                                                    22174                                            :    687
--   -  ---- --- -                         __________- -----  ______----- ____         _    __- ___- - --  -  ------------
/a: refer. to no. of popwle affetad ny ralocation of komaaa. eacluding those affacted bJ lad acquiition.



TAIu) BASIN FLOD CTL PROJECT
Land Acquisition & Relocation                                Table No. 3
Estimated Costa end Actual Eapenditures                        -------
Work                      . ----- -P*rmanent Land Acquisi tio---:                    -      Temorary Land Us--------                  - --- - --  ocation Compensaion / -
Component                   :    99      1993    1994    19%      1996  Total :    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996  TOta I            1992    1993    1994    1995    1996  Total
PA°T I (Sbnk-financed)                       - ------------(Y                              - --------   *-  - ------- YO0)-- -___-_ __-_-     *-      ---_ _   - -(Y- ) _-_-_-___-
Taipa Rivar Channel iation
P l aned     24641    94b4        0       0       034125          17675    4011       0        0       0 21566          4049    7500       0       0        0   11549:
Actual  :24641                                               : 17675                                              : 4049
Wanw  R. Channelization
Plae         36767       0       0        0       0   36878       12624    6I91       0        0       0   19215       15449       0       0       0        0   15449
Actual'     36678                                                12624                                                15449
Teihe Perimeter Diksn
Planned      10650    7055        0       0       0   17705           0       0       0        0       0       0          38       0       0        0.
Actual      10650                                                    0                                                   36
Hangjiahel South Drainage
Planned       7133   15416   16570        0       0   41121        1078    9484    8113        0       0   18675        5696   17968   13120        0       0   36764
Actural      7133                                                 1075                                                 6696
TOTAL PART I
Planed       79302   31957   18570        0       0  1.829        31377   20066    6113        0       0   59576       25232   25468   13120        0       0   63620
Actual      79302                                                31377                                            :25
PAkT 11 (Localy-funded)*
Hu.i Pumpd Drinage
Planned  :   3210    5170   16920   18780         0   4400 :          0     133    1600    2565    4150    8670  :   3350    8500    9000    8790           0   29640
Actual  : 3210                                               .       0                                            : 3350
Hlngqitang Rf. Cenneolization
Pl nned          0    3000    1600        0       0    4600.          0     100     400      570       0    1070:          0    1960     690        0       0    2850:
Actual:         0                                            .       0                                            :       0                                            .00
DongXi Tisoci Flood Diversion
Plannod       9450       0    200         0       0   1O22    .     1760    100    2790    1060        0    6690        1500    1610       0        0       0    3310
Actual       9450                                                 1760                                                 1500
Hanejiakv North Drainae
Planned                  0    5770    5850        0   11620           0       0      230     990    1130    2350O                  0     00S    810         0    56810
ActualI                                                              0 
Viuownsmi Pumped  Drainage
Planned        620     940        0       0       0    1560           0     270     360      270       0      900        350     650      50        0       0    1050
Actual        620                                                    0                                                   s
Langlugang R. Channeliation
Planned              0       12110    4440       0   16550           0       0    2160    3500        0    5660  .                0    680    1080         0    900
Actual                                     0                                                                              0
TOTAL PART 11
Planned      13280    9110   39200   29070        0   90660        1760    1565    7740    8975    5280   25340         520   12920   23620   10600         0   52540
Actual      132800                                                1760                                            :   520
TDTAL PAkT I £ It
- ----------          Planned  *  925-2   41067   57770   29070          0  220469  :  33187   21671   15853    8975    5260   64916         30432   36366   36940   10600         0  11636i
Actual  __92582_                                  _              35137                                            :  30432
: ecluing compensation for infrastructure. facilities etc.. setitd at a total cost of Y50.6 aillion.



-82-
B. Schedule of Implementation
5.    Part of the Part I land acquisition and relocation was carried out under
an emergency program from November 1991 to January 1992. The remaining part
is scheduled to be completed within 1992 to 1993. Part II is scheduled
generally from 1992 to 1996. Tables 2 and 3 show the schedule of
implementation for Part I and II.
C. Status of Implementation
6.    Following the severe flooding occurred during June/July 1991 in the
Taihu Basin, the Government gave priority to the implementation of the ten
components of the comprehensive flood control scheme for Taihu Basin. The
Ministry of Water Resources (MWR) was directed to enlarge Wangyu and Taipu
Rivers during the winter and spring of 1991/92 to reach discharge capacity of
150 and 300 cms respectively before the arrival of flood season of 1992. In
order to maximize the benefits of flood control, emergency work was started in
November 1991 on the four key components proposed to be financed by the World
Bank. These works included: 27.5 km of upper reach of Wangyu River in Wuxi
and Wuxian County, 11 km of lower reach of Taipu River in Qingpu County of
Shanghai Municipality, Nantaitou Gate and 4 km of river channel in Haiyan
County of Jiaxing City, perimeter dikes of Taihu in Zhejiang Province. To
proceed with the emergency work, the approach adopted was to enter the sites
first and then to follow up with formal requisition and relocation and
resettlement. Accelerated occupation of sites was completed within a short
period and the formal following-up of measurements and recording were
completed by April, 1992.
7.    As the emergency work under the Phase I had to be executed in haste,
there was not enough time to prepare planned land acquisition and relocation
of people, resulting in some difficulties to the executing agencies and the
people affected. However, with the preparation of a plan for land
acquisition, relocation and compensation in accordance with the World Bank OD
4.30, the responsible agencies and the engineering construction headquarters
have been busy in carrying the provision of the plan - ensuring proper
relocation, allocation of funds and economic well-being of the affected
people. During the project negotiations, it was agreed that the project
authorities would pay additional compensation to those who were temporarily
inconvenienced during the initial phase of the relocation.
D. Impact of Land Acquisition and Relocation
8.    Due to the differences in the project areas' economic development and
specific characteristics of the proposed project works, the impact of land
acquisition and relocation upon the affected people vary. The impacts are
summarized below:
(a) Wangyu River Component The township and village enterprises have
been extensively developed with large number of male and female workers
employed in this sector. Average per capita income is between Y 1,200 -
1,500.   In these areas, agriculture becomes the secondary employment,



-83-
accounting for about one third of the total rural revenue. Except for
cultivation period, agricultural activities are mainly done during the free
time in the morning and evening, or by the old and young non-workers in the
families. Therefore, land acquisition of farm land has little impact upon the
local farmers and employment of affected farmers can be easily resolved.
However, there is substantial removal of rural houses and farmers are more
concerned with the compensation.
(b) Taipu River Component The township and village enterprises are
fairly well developed, especially in the upper reaches in the Jiangsu Province
where the conditions are similar to that of Wangyu River. Since this section
of the river had been improved twice in the past, the land acquisition and
house removal is not that large and can be easily managed with little impact
upon the local inhabitants. But, in the lower reaches in Shanghai, the output
value from land is very high due to cultivation of cash crops and aquaculture
(Y700 -1,000 per mu). The agricultural income accounts for about 40% of the
total rural revenue. Some farmers prefer to continue farming rather than
working in factories. Therefore, land acquisition and relocation of the Taipu
River in Shanghai stretch will have greater impacts upon the affected people.
(c)  Hang-Jia-Hu South Drainage Component   Agriculture constitutes a
large part of the rural economy as township and village enterprises are less
developed. Income from agriculture accounts for more than half of the local
rural revenue. In areas planted with cash crops, such as sub-urban areas of
Haiyan County, agriculture provides the main source of income for farmers (Y
900 per mu). Therefore, land acquisition of land relocation of people
affected will present certain amount difficulties.   Except for Nantaitou and
Yanguang areas where the land acquisition and relocation are more concentrated
due to excavation of new channel, existing channel will be used as far as
possible to minimize the impacts.
(d)  Taihu Perimeter Dikes   Due to a change in the engineering design,
no land acquisition and house removal will be required in Jiangsu section. In
the Zhejiang section, only 50% of the land to be acquired is cultivated with
mulberry trees, vegetables and forest, 30% is under water reeds and 20% is
flood plain. The local inhabitants stay far away from the dikes and no
relocation will be necessary. The overall impacts on local people is minimum.
E. Relocation Obiectives
9.    The main relocation objectives of the project are as follows:
(a) no decrease in income shall be incurred by the local inhabitants
after land acquisition and relocation; existing standard of income shall
be maintained with opportunities for future enhancement;
(b) there shall be no losses to collective or private assets and
adequate compensation shall be paid in the relocation to build
replacement housing of similar size and quality; and
(c) since there is no impact on the existing socio-cultural facilities
by the requisition and relocation, this will not be considered under the
project.



-84-
The governments at all levels have reached agreement on the above objectives
and to carry them out accordingly.
F. Policies and Laws
10.   The ten project components in the Taihu Basin will provide flood
protection for more than 20 million people and 24 million mu (1.6 million ha)
of farmland of 25 counties and 5 cities (Suzhou, Wuxi, Changzhou, Jiaxing and
Huzhou). According to the classifications issued by the Ministry of Water
Resources, this project belongs to the category of large-sized water resources
project.
11.   The laws and regulations governing the processes of land acquisition and
relocation under the proposed project are:
(a) The Land Management Law of PRC
(b) Implementation Regulations of the Land Management Law of PRC, State
Council Document No. 73 promulgated on January 4, 1991 and effective on
February 1992.
(c) State Council Document No. 74 on Regulations on the Land Acquisition
Compensation and Relocation for Large and Medium-sized Water Conservancy
and Hydro-electric Power Projects effective from May 1, 1991
12.   In the project area, the average per capita cultivated land is more than
1.0 mu. Therefore, according to the provisions of the above Regulations, the
total sum of land acquisition and relocation compensation shall not exceed
eight times the average output value of the last three years prior to the land
acquisition (standing crops counted separately). Land acquired for temporary
use shall be compensated at output value of one year plus one crop. The
compensation for standing crop shall be based on the output value of half a
year, including cash crops, such as trees, fruits, etc.
13.   The Regulations also stipulates that people should be relocated as far
as possible within the same township and counties. For areas where all the
lands have been acquired, the agricultural population can be converted to
"non-agricultural" after review by county governments and approval by the
provincial governments. The compensation fund for the land acquisition and
relocation will be allocated to the local government of the host areas who
will be responsible for resettlement of the relocatees as well as their living
standard and means of production.
14.   As for rural enterprises and other business to be relocated,
compensation will be based on existing floor area and standard of the
enterprises, business and facilities. Any additional costs resulting from
expansion or upgrading of the enterprises and facilities shall be borne by the
individual enterprise or business units themselves. For private residential
houses, compensation shall be based on the existing size and quality. Sites
for constructing the replacement houses will be arranged by township
governments. For poor and destitute families who face difficulties in the
relocation, assistance will be given by the local governments.



-85-
G. Managesent Organization and Responsibilities
15.   Land acquisition, relocation of people and houses will be undertaken by
provincial and municipality governments where the project works are located on
contracts to execute the tasks and investment expenditures. The Taihu Basin
Authority is responsible for checking the use of compensation proceeds paid
for the land acquisition and relocation, preparing investment program based on
project progress, and reviewing and supervising the work carried out by each
province.
16.   A full-time officer will be appointed in the Project Management Office
of TBA to be in-charge of land acquisition and relocation. The PMO has also
retained the Engineering Management Department of Hehai University to monitor
and evaluate the progress of relocation and compensation. In the Hehai
University, the monitoring group has been set up to: (a) review and monitor
the relocation works, prepare progress reports of land acquisition and
relocation on a fixed schedule so as to enable TBA and the World Bank to
identify the problems in time and to request remedial measures for resolution
by local governments; and (b) conclude and disseminate lessons learnt from
land acquisition and relocation carried out so as to guide and streamline the
work in other areas.
17.   Each province and municipality has set up Engineering Construction
Headquarters (ECHs) with the local administrative head in-charge of water
conservancy as director and the director of water resources bureau as deputy
director, and heads of land management, planning commission and finance bureau
as members. The ECHs are directly responsible for land acquisition,
relocation and compensation. Funds and their amounts allocated for land
acquisition and relocation will be communicated to ECHs through the provincial
governments. Similar organization is set up at the county and township
levels. The task assignments will be channeled all the way down to villages,
households and factories. The provincial headquarters exercise overall macro
control and supervision of the task of the lower levels. Detailed
implementation of the task is carried out by county and township governments
and village committees in coordinated way. They are also responsible for
placing employment for the relocated workers.
H. Consultation Process
18.   In carrying out the specific task, each township, with the collaboration
of village heads, forms special teams of masonry workers, carpenters and other
tradesmen, to inform the affected population through public broadcast,
meetings and notifications on blackboards, of the objectives and purposes of
the proposed flood control works in the basin in preventing re-occurrence of
the 1991 flood damage and losses. Through this way, the affected population
is informed of the intended land acquisition, relocation, compensation,
implementation schedule, and related government policies. Thereafter,
inventory surveys were carried for each affected household, factory and
enterprises in a careful, thorough and realistic manner. Complete records
were also taken of properties and assets, such as houses, facilities, trees,
graves etc. Valuation is then done based on size and quality. The surveys
and records are sent to the county project headquarters. After checking and
verification, the county headquarters will allocate the compensation funds



-86-
based on the valuation to the villages to be paid to each household, factory
and enterprise. Agreements with the affected parties will also be signed for
the scheduled demolition of houses and relocation. The whole compensation
process is constantly reviewed by the management from "lower to upper levels,
upper to lower levels, and finally from upper to lower levels" to ensure all
round satisfaction.
I. Relocation Strategy
19.   The project works consist mainly of river channel excavation, dike
construction, gates and other structures, which are laid out in a linear or
stripe fashion along river channels. Only stripes of land adjoining rivers
will be acquired and these are spread linearly among numerous villages,
thereby bringing about less impacts. Farmers affected will be mostly
relocated within their present community in the nearby areas through land
adjustment in the community. For a small number of farmers in the sub-urban
areas who are unable to obtain land due to difficulties in land adjustment,
they will be employed in the townships. Houses will be relocated to areas
within about one km from the previous sites. Thus, the existing production
pattern and mode will be maintained after the land acquisition and relocation.
There will also be no changes to the socio-cultural life of the people
affected.
20.   The unique characteristics of the project area are advanced industrial
economy and scattered nature of the project works. The critical point in the
land acquisition and relocation is to work out a rational procedure and norm
for compensation so as ensure that people affected do not suffer losses. Due
to time constraint and urgency of task, the initial preparation for the Phase
I work has not met the expectation as desired. Farmers' understanding and
support were obtained for the processes of land acquisition and relocation by
which sites were entered first with measurement followed later and houses were
removed first and replaced later. In housing the affected the people, the
local governments provided temporary housing or the people arranged to stay
temporarily with friends and relatives. Despite concerted efforts by the
various Engineering Construction Headquarters, certain amount of inevitable
difficulties were caused to the people in finalizing compensation payments and
relocation, and placing of employment in a timely manner. However, with the
lapse of time, these difficulties have now been overcome with payment of
compensation and completion of housing. During project negotiations, TBA has
agreed to pay additional compensation to those who were temporarily
inconvenienced during the Phase I relocation. The Phase II, started after the
flood season of 1992, differs somewhat from Phase I. The project headquarters
and the local governments now adopt the principle of "assessment first
followed by acquisition and use for land; construct replacement first followed
by removal and relocation for houses." These procedures have been
systematically followed so as to avoid causing difficulties to the affected
people.
J. Compensation Standards and Norms
Land Acquisition Compensation



Table 4 - Compensation Standard for Land Acquisition
------------------------------------------------------
----------------------__----------__-----------------------------------------__----------------_______-----------
Component   Proy.            Crop         Crop         Unit          Yield        Value        Crop    Weighted  -------Compensation  Norm  ------
Type                      Price                                   ratio        value   Crop            Permanent   Temporary
(Y/jin)  (jin/mu)    (y/mu)               (%)        (Y/mu)   Losses          land  use        Land  use
--------------------------------------------------------------------__-------__----------------------------------
Taipu  R.                              Rice               0.23           498        114.5
and                                    ------------------------------------
Wangyu R.                 Grain        Wheat              0.22           950          209         82.3           543          357         4700                  900
------------------------------------
Straws etc                                     100
Cash  crops                                               1100          17.7
Rice               0.23          454        104.4
------------------------------------
Grain        Wheat              0.22           965       212.3           60%          894           508        8057                 1200
------------------------------------
Straws  etc                                    100
------------------------------------------------------
Cash  crops                                               1100           40%
Rice               0.23          490        112.7
Hang-                                  ------------------------------------
Jia-         Zhejiang  Grain           Wheat              0.19          1254       238.3         82.9%           687          393         5088                  980
Hu  South                              ------------------------------------
Drainage                               Straws  etc                                    130
------------------------------------------------------
Cash  crops                                               1100        17.1%
Rieo               0.23          475        109.3
Taihu    Jiangsu                       ---------- -----------------…--
Perimeter          A      Grain        Wheat              0.22           980       216.8         85.2%           625          375         3000                  900
Dikes        Zhejiang                  ---------------------------------
Straws etc                                     100
Cash  crops                                               1100        14.8%
__________________ -            - -  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



-88-
21.   The following standards are to be considered:
(a)  Permanent land acquisition:  According to the "Regulations for the
Land Acquisition Compensation and Relocation for Large and Medium-sized
Water Conservancy and Hydro-electric Projects" the compensation norm for
land acquisition and relocation is five to seven times the average
output value for the last three years, and the norm can be reduced for
large-sized flood control, irrigation and drainage projects. However,
considering the advanced economy of the project area and a large
population with limited land (1.2 mu per capita of cultivated land), the
application of above norm will present certain difficulties in
acquisition and relocation. After discussing with the State Planning
Commission and the Ministry of Water Resources, the norm has been
increased to some extent. Taipu River, Wangyu River Channelization and
Hang-Jia-Hu South Drainage: The compensation for land will be eight
times the average output value of the last three years. Taihu Perimeter
Dikes: Most of the land is under reeds and in the flood plain with low
cultivation potential. Moreover, the cultivated land per capita at the
perimeter village is comparatively high at 2 mu. Thus, the compensation
norm is assessed at five times of the average output for the last three
years.
(b) Temporary land acquisition: The norm is calculated at 1.5 times
the average annual output value with consideration that the land will
not be cultivated for 1.5 years when used temporarily.
(c) Standing Crops (Green Plant): Compensation shall be paid in
addition to the compensation paid for permanent and temporary use of
land. The norm is one half of the annual mean value, including cash
crops such trees, forest, fruits, etc.
22.   Based on the above norms, the indexes of the annual output value have
been determined according to the output values of the last three years (1988,
1989 and 1990) at the 1991 price level through survey of typical areas. The
compensation costs calculated (see Table 4) are as follows:
Taipu and Wangyu Rivers:   Jiangsu Province        -   Y 4,700 per mu
Zhejiang Prov.        -   Y 4.700 per mu
Shanghai Municip.    -  Y 6,057 per mu
Taihu Perimeter Dikes:       Zhejiang              -   Y 3,000 per mu
Hang-Jia-Hu South Drainage: Zhejiang               -   Y 5,088 per mu
The local governments shall implement the above norms for compensation
according to the conditions of the cultivated land.
Compensation for Replacement of Buildings
23.   Residential Houses:    Replacement costs for private houses to be
removed in the relocation are determined according to the age, size, quality
and condition of houses to relocated. Table 5 below show the range of
compensation for replacement of private houses to be relocated in the three
provinces. The replacement costs take into consideration residual value of



-89-
salvageable building materials estimated at about 40% of the replacement
costs.
Table 5 - Replacement Cost Compensation for Housing Relocated
Province/Component       Double         Single         Out-          Open
storey        storey        houses      stores and
residential  residential        non-         sheds
houses        houese     residential
(Y/sq. i.)    (Y/sq.m.)      (Y/sq.m.)    (Y/sq.m.)
Jiangsu Province:                                                               l
Wangyu River           130 - 150       80 - 88          40            20
Taipu River                120           80             40            20
Zheiianp Province:
Taipu River            110 - 120         60             40          _
Taihu Dikes            110 - 120         60             40         _
Hangjiahu South Dr.        110           60             40         _
Shanghai Municip:   _
Taipu River            100 - 140       40 - 60                     5 - 20
24.   Factory and Enterprise Buildings:  These will be compensated according
to the size, quality and conditions of the buildings. The actual amount will
be negotiated between the construction unit and the relocation unit.
Justifications and Fairness of Compensation
25.   From the survey conducted, it can be shown that the compensation paid
for land acquisition is justified and fair on the following grounds:
(a) as explained in para. 26(a), interpretation of provision of
regulation regarding compensation norms has been relaxed to provide
higher compensation;
(b) about one-fifth of the total cultivated areas in the Taihu Basin is
under vegetables, mulberry trees, fishing pons etc. Annual income per
mu for grain crops is about Y 300 and Y 700 - 1,000 for cash crops. The
weighted average annual income for cultivated land is Y 380 - 440 per
mu. For the Taipu and Wangyu River, and Hang-Jia-Hu areas, the weighted
average compensation paid for land acquisition is Y 5,013 per mu. By
investing in enterprises which yield 10-20% returns, the profits derived
exceed that from the cultivation of land. In the meantime, the workers



-90-
previously engaged in farming can seek employment in other sectors and
earn additional incomes. This shows that compensation norm used for
compensation of land acquisition is fair and justified;
(c) during the design of the project works, requests from local
governments for infrastructure and facilities have been considered.
Access roads will be constructed under the Taipu and Wangyu River
channelization, and Taihu perimeter dikes. Under the four key
components, a total of 31 road and 106 tractor and pedestrian bridges
will be constructed. With the river channels enlarged and deepened,
inland navigation will be improved and people residing adjoining rivers
will benefit. The above facilities will promote and accelerate local
economic development;
(d) in the construction of dikes and embankments, the borrow-pits can be
developed for aquaculture. In Zhejiang Province, the borrow-pits behind
the Taihu perimeter dikes have been developed into fish ponds.
Similarly, small and shallow ponds and lakes will be filled by excavated
spoils and reclaimed for cultivation. Some 10,000 mu in the Taipu River
area, representing 1/5 of the total acquired land, has been reclaimed
for cultivation in this manner. The land has been returned free of
charge to local inhabitants for cultivation; and
(e) the housing compensations are based on analyses of actual prevailing
costs of building equivalent houses, taking into consideration deduction
of about 43% of value from salvaged materials.
26.   Comparing to other projects in China, the compensation norms used under
this project are considered to be fair and reasonable. Complaints of alleged
insufficient compensation have been investigated. Higher costs and
expenditures were attributed to larger and better houses were built after
relocation; multi-storey houses were built for previous single-storey houses,
and substantial increase in floor area. All these led to higher costs.
Factories and enterprises also took opportunities to expand and upgrade their
facilities, not only enlarging the building but also modernizing their
production equipment. Some factories even change their production to other
goods. These additional expenditures incurred have nothing to do with the
compensation standards used for land acquisition and relocation determined
under the government regulations.
G. Policy Incentives given by Local Governments
27.   To assist the people and rural enterprises relocated, the township and
county governments provide some of the policy incentives listed below:
28.   Relocation
(a) after determining the compensation amount, the Water Conservancy
Department acquires land in accordance with the local zone planning and
builds replacement housing for the relocatees. Any excess fund
available will be used in providing services to the inhabitants. The
survey shows that the houses built are of better quality than previous
ones occupied and much to the satisfaction of the relocatees;



-91-
(b) as for private houses in the rural and urban areas, the local
government provides housing sites for the affected families to build
their own houses. For incremental land area used for residence, the
land occupation tax (Y 5,000/mu) and land development charges (Y
1,000/mu) are exempted.
(c) building materials (steel and cement) are provided at
government-controlled prices;
(d) for poor and destitute families with no able workers and on
government social relief, the civil affairs bureau and local government
will houses for them;
(e) in addition to receiving compensation for relocation, factories can
enlarge their sites up to 30% more of the previous sites without payment
for land and development taxes;
(f) various tax incentives and exemption: reduction in profit tax,
extension of tax-free period, exemption of income tax from 3 to 5 years;
and
(g) new enterprises would need only to raise 5% self-financing and the
remaining 95% will be subsidized loans from the cities and counties who
will subsidize 25% of the interest chargeable.
29.   Employment
(a) the three provincial governments approve a total of 4,000 persons
for changing employment status from "agriculture" to "non-agriculture";
(b) temporary worker working in factories and rural enterprises affected
by relocation would be given priority to be transferred as normal
permanent workers;
(c) for those workers who are unable to be employed temporarily, they
will be given living subsidies and given government assistance in job
locations and information; they will also be given loans and exemption
from taxes;
(d) using employment funds to arrange for workers to be absorbed by
expanding factories at Y 2,000 - 3,000 per worker; and
(e) using the land compensation and labor employment funds to create new
new factories or enterprises to generate employment opportunities in
combination with local production development.
(f) relocatees wishing to continue farming, arrangement will be made to
contract land for them in neighboring townships or counties;
(g) organize those who are unable to be employed to do temporary work in
the construction of the project works, earning Y10-15 a day.
30.   To relieve the financial burden of local governments undertaking
relocation, the provincial governments also provide the following incentives:



-92-
(a) in the raising of socio construction funds for construction of the
project works, due consideration should be given to those factories to
be relocated and those factories with large employment of workers by
reducing their share of contribution based on their respective financial
conditions;
(b) priority will be given to local governments undertaking relocation
in the allocation of government funds and loans;
(c) provincial government will provide low-interest loan and revolving
fund to create new enterprises to provide employment for the relocated
workers; and
(d) local governments can deposit the land compensation fund in local
bank and distribute the annual interest earned (7.2%) to farmers to
compensate their loss of income and to invest the fund in local
production development activities.
L. Emplovment and Training
Employment
31.   For areas with more than 0.5 mu per capita of land after land
acquisition, relocation of surplus workers will made through land re-
adjustment within the same township with each agricultural worker having a
minimum of 0.5 mu of land for cultivation of grain. The State will exempt
them from grain procurement quota due to minimum land holding. In addition,
the townships and villages will also use part of the compensation proceeds to
employ some of the workers in existing rural enterprises or to develop new
enterprises to provide new employment. For areas with less than 0.5 mu per
capita of land after land acquisition, any surplus workers, after being
absorbed by rural enterprises, will be converted from "agriculture" to "non-
agriculture' status and given urban residential registration and employment.
The three provincial governments have approved a total quota of 4,000 persons
to absorb the expected change in status.
Training
32.   In service-training of absorbed workers is provided by the host rural
factories and enterprises who are paid Y2,000 - 3,000 per worker. As for
those who have no basic skills to work in factories and enterprises and those
who are over and old-aged, the Taihu Basin Authority agreed, during project
negotiations, to organize training for these people after consultation with
the county governments. TBA will provide the training programs to the
Bank/IDA not later than June 30, 1993.
M. Allocation and Use of Comw-nsation Funds
Allocation of Funds
33.   After having discussed and agreed with the local governments, the Taihu
Basin Authority will allocate a total of estimated Y 304 million (US$55



-93-
million) through the three provincial governments to the project counties
based on agreed work programs. Table 6 shows the summary of compensation for
land acquisition and relocation for the four key components. The counties are
responsible for implementation of programs on land acquisition and relocation.
Additional fund will also be set aside annually by TBA for additional
expenditures to cover physical and price contingencies. In areas with dense
and large population and difficulties in implementation according to unified
norms, the local government can apply to TBA for allocation of additional
funds under the two contingencies.
Table 6 - Summary of Compensation for Land Acquisition and Relocation /1
Land Ac isition            Removal
Component   Province                                                  Total|
Permanent   Temporary   Houses  Other
Wangyu       Jiangsu   36.88         19.22        15.45    25.06      96.61
River__                                              _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _
Jiangsu   9.49          4.01         7.50     0          21.00
Raiver       Zhejiang  2.93          0.37         0.52     0          3.82
Shanghai  21.71         17.31       3.53      3.32       45.87
Subtotal  34.13         21.69       11.55    3.32        70.69
Taihu        Jiangsu   0             0            0        0          0
Perimeter
Dikes        Zhejiang  17.71         0            0.04     0          17.75
Subtotal  17.71         0           0.04      0          17.75
Hang-Jia-
Hu South     Zhejiang  41.12         18.68        36.78    22.26      118.84
Drainage                                                                       l
Total       I_ _ 129.84              59.59        63.82    50.63      303.89
Note: /I Base cost excluding 16% contingencies.
/2 Include power and telephone lines, water conservancy structures, etc.
Use of Compensation Fund for Land Acquisition and Relocation
34.   Under the "Land Management Law of PRC", it is stipulated that land
ownership belongs to the State and collectives. Therefore, compensation
payment will not be made directly to individuals but to township governments
who will use the funds to develop and enlarge cultivation areas, improve
irrigation facilities and upgrade land so as to raise the unit yields of
farmland, or to subsidize local enterprises in providing employment for the
affected people. In some areas, the compensation proceeds can be invested in
new enterprises to provide employment for those relocated. The village
committees shall hold meetings first before using the fund and submit their
proposals to the township governments for approval. Compensation payments for
standing crops and houses will be paid directly to individuals, and for
factory and enterprise buildings to the relocation units concerned.



-94-
N. Supervision and Monitoring
35.   The "Regulations for Land Acquisition Compensation and Relocation for
Large and Medium-sized Water Conservancy and Hydro=electric Projects"
stipulates that the compensation and relocation fund shall be used only for
land development and relocatees' employment, living and production
arrangements. The funds cannot be distributed privately and used for other
purposes. Any departments, using the funds illegally, shall return the funds
and be punished. Departmental chiefs shall be penalized administratively and
any individual who use the funds illegally shall be prosecuted for corruption
practices.
Supervision
36.   In order to ensure proper use of funds, the following supervision
control system has been set up:
(a) to use the funds village governments shall hold village committee
meetings to discuss proposals which must be submitted to township
governments for approval. Information of the use of funds and the
progress achieved should be released to the public at fixed intervals
annually for examination;
(b) the audit units at all levels shall carry out annual auditing of all
accounts, the use of funds for land acquisition and relocation so as to
ensure their proper use and recommend actions to correct any problems;
(c) the water resources units at all levels (MWR, TBA, Provincial
Bureaus of Water Resources) shall also conduct financial review of the
respective lower units as to the account and proper use of funds;
(d) the compensation funds shall be channeled through the Construction
Bank which will also assist in the supervision of the use of funds by
having all the disbursement and payments reviewed and approved by its
senior officers so as to ensure appropriate disbursements against
expenditures.
Monitoring
37.   TBA has retained the Management Department of Hehai University in
Nanjing to carry out monitoring and evaluation of the relocation under the
project. Details of the methodology and procedures are given in the main
report. Monitoring and evaluation on sample villages with relocation carried
out in phase one has been done and reported by the Hehai University. The
findings and results are favorable. Monitoring and evaluation will be
continued and findings submitted to TBA and the Bank/IDA semi-annually.



-95-                ANNEX 6
CHINA
TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Planning and Hydraulic Modeling
Planning
Backaround and Concept
The Taihu Basin is administered by three jurisdictions -- Jiangsu
and Zhejiang Provinces, and Shanghai Municipality. With its accelerated
economic development and potential for growth, demands for water resources
development and management by the three jurisdictions vary according to their
multi-sector needs. Planning is further made difficult by the main waterway
systems transcending jurisdiction boundaries and by tidal backup along the
Yangtze and Huangpu Rivers affecting the various downstream main outfalls. To
ensure a fair and equitable distribution of costs and benefits, existing river
and drainage systems are adopted as far as possible to minimize socio-econodic
interference. The planning took into consideration flood control as the
primary objective with drainage and waterlogging alleviation, water supply
augment, water quality and inland navigation improvements as secondary
complementary benefits.
Methodoloav
The basin is divided into nine sub-basins, each with distinct
hydraulic systems of its own. Using the least interference approach, various
alternatives for the basin-wide comprehensive flood control were worked out,
using simulation techniques for different meteorologic and hydrologic
conditions. The various alternatives were then optimized to derive a least
cost solution for flood control/routing configuration. The 1954 flood, caused
by prolonged and wide-spread rainfall and was considered as the worst flood in
the century, was selected as representative year for the basin-wide flood
control design. The 1991 flood, with short but more intense storm centers (1
in 100-200 years return period) in the north and northwest of the basin, was
ranked second to the 1954 flood in terms of flood volume (see Appendix 1).
Design based on the 1954 flood event would mitigate the 1991 flood event over
most of the basin areas except for the storm center areas in the north and
northwest where 80% of the economic losses would be prevented. The 1971
meteorological and hydrologic data were selected as representative year for
design of drought abatement.
Final Plan Selected
The final flood control plan selected consists of ten work
components (see IBRD Map No.32916); four of these components are financed
under the project. Using the Tai Lake as the main focal point to regulate
flood inflows from the upper basin area, about 70% of the designed 1954 flood
volume (estimated at 22.3 bcm) is routed through the two enlarged channels to
the Yangtze River - the Wangyu River and the Taipu-Huangpu River. To reliove



-96-
load on the Taipu-Huangpu River system, part of the flood flown in the
southern part of the Hang-Jia-Hu Plain, south of the Tai Lake, is diverted to
the Hangzhou Bay through river channels and pumping. The remaining 30% is
regulated by the Tai Lake whose dikes are strengthened and heightened to
provide extra regulating capacity (total 4.56 bcm), and by local network of
river/lake systems (2.37 bcm). The main channels would be substantially
widened and deepened to rout the required flood flow. - Taipu-Huangpu River
for 2.25 bcm and Wangyu River for 2.31 bcm. The Hang-Jia-Hu South Pumped
Drainage will divert 2.24 bcm. Table No.1 shows the disposal of 1954 design
flood under 'actual" and "with" project situations. With the project the 1954
design flood would be safely mitigated. Similarly, the 1991 flood would also
be mitigated except for the storm center areas with short and intense rainfall
in the range of 1 in 100-200 years return period would have about 80%
mitigation. Due to temporal and spatial distribution of rainstorms over the
basin, it is not economically justified to design flood control works for a
high return period.
Table 1.  Disposal of 1954 Flood Volume under Actual and Project Situations
Description               Actual      __Aftr Proil        Difference
Total flood volume              22.3 bcm        22.3 bcm         0 bcm
Regulated in Tai Lake           3.7             4.56             +0.86
Regulated in local rivers       4.0             2.37             -1.63
and lakes.
Regulated in breached           3.4             0                -3.4
polderc/compartments           _              _
Pudong gravity flow             1.1             1.1             0
Direct flows into Yangtze R.  1.3               5.66             +4.36
Flow through Huangpu R.         8.8             6.37            -2.43
Flow into Hangzhou Bay          0               2.24            +2.24
Design Criterion
The following criterion have been adopted in the planning and
design of the project works:
Flood Control      Meteorologic and hydrologic data of 1954 used as
representative year for design of flood control works.
Irrication:   To meet demands based on 1971 drought year (P-94%).
prainaae:   Designed for rainstorms of 1 in 10 years return period.
Drought:    Meteorologic and hydrologic data of 1971 used as
representative year for design of drought abatement.



-97-
Water Supiplvt    To maintain monthly av-rage flow of 270-300 cms in the
upstream stretch of Huangpu River for Shanghai Municipality Water Supply
Intake.
Water Oualitv:    To maintain Class II in Tai Lake and in Taipu-Huangpu
River.
Navioation:   Cater for traffic up to the year 2000 and to be
operational under flood evacuation conditions.
Hydraulic Madelina
TBA Hydraulic Model
TBA has developed a mathematical hydrologic and steady state 10-
day hydraulic model to simulate the 1954 event flood and design the flood
control configuration. The model is based on dividing the basin into specific
hydrologic sub-basins which have distinct hydraulic systems of its own. Each
basin is further divided into categories based on water surface area,
irrigated and non-irrigated farmland, and other land uses to provide the model
with the necessary parameters to compute surface runoff generated by rainfall.
These sub-basins and their categories are shown in Table 2.
Table 2 -  ggb-Bagin i a   Laiona of Tiu
Sub-Basin   Water         Irrig.       Non-Irrig.   Other         Total
Surface      Area         Area          Uses         Area
Area         (sq.km)       (sq.km.)    Area          (sq.km.)
(sq.kl. )                               (sq.km)
Yunhe        294.03       804.27       48.81         813.10       1960.21
Tiaoge       815.19       2229.81      135.32        2254.27      5434.59
Wuchengxi    208.36       823.99       165.97        582.50       1780.82
Wangyuhe    176.63        698.53       140.70        498.83       1509.69
Yangcheng   518.21        1196.90      188.32        798.37       2701.80
Dianmao      330.57       763.52       120.13        509.30       1723.52
Hangjiahu    761.76       3104.53      1189.58       2219.82      7275.69
Zhexi       221.16        901.31       368.61        4454.21      5945.29
Taihu        2366.8       0            0             826.44       3193.24
The Thiessen Polygon Method was used to determine rainfall
contribution for each 10-day periods for each sub-basin using the 30
continously recording rainfall stations complemented by numerous cumulating-
reading rain gages located throughout the basin. The rainfall/runoff relation
was then established based on each sub-basin characteristics. Evaporation



-98-
losses computed took into consideration the irrigated and non-irrigated
farmland, direct losses from open water surface areas and evapotranspiration
from crops, including effects of temperature, relative humidity and wind
speed. The 10-day computational time-steps used seems a little too long,
considering the travel time for flood to pass through the basin is about three
days; one day from the upper basin to Tai Lake and two days from Tai Lake to
the open sea. However, due to the extreme flat topography of the basin and
resulting hydraulic gradients, changes would be sluggish and relatively minor
to affect the accuracy of computation based on 10-day time steps used by TBA.
Model Desion
The Canadian ONE-DIMENSIONAL Hydraulic Model
The Canadian ONE-DIMENSIONAL (ONE-D) hydraulic model' was used by
the Bank Group consultant to verify independently the accuracy of the TBA
model in the computation of the design flood discharge and channel sizing for
the Taipu and Wangyu rivers. Under steady state and similar boundary
conditions, the TBA and ONE-D models computations come within 5% of each other
for discharge. The ONE-D was also run under dynamic state to determine the
average discharge of Tai Lake over an entire tidal cycle under different
scenarios and to assess the design outlet channel capacities for both the
Wangyu and Taipu rivers. The ONE-D model computations return a slightly
higher results. For details of comparison see consultant's (Maurice Sydor)
report in project file.
The ONE-D hydrodynamic model has distinct advantage over the TBA
steady state model in that it can compute real-time time-steps of 15 minutes,
especially to predict changes in downstream channel influenced by tidal
backup. It would also define more precisely the effect of operation of gates
and pumping station under shorter intervals to changes in the hydraulic
profile. The ONE-D model also has options for analysis of four basic water
quality parameters -- water temperature, biological oxygen demand, dissolved
oxygen and salinity.
Overational Model
It is recommended that TBA, after evaluating other appropriate
hydraulic models, to adopt the ONE-D hydrodynamic model as an operational
model for the basin hydraulic system in flood and drought management as well
as water quality management. The basic ONE-D model would need to be
customized to reflect the various major structures (control gates, pumping
stations, syphon, ship locks, etc.) to be constructed under the project. TBA
has been supplied with one set of the ONE-D software package. TBA's staff
should begin familiarization of its applications and customize the model to
meet its specific needs in operation. Technical assistance would be provided
under the project to send TBA staff to Canada to work with the consutlant in
fine-tuning the model and to receive further training in the model
applications.
' Developed by Environmwnt Caada, Inland Waters, Waer Panning and Mangement Bnch, Otawa.



TAIHn BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Total Maximum Rainfall for Different Duration Periods
BainX                 93          15 &191 Floods
Tot      ainfall  (mm)
,. -. -:- : :- >_ Wu \ 1000
low~~~~~~~~~~~~
/. /       .     8      800
/                                         -   . ...- -    -  ..  .   ,   .- ...: .... ..:: ,:: .- .: - -::: . :-. .. ..: ..---: - .~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . .. .... . . . .
600
400
.............200
0
Duration Periods                   -01991
01954
*019311



CHIINA                                                                 APPENDIX 1
TAIHJ BASIN FLOD CONTROL PROJECT                                                    ----------
(Rainfall in _)
Ranking of B--in--id. Hi.t.orc Rainfall by Diff...nt D-rati.n P-riod.
Ranking    Ms.. l-day          M... 3-day       Ma.. 7-day          M... 15-day         Mb.. 30-day     Ma.. 45-day         Me.. 60-day        Ms.. 75-day      lbM. 90-day
Rainfall  Year  Rainfall   Year   Rainfall  Yea-   Rainfall   Year   Rainfall   Year   Rainfall   Ye..   Rainfall   Year  Rainfall   Year  Rainfall   Y.a.
1       139.3    1962    222.1       1962    240.9     1962    335.0      1957    505.2      1991    609.4    1991    694.9       1991    798.7     1954    915.3      1954
2       111.6     1963    165.7      1957    231.7      1991    302.2     1962    497.5      1931    595.7     1931    647.0      1954    778. 9     1991    848.6     1991
3       111.6     1984    144.7      1963    222.7      1957    295.4     1991    393.4      1962    506.5    1954    631.9       1931    715.9    1931    814.7       1931
4        95.6     1965    143.0      1991    211.3    1931    283.7       1975    390.4      1957    469.8    1962    559.2       1957    643.5    1960    715.8       1980
5        89.2     1960    139.9      1931    188.6    1984    276.8    1931    361.6         1952    450.3    1957    531.5       1962    636.3    1962    713.0       1962
6        79.3     1986    133.3      1984    178.2    1975    273.1       19t3   359.3       1975    442.7     1983    511.2      1960    600.0    1957    685.7       1952
7        72.6    1981    126.4       1961    178.2    1960    247.7       1952    356.7      1983    441.6    1975    489.8       19863    589.8    1983    636.5      1957
8        70.4    1991    126.3       1983    175.1    1956    243.2       1984    353.2      1954    416.0    1952    488.4       1976    584.8     1952    625.8      195C
9        69.7     1961    123.4      1985    165.7    1970    239.0       1954    314.S      1960    405.9    1908    484.6       1982    560.6     1966    619.4      1984
10        69.6    1952    122.3       1970    163.6    1963    233.5       1961    312.3      1929    396.3    1980    478.1       1960    546.5     1977    613.6      1977
Raw.king of Hiatoric Rainfal I by Daration Perioda for Regiona Nort of Tai Laka
Ranking    lb.. 1-day          lb.. 3-day       Na.. 7-day          lb.. 15-day        lb.. 30-day      lb.. 45-day         lb.. 60-day       lb.. 75-day       l. 90-day
Rainfall   Yoer  Rainfall   Year   Rainfall  Yoar   Rainfall   Year   Rainfall   Year   Rainfall  Year  Rainfall   Year  Rainfall  Year   Rainfall   Year
1       107.3    1962    240.9       1957    277.5     1991    361.0    1957    574.8        1991    667.2    1991    760.2       II    11 60.3     1991    913.7    199l 2
2       100.5    1991    196.3       1962    247.7    1957    347.8    1991    485.4         1931    587.2    1931    634.8       1967    692.1      1957    776.2     1.O
3       100.1    1957    196.0       199     219.9    1962    331.2       1975    434.3      1957    526.5    1957    615.5       1931    678.3    1931    756.9    1'.-s 
4        88.4     1968    160.7      1931    206.6    1931    276.9       1962    393.9      1975    470.2    1975   533.6        1954    674.0    1954    732.6       190.c2
5        67.6     1970    137.3      1964    204.5    1975    261.6       1931    361.2      1982    436.9     1962    511.3      1960    662.0    1962    725.3       1957
6        84.7     1981    135.2      1981    189.6    1956    253.4       1969    322.0      1954    423.2    1954    510.8       1956    637.4      1960    708.6     1960
7        83.1     1958    130.6      1970    165.2    1970    245.4       1961    316.9      1970    416.9     1980    510.0      1962    594.9    1956    670.8       1956
8        82.2    1965    122.0       1981    167.4    1962    245.1       1982    310.7      1960    407.1     1956   505.5       1975    534.2      1975    578.8     1977
9        76.2     1960    119.6      1956    159.2    1986    233.2       1983    306.4      1962    392.8     1982    453.1      1974    528.1      1961    577.4     1974
10        73.3    1961    118.0       1935    159.0    1964    223.7       1956    302.8      1952    370.8     1977    435.3      1960    527.0    1974    570.1       1975
Ranking of Hiatoric Rainfa I by Daration Perioda for Regiona Want of Tai Lake
Ranking    le.. 1-day          M... 3-day       M... 7-day          M... 15-day         Mo.. 30-day     lb.. 45-day         me.. 60-day       Me.. 75-day       M... 90-day
Rainfall   Year  Rainfall   Year  Rainfall  Year  Rainfall   Year  Rainfall   Yaar  Rainfall   Yar  Rainfall   Year  Rainfall   Year  Rainfall   Year
1       146.0    1970    223.3       1991    323.1    1991    425.3       1991    673.6      1991    774.5     1991    861.8    l99l   961.2        191   1021.1       1991
2       137.4    1957    219.3       1957    239.5    1975    372.6       1975    433.3      1975    503.2    1975    540.2       1975    686.1      1960    737.8     1960
*3      133.0    1966    172.8       1970    235.6    1970    365.7        1969    397.4     1969    468.2    1931    526.9       1931    652.3      1954    736.8      1954
4       113.0    1965    172.0       1965    193.2    1982    279.4       1982    364.2      1931    437.7     1969    526.7      1980    606.8    1931    711.5       1931
5       111.4    1991    164.2       1964    187.1    1969    279.0       1972    336.3      1970    420.5    1965    506.7       1969    588.4      1962    63.2      1962
6       106.3    1956    151.7       1931    181.6     1957    265.0      1981    331.2      1962    421.2    1980   501.9        1965    576.1     1957    640.5      1956
7       100.3    1936    146.6       1962    181.3    1964    261.4       1970    319.0      1957    417.9    1982    501.8       1954    572.0    1974    621.3       1969
a       100.0    1962    144.2       1962    160.4    1966    242.3       1957    317.9      1979    400.6    1957    496.9       1957    588.1     1975    620.8      1974
9        96.9    1964    143.8       1981    177.4    1963    240.5       1983    312.2      1984    391.2     1954    494.9      1974    564.2    1956    618.2       1957
10        93.7    1981    140.4       1969    168.2    1977    226.5       1965    310.4      1963    386.5     1970    481.8      1956    549.3    1965    605.2       1975
So,ro -:Z7hon-gk-o Sh-i-i D ca                                                           --r 1991 ian-u pp.20



-101-                ANNEX 7
CHINA
TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
TELEMETRIC MONITORING & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM
General
1.          Comprehensive basin-wide monitoring and collection of hydrologic
data are vital for timely analyses of impending floods (or droughts) and
dissemination of crisis management instructions. At present telemetric
monitoring network covers only about 11 telemetric stations around Tai Lake
out of a total of some 300 plus hydrological points or locations in the Basin.
Under the project, the present network system would be substantially expanded
to cover the whole basin. The proposed system would consist: (a) eight sub-
systems of telemetric monitoring of hydrological data linked to the existing
micro-wave communication network operated by the Pout and Telecommunication
Department; (b) satellite communication network; and (c) expanded computerized
network in TBA Headquarter for realtime data storage, retrieval, analysis and
dissemination. The general layout of the system is shown in Map IBRD
No.32915. With the expanded system, flood control and water management for
the Basin by TEA would be more effective and efficient. Total cost of the
system is estimated at Y30.2 million.
(a) Telemetric monitoring for 8 sub-systems           Y16.4 million
(b) Satellite communication network                     8.6
(c) Expanded computerized network in TBA Hqrs.          5.2
Y30.2 million
Telemetric System
2.          There are in all over 300 hydrological points or sites in the
Basin where data can be collected. Currently, a skeletal system of 11
telemetric stations exist to monitor rainfall and/or water levels. Under the
project it is proposed to expand the network to cover the major key points or
sites in the Basin. The proposed telemetric monitoring network will be
divided into eight sub-systems to be linked to the existing main micro-wave
communication system operated by the Post and Telecommunication Department.
The types and numbers of telemetric stations to be included in each sub-system
are tabulated as follows:
3.          For each sub-system, the Bureau/Department of Water Resources
would collate and process the telemetric data and transmit them periodically
or on request to the main center at TEA Hqrs. in Shanghai which will retrieve,
analyze and store data or disseminate the results together with management
instructions to the transmitting bureaus/departments during flood or drought
crisis management. Beside the telemetric stations, other data would also be
collected, digitalized and transmitted manually by the bureaus through the
sub-system stations to TBA Hqrs.



-102-
Type. and Number. of Telemetric Stations
Sub-system              Monitoring Parmeters
and Cenoer
Rainfall   Waterlevel  Wund Dir.   Water
River    & Velocity  Quality
Shanghai         S        7        0
Suzhou           16      31        4        3
Wuxi            13        17       2        1
Changzhou        10       14       0             l
Zhenjiang        3        6        0             l
Huzhou          16        14       2
Jiaxing          13       17       0             l
Hangzhou         6        3        0 O
Toa Basin       85       109       8        4
Satellite Communication System
4.          The proposed satellite communication system will consist of four
satellite earth stations (VSAT) which provide telephone and data service
channels. The four stations will be located at strategic points of the flood
control system as shown in the Figure THT1-2-1: TBA Hqrs. in Shanghai, Grand
Canal Syphon Complex at Wangting, Wangyu River Outlet Gate Complex on the
Yangtze River, and Taipu Gate Complex on the Taipu-Huangpu River System. The
VSAT at TBA Hqrs. will have 6 telephone and 3 data channels, the remaining
three VSAT will have 3 telephone and 1 data channel. Communication will be
beamed to the Chinese satellite CHINASAT-A(DEF-24) located above Longitude
110.5 deg. Z. The proposed system will become part of the overall national
Ministry of Water Resources Satellite Communication System, thereby providing
effective communication between Taihu Basin and the Ministry under all weather
conditions.
5.          Data information from Nanjing, Hangzhou and six sub-centers
(Suzhou, Wuxi, Changzhou, Jiaxing, Huzhou and Yixing) will be transmitted by
PSDN (public switched data network) to TBA Hqrs. in Shanghai. Hydrological
data from the three major complexes will be transmitted by the data channels
of VSAT stations to the computer network through the CCU in TBA Hqrs.
Computerized Network
6.          To handle the large volume of real time data received from the
Basin's telemetric systems, TBA's computing capacity would have to be
substantially upgraded. Its present hardware system configuration consists of



-103-
a Micro VAX 3300 with two transceivers. One transceiver is used for receiving
and processing the limited telemetric data from stations around the Tai Lake
and receiving meteorological satellite imagery. The other transceiver is used
mainly for general office administration and data management. Under the
project, the proposed upgraded system would include:
(a) Data acquisition system
(b) Database system
(c) Remote Sensing and GIS
(d) Flood Control Management system
(e) Office Management Information system
(f) Electronic Conference and Mail
7.          The main system structure proposed, see schematic sketch in the
appendix, is a distributed multi-node ethernet based on TCP/IP, a network
protocol based on UNIX. A HP9000 or compatible serves as the network server
through which the terminals in the network can become users of any nodes. PCs
in the network can also be users of any nodes of the network under the
client/server mode. This would maximize the sharing of network resources.
The hardware and the software are listed in the appendix. Total cost is
estimated at USS944,000.
8.          Each sub-system station in the Basin will be equipped with 386
machines and 486 machines will replace most of the obsolete machines in TBA
Hqrs. Adequate commercial software packages would be procured under the
project and staff would be trained in their applications for project
management and operating a management information system.
Flood Control and Despatch Center (FCDC)
9.          A new office block will be built in Shanghai to house the TBA
Headquarters and the Flood Control/Despatch Center. Currently, TBA is
occupyimg two floors of the Shanghai Design Institute and has no more floor
space to accommodate the additional staff under the project and the much
expanded computing facilities. The proposed 6000 sq meter office blcok in
estimated to cost Y18 million including land and utilities.



TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Micro-wave ComaunLcation and Hydrological
-      ~~TeeMetric Station Systeims Network
t$VMPAYPE t4A(.4 WiRturr
0TEtgeLAwpjc RAmPqALL. TA.
A 06t.0
4  V  V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
.   ~    ~~rS. *)                                                       bU>Y   /{    I4 $
_~~;~ * j>:=3 / , ~~-qs^ t, SA
;  --  e1\ >-.,,,  TtFIAt0C
,,,,,#WS_ICI:^L4->,~~~~~~~RAC12OUSA
_   }"2s~~~~~~t
, > f,f A{AX6ZHou Fy0l



*-:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U~Ig ,              £ &WW
-'d "''\f/'t 'w 'I
. ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L



f.I
A^ltiDltNf  ((H i .9 A PA C() 1A
PS DN (Ci1 I MA PA C)  I N
ON.ll  g   t(VSAT)                                                                                 SM-E*176    1(^     ATOD  5
.a1stlille Earkl Slalies (VSAT)
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                                       .>              T1 -I 121.



o -        z
4&w0 ~ ~~(J  liii) U{9I3hIqS
(St~~~~~~~~~~~~Iu3sq ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        ~        ~       ~       ~      ~      (1x  SW1~J LJS.IK  E'!l!lS V1t  tl3  !!
I            -~~~~~~~~~~~~~WI8 R-
(Ul Jo Vtill)   1'                                  \       \     \/
'          (4RW)+  Ta 



APPENDIX:SYBTE STRUCTURE FIGURE
I.iTitilr   VAXotati !
TMINAL                  ITINAL
uRVmsr                                   HPG    ICRO    SUN SPACE I
T  ERVER    VZIOtTTIN1
tub ,  I .cIdI'                                                       
_ Ib in / | PCOTAL AND Ch0UNICATIONAL GROUPED DATA IXCBANOR NITWORK                                   SATZLL I_T
00
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CA                     S
Pkt LLLL SsSSSS
TMIUC DATA
<COMVUI NllORK SY81D OF TAI llU LI  MURLAU>-



-109-               ANNEX 8
CHINA
TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Contingencv Plan for Management of Catastrophic Floods
Introduction
1.          The 1954 event flood used in the design of the project flood
control work will provide protection against floods of magnitude 1 in 50 years
return period, assuming that the rain storms generating the flood would be
prolonged and widespread throughout the basin. Storms of such event occurring
will be rare but it can happen and even exceed that of the 1954 event. The
1991 event flood showed that intense and short duration rain storms of 1 in
100-200 years have occurred in the north and northwestern parts of the Basin.
Even more severe rain storms had occurred in the Huai River Basin to the north
of Taihu Basin on the northern bank of the Yangtze River during the same 1991
summer monsoon. The risk of such rain storms exceeding the project designed
storm striking the Taihu Basin exist. Engineering works can rarely be
justified to control such catastrophic floods. However, potential damages and
losses can be minimized through contingency plan prepared in advance to take
well coordinated actions during such emergency.
2.          This Annex VI provides essentially the conceptual framework for a
study to be carried out by TBA to draw up a contingency plan for management of
each catastrophic floods in the event they do occur. The contingency plan
should be so designed that it fits into the local conditions and has the
support and participation of the local governments and population so that it
can be effectively carried out.
Study
3.    Scope of Study:  The main objective of the study is to draw up
contingency plan for management of flood exceeding in magnitude (1954 flood
event of 1 in 50 years return period) used in the project design. The study
will identify potential risks and disaster areas and recommend non-structural
measures to be adopted in such emergency event to minimize damages and losses.
Implementation of the contingency plan will be systematically procedurized in
a document to be circulated at all levels so as to achieve maximum
preparedness and responsiveness to an emergency.
4.    Task Force:  TBA will set up a task force to carry out the study to be
managed by TBA. The task force would comprise local and national engineering
and technical experts, and representatives from local governments, civil
disaster organizations and military. TBA will provide the necessary technical
and administrative backup in the actual preparation of the plan. The task
force, upon completion of the study, will continue to review the contingency
plan from time to time, especially after each major flood.



-110-
5.    Time Frame:  The following time-table is suggested:
Preparation of TOR and appointment
of Task Force.                                -   Jan-Feb. 1994
Inception report completion                   -   Mar-May 1994
Completion of study and final report          -   December 1994
Review and adoption                           -   March 1995
Main Features of Contingencv Plan
6.          The contingency plan should contain, but not limited to, the
following main features:
7.    Identification of Potential Risks and Disasters:  Long-term hydrologic
records in the basin as well in the neighboring regions should be analyzed and
evaluated for potential floods generated by rain storms of higher return
periods than 1 in 50 years used in the project design. Using different sets
of hydrologic conditions, floods could by simulated by computer model for
different scenarios to determine potential risks and resultant disasters, and
areas likely to be impacted, extent, depth and duration of floods projected.
These simulated floods, not necessary will occur, should then be ranked
according to their severity and impacts and formed the basis for formulating
the various contingency plans.
8.    Duties and Resoonsibilities of Various Agencies:  Duties and
responsibilities should be defined and documented in details for the multi-
sector agencies who will be asked to perform various tasks during emergency,
including who will direct and coordinate the work of these agencies. Logistic
support (source, whom and how to be obtained) required should also be
identified and documented.
9.    Measures to Minimize Impacts:  Timely physical measures could be taken
to minimize the impacts of catastrophic floods, thereby reducing damages and
losses. Measures to be considered would include the following:
a) Flood Forecasting: Using the National Meteorological Weather
forecast and the regional Weather Satellite Imagery, impending major
monsoon or typhoon storms approaching the basin could be tracked early.
Together with the network of telemetric stations provided under the
project to monitor and collect hydrologic data in the basin, it is
possible to do real-time flood forecasting with a lead time of 24-48
hours. This would require the communication and the telemetric
monitoring systems, and the computing facilities in TBA Flood Control
Center for data retrieval and analyses to be    maintained in high
efficiency at all time.



-111-
b) Flood Warning: Information and results of flood monitoring and
forecasting should be capable of being disseminated rapidly to the areas
to be impacted. An effective flood warning system for the whole basin
should be established in view of the short lead time available before
arrival of flood. The main system can be sub-divided into sub-systems
to meet the specific needs of each sub-basin. Local flood warning
systems may already exist and these should be reviewed and upgraded as
to their adequacy to meet the degree of efficiency expected for
management of catastrophic floods.
c) Flood Fighting: This is to ensure proper performance of various
flood control works under unprecedented conditions; such as regulation
of flood water in Tai Lake at higher water levels, release of excess
flood water into designated rivers and lakes etc. This would require
periodic safety inspection of the Taihu perimeter dikes and river
embankments containing flood flows, stocking of materials at strategic
locations for emergency repairs, removal of debris and obstruction in
river channels. Mobilization of resources (manpower, materials,
equipment) should also be examined in details.
10.   Evacuation and Relief:  Evacuation of people to safety maybe necessary
in some catastrophic flood events. The study should formulate plan for
efficient evacuation of people and relief of flood victims. The local civil
authority, with assistance from the military if need arise, will have prime
responsibility. Taking into consideration the local resources available, the
task force should work out procedures for systematic evacuation and relief of
flood victims. Amongst the aspects to be considered include: (a) who should
give decision to evacuate and when; (b) mode of evacuation and alternatives;
(c) areas to be evacuated and evacuated to; (d) logistic support required and
their acquisition; (e) relief for flood victims, including ration, water
supply, clothing and health services, etc.; (f) patrolling of evacuated areas
and properties.
11.   Assessment of Flood Damaaes and Losses:  After emergency, flood damages
and losses should be assessed immediately and documented under different
sectors, both incurred by the government and the general public. At the same
time, complete flood data including the event-related hydrologic data should
be compiled. Both sets of data would be useful for review of the flood
contingency plan as to its adequacy to meet future events.
12.   Post-emergency Evaluation and Rehabilitation:  The study should propose
how to evaluate the effectiveness of a particular contingency plan put into
action and recommend revision or improvements to the plan in the light of the
experience gained. The study should also propose procedures for return of
flood victims, rehabilitation and repair of damages in the evacuated areas.



-112-                  ANNEX 9
TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Summary of Review of Water Oualitv Studies and Modelling'
General
1.    Pollution of water bodies in the Taihu Basin, caused by industrial,
urban and agric-chemical effluent, is a major factor causing deterioration of
water quality. Some 20% of the Tai Lake surface area is affected by
eutrophication, particularly during the hot summer periods. The Grand Canal
is affected by industrial and urban discharges, and the polluted water is is
spreading through the waterway systems in the Basin. Studies are being
carried out to find solutions to control and manage the problems. A review of
the present studies under the project is necessary in view of the need to
preserve the water quality in the Basin. The review, carried out by a
consultant, covers the following scope:
(a) To assess the field monitoring and 2D mathematical modelling studies
of Tai Lake commissioned by TBA.
(b) To recommend the scope of a further 3-year study to investigate the
processes causing eutrophication in Tai Lake and to predict and monitor the
beneficial effects of proposals to reduce eutrophication in the lake.
(c) To assess the field monitoring and 1D mathematical model studies of
the Taihu waterway network commissioned by TBA.
(d) To recommend the scope of a further 3-year study to simulate water
quality in the canal networks and to predict the benefits of proposals to
reduce polluting loads and increase flushing of the system during droughts.
(e) To review the adequacy of inputs and estimates proposed for the two
3-year studies in the draft Staff Appraisal Report purposed by the World Bank.
(f) To assist the TBA in preparing terms of reference for the studies.
(g) To consider the benefits of using the proposed linked network of
hydrological telemetric stations to include water quality monitoring stations
at strategic points in the basin.
I. Eutrophication In Tai Lake
2.    Tai Lake is approximately circular with maximum width of 50km and an
area of about 2300 sq km. The lake is about 40km from the Yangtze River at
its nearest point, and 70 km from Shanghai. The average depth of the lake is
about 2m, at its normal lake water level of 3m above Wusong datum. In 1990,
TBA commissioned the Nanjing Institute of Geography and Limnology to carry out
'\ Compiled by Mr. Nicholas Odd, Water Quality Consultant, HR Wallingford,
UK and edited by Lang S. Tay, Task Manager, Bank/IDA.



-113-
a series of detailed (44 stations) synoptic surveys of the lake in addition to
monitoring carried out by district water conservancy bureaus at 9 stations.
Results of eutrophication study of Tai Lake has been quantified in terms of
total nitrogen, phosphorus and chlorophylla concentrations. Tai Lake may be
defined as shallow and as such, is likely to be generally vertically well
mixed nearly all the time. All samples are made 0.5m below the water surface
as per Chinese water quality standard GB 3838-88.
3.    The prevailing south easterly winds generate a down-wind residual
current in the shallower water near the shore and a return current in the
deeper water in the center of the lake, creating twin circulating cells,
modified by the coriolis effect and by the detailed geometry of the lake.
There may also be a small but perhaps significant, submerged return current in
the deepest part of the lake. Wave action during moderate to strong winds may
increase the frictional resistance to the currents in the lake significantly.
The wind driven circulation continually transports suspended mud, pollution,
nutrients and algae around the lake. Suspended sediment and submerged algal
detritus probably move upwind in the bed layers in the deeper parts of the
lake. The 1990 survey data on suspended solids levels and Secchi disc values
show that they are strongly inversely correlated. Suspended solids in August
1990 varied from about 1-180 ppm. The average Seechi disc depth in 1990 was
0.3m compared to an average water depth of 2m. By comparison algae at 20
mg/m3, the level obtained in Wuxi bay in August 1990, would give Secchi disc
depth of about 1 metre.
4.    It appears that the concentration of total phosphorus in the lake
sediments is equivalent to between 40,000 - 120,000 tonnes depending on the
depth of bio-turbation and density of the surface sediments. This is large
compared to the existing estimated inflow of phosphorus of about 1500 t/a,
mainly from the West and NW catchments during floods. Concentration of
dissolved total phosphorus appear to have increased from about 0.03 mg/l in
1980 to over 0.05 mg/l in 1990. The concentration of phosphorus which limits
algal growth is about 0.01 mg/l. It would appear that phosphorus in not in
short supply in the lake. However, a lack of soluble phosphorus may limit the
growth of algal blooms locally for short periods.
5.    The total average influx of total nitrogen is estimated to be about
30,000 t/a in 1991, most of which enters the lake from the channels in the
west and north west in the first flush of run-off in the early part of the wet
season. The estimated average net out flow is about 25,000 tonnes. Total
nitrogen concentrations have increased from about 1.0 to 1.4 mg/l between 1980
and 1990. The observations of cholorphyll-a and nitrate in Wuxi Say in August
1990 indicate that a lack of nitrate may limit larger algal blooms.
6.    The total annual productivity of the lake does not appear to have been
estimated. The pool of organic detrital matter in the lake sediments appears
to be rising at a rate of the order of 0.1 x 106 t/a assuming a 0.1% annual
increase in the organic content (1.1% in 15 years 1976-91). This would
indicate a annual productivity of the order of 500 gCm2/yr, which is in the
correct order for a eutrophic take. It implies annual utilization of 1 0,000
tonnes of nitrogen each year.



-114-
7.    The main cause of eutrophication in Tai Lake appears to be an excessive
influx of nitrogen early in the wet season from the rivers in the western and
north wester shores of the lake. Phosphors does not appear to be a limiting
factor except perhaps locally for short periods. The algal blooms in the lake
appear to be limited mainly by the suspended sediments in the lake, and,
perhaps, inhibitory levels of sunlight in the restricted photic zone. It is
estimated that only about 30% of the available nitrogen, excluding recycling,
is utilized in the lake. Rapid flushing in the wet season helps control
eutrophication.
8.    The formation of mats of floating algal in the Wuxi bay region are
caused by intense productivity in the 0.3m photic zone in calm slightly cloudy
periods lasting a few days and by gentle prevailing westerly winds
accumulating algae on the surface of WUXI Bay. At present the lake does not
appear to suffer a significant oxygen depletion following a crash of a blue-
green algal bloom. This is because frequent wave action increases turbidity,
halting growth and mixing algae into the water column, which are carried up-
wind at depth. The loss of large areas of macrophytes in the shallow bays on
the eastern side of the lake since 1960, by reclamation, harvesting, trawling
operations and perhaps by pollution, has probably reduced significantly the
areas of stable sediment and clear water in the lake. The algae blooms are
governed by cloud cover and varying turbidity caused by wave action and by
nutrient recycling from bed sediments also caused by wave action.
9.    The lake will benefit from a reduction of nitrogen, phosphorus, and
pollutants flowing into the lake from the Wuxi region and from the Huzhou
regions and the western shore. The lake would probably also benefit by
improving conditions for the growth of macrophytes in sheltered parts of
shallow bays on the northern and eastern shoreline of the lake.
10.   It would appear that the proposed inflow of Yangtze River water from the
Wang Yu River will take the shortest route along the easter shore of the lake
when water is drawn off into the Taipu River. This may have disadvantageg as
regards flushing the Wuxi zone in a drought. The algal blooms in the lake may
be sensitive to changes in the turbidity caused by influx of water from the
Yangtze River, which may have an unexpectedly high concentration of clay
particles. The water from the Yangtze may also be contaminated by effluent
from nearby shoreline outfalls. It is recommended that up to 3 sampling sites
are established at different distances from the shoreline near the proposed
site for the Wang Yu pumping station in the Yangtze River. An increase in
water levels in the lake during droughts could change the erosion caused by
waves in the lake.
11.   The two-monthly surveys of the take commissioned by TBA are invaluable
as a means to monitor eutrophication of the lake, and should be continued,
ideally at monthly intervals in the summer. At some of the deeper sites,
measurements and samples should be taken 0.5m above the bed in addition to
those at the surface. The exact requirements of the survey should be defined
by a limnologist. The whole data base should be stored in a standard form and
be easily accessed by modelers. The water quality objectives and associated
standards for different parts of the lake should be expressed in percentile
values and not absolute values. It may be more appropriate to consider annual



-115-
productivity and the frequency of algal blooms. The objectives should also
consider the quality of the sediments and flora and fauna of the lake. The
monitoring of the 135 inflows to the lake should be reviewed to see whether
they are accurate enough to quantify the main nutrient and sediment loads to
the lake. More detailed shorter observations of a scientific nature for the
purpose of evaluating algal kinetic rate constants should be made at one or
more sites in the lake or in a laboratory.
Modelling Tai Lake
12.   In 1988, the Institute of Water and Hydro-power Research (IWHR) in
Beijing, made two studies of the lake using a uniform 2D 3.4 km gridded model
of the lake. The model uses an implicit method. The water quality model
included DO, COD, phenol organic nitrogen, ammonia, nitrite, nitrate and
phosphorus. The results from the WQ model were compared with field
observations in 1987/88. The model was then used to predict the environmental
(assimilative) capacity of the lake, in terms of pollutant concentrations, of
eight point sources of pollution on the shoreline of the lake using unit loads
and optimization techniques.
Recommendations
13.   It is recommended that a new purpose built model is made to simulate
outrophication in Tai Lako. The model should be able to simulate the wind
driven circulations, wave effects, water balance, mud transport, nutrient
balance, and recycling, oxygen balance and primary productivity and perhaps
zoo plankton and macrophytes. The model should be capable of simulating full
annual cycles, including floods, and be calibrated and validated by comparison
with two separate years of data.
14.   The model should be mounted on a powerful work-station and have good
input and preprocessing packages including a statistical analysis of result.
analyzed in a manner to assist planners. After the calibrated model is
commissioned in TBA's computing center, it should be used to simulate
development of eutrophication over a number of years to investigate
sensitivity of algal blooms to phosphorus and nitrogen loadings and flow
augmentation. TBA should then define a target for annual productivity and
frequency of algal blooms, devise and cost plans to reduce loads and use the
model to predict benefits and optimize plans.
15.   Hohai University (HU) in Nanjing developed and applied a 2D depth-
averaged models of Tai Lake to predict pollution in the lake in a 1:20 year
drought with the flow augmentation plan using Wang Yu and Tai Pu Rivers to
convey water in and out of the lake. The work was done for the Environmental
(Impact) Assessment report. The model uses an explicit FD method with a
uniform 1.7 km element and simulated DO, BOD5, NH3-N and COD. Neither the flow
model or the water quality model were calibrated in any detail. The predicted
maximum concentrations of BODS, NH3-N and COD were generally less than the
maximum values observed in a normal year without flow augmentation. The model
should be connected to the HU canal network model.



-116-
II* TAIPU WATERWAY NETWORK
16.   The largely artificial network of highly interconnected canals and
rivers covers the whole of Jiangsu Province and Shanghai city zone and the low
lying part of Zhejiang Province to the north, east and mouth of the Tai Lake,
respectively. There are a total of 8 administrative districts responsible for
water supply and pollution control. A natural dendritic (branched) system of
streams drains the higher land to the south west of the catchment of the
catchment in Zhejiang Province which has the highest runoff. The 300 km long,
100-200m wide, Grand Canal croseas the network. All the outlets to the saline
Hangzhou Bay to the south and to the fresh Yangtze tidal river to the north
are gated except the Huang Pu River at Shanghai. The network is connected to
11 significant and over 25 smaller lakes. There are denser local networks of
canals in the cities of Changzhou, Wuxi, Suzhou and Shanghai. There are gates
and locks within the system. The average depths of the channels is 2-3m.
Hohai University have collated data on the size of all the significant
channels in forms of width and depth of each reach.
17.   The direction of flow in the network is generally north east and east
when the lake levels are high. In drought conditions water tends to flow from
the canal into the lake and from the Yangtze River into the Canal. The gate
in the lake at the head of Tai Pu River has only been opened once in the last
30 years during a flood in 1991. TBA also pays for water conservancy bureau
data for about 100 sites in the channel network. The water conservancy
bureaus collect an unspecified number of samples within the canal network in
the major cities of Wuxi and Suzhou.
Modelling Taipu waterway network
18.   Hohai University have developed a 1-D flow model of a large part of the
canal network which was used to make predictions of the effect of using the
flood protection scheme to import freshwater from the Yangtze River via the
Wang Yu River, Tai Lake and Tai Pu River in the critical drought of May -
September 1971. The main purpose of the flow model was to drive a water
quality model. However, it has also been used to simulate flood flows in
Jiangsu Province.
19.   The existing HU model is a very considerable achievement in terms of
logistics of using available data and rather limited computing resources. The
numerical method is elegant and well suited to the problem. The model was
applied with skill to making the prediction of water quality required by TBA.
The hydraulic model also has a very good potential for short term flood
forecasting as well as for driving water quality models, if it is mounted on a
suitable computer with good data handling. It is recommended that the model
be made more fully predictive by being extended to cover the Shanghai network
and by including Tai Lake as a two dimensional model (or a grillage of 1-D
channels). The inflows from the west of the Lake should, if possible, be
forecast from rainfall.  It may be necessary to model some of the low lying
channels in West Hangzhou District. The other boundary conditions should be



-117-
either hindeast, forecast or observed tidal and river levels outside the
basin. It should include wind stress and backup of water in polders. The
version of the flow model used to drive the water quality model should include
the most of the significant canals in the dies of Changzhou, Wuxi, Suzhou and
Hangzhou where pollution is worst. It is recommended that the lake-canal
network model, used to drive the pollution control model, should also be used
for flood simulation and forecasting. However, input and costs of modifying
the model to accept telemetric data should be appropriately included.
20.   Hohai University have developed and applied a matching model of water
quality in the canal network simulating DO, BOD,, NH-N and COD. The model is
well suited to simulating the poor water quality in the Taipu waterway
network, but only partially calibrated against relatively sparse surface
observations made in 1988/89.
21.   The new combined network and lake model should predict DO, BOD,, COD and
NH3-N which are the most important water quality variables. The model should
be run for a full annual cycle including floods, but shorter periods may be
acceptable for calibration and comparative predictive tests. The effect of
eutrophication on dissolved COD, BODs, and NH3-N values in the lake and canal
network can be ignored. However, the model should be programmed to simulate
at least 4 extra variables to allow it to be modified relatively simply at a
later state to simulate more processes.
22.   Ideally, the model should be calibrated and validated against two years of
monthly observations of DO, BOD5, COD, NH3-N at about 100 stations and
observations at interval, of two-weeks at an additional 50 station in the
network. Additional observations should be made within city zones. It would be
acceptable to have BOD, values at fewer sites to save costs. It is recommended
that DO values are observed 0.5m above the bed where the surface value is less
than 2mg/l. If they are lower near the bed the model should be compared with the
average of the two values. The length of channel where serious odors and gassing
occurs should be observed. The surface bed sediments should be inspected for
anaerobic conditions and gassing. Suspended solids, water temperature, NO3 and
coliform should be observed for future reference.  More detailed analysis of
toxic pollutants could be made at about 10 selected sites near significant
industrial discharges. This should include the dissolved and adsorbed phases.
Recommendations
23.   It is recommended that the models be mounted on a powerful work station
(30-50 mps) with a large amount of hard disc storage. A PC and smaller work-
stations should be linked to the machine. There will also be a need for up-to-
date hardware for plotting the results in color in plan, long sections and as
time histories at points. For maximum efficiency and economy, the two or three
very powerful work-stations needed to run the lake-canal network pollution model,
the flood simulation and forecasting model and the lake eutrophication model are
all located in a single TBA computing center.  This will save some computing
resources, expensive auxiliary equipment such as color plotters and spare parts
etc.  It will also ensure that these is a back-up computer in a case of an
emergency, The Taihu Water Quality Monitoring Center will need one powerful work-
station for running the water quality data base. The institutes responsible for



-118-
developing the models will need their own computer system exactly matching the
TBA system.
24.   It is of concern and importance that TBA be able to obtain water quality
data from the water construction and pollution control districts. At present,
it appears that TBA has to pay full value for data from the 9 districts in the
Taipu Basin. It is recommended that the Chinese government should make sure that
all the districts in the basin are bound to provide the Taihu Water Quality
Monitoring Center at Wuxi with all the data its requires to monitor and manage
water quality in the Taipu Basin, free of charge. In turn, the center at Wuxi
should provide the districts with regular reports on water quality in the basin
as a whole.
25.   It is considered unnecessary to use the proposed network of hydrological
telemetric stations to measure and transmit water quality data, because only very
limited measurements of water quality can be made.  Also, there is no rapid
action that can be taken on receipt of the data. Conventional sampling on a
daily basis and normal telephone links are probably adequate in the event of
pollution advancing down a channel towards a water supply intake, during a
drought.
26.   The draft terms of reference, proposed schedule of work and estimated input
of foreign consultants proposed are based on the assumption that the bulk of the
development would be undertaken by local Chinese institutes to be commissioned
by TBA.  The main purpose of the foreign consultants will be to assist the
Chinese institutes by applying experience of similar large water quality studies
and by providing specialist expertise not available in China.



-119-
APPENDIX 1.
Table 1 Manpower Input for Study of
Eutrophication of Tai Lake
Description                     Local              International
Staff-     Cost        Staff-      Cost
month       (Y'000)    month       ($'000)
(1)        (2)         __ _ _ _ _  (3)
Management                         100         130        3 \4)       60
Field monitoring                   700         910        4           80
Phy. & Biological Experiments    200           260        2           40
Mathematical modeling              200         260         5          100
Application                        200         260         5          100
Overseas study tours               20          26          1          20
Overseas training                  24          32          -          _
TOTAL                1444        1878        20         400
Note:       1) Including professors, engineers, associate professors,
lecturers, research and tachnical assistants.
2) Local at Y1,300/staff-month
3) International at $20,000/staff-month, including travelling.
4) 6 steering committee meetings Q 2 meetings per for 3 years.



-120-
APPENDIX 1.
Table 2 - Manpower Input for Study of Pollution in
TaiDu Waterway Network
Descrition                    Local               International
Staff-        Cost       Satff-        Cost
month \1    (Y'000)       month       ($'000)
Management                     100         130         3 \4         60
Computing                      100         130         2            40
Fielding monitoring            500         650         2            40
Data base                      300         390         4            80
Mathematical modeling          200         260         4            80
Application                    200         260         4            80
Overseas study tours           20          26          1            20
Overseas training              24          32          -            -
TOTAL              1420        1846        20           400
Notes:
\1: including professors, associate professors, engineers,
lecturers, research and technical assistants.
\2: Local e Y1,300/staff-month.
\3: International e $20,000 staff-month, including traveling.
\4: 6 steering committee meetings e 2 per year for 3 years.



-121-
APPENDIX 1.
Table 3 - Estimated cost of comouters
Institute Developing Eutrophication model                                              $  90,000
Maintenance costs for 3 years                                                            $  29,000
Institute Developing Taipu Water Way Network model                                       $  90,000
Maintenance cost for 3 years                                                             $  29,000
TBA System                                                                                $128,000
Maintenance costs per year                                                               $  13,000
Taipu Water Quality Monitoring Center                                                     $  90,000
Maintenance cost per year                                                                 $  9,000
Base software                                                                      $ 20,000 per
license
Other software                                                                           $  10,000
Note:   Costs exclude discounts



-122-
APPENDIX 1.
Table 4 - Estimate cost of field equipment for survey of Tai Lake
Equipment for a single platform
Wind meter                                $2000
Solar meter                               $2000
Turbidity meter                           $1600
Pressure wave recorder                    $3500
EM current meter                          $8500
Mufti channel data logger                 $8500
Sub-total    $26000
Items mounted on survey vessel
Portable fluorometer                       $17000
Hydrocyclone                               $1700
Portable turbidity meter                   $2000
Portable DO meter                          $ 500
GPS position fixing
equipment (+/-100m)                  $3400
PC Computers                               $3400
Sub-total        $28000
TOTAL            $54,000



-123-
Appendix 2
Draft Terns of Reference for
Three year Study of Eutrophication in Tai Lake
1.     Background
1.1    The 2300 sq km Tai Lake is the main water body in the Taipu Basin, providing storage for flood
regulation, raw water for municipal and industrial water supply, fisheries and tourism. Currently, about 20% of
the lake is polluted by inflows from urban centers fringing the lake and drainage water from intensively cultivated
agricultural land. Increasing concentrations of nutrients has led to excessive algal blooms, peaking during the
summer period. In the future, it is proposed to augment the supply of water in the Taipu Basin by pumping water
from the Yangtze River via the Wang Yu and Taipu Rivers. The Taipu Basin Authority is committed to
controlling eutrophication of the lake by reducing nutrient loads.
2.     Objectives
The prime objectives of the three year study are:-
1)     To observe, quantify and understand the constituent processes controlling the productivity of the
lake ecosystem.
2)     To develop, construct, calibrate and validate a practical mathematical model of the wind driven
flow circulations, turbidity, nutrient balance, oxygen balance and main features of the annual cycle of the
primary productivity in the lake including the impact of anthropogenic loads. The model will be used to
investigate the benefits of controlling pollutant and nutrient inflows to the lake and introduction of new
water from the Yangtze River.
3)     To install and commission the model as a planning and forecasting tool to assist TBA to manage
the eutrophication problems and -restore the ecosystem of the lake.
3.     Scope of work
The project team, TBA, and its Chinese sub-sub-contractors, assisted by specialist international
consultants, will carry out comprehensive monitoring of the lake, physical and biological experiments and
mathematical model studies. The work will be directed by a small scientific steering group which will meet at
regular intervals.
3.1    Monitoring the lake
The present program of two-monthly surveys of water quality, phytoplankton and zooplankton at 44 sites
in the lake will continue. A detailed analysis of the bed surface sediments will be made at all 44 sites. Up to
five temporary platforms will be set up in the lake, from which continuous observations of wind speed and
direction, turbidity, wave height, current and, ff practical, chlorophylla will be made. The observations will
continue for 2 years at least. From time to time, special intensive sampling exercises will be made from the
platforms to determine short term variations of water quality and phytoplankton and zooplankton in the water
column.



-124-
The main sources and outflows of sediment, nutrients and pollutants to the lake will be monitored at
frequent intervals to determine the flux and balance of water, nutrients and sdiments in the take. Aerial photos,
satellite images and field inspections will be used, if practical, to determine the location and extent of different
macrophyte species and algal blooms.
All the new data and relevant historical data will be input into a simple scientific computer data base.
The observations will be used to estimate the productivity of the lake and the comprehensive reports will be
prepared at six monthly intervals including tables and plots of the data collected in the previous six months.
3.1.1   Monitoring the Yangtze River
The team will monitor the turbidity and water quality of the water at 3 sites in the Yangtze River in the
vicinity of the proposed intake of the Wang Yu River pumping station.
3.2    Modelling conditions at Wang Yu pwup intake
The team will carry out a modelling of flow, sediment and pollution disposal patterns in the Yangtze
River in the vicinity of the proposed intake with the aim of positioning the intake to minimize the influx of
sediment and pollution into the Taipu system.
3.3    Experiments
The team will execute a series of specialty designed in-situ, enclosure and laboratory experiments to
investigate and quantify the rates and functional relationships of the physical and biological process deemed to
influence primary productivity in the lake and required to be simulated in the model. Thoe will include erosion
and settlement of sediment, sediment-water exchanges of nutrients; growth, respiration, mortality, decay and
uptake and limiting concentrations and recycling of carbon, nitrogen and phosphorus on the dominant
phytoplankton, zooplankton, benthos and macrophyte species as deemed necessary for the model. The results of
each experiment will be analyzed to provide the model with the necessary functional relationships to simulate
primary productivity in the lake.
3.4 Mathematical model
The team will review modelling studies of similar large shallow turbid outrophic lakes and define the
structure of the new model, which will include the Wang Yu River.
The team will develop, test and calibrate a model of the lake in a series of stages, in a modular form,
including wind driven flows, wave action, water balance, suspended sediment, nutrient and oxygen balance,
pollutants, carbon balance, primary productivity, zooplankton and macrophytes as necessary. If practical, the
flow and advective diffusion equations should be solved by using fully implicit finite difference methods.
3.4.1    Flow and transport model
The team will execute numerical experiments to determine the need for a multi-layered flow model and
the optimum grid size to resolve the unsteady pattern of flow and dissolved substances in the lake, including the
effects of wave action. The flow and transport models will be calibrated by comparison with obsorved water
levels and drift velocities and observed seasonal patterns of turbidity and water quality over a full annual cycle.
The models will be validated by comparison with a second set of data.
3.4.2    Algal blooms



-125-
The algal blooms should be simulated using techniques allowing for their growth in the thin surface
photic zone, transport and by wind drift and vertical mixing and dispersal by waves and wind drift currents.
3.4.3    Reporting
Detailed report will be prepared describing the theory, structure and numerical methods employed in the
model at each stage of development and calibration of the report. The comparison of the model with observed
data will be presented using up-to-date graphics and an objective statistical analysis method,
3.4.4    Computer hardware
The team will implement the model on a powerful work-station capable of simulating a full annual cycle
of flow or water quality in about 8 hours.
3.4.5    User friendly software
The team will develop or implement a user friendly method of inputting data and running the model for
part or whole annual cycles for planning purposes. The team will also implement a post - processing package to
plot model results and to compare them with field data using suitable color graphics and animation techniques and
objective statistical methods,
3.4.6    Commissioning the model
The team will prepare user guides and carry out rigorous commissioning tests on the model system in
TBA's computing center to demonstrate the effectiveness and reliability of the model. TBA staff will be trained
in the use of the model.
3.4.7    Overseas training
The team will arrange for overseas training of Chinese scientists in subject areas which will benefit the
project.
3.5     Application of the model
After the calibrated model is commissioned in TBA's computing center, it should be used to simulate
development of eutrophication over a number of years to investigate the sensitivity of algal blooms to phosphorus and
nitrogen loadings, and flow augmentation. TBA should then define targets for average annual productivity and
frequency of algal blooms, devise and cost plans to reduce loads and use the model to predict benefits and optimize
plans.



126-
DrAfshu              for astuidy of e          '111111 Tal!!'.
Draft schedule of work for a study of eutrophication in Tal Lake



-127-
ARDendix 3
Draft Terms of Reference for Three year Study
of Water Ouality in the TaiRu Water Svstems
1.     Background
The large network of lakes and inter-connecting canals in the Taipu Basin, which convey flood waters
and raw water for municipal and industrial supply are heavily polluted by municipal and industrial waste from
urban centers. The water supplies of Shanghai and other large cities in the Taipu basin are at serious risk during
drought periods. TBA is committed to augment water supplies to the system by using pumping stations on the
Wang Yu and Taipu Rivers.
In addition, to its responsibilities for flood protection in the basin, TBA will have responsibility for
monitoring and managing pollution in the network of canals. The control sources of pollution and the use of
extra water from the Yangtze River will be used to improve dilution and environmental conditions in the cities
and the water quality at the major water supply intakes. TBA requires a fully predictive model of the canal
network to help optimize plans to improve water quality in the system.
2.  Objectives
The prime objectives of the 3-year study are:
1)     To initiate and execute detailed monitoring surveys of the canal network, which will be
optimized and continued after the completion of the project. The new data will be used to calibrate and
validate the model.
2)     To set-up a comprehensive user friendly database of water quality, pollution loads and water
quality standards in the network and lakes as a management tool.
3)     To extend, enhance and re-calibrate the existing model of the network (developed by Hohai
University) to simulate flow and water quality in the whole network of canals throughout a full annual
cycle, including flood events.
4)     To install on commission the flow and water quality model in the TBA's computer center as a
management tool to devise plans to improve conditions.
3.     Scope of work
The project team, TBA and is Chinese sub-contractors, assisted by specialist international consultants,
will carry out comprehensive monitoring of the canal network for 3 years and extend, enhance, re-calibrate and
validate the existing model, and install and commission the model at TBA's office.
3.1    Monitoring the canal network
The team will observe physical variables such as water level and discharge to calibrate the flow model. The
team will review the calibration of the existing model and identify about 100 sites wher and 50 sites where monthly
and 2 weekly observations of water quality will be made for at least 2 years. The observations will include DO,
COD, NH3-N, NO3 and BODs if practical. The position of the observations should be optimized by reference to the



-128-
existing models. The team will also monitor odor, gassing and signs of anaerobic conditions on the bed of the canals
in the cities. The team will set-up a user friendly database for storing and retrieving historic and new data in the
canal network and all the lakes.
3.2    Flow modelling
The team will review the performance of the existing model. The team will extend the canal network in the
model to include all significant canals and hydraulic structures in the Shanghai region and other major cities. The
team will connect a 2D model of Tai Lake to the canal network. Inflows from the west of the lake should be
predicted from rainfall. The model should include wind stress on the lake and along the canals. It should include
backing up of water in the polders during floods. The sea level boundary conditions will be based on observations
or supplied from a 2D model of the coastal region. The model will include an accurate representation of the hydraulic
performance of the major hydraulic structures, based on physical model tests if necessary. The team will prepare
a report and user guide describing the new model in detail.
3.2.1   Calibration
The team will calibrate and validate the flow model using two years of data. Tho model will be compared
with observed water levels and discharges using objective statistical methods. The Team Will prepare a detailed
report describing the calibration and validation of the model.
3.3    Water quality model
T-he team will modify the combined canal network and lake model to simulate DO, BOD5, COD, NH3-N and
4 extra variables, which may be needed in the future.
The model should allow for point and diffuse pollution loads to vary on a seasonal or weekly cycle and to be
discontinuous. Allowance should also be made for a diurnal cycle, although the model will probably be run with a
timestep of 24 hours most of the time. The team will prepare a report describing the model in detail.
3.3.1   Rate constants
The team will carry out laboratory studies to investigate the decay of BOD5, COD, NH3-N under low DO
and anaerobic conditions. A report will be written.
3.3.2   Calibration
The team will calibrate and validate the model by simulating two different annual cycles and comparing
the model results with observations using an objective statistical method.
3.4    Software graphics
The team will develop a practical user friendly method of inputting data and running the models and storing
and retrieving results. The team will develop or apply a practical post-processing analysis package to enable the user
to interrogate the results of model tests and produce a statistical analysis of water quality in the canal and lake system
for selected periods and produce hard copy and tables. The analyses should be designed to assist in the application
of the model to management of pollution in the Taipu Basin as a whole. The team will produce comprehensive guides
and system manuals.
3.5    Installation and training
The team will install the flow and water quality model of the combined lake and canal network model on
work stations in the TBA computing center and carry out comprehensive commissioning tests.



-129-
3.6    Training and technology transfer
The team will send Chinese scientists and engineers abroad and use specialist international consultants to take
full advantage of the latest hardware, software and methods of analysis and experience in cleaning up similarly heavily
polluted river networks.
3.7    Application of the model
After the calibrated model is commissioned in TBA's computing center, it should be used to determine the
sensitivity of water quality to pollution loads and flow augmentation. TBA should then define water quality tagets
as percentiles, reducing loads and using augmentation to improve water quality. The model should then be used to
predict benefits and optimize plans.
3.8    Flood forecasting
The modification of the model to act as a forecasting tool by accepting telemetry data is not included in the
scope of work.



-103-
-. < X                        a c
Draft schedule of work for a study of pollution in Taipu
Waterway Network



ANNEX 10
-131-                   Table 1
CHINA
TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Monitorina Indicators
No.                            Indicators                          Taroet Date
1.              Budget and Program of Works for the            Annually
following year.                               November 30
2.              Audited Account and Auditor's Report           Annually
for the preceeding year                       June 30
3.              Basin-wide operational procedures for          December 31
flood and drought management and              1994
contingency plan for management of
catastrophic floods.
4.              Long-term Environmental Management             December 31
Plan.                                         1993
5.              Consolidated annual programs and               Annually
budgets for environmental management          December 31
(commencing from year 1994)
6.              Monitoring and evaluation programs and
findings for:
a) project implementation progress;           Semi-annually
July 31 and
January 31
b) performance of completed project           Due upon
flood control works;                          completion, and
annually
thereafter
c) effectiveness of flood monitoring          Due upon
system and flood management; and              completion, and
annually
thereafter.
d) socio-economic well-being of people        Semi-annually
relocated by construction activities.
7.              Review of TBA's charter and submission         December 31.
of proposals to increase its power for         1993
flood and water management



-132-               ANNEX 10
Table 2
CHINA
TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
PropWosed Bank/IDA SuervionIUt
Prop.                  Activitieu                 Specia-       Staff
Date                                              lization      Input
.(8-w)
11/92   Proiect Launch WorkshoD: Joint            TM, Procu.
Bank/MWR/MOF workshop for project         Disbur.      8
staff on procurement, disbursement,       Finance
financial management, M&E and             MEZ
reporting requirements.
04/93   Initial Suoervigion Mission: Review       Task
retro-active financing work, project    manager,       4
organization, staff, designs and          procuremen
procurement, budget.                      t.
09/93   Sucervision Mission:  Review              W. Res.
implementation progress, procurement,    Procu.        8
disbursement, studies, training, TA       Dredging
_ and environ. manag'mt.                  Environ.
04/94   Supervision Mission:  Review              W. Res.
implementation progress, procurement,    Water         8
disbursement, studies, training, TA       Quality
and environ. manag'mt.                    Hy  Model
09/94   Supervision Mission:  Review              W. Res.
implementation progress, procurement,    Procu.        8
disbursement, studies, training, TA       Dredging
and environ. manag'mt.                    Environ.
04/95   Mid-Term Review Mission:  Review          W. Rem.
progress and agree to changes to          Water        12
scope, cost estimates, and Loan and       Quality
Credit proceed allocation and             Hy. Model
disbursement adjustment
09/95   Supervision Mission:  Review              W. Res.
implementation progress, procurement,    Water         12
disbursement, studies, training, TA       Quality
and environ. manag'mt.                    Hy. Model
04/96   Supervision Mission:  Review              W. Res.
implementation progress, procurement,    Econom.       8
diabursement, studies, training, TA       Environ.
and environ. manag'mt.
09/96   SuDervision/Initial PCR Mission:          W. Res.
Final stage review of progress and        Econom.      12
discuss preparatory work for PCR.         M & E
06/97   PCR Mission:  Review and compile          W. Res.
project data, evaluate results,           Econom.      20
benefits and impacts in accordance        EnvironM &
with PCR preparation guidelines.          I
Total Supervision Input (staff-weeks)               100
Note: Bank/IDA supervisions will be complemented by separate MWR inspections to
be carried out semi-annually.



-133-
ANNEX XI
CHINA
TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Proiect File
A.    General Reports and Reference Materials
A.1   China Water Conservancy (Zhongguo Shuili) - December Issue, 1991.
A.2   Regulations for Land Acquisition and Arrangements for Resettlement and
Relocation for Large and Medium-size Water Conservancy and Hydro-
electric Projects, State Council No. 74, May 1991
A.3   Draft SAR "Southern Jiangsu Environmental Protection Project" by EA2IE,
May 26, 1992
B.    Reports and Studies Related to the Proiect
B.1   Feasibility Study Report of China Taihu Basin Flood Control Project,
Taihu Basin Authority, Ministry of Water Resources, July, 1992
B.2   Summary Report of Water Resources Protection Plan for Taihu Basin by
MWR, NEPA, and Office of Water Resources Protection TBA, December, 1990
B.3   Outline of the Environmental Impact Assessment for Flood Control Project
in Taihu Basin by TBA, Ministry of Water Resources, February 1992.
B.4   Macro Policy Decisions on Water Resource Areas for Shanghai Municipality
Water Supply by Huang Xuanwei, Director, TBA.
B.5   Environmental Assessment of Taihu Basin Flood Control Project, Ministry
of Water Resources, PRC, prepared by Research Institute for Protection
of the Yangtze Water Resources and assisted by Research Institute of
Environmental Water Conservancy, Hehai University and Shanghai Research
Institute of Environmental Protection, June 1992
B.6   Channel Dredging of Wangyu and Taipu Rivers - Colin Fairn,
Consultant, C. B. Fairn Associates & Ltd., Toronto, Canada, April 1992
B.7   Review of Hydraulic Improvements and ONE-Dimensional Hydrodynamic Model
- Mauric Sydor, Inland Waterways, Water Planning and Management Branch,
Environment Canada, April 1992
B.8   A Review of Water Quality Aspects - by Nicholas Odd, HR Wallingford,
United Kingdom, Report EX 2650, October 1992
B.9 Revised Plan for Land Acquisition, Relocation and Compensation - by
Taihu Basin Authority (December 31, 1992)



-134-
TAIHU BASIN FLOOO CONTROL PROJECT                   CHART NO. 1
Organization Chcrt for Project
IlpLemantation and Management
CentraL Proj. Loading Grp
(Central PLG)
Reporting directLy to
State CounciL
Prov. Proj. Leading Grp.            Min. of Water Resources             Mun. ProJ. Loadin  G rp.
(Prov. PLG)           _(MbR)                                           (Mm. PLG)
T3A Project Mgm't Office
= ~~(T3A/PM0) - 
Taihu Basin Authority
fn Shanghsl
Prov. Proj. M9gmt Office 1un. Proj.  Igmt Office
(Prov. PMo)                             F                              (Mun. PMO)
ProvinciaL Burmaus of                         FfjneShanghai Bureau of
Water Resources                |tviseon                                W tor Rlsources
Envi rorunentat Protection
|   Division      
Construction Headquarters                                              Construction Hoodqu1rtcrr
(Constr. Hqrs)                        Enlno rlng                      (Constr. Hqrs)
(m_jor work components)                       Divislon                 (major work components)
Procurement
Flinaoe                           Division
Engineering Constructionr
ReLocation, Land & Conp.
Materils & SuppLies
Administration



!TJU BAZXN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Taihu Basin Authority                                                Director
Oruanization  for   o-ration  A manausuent                                      Deputy Directors                                 * Alto serves a  Secretariat of the
(4)                           ~~~~~~~~~Taihu Iasin Water Resources
Protection Comittee (TSPC)
(3)          
Admiistrtio                     P romd              rawattion &        n          Pl ning & Caictr  Corstr          WaUter !esaur      I   I Lopt wnd Enforr_wnt lFtood Controt L DespatchI
Divisian (20)        vl ilsion (4)                        Dfvision: =0)                 Divilsion (14)        Protection kr_u l22)  | |           Divisfan (16)      ll      Center (2Z)
Teuhu   t f  r Qfaity
Usonitorino & lanfig_mant
(-) Fisuros In parenthesis indirat*         Engr. t    tIon ndi                                                                  Ivision at Wuxf C40)
the ndbr of staff sid                            __nt Office 
at Suo   40)
Ubt r tiuAlfty lonitoringl1
Toipu aIlwr aI_*n           u   C Outlot Cowtlz l              uu          Syphon                      _t
Ift        Station   _      pwr   a Ib t Station   _  _      w. *  mot Station
(oO)  (90)                     *t ltin  l70)                           J  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~An lyticat Laboratory 
Taipu Control gots          Tidel Controt C                                                             An aStca  L rarrd catr
Research
Taipu Puming Station           Pu.plqe  Station
.   blln_1q  uV Inewiq  twkshop                                                   _nt
| AdWnivtrntion                                                  O



-136-
TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT                      CHART NO. 3
TAIHU BASIN W. R. PROTECTION COMMITTEE
ORGANIZATION CHART
State Council
(a) Water Resources Group
Taihu Basin Water
Resources Protection
Comitte (TBWRPC)
Taihu Basin Water
Resources Protection
Bureau In TEA HQ.
|  Jlngu Province                      shonshal  MuicipiLfty                  Zhejlcag Province 
Environ. Protection Bur.             Environ  Protection Bur.                      Protection Bur.
Water Reoource  Burow uc  Resourcs Swoeu                                       Water Resource  Buro u|



TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1992          |          1993           |          1994            |          1 S                       1996                      1997
ID Nmw                                       3wi0            01    03        4     1     203              0ui1 0203064  OUt 1Ott 2 U3  Ott4Ou   0,2  Ou63  Ott14  011 I0 t2 10u 3  013 tt4
I    TAIPU R. CHANNEUZATION                   1173d                                                     t                          |
2       Lwnd Acqu. & Rilocation                104w                                                     I _ _ __ __                |
3       Chmwl excoamon                          366d                           tI_
4           Sh_*a t.cdon                      95.4w i
S                     _1aagsco               117.4w        __-_
e6                 t Jw,goUa.c                121.2w                                                     _
7        Slop peoloction                      156.2w
a       T, ou Puqin[g Sia on                  l0S.6w                            I                                          t                t                      -
9       Tipu GeC. ,akwb.Nn                    65.2w
10       Drang gate                           1S6.2w                                                                                     -            -
I I      Ship locks                           169.4w                                           --
12       aideg                                208.6w
13       Accss Road                             586d                                               I                                                                                                               1
14                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -4
15   WANGYU R. CHANNEUZATION                   1173d                            .
16      Land acqu.  Rlocaon                     104w
17       Clmnl oxceion                          6SOd
I_            Ch. 6 km to 42 kim                95.4w                                                          _I
19           Shadu.nkou Sction                 21.6w
20           Chaghu Ch. 49 - 59 km             21.4w
21    S"pe plOceelin                           1035d                                      _                                                      -
22       Sh   undo GeG     ndCe l             117.2w                        _
23       Now tidal gate                          79w                                                                                                             -
Ptodect: Tafth Rood Cnia Pfoio |  CAdclc                       Progmte Sunn                               w                                        Pqc: Talhu Rood Coniud Piojeat    Cnic
Date: 1113193                  |ton *                                                       Roed Up                                               | Date: 1113193                     Nordt  
., chlu ebo_ ito   ___tion    tltiin only.                                                                                                         -1-
o10



TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
IMPLEhENTATION SCHEDULE
19112                     1993           1           941                      Ils1997
ID -     Nmrn                                _wc           Ot I | 0lr 2  1 Ou 3 | 01, 4  Ou I |Oa 2 | Gu 3   U O4  01t1    I              |l,2  GU3  Ot4   1 GU 2 I 35  0 O4 1  O01U1 02  Or3   u C4 Our I |  u2  Ou 3 | Ou 4
47       Dr_m. gabI 130w
48       St* locks                              130w
49       Co_pneamory diul.a.  w.                 71ld
50      sI Chfagmn                             143.2w
51           bl Yon                            143.2w
52
53   DBULDINGS                                   715 d
54       Rood Corol Cntr                         78w
55       Wum WO ProlPit Office                  65.2w
56       Swuhou ELrg. M.'t Offic                65.2w
57       Wangyu Wlohop                           52w
S5       Togu Wisl                                2wo 2w
5S       Stsif qudost                           104w
I1   OPRATION * MOOIITORN   SYSTEM               390d
62       Coa"_Iba4  sysm                         79w
63       Hytroboglcd tdksntel ntwrk              7_W
64       Ceruing  tt                             73fr                                                                     _     t      _     t_w
f                    65                         _                  =                                                                        .~~6
66 TRAINING                                    241.2w                                                                                -           -                                            m
67
SO   TECH*NICAL ASSISTANCE                       91 2d
59       Bmwurwid. op aron modeling              52w
70       E-wuitapncTn of T L.ks                 1 56w
71       Wde.r Ouaity r,d.t                     1Stw
72       Tajlw PiStn. *ptbelisn                  20w
Protect: Tluw Rood Contl P,ojc    CijiPod                      P,@gr.                       Suwiwy                                                 P,cc Tubsu Rood Coirtol Prllet     Crbfc                         0
DaIs: 1/13/U3                  |  Nncitric~ t                  tislon. *                    Reidz Up  O C'1/3S                                                                        Nonctirta        -R 0Qc
Bnr118 10n OWbnlidcl oowa tnq_tlmbian  ctel isa onl.                                                                                                                  l'tG 1.
0 H
Date: i/13193  N.,.dtid  hoo.lorm,     Rolled Up  0                                           Date: III W93                      ht..dlica                     m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~li
Bet ohmu kWkote omUuodoAnvWnwmUen seWd   0*.                                                                               tw



TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
_  1992                    1993                       1994                 1       lIgs                      1996                       1997
ID  _N_,_                            _        Du,ltion                       at,1 |,2  0u3 |t4  at, I 0t 2  0t, 3 |Ou 4    t,1   01, 2 | Olr 3  014 4  Ot1 t    01, 3  0 t, 4  Out1 0t I ,    2  Qt, 3 |t0  4  Ot 1  | 01,2  0 t, 3  0 l, 4
24       New Punmping Stion                        91wi3
25        D,.inoge g2t.. _
26       SNp locks                              143.2w   . 
27       Euidg.s                                156.6-                     ___
28
29   HANG-JIA-HU SOUTH DRAINAGE                  1173d
30       Lend *cqu. & Rloction                    2w
31       Chennol e..av.l.on2
32       Slope proltcton                        157,2 
33       Tidal gots                               1173d
34            Nentitou G.I                         78w
35            Y.ngu..rg Xi.he gatse042
36       Pu.rn,ing tti10on4 2w
37        Drainage gales                        192.2_
38        Ship locks                              104wi
39       Bridge.                                156,2.
40
41    TAIHU PERIMETER DIKES                       1173d
42        Lend *cqu. & Reloc.tio n1 6w
43        Dik. Slrengtlening & Conl,n..            523d
44            MAngeu section
45            Zh.jeng section
46        Slop. prolection                      156.6w
Project: Tihu Flood Control Project    Criticel                   Prograe.     --                S,n,mery                                                 Projeclt Trht, F-lood Control Proicct   alCr6KJo
Del.: 1/13/93                       Noncrtical                    Mbeslone*                     Rolled Up (>                                              Date: 1/13/93                       Noncritical
Bla chrts above indicate conltncbcon/inplrnanlttion ecitinie orIy._



TAIOU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJ
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Us$ million
240
200l 
so~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
199                                     ~~~~~~~~~Cumulative
7~~~~~z                            S~~~~emester
1997~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Bank/IDA F/Year     199~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



111D 23915
Yelow
Lis vi~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
TAI H  BAIN-                  U
/L.                                                                                                                                  FORE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHITNA
000        RO AFFECTE   RA   15 AND  991
MI9P9O RCAMEC11 AEAS
- --    HY!T IN MAWjATl IMAYAXY, 19541
*    FOIOW T1UAFTNC1WDRO!"AlGC STAI-04
13AEALL. WAlER LIEM
PI~DWATER QUAlITY MOEYI9'NG SI9ITGNS
o   lKIOAV0 MAIN iWm
B EATh TBERC WATE LE VEEYAIOM
A    ELEITNJ TTAELIE1 RA*fAL.tWATER WMV StIIOLE
-MANA WAN
GLUC CA"M
CANAM J OR VERS
q~~~~~~~~~~~ 10                                                                              20Q   20       40 I1
Now9980 1912






IBRO 2391 
KI
A                                                                                                                       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 -
Tai   ~ ~~S   MA
nshen                                               v~~~~~~~~~~~'a
0~~AI 
HZ  EOL POJEC
ZHOU ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~KY~OE~CMOET
AM
* *tl~~~~~R "



