Report No. PIC2943
Project Name                       Uzbekistan-Health I (@)
Region                             Europe and Central Asia
Sector                             Other Population Health & Nutrition
Project ID                         UZPE9125
Borrower                           Republic of Uzbekistan
Implementing Agency                Ministry of Health, Tashkent
Date This PID Prepared             June 30, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date           November, 1997
Projected Board Date               February, 1998
Country and Sector (See 1/) Background
1       Indicate importance of sectoral in overall country strategy
and include brief sectoral overview (e.g., sector policy, public
expenditure and institutional framework, government sectoral
strategy, progress in resolving sectoral issues).Uzbekistan lies at
the heart of Central Asia, with the region's largest population.
Twenty three million people, over 70 percent ethnic Uzbek, occupy
the country's 447,400 km2. Uzbekistan is rich in natural resources,
including gold, oil, natural gas, coal, silver, and copper and is
the fourth largest producer of cotton and its third largest
exporter. However, since its independence in 1991 the Uzbek economy
has been affected by ongoing economic problems related to
transition from the former Soviet planned economy, resulting in
reduced household incomes (especially for the most vulnerable
groups) and the disruption of social support infrastructure
including funding for health services. The GNP in 1995 was
estimated at only US$ 930.
2       Uzbekistan's initial approaches to economic reform have been
cautious, subsequently, the deteriorating economic situation and
collapse of the ruble in the early 1990s prompted the Government to
initiate far reaching reforms, including the acceleration of
privatization and enterprise reform. More recent policy measures,
including cuts in consumer subsidies, confirm the shift to a reform
program. At the same time, the country has not always followed
through on initial timelines for economic reform measures, and has
been reluctant to move to open trading policies with foreign
countries and organizations.
3       The health status of the population is affected by a wide
range of risk factors prevalent in Uzbekistan. Of particular
relevance are high rates of fertility, inadequate supply of water
and sanitation, smoking and alcohol abuse, and poor diet. High
fertility rates (4 versus 3.1 for other middle income countries), a
high birth rate (29.8/1,000 in 1995) and a low total mortality
(6.4/1,000 in 1995) over the past three decades have resulted in a



high population growth rate, with 41% of the population under the
age of 15 years. The structure and dynamics of the population in
Uzbekistan has a profound impact on the quantity and nature of the
burden of disease. Nearly 70 percent of the population live in
rural areas, perhaps increasing the infant mortality rate (IMR),
the maternal mortality rate (MMR), and the crude birth rate (CBR)
in the aggregate as compared with other countries. The IMR
(26/1,000) and MMR (32.2/1,000), though declining in recent years,
are still high as compared to other countries in the region and
with similar incomes. Life expectancy has been high at 70.4 years.
Literacy rates, especially for women (more than 80 percent have at
least six year's of schooling), show good human development
outcomes. However, there is a need for safer motherhood,
immunization, and management of the sick child, especially in rural areas.
4       Uzbekistan's health care system mainly reflects the heritage
of the Soviet model. It is comprehensive and extensive, and
services are provided mainly free of charge. The distribution of
health resources (facilities and personnel) by oblast is relatively
equitable, on a per capita basis. However in Uzbekistan, as
elsewhere in the former Soviet Union, excessive numbers of doctors
and hospitals can lead to unnecessary hospitalizations, medical
diagnosis and treatment. Compared with many other counties, middle-
income or high income, the overall efficiency of the Uzbek system
appears to be low. Low quality is a problem at many points
throughout the health care system, including outdated clinical
information and standards, shortages of essential equipment for
diagnosis and treatment, an inadequate supply of drugs, and other
requirements for provision of basic primary health services.
5       The health sector is, like the rest of the economy, under
unprecedented pressure to change its organization and financing.
Local budgets, that finance the bulk of health services, have come
under increasing pressure, reflecting more general fiscal
constraints and the difficulties created by high inflation. The
withdrawal of enterprises and collective farms from the traditional
role of financing the construction and recurrent communal services
of local health facilities has created further budget pressures.
6       There is a need to reorient the system of care, and focus
upon a basic package of services. In 1991, the Minister of Health
outlined a health care development concept which was further
developed during 1992-1996, outlining the following priority areas
for care: women and child health protection; infectious diseases
prophylactics and environmental protection; and strengthening
primary health care. The MOH also has been developing several laws,
several of which have been recently enacted, including a health
sector reform strategy.
7       Strengthening primary health care, through restructuring the
rural infrastructure and delivery system, is one of the stated
priorities for the next 10 years. The Government in early 1996
announced a major social rural infrastructure initiative, which
included the building of new rural outpatient centers, coupled with
the rationalization of the old Soviet model of the feldsher
-2 -



stations and small outpatient centers and small district hospitals
of 30-60 beds. The reform strategy includes training of general and
family practitioners, and the introduction of improved management
and financial incentives to health care providers.
8.      Uzbekistan appears to have chosen many of the appropriate
clinical services priorities focused on primary care, (See 2/) including
prenatal and delivery care, vaccination, food supplementation,
tuberculosis treatment, case management of acute respiratory
infections and diarrhea, and treatment of sexually transmitted
diseases. However, while the essential clinical interventions may
be covered, underfunding, inefficiency, and supply shortages may
affect actual delivery.
Project Objectives
9.      The project objectives are both regional and national in
scope. The project would -- in three "pilot" oblasts of Fergana,
Navoii and Syrdarya -- seek to improve the quality and cost
effectiveness of primary health care services, particularly in the
rural areas where the great majority of the population live. It
also would seek to strengthen the management and financing of
primary health care services, in part by redefining the role of
government in both the financing and provision of health care, and
by establishing a minimum package of health care services that
should be accessible to the whole population. Combined results from
these three very different oblasts which represent the diversity of
conditions in Uzbekistan, are expected to help guide the
Government's effort to strengthen the primary health care services
in the country as a whole.
Project Description
10.     In order to achieve those objectives, the proposed project
would have the following four components: (1) Strengthening Primary
Health Care Services in Rural Areas; (2) Financial and Management
Strengthening; (3) Health Personnel (General Practitioner/Nurse
Training); and (4) Project Management. A description follows:
(1)     Strengthening Primary Health Care Services in Rural
Areas: The project would contribute to the establishment of a
network of modern, better staffed, and better equipped "rural
medical centers" ("SVPs" using the Russian acronym) in the
three pilot oblasts. This would involve determining the basic
package of services, SVP function and design, construction
standards, identifying needed protocols, and distribution and
delivery of appropriate drugs. This component would finance
some civil works, but mostly medical equipment and drugs.
(2)     Financial and Management Strengthening: The project
would ensure the sustainability of the initiative, and of the
Government's rural health care reform program. This component
would be implemented in the following two phases:
(a)     pilot demonstrations in the three oblasts: This
-3 -



would involve developing and testing various policies
and actions to assure long-run sustainability of the
new SVPs and associated reforms, through interventions
such as facility rationalization, improved efficiencies
in the delivery of services, new incentives at the
local level, and greater flexibility and
decentralization of authority to the local level. An
improved incentive-based system for matching facility
workloads and staffing patterns will also be developed.
This component would finance a new financing and
information management system, and training in specific
districts/health care facilities.
(b)     pilot demonstration evaluation and roll-out: The
pilot demonstrations in the three oblasts and the
reforms would be evaluated, replicated and disseminated
throughout the three oblasts. This component would
finance technical assistance and training.
(3)     Health Personnel (General Practitioner/Nurse Training):
Health personnel training is a critical prerequisite for
reforming and strengthening primary health care and improving
quality and efficiency of SVP services. This component would
specify a training strategy for undergraduate and post
graduate work related to General Practitioners (GPs), and
onsite training programs for trainers and for actual
physicians at SVPs. This component would finance short and
long term training courses for GPs, nurses and trainers;
training equipment and supplies; and study tours.
(4)     Project Management: This component would finance the
costs of overall project management and implementation in the
three oblasts. Scope of activities are yet to be determined.
Implementation
11.     A Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) consisting of a PCU
Director and other staff has been established in Tashkent, linked
to the Ministries of Finance and Health, and "component
coordinators" in the pilot oblasts. The Oblast authorities are to
nominate counterpart officials, with the recent selection of
participating oblasts, to specifically define the implementation
arrangements for the project at the local level.
Project Sustainability
12.     The proposed project aims to create replicable models for
health care delivery of critical services, financing and cost
recovery mechanisms, and effective management and information
systems. The oblast level interventions will be pilot programs,
with built-in monitoring to measure impact and potential
replicability. Operating costs of care in the new rural medical
centers will increase, and these costs will need to be offset with
a multi-dimensional strategy including i) diversity of funding
sources; ii) facility rationalization, and iii) improved efficiency
- 4 -



in the organization and provision of care. The project will lay the
ground for these and other, wider reforms in the health sector
across the republic.
Lessons Learnt from Past Bank Projects
13.     The Government has recently enacted a new law on health
sector reform which envisages a series of changes over the next 10
years. Nevertheless, the start-up of Bank activities in Uzbekistan
has been somewhat later than in the other FSU countries. Bank
assistance to date has focused on policy dialogue, grant support in
the design of a reform program, and institution building. It also
has engaged in a long-standing dialogue on the prudence and
relative cost-effectiveness of public investments related to
pharmaceutical and vaccine production. This would be the Bank's
first lending operation to the health sector in Uzbekistan.
14.     Experience with other health projects in transition countries
undergoing transition (such as Hungary and Poland), and health
project preparation elsewhere in the FSU, suggest that project
design should be kept as simple as possible with a small number of
components. Project preparation in other sectors in Uzbekistan also
indicates the need for straightforward project design and
implementation mechanisms, given limited institutional capacity and
weak financial systems. Achieving simplicity is difficult, however,
given the necessity of oblast level interventions in order to
implement change in the health sector, and the array of largely
interlinked issues that are involved in efforts to improve health
sector performance, wherein financing and management reforms are
central.
Poverty Impact
15.     The proportion of the poor among project beneficiaries will
be significantly higher than in the overall population because of
the emphasis of investments on critical basic services. The project
will help to ensure access to health services for vulnerable groups
during a period of increasing fiscal stress on the system.
Environmental Aspects
16.     The project is not expected to have any significant adverse
environmental impacts; it is therefore classed as a category "C" project.
Program Objective Categories
17.     The proposed project would make a direct contribution to
better public administration by improving the capacity of the
Ministry of Health at the central level and the capacity of local
health agencies in the pilot areas, and improving critical basic
health services in selected areas.
Benefits
18.     The main benefit, for up to one million residents in the
- 5 -



oblasts that would participate in the project, would be: first,
improvements in the delivery of critical basic services; and
second, improved decisions of providers about health care through
the creation of strengthened information and management structures
and integrated with appropriate incentives. The project should lead
to fiscal savings flowing from more efficient and targeted use of
resources for health care and pharmaceuticals. Indirect benefits
for efficiency would follow improved management and information
systems, and the better supply of pharmaceuticals as a result of
continued sector reform.
Risks
19.     The main risk to project success is the lack of
administrative and institutional capacity in the Government and in
the Ministry of Health generally and, in particular, with respect
to a project of the nature envisaged. For example, there may be
inadequate capacity to set up the information systems required for
effective and timely implementation. Lack of experience with World
Bank procedures and processes could be a serious problem. There is
also a risk of delay in project preparation, given that the
resources and responsibility for this process has been largely
allocated to the borrower. This risk will be alleviated through
PHRD technical assistance during project preparation, and through
intensive collaboration with key counterparts on the part of the
project team based in Tashkent (which includes the WHO-financed
Public Health Adviser to the Minister of Health) and nominated
staff of the Regional Mission.
1/   See Uzbekistan: Adjusting Social Protection
(World Bank gray cover report, # 13023-UZ), Chapter 8.
2/ See the guidelines for a basic health package from
the World Development Report of 1993.
Contact Point:           Jack Langenbrunner, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 473-3270
Fax No.:   (202) 477-3387/477-0711
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending July 18, 1997.
- 6 -



