Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17213-UZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US $30.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
FOR A
HEALTH PROJECT
August 21, 1998
Health, Nutrition and Population Sector
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Sum
I Sum   US$0.010
US$1 = 102.3 Sum
(as of August 24, 1998)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Sum per US$ I (end of year)
1994   25.1
1995    35.5
1996    55.0
1997    79.7
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARI    -        Acute Respiratory Infection          MMR             Maternal Mortality Rate
CAS    -        Country Assistance Strategy          NBF    -        Non Bank Financed
CDD    -        Childhood Diarrheal Diseases         NCB    -        National Competitive Bidding
CPPR   -        Country Portfolio Performance        NGO   -         Non Governmental
Review                                               Organization
DALY  -         Disability Adjusted Life-Years       NS      -       National Shopping
DC      -       Direct Contracting                   O&M   -         Operation and Maintenance
DPT             Diphtheria, Pertussis, and Tetanus   PHC    -        Primary Health Care
FAPs            The Russian Acronym for feldsher     PHRD  -         Policy and Human Resources
station                                              Development
FSU    -        Former Soviet Union                  PPF             Pre-Project Facility
GDP   -         Gross Domestic Product               SA      -       Special Account
GNP   -         Gross National Product               SOE    -        Statement of Expenditures
GOU   -         Government of the Republic of        SBDs  -         Standard Bidding Documents
Uzbekistan                           SL      -       Short List
GP      -       General Practice                     STDs  -         Sexually Transmitted Diseases
GPs    -        General Practitioners                SUBs  -         Russian language Acronym for
IBRD   -        International Bank for Reconstruction                existing Rural Hospitals,
and Development                                      typically 30-60 beds
[CB    -        International Competitive Bidding    SVA    -        Russian language Acronym for
IFC     -       International Finance                                old (existing) Rural
Corporation                                          Ambulatories
IMR             Infant Mortality Rate                SVP    -        New Rural Outpatient Centers
IS      -       International Shopping                               Constructed by the GOU
KfW    -        Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau                       ("Selsky Vrachebny Punkt")
Khakimiat       Oblast Administration                TA      -       Technical Assistance
LIBOR -         London Interbank Offering Rate       TOR    -        Terms of Reference
MIS    -        Management Information               UNICEF          United Nations
Systems                                              Children's Fund
MCH   -         Maternal and Child Health            UNDP  -         United Nations Development
MOF   -         Ministry of Finance                                  Program
MOH   -         Ministry of Health                   USAID -         U.S. Agency for International
MOMES           Ministry of Macro-Economics                          Development
and Statistics                       WHO   -         World Health Organization
MOU             Memorandum of Understanding
Vice President: Mr. Johannes Linn. ECAVP
Country Director: Mr. lshrat Husain. ECCOI
Sector Director: Mr. Chris Lovelace. ECSHD
Program and Task Team Leader: Mr. John C. Langenbrunner. ECSHD -



UZBEKISTAN
HEALTH
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ....................................................................1
1.  Project Development Objective and Key Performance Indicators ...................................................I
B. Strategic Context ...................................................................                                                                                                                                     I
1.  Sector-Related CAS Goal Supported by the Project .................................................................... I
2.  Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy ...................................................................                                                                                                  2
3.  Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices ...............................................4
C. Project Description Summary ....................................................................6
1.  Project Components ....................................................................6
2.  Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project ................................8.....................8
3.  Benefits and Target Population ....................................................................9
4.   Institutional and Implementation Arrangements ....................................................................                                                                                             9
D. Project Rationale ...................................................................                                                                                                                                 I I
I .  Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection ..........................................................I 1I
2.  Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or Other Development Agencies ................... 13
3.  Lessons Learned and Reflected in Proposed Project Design ......................................................... 14
4.  Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership ................................................................ 15
5.  Value Added of Bank Support in this Project ................................................................ 16
E.  Summary Project Analysis ...................................................................1    6
I              . Economic ...................................................................                                                                                                                    16
2.  Financial ...................................................................                                                                                                                                17
3.  Technical ................................................................... 17
4.  Institutional ...................................................................                                                                                                                            18
5.  Social ...................................................................                                                                                                                                   19
6.  Environmental Assessment ...................................................................                                                                                                                21
7.  Participatory Approach ................................................................... 21
F.  Sustainability and Risks ...................................................................                                                                                                                         21
1.  Sustainability ................................................................                                                                                                                             21
2.  Critical risks ................................................................                                                                                                                              22
3.  Possible Controversial Aspects ................................................................ 24
G. Main Loan Conditions ...................................................................                                                                                                                              24
1.  Agreements Reached by Negotiation ................................................................ 24
2.  Conditions of Effectiveness ................................................................                                                                                                                25
3.  Covenants ................................................................                                                                                                                                  25



H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                                 25
1. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                                26
Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary
Annex 2.      Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.      Estimated Project Costs
Table A.  Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.      Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.      Financial Summary
Annex 6.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table B.  Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
Table C.  Procurement Information
Table D.  Procurement Plan
Table E.  Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table F.   Disbursement Schedule
Annex 7.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.      Documents in Project File
Annex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Project Supervision Plan
Annex 11.    Pilot Oblast Socio-Economic Analysis
Annex 12.    Country at a Glance
Map: IBRD_29483
Project ID Number: UZ-PE-9125



UZBEKISTAN
HEALTH
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Human Development Sector Unit
Date: August 27. 1998                             Task Team Leader: Mr. John C. Langenbrunner, ECSHD
Country Director: Mr. Ishrat Husain, ECCOI        Sector Director: Mr. Chris Lovelace, ECSHD
Project ID: UZ-PE-9125  Sector: Health            Program Objective Category: 1. EA (50 %); 2. PA (50 %)
Lending Instrument: SIL                           Program of Targeted Intervention: [X]  Yes  [ ]  No
Project Financing Data              [X ] Loan    [    Credit   [    Guarantee   [ ]   Other iSpecifyl
For Loans:
Amount (USSm):          30.0
Proposed terms:                        [    Multicurrency     [XI Single currency, US Dollar
Grace period (years):    5             [    Standard Variable  I[  Fixed           [XI   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:      20
Commitment fee:         0.75%
Service charge:         NA
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                             Local               Foreign            Total
Government                                         37.9                1.8                39.7
IBRD                                               2.1                 27.9               30.0
Total                                              40.0                29.7               69.7
Borrower: Government of the Republic Of Uzbekistan (GOU)
Guarantor: Not Applicable
Responsible agency: Ministry of Health (MOH)
Estimated disbursements                 FY99       FY00        FY01       FY02   FY03
(Bank FY/US$M):
Annual                                  3.0        8.3         8.5        5.5     4.7
Cumulative                              3.0         11.3       19.8       25.3    30.0
Project implementation period: Four years  Expected effectiveness date: December, 1998
Expected closing date: June, 2003
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



A: Project Development Objective
1.     Project development objective and key performance indlicators (see Annex 1):
The Government of Uzbekistan and the Bank are collaborating in the implementation of a health care reform
strategy in order to help improve the quality and the efficiency of health care services delivery. Improvements
in quality and efficiency can lead to improvements in health status of the people of Uzbekistan. The project is
focused on the residents of rural areas. The objectives can be met without increasing significantly the total cost
to the Government of the health care it provides. The Bank would support the Government's reforms through
the proposed Heallth project which would pilot reform models in three pilot or "leader" oblasts. These three
oblasts, Ferghana (population: 2,458,400), Navoi (population: 769,000) and Syr Darya (population: 642,900)
were selected by the Government, and chosen for their diversity in what is perceived by both parties as an initial
round of investment in its restructuring program. The oblasts differ in size, economy, health conditions, health
status, and population density, and provide a window on conditions prevailing elsewhere in Uzbekistan.
The proposed Health project objectives are both regional and national in scope. At the oblast level the project
would: (a) seek to improve the quality and cost effectiveness of primary health care, particularly in the rural
areas where the great majority (approximately 70 percent) of the population lives; (b) develop a new cadre of
medical personnel through short-term training programs for general practitioners and universal nurses, and in
the longer-run by redefining medical education curricula; and (c) seek to fully strengthen the management and
financing of primary health care services, in part through incentive restructuring and decentralization in both the
financing and provision of health care. At the national level the project would build capacity in the Ministry of
Health to evaluate and disseminate the results of the pilot country wide. Combined results from these three very
different oblasts-which represent the diversity of conditions in Uzbekistan-can be expected to help guide the
Government's effort to strengthen the primary health care services in the country as a whole.
In order to achieve those objectives, the proposed project would have the following four components: (1)
Strengthening Primary Health Care Services; (2) Training of General Practitioners and Universal Nurses; (3)
Strengthening of Finance and Management; and (4) Project Management.
13: Strategic Context
1.     Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by thte project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number 14019-UZ, March 3, 1995 and 17376-UZ, February 17,1998.
Country Background: Uzbekistan lies at the heart of Central Asia with a land mass of 447,400 km2, and with
the region's largest population of nearly 23.4 mln people, over 70 percent of which are ethnic Uzbek. Since its
independence in 1991, the Uzbek economy has been affected by ongoing economic problems related to
transition from the former Soviet-planned economy, resulting in reduced household incomes and some
disruption of the social support infrastructure, including funding for health services. The GDP per capita in
1996 was estimated at only US$ 1010. At the same time, Uzbekistan has experienced only a modest decline in
GDP since 1991 compared to other countries in the FSU (Former Soviet Union) because of structural features
of the economy which made it less vulnerable to disruption of intra-FSU trade (i.e., its natural resource wealth
of gold, gas, and cotton), and the Government's continuing active role in the coordination of the economy.
Uzbekistan's initial approaches to economic reform have been cautious despite the initiation of a stabilization
and structural adjustment program in 1994. Many prices were officially liberalized and firms privatized, and the
Government took steps in 1997 toward financial stabilization through the reduction in fiscal deficits and control
of the growth of money and credit. Nevertheless, the Government has continued to exercise a substantial degree
of management over production, investment, and prices through a variety of means. The liberalization of
foreign and domestic trade was repeatedly delayed, and recently intensified restrictions on foreign exchange and
trade. Recent measures to re-establish control on prices and distribution of basic foodstuffs reinforces an
outlook of very slow economy-wide liberalization.



Page 2
CAS: To date, the Bank has committed US$ 327 min in lending to Uzbekistan. This includes a loan to improve
the water supply, sanitation and health of the population of Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblasts which was
identified as part of the Aral Sea Program and approved by the Bank in March, 1997. The Uzbekistan Water
Supply, Sanitation and Health project includes a Sanitation, Health and Hygiene component (US$ 11.2 min) to
support the Governments' efforts to improve the population's basic public health during the transition. The
Health project would be the seventh Bank operation, and the first in the social sectors in Uzbekistan based on
the CAS dated March 3, 1995.
In October 1993, a mission presented the options for World Bank financial assistance, ranging across the areas
of health, social protection and training. Subsequent discussions were intermittent, with the Government
expressing a strong preference for only financing domestic production capacity of pharmaceuticals and
vaccines. By late 1995, the focus of discussions began to shift with the Government's increasing interest in
social support and improving service delivery. A national rural social infrastructure initiative was subsequently
announced by the Government related to education, social assistance, and health service delivery. Bank-related
work began in late 1995 to prepare a health loan to ensure the availability of a basic package of services to all
citizens, to upgrade the rural health delivery system, and to assist in developing a reformed policy environment.
The recently completed February 1998 CAS outlines four key challenges in the short to medium-term to support
sustainable, broad-based development with poverty reduction. These are: (i) liberalizing the trade and
exchange rate regimes and minimizing distortions in the financial sector; (ii) improving incentives for increased
output and employment, particularly in agriculture; (iii) removing the inefficiencies in resource utilization in
both the municipal services and rural infrastructure (including the social services); and (iv) addressing the
environmental damage from mismanagement of natural resources. The challenges recognize the importance of
a diversified mix of lending and non-lending assistance, as well as policy dialogue. The strategy emphasizes the
use of pilot and demonstration approaches to address the relative risks of reform in some sectors.
Specifically in health, the strategy aims to enhance the efficiency in the use of constrained resources, to improve
the quality of services, to improve cost-effectiveness, and to target vulnerable groups. The strategy also
recognizes the need for an urgent reorganization in health financing, and the importance of health education and
promotion. The project objectives are linked directly to the strategy as outlined in the recently completed CAS.
The FY99 Work Program Agreement is consistent with the objectives of the new CAS, and it supports a health
sector strategy focused initially on piloting reforms in selected rural areas where the majority of the population
resides. The primary objective is to improve the quality and efficiency of health care services through: (i)
equipping of new rural outpatient medical centers; (ii) rationalization (closing) of existing duplicative or
dilapidated facilities from feldsher stations to small rural hospitals; (iii) developing an upgraded medical
professional class that refocuses care to cost-effective primary and outpatient care, and (iv) restructuring
financial incentives for quality care and strengthening management through decentralization. These objectives
would be achieved through gradual-pilot-demonstration-replication approaches for more cost-effective delivery
of basic primary health services ("learning-by-doing"). Lessons from pilots can be used to strengthen already
significant Government ownership, to replicate beneficial reforms, and to develop broader-based national
programs to reform health care financing, organization of care, and service delivery.
The Government continues to express interest in increasing domestic pharmaceutical production. In June, 1997,
the IFC also financed an India-based pharmaceutical firm (US$ 4.0 min.) to establish new production capacity
in Uzbekistan for the development of intravenous fluids and generic tablets (an estimated 300 mln per year).
2      Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Issues: Multiple studies, including the Demographic and Health Survey in 1996, the Health and Health
System Development Report, also prepared in 1996 jointly by the Government's MOH, WHO-Euro and UNDP,
and the Government's PHRD-funded design and preparation contract report confirmed the findings of the
Bank's identification and preparation missions in 1994-1996.



- Page 3
(i) Demographic Structure and Health Status: Life expectancy has been high at 70.2 years. Literacy rates,
especially for women (more than 80 percent have at least six years of schooling), show good human
development outcomes. However, health status in Uzbekistan has been marked by a "double-burden" of disease
that includes a legacy of chronic non-infectious diseases (related to lifestyle and behaviors), as well as a more
recent re-emergence of acute, infectious diseases. The health status of the population is affected by a wide
range of risk factors, particularly high rates of fertility, inadequate supply of water and sanitation, smoking and
alcohol abuse, and poor diet. The burden of disease and DALY (Disability Adjusted Life-Years) analysis
prepared for the project using 1995 data showed relative percentage of life-years lost due to premature death
from infectious diseases (36 percent) of which ARI (Acute Respiratory Infection) and CDD (Childhood
Diarrheal Disease) were the leading causes; cerebrovascular disorders (24 percent); injuries-poisoning (12
percent); adult chronic (10 percent); malignant neoplasms (7 percent); and maternal/perinatal disorders (6
percent). High fertility rates (3.6 in 1997 versus 3.1 for other middle income countries), a high birth rate
(25.8/1,000 in 1997) and a low total mortality (6.2/1,000 in 1996) over the past three decades have resulted in a
high population growth rate, with 39.5 percent of the population under the age of 15 years. The structure and
dynamics of the population in Uzbekistan has a profound impact on the quantity and nature of the burden of
disease. Nearly 70 percent of the population live in rural areas, perhaps increasing the infant mortality rate
(IMR), the maternal mortality rate (MMR), and the crude birth rate (CBR) in the aggregate as compared with
other countries. The IMR (22.7/1,000) and MMR (29.5/1,000), though declining in recent years, are still high
as compared to some other countries in the world with similar incomes. The demographic and health status
assessment suggests the need for interventions such as health education and primary care, specifically targeted
to safer motherhood, immunization, and management of the sick child, especially in rural areas.
(ii) Inefficient Health Delivery System: Compared with other countries, middle-income or high income, the
overall efficiency of the Uzbek system appears to be low. Uzbekistan's health care system mainly reflects the
heritage of the Soviet model. It is comprehensive and extensive, and services are provided mainly free of
charge by law. Resource allocation formulas across regions emphasized numbers of health inputs (facilities and
personnel) by oblast rather than demographics/population, health status, or performance (health outcomes).
Specific facility budgets continue to be based on the FSU-developed standards of 18 rigid categories of inputs;
payment for services is not always linked with incentives for quality or efficiency. Not surprisingly, the health
sector in Uzbekistan, as elsewhere in the FSU, is characterized by excessive numbers of doctors and hospitals.
At the end of 1996 in the three pilot oblasts, numbers of beds varied from 10.0 to 11.5 per 1,000 population
(versus 8.4 for OECD countries), despite a reduction in inpatient beds by 25 percent nationally since 1991. The
physician/population ratio varied from 4.9 to 5.3 (compared with 2.5 physicians in OECD countries) per 1,000
population. The Ihigh numbers of resource inputs is exacerbated by the traditional Soviet emphasis on more
expensive specialty-based, inpatient care relative to primary or cost-effective outpatient care. Only FSU
countries and the United States are notable in the world community as having trained its majority of physicians
as specialists and not as general practitioners.  Hospital admission rates as a percent of the population
(annualized) were 27.5 to 29.7 percent (compared to 16.2 for OECD); historically, narrowly specialized
facilities such as TB and STD dispensaries kept hospital bed capacity narrowly partitioned, distorting both
volume and composition of health services. While relative share of spending for hospital care has fallen in
recent years, approximately 47.4 to 60 percent of total resources for health care are being spent on inpatient care
in the three pilot oblasts (compared with 35-45 in most OECD countries).
(iii) Ineffective/Low Quality Health Services:. Low quality is a problem at many points throughout the health
care system, including poorly trained workforce (physicians and nurses), outdated clinical information and
standards, shortages of essential equipment for diagnosis and treatment, an inadequate supply of drugs, and
other requirements for provision of basic PHC (Primary Health Care). The professional status of primary care
physicians is low, and their role in providing and coordinating care is unacceptably low. Therapists account for
only about half of the total outpatient visits. Similarly, therapists are only marginally involved in referring their



Page 4
patients to the hospital-from 30.1 to 42.7 percent in the three pilot oblasts. Referrals by emergency and self-
referrals amount to a strikingly high 23.5 to 29.0 percent in the three oblasts, attesting to generally poor
coordination and lack of continuity of care.
(iv) Declining Health Spending: The health sector is, like the rest of the economy, under unprecedented
pressure to change its organization and financing. Local oblast-level budgets, allocated from the center, finance
the bulk of health services, but have come under increasing pressure, reflecting more general fiscal constraints
and the difficulties created by recent bouts of high inflation. The role of enterprises and collective farms has
diminished relative to its traditional role of financing the construction and recurrent communal services of local
health facilities, and thus has created further budget pressures. In recent years, the share of consolidated
Government budgets going for health spending has declined from 10.7 percent to 9.27 percent in 1995.
Because of drops in GDP and Government spending generally, the health sector has suffered from a severe
decline in the real value of health spending. In 1995, real per capita spending was only 33 to 55 percent
(depending upon source) of spending in 1991. The proportion of health spending as a share of GDP has
actually increased slightly from 4.9 percent in 1992 to 5.5 percent in 1994, reflecting (in part) some
diversification of its revenue base to direct consumer payments and use of private facilities. However, these
figures of spending as a share of GDP also are relatively low by international standards (7-9 percent).
Government Strategy: Uzbekistan appears to have chosen many of the appropriate clinical services priorities
focused on primary care,' including prenatal and delivery care, vaccination, food supplementation, tuberculosis
treatment, case management of ARI and diarrhea, and treatment of STDs. In 1991, the Minister of Health
outlined a health care development concept which was further developed during 1992-1996 period, outlining the
following priority areas for care: women and child health protection; infectious diseases and prophylactics;
strengthening PHC; and environmental protection. The Government in early 1996 also announced a major
social rural infrastructure initiative, which included the building of new rural outpatient centers, coupled with
the rationalization of the old Soviet model of the feldsher stations (FAPs), small outpatient centers (SVAs), and
small district hospitals of 30-60 beds (SUBs). However, while the essential clinical interventions may be stated
priorities and new construction has been announced, underfunding, inefficiency, supply shortages, and poorly-
trained providers of care will impact on actual delivery. The MOH also has been developing several laws, more
of which have been recently enacted, including a longer-term health sector reform strategy (see section 3).
3.     Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The design of the Health Project built upon the Government's State Program of the Health System
Development, various studies conducted by WHO and UNDP, the Presidential rural social infrastructure
initiative, and the PHRD-funded project design and preparation contract.
Following the MOH/WHO/UNDP study, the proposed State Program reflects substantial efforts aimed to
enhance efficiency in the use of constrained resources, to improve the quality of services, to improve cost-
effectiveness, and to target the most vulnerable groups. The Program recognizes the need for urgent re-
organization in health financing and revision of health financing principles, and the importance of health
education and promotion. Specifically, the Program outlines a number of measures to reduce expenditures
through an emphasis on out-patient services, reduction in administrative and managerial staff (0.4 percent),
selective adoption of privatization (0.5 percent) especially in urban areas, and an increasing reliance on greater
"off-budget" financing (0.8 percent) through employer-based funding and patient co-payments. The budget
share for out-patient services is targeted to increase from 33.8 percent in 1994 to 40 percent in 1998. Resources
saved are to be allocated to primary health care delivery, with the corresponding out-patient budget share
increasing from 40 percent in 1996 to 50 percent in 1998.
' See the guidelines for a basic health package from the World Development Report of 1993



Page 5
Consistent with the Government's reform agenda, project preparation consultants have recommended the
following areas for Bank financing in this sector: (i) strengthening rural primary care; (ii) training of General
Practitioners, Universal Nurses and other health professionals; and (ii) financing and management reforms. The
Health Project would address these recommendations in three oblasts in Uzbekistan, using the demonstration or
pilot approach. The Project would, in addition finance the evaluation of this project and make recommendations
for the replication of these reforms nationwide. This approach seems feasible in Uzbekistan, since it is a new
borrower, this is the first project in this sector, and health reforms are complex and difficult. By continuing the
policy dialogue with the country in this sector during the Health project implementation, other areas for Bank
financing could be identified for a possible "Health 11" project. The Health 11 project has been repeatedly
discussed at the initiative of both the MOH and the Cabinet of Ministers. This would make the health system in
Uzbekistan sustainable during the long run. The Bank would continue to collaborate with WHO, UNDP and
other health agencies to assist the Government in the evolving health sector reforms. In addition, the Bank
would continue to seek partnerships with other donor groups such as (i) British Know How Fund (grant funding
for GP training/TA); (ii) KfW (grant funding for equipment and supplies); and (iii) USAID (TA for
management and financing reforms).



Page 6
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project Components (see Annex 2for detailed lescription and Annex 3for a letailed breakdown):
Component                                        Category      Cost incl.      % of   Bank-       % of Bank
Contingencies   Total   financing  Financing
(US$M)                  (US$M)
(1) Strengthening Primary Health Care Services in  Physical/    53.8           77%     18.6       62%
Rural Areas: The Project would contribute to the  Institutional
establishment of a network of modem, better  Building
staffed, and better equipped "rural medical centers"
("SVPs" using the Russian acronym) in the three
pilot oblasts. This would involve care needs for a
basic package of services, SVP function and design,
construction standards, identifying needed protocols,
and distribution and delivery of equipment, supplies,
and drugs. It would also involve strengthening of
central rayon polyclinics (as the apex of the primary
care  service  delivery  system)  with  selected
diagnostic and laboratory equipment. To support
and strengthen the implementation of Government's
plans to improve health services in the rural areas in
a sustainable manner, the Project will provide: (i)
basic  diagnostic,  therapeutic,  and  laboratory
equipment for all SVPs developed under the four
year program at an appropriate level, and also
furnishings, (ii) medical supplies and laboratory
reagents; (iii) laboratory and diagnostic equipment
at central rayon polyclinics; (iv) vehicles (20) for
areas where the terrain is rough; (v) packet radio
communication system in selected locales; (vi)
equipment, training and foreign and local technical
assistance for health promotion; and, (vii) training,
workshops and technical assistance for management
and quality assurance programs and to enhance
capacity for construction supervision.
(2) Training of General Practitioners and Universal  Policy/  6.8             9%       5.5        18%
Nurses: Health personnel training  is a critical  Institutional
prerequisite for reforming and strengthening PHC   Building/
and  improving  quality and efficiency of SVP  Physical
services.  This component would develop: (i) a
faculty department in a medical institute in
Tashkent; (ii) a year-long training program for
trainers and later for practicing physicians; and (iii)
short-term onsite training programs for practicing
physicians and nurses at SVPs. The onsite programs
would be developed in collaboration with selected
medical institutes each associated with one of the
pilot oblasts. The component would also develop a
longer term reform of Medical Education and
include trainers, a new curriculum, and a training
strategy for undergraduate and post graduate work
related to General Practitioners (GPs). A focus
would be placed on both: (i) primary care and (ii)
public health areas of medicine. Other activities
financed under the component would include: (i) a



Page 7
Component                                         Category      Cost incl.      % of    Bank-      % of Bank
Contingencies   Total   financing   Financing
(US$M)                  (US$M)
new accreditation process of medical training
institutions, and (ii) the introduction of certification
and licensing of physicians.  The Project would
finance Civil Works (rehabilitation of training bases
and SVPs' buildings, rehabilitation of two nursing
schools); Goods (medical laboratory, computer,
office equipment, furniture, training materials,
emergency  drugs and  related  consumables for
training centers); and Services (technical assistance,
teacher  training  and  workshops,  fellowships,
scholarships, study tours).
(3) Strengthening of Finance and Management: The  Institutional  3.9            6%      2.8         9%
project would improve incentives and efficiency,  Building/
and help ensure the sustainability of the initiative,  Physical/
and of the Government's rural health care reform   Policy
program. The component would be implemented in
the following two phases:
(a) pilot demonstrations in the three oblasts: This
would involve developing and testing various
financing and management/information systems in
16 pilot rayons. It would design and implement two
new capitation payment schemes for SVPs and
individual providers, train and place new practice
consultants (managers), develop and implement new
clinical and financial information systems, and
develop associated facility rationalization strategies.
New incentives at the local level would be coupled
with greater flexibility and decentralization of
authority to the local level. An improved incentive-
based system for matching facility workloads and
staffing patterns would also be developed.  The
Project would finance Civil Works (rehabilitation of
computer centers); Goods (computer and office
equipment and software for I (one) national, 3
(three) oblast and 9 (nine) rayon computer centers,
and 3 (three) pilot SVPs); and Services (technical
assistance and training for software development,
pilots evaluation and dissemination; and seminars on
new   financing  and  information  management
systems).
(b) pilot demonstration evaluation and roll-out: The
pilot demonstrations in the three oblasts and the
reforms  would  be  evaluated,  replicated  and
disseminated throughout the three oblasts.  The
Project would finance Goods (minor computer and
office equipment for SVPs and zonal polyclinics);
and Services (technical assistance and training for
pilots evaluation and dissemination).
The component also would develop annual



Page 8
Component                                     Category    Cost incl.     % of   Bank-    % of Bank
Contingencies   Total  financing  Financing
(US$My_               (US$M)
rationalization plans for closing duplicative and
underutilized facilities, to improve efficiency and
sustainability of the initiative. Technical assistance
would be financed to develop facility-specific
annual plans.
(4) Project Management: A  Central Project Project        3.3            5%      1.1       4%
Implementation Bureau and three oblast Project Manageme
Implementation  Bureaus would  be established  nt/lnstitutio
within the MOH and oblast Health Departments,  nal
respectively, to  carry  out day-to-day  project Building
implementation, management co-ordination, and
monitoring. The Project would finance staff salaries,
office equipment, and up to 4 vehicles for CPIB and
oblast PlBs.
The component also includes funds allocated for  Institutional  2.0      3%      2.0       7%
preparation of a Health II project (TA, training and Building
equipment to start up pilots under Health II);
Total        69.8           100%   30.0       100%
2.     Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the Project:
A number of key policy and institutional reforms are supported by the Project; among these are:
Decentralization of Decision-Making: New management structures, and new financing and provider payment
systems, would create increased local management autonomy at the oblast, rayon and at the facility level. New
bank accounts would be created for local facilities. Budgets would be provided for enrolled populations and
funds can be used more flexibly and efficiently, subject to explicit performance standards for both providers and
facilities.
Upgrading of the Medical Profession: Both the relative mix of providers would change, as would the relative
professional status of PHC and GP physicians. Second, medical institutes would change curricula and training
funds would be provided for new faculty with world-class skills in medical care provision of primary and
outpatient care. Third, institutional processes to assure improved quality and ongoing training of skills-
through national accreditation and licensing processes-would be established.
Incentive-Based Financing of Care: The flow of health care funds would change under the Project, to follow
the patient and be provided for the services utilized and the outcomes gained, instead of only based on numbers
of inputs. Incentive-based payment systems are increasingly recognized as perhaps the single most significant
catalyst for behavioral change and improved technical efficiency and allocation efficiency in the health sector in
middle and upper-income countries.
Closure of Excessive and Redundant Facilities:  The Project would include a policy process and
institutionalization of a health facility rationalization strategy to close and consolidate unneeded and costly
health facilities. Each of the oblasts have participated in initial workshops to model financial impacts, and have
developed a rationalization strategy to assure closure of duplicative functions, and better assure long-run
sustainability. Each year facility-specific plans will be developed in each oblast.



Page 9
3.     Benefits and target population:
Benefits: The main benefit, for up to 4 mln residents in the three pilot oblasts, would be: first, improvements in
the delivery of critical basic services; and second, improved decisions of providers about health care through the
creation of strengthened information and management structures and integrated with appropriate incentives.
The Project should lead to fiscal savings and long-run sustainability flowing from more efficient and targeted
use of resources for health care services, equipment, and pharmaceuticals.
The Project also could lead to savings in direct costs to patients and families. The Social Assessment found that
patients often bypass lower levels of care due to a lack of perceived effectiveness at these levels. Instead,
patients go directly to central district hospitals, but often encounter demands for informal payments to providers
and payments for supplies and pharmaceuticals provided.
Indirect benefits would include improved information through new management and information systems,
which should lead to better understanding of ongoing approaches to improve clinical protocols, manage
patients, and manage resources efficiently. Other indirect benefits include reduced travel time for patients,
improved social welfare and productivity of the citizenry.
Target Population: The project would have an immediate impact on a population of 4 mln in three oblasts:
Ferghana (2,584,400), Navoi (769,600) and Syr Darya (642,900). The project should have an especially
beneficial impact on women and children, who can be expected to use the facilities more and to receive services
with greater short-run impact on health status and health outcomes.
In the longer run, the project as a learning pilot or demonstration program, can be expected to have an impact on
the entire population of 23.4 mln through the evaluation, dissemination and replication activities.
4.     Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Project would be implemented in three very diverse pilot or "leader" oblasts. It is critical to establish an
appropriate structure for overall project coordination and management. The executing agency would be the
Ministry of Healtlh, and the Project will be managed by the (CPIB) Central Project Implementation Bureau
(which has been established within the national MOH and reports directly to the Minister) assisted by oblast
Project Implementation Bureaus (PIB) in each pilot oblast (which have been set up within the health
departments of local Khokimiats). Key staff of the CPIB and PlBs have been selected on a competitive basis
and appointed by the MOH. The MOH has provided an office space for the CPIB. The PPF funds have been
provided to cover costs of establishing an office before loan effectiveness. The CPIB has replaced the PIU
which was established by GOU in 1996 to prepare the project, manage the work of the contractor, and liaise
with the Bank. This PIU has done an outstanding job managing the Japanese grant and project preparation
activities, however, it did not have sufficient capacity or the necessary specialists required for project
implementation.
To provide overall guidance and coordination for project preparation, the Government in 1995 established an
Inter-Ministerial Task Force (Working Group) which included representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers,
Ministry of Macroeconomics and Statistics, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Health, and the Director of the
PIU. In April 1998, the Task Force was discontinued and replaced by a new Steering Commission (SC), with
similar membership of relevant Ministries plus stakeholders such as the Ministry of Justice and the National
Medical Association. The SC is chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister, with Deputy Chair by the Minister of
Health, and the SC will act as an advisory body for the Project.
Project Management and Coordination: The CPIB's main responsibilities are to: (a) provide overall
coordination and day-to-day management of all project activities; (b) assist oblast PIBs in project
implementation in the oblasts and address any issues and problems that may arise, regarding unfamiliar Bank
rules and procedures, jointly; (c) monitor overall project implementation, deadlines and resource utilization; (d)
assume responsibility for procurement, disbursement, accounting and reporting tasks associated with the
Project; and (e) liaise with MOH, MOMES, MOF, Cabinet of Ministers, World Bank and other agencies. In
connection with its responsibilities, one of the first tasks of the CPIB will be to prepare a Project



Page 10
Implementation Manual (PIM) which will be based on the Contractor's report and the Project Implementation
Plan prepared by the Bank team. The PIM will outline the project description, objectives, key implementation
issues and strategies, role of the CPIB and oblast PlBs (and linkages between them and between various project
beneficiaries), and summarize procedures for disbursement, project and special accounts, methods of
procurement, procurement and implementation schedule, reporting requirements and schedule; and detailed
terms of reference for each activity. It will contain sample forms of contracts and withdrawal applications. The
adoption of a PIM acceptable to the Bank is a condition of effectiveness.
Project Implementation: The Project will be implemented in four years. The Project will be executed by the
MOH and local health authorities in Syr Darya, Navoi and Ferghana oblasts. The Ministry of Health would be
responsible for the administration of all procurement financed from the loan proceeds. The Central Project
Implementation Bureau would coordinate the work of the specialized agencies Uzmedexport (Procurement
Agent) and Uzmedtekhnika (Consolidator and Distributor) and would communicate to the Bank on procurement
matters and actions requiring Bank review. A Procurement Agent would carry out procurement of goods and
services (as applicable), including arranging for the customs clearance; Consolidator/Distributor would be
responsible for the distribution of the goods to the end users. The capacity of the Procurement Agent to
undertake the tasks under the project has been appraised by the Bank team during the pre-appraisal and
appraisal missions and found to be satisfactory. Training plan in the Bank procurement procedures for the
Uzmedexport staff assigned to the Project has been prepared and is being implemented. Also, the CPIB is in the
process of contracting for an external consultant experienced in project management and Bank procuremeni to
assist the CPIB in preparation of SBDs and carrying out first ICBs. Loan funds will be made available to
finance such types of TA. Agents' commission would be paid by the GOU as part of its contribution to the
Project.
Finance, Accounting and Auditing Arrangements: Prior to Loan effectiveness, the CPIB will hire an
accountant/disbursement specialist who will be responsible for establishing an accounting and control system
which will have the capability to record and retrieve all financial transactions associated with the Project in a
timely manner and comply with internationally accepted standards. The financial management procedures and
requirements to the accounting and control system have been explained to the CPIB staff during appraisal have
been confirmed at negotiations. A condition of effectiveness is that the Government has in place a financial
management system that comports to the new policies implemented by the Bank as of July 1. The CPIB budget
includes funds for TA if the need in external assistance arises. The CPIB would maintain consolidated accounts
for the Project and will ensure appropriate accounting of the funds provided under the loan. The CPIB would
prepare quarterly financial reports, and ensure that audits of the financial statements and reports are submitted to
the Bank on time. The project (or recurrent) accounts, including Special Account, will be audited in accordance
with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March
1982) and the Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook, 1995. The audit report will be of such
scope and details as the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion, by an independent auditor,
acceptable to the Bank, for SOEs against which disbursements have been made or are due to be made from the
loan and SOEs which will be included in the audit reports accompanying the financial statements. The audited
financial statements of the Special Account, project accounts, and SOEs of the preceding fiscal year, including a
separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements made against certified statements of expenditures, will be sent
to the Bank within six months of the end of the Governments fiscal year. The cost of the audit is an incremental
cost to this Project and is included in the CPIB budget. Timely submission of audit reports will be a covenant of
the Project.
Reporting Arrangements: The Project will be implemented with reliance on annual work programs and
budgets. The work programs will be submitted to the Bank by December 1 of each year ( though the Loan
Agreement allows for more time if necessary in Year I due to timing of the Board date). It will include a
summary of activities for each component and specific management/coordination activities such as procurement,
Project Bureau's staff training, accounting, auditing to be undertaken by the CPIB during the year. Also, semi-
annual progress reports covering all project components will be prepared by the CPIB and sent to the Bank
within one month of the end of each semester. The reports will be prepared as per the mutually agreed format in



Page 11
the Project Implementation Manual and will be modified as necessary during project implementation. The first
report will be issued before the first Bank supervision mission and include, inter-alia: (a) progress achieved
against agreed implementation and disbursement schedules and key performance indicators, including number of
contracts awarded and status of all contracts; (b) work programs and cost estimates for the coming six months;
(c) status of compliance with covenants and major agreements under the project; (d) update on monitoring and
evaluation indicators; (e) a description of issues and problem areas along with recommended corrective actions;
(f) a description of progress in resolving previous problems and addressing earlier recommendations; and (g)
status of the Special Account. The CPIB will set reporting guidelines and deadlines for the receipt of required
information from the PlBs in order to prepare a consolidated report. The CPIB will be responsible for translation
of all reports into English for submission to the Bank.
Implementation Completion Report (ICR): The CPIB will prepare in conjunction with the Bank, an ICR
upon completion of the Project and in any event not later than six months after final disbursement of the Loan
proceeds. Included in the ICR will be an assessment on the execution and initial operation of the Project, costs
and benefits derived or to be derived, the performance of the Borrower, the Bank and other agencies involved in
the Project regarding their respective obligations and accomplishments, and including lessons learned. The ICR
also will include plans for the future operation of the facilities which had been financed under the Project,
including the indicators for monitoring and evaluating future operations.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation: The Central Project Implementation Bureau would be responsible for
setting up the Project financial management and monitoring system. Project monitoring and evaluation will be
carried out in the following areas: (a) procurement and physical delivery of goods and services; (b) the physical
implementation of project activities; (c) impact on service delivery; and (d) the financial management and
control of the use of project funds. A systematic assessment will be carried out in the context of the Project
Implementation Plan, Performance Monitoring Indicators, and the annual work programs. Project outcomes
will be evaluated in terms of their impact on: (a) quality of services; (b) changes in clinical protocols and
utilization patterns; (c) health status of the population in the pilot areas; and (d) changes in efficiency, both
technical and allocative; (e) overall cost effectiveness, and (f) consumer and provider satisfaction with the
reforms. After the first year of implementation, the first complete review of project activities will coincide with
the Bank's supervision mission. At the mid-point of project implementation, a more fundamental assessment of
overall as well as component-specific project design, implementation, feasibility, replicability and sustainability
will be carried out. The first year and second year evaluations will utilize project funds for foreign and local
experts.
D: Project Rationale
1.     Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Development of the Pharmaceuticals Sector: Pharmaceutical development in Uzbekistan is one of the
priorities of the GOU reform agenda. During project identification, the IEPS (September 1995) addressed the
possibility of including a component that would strengthen the domestic pharmaceutical sector, in particular the
domestic production and distribution of emergency and essential drugs. The TOR for project preparation
included a feasibility study that would assess current and prospective pharmaceutical needs, as well as the
adequacy of current financing and distribution mechanisms. The study found that public support of domestic
pharmaceutical production was not cost-effective relative to competitive purchase of these items from
international vendors. It further recommended that restructuring and possible privatization of pharmaceutical
production and distribution was beyond the limited scope of the Health project, primarily aimed at strengthening
PHC for the rural population. Instead, it recommended this be an area for private companies and investors
financing, and not the purview of IBRD financing. Indeed, later IFC financing provided an India-based
company with $US 4.0 (mln) for a new production capacity. In addition, serious doubts were raised about the
Government's ability to assure the quality of the domestically produced medicines.



Page 12
Vaccine Production: As part of project preparation a formal feasibility study of planned investments in the
domestic production of essential vaccines was performed. The key findings were: (i) existing production of
vaccines does not satisfy minimum requirements of international Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP), as
specified by WHO. A considerable amount of time would be required before local practices would meet these
requirements; and (ii) investment in the local production of essential vaccines will not be cost-effective since the
price of locally produced vaccines would be approximately twice as high as those purchased from international
suppliers such as UNICEF. For example, to meet the annual requirements of the DPT vaccine alone, the GOU
would have to pay an additional US$ 330,000 for locally produced vaccines. For these reasons, the Bank
encouraged the Government that it should not finance local vaccine production in Uzbekistan, and hence it has
not been included in the project design.
The Health project, however, acknowledged the needs of the GOU for high quality imported pharmaceuticals
and vaccines generally, and the project would finance training, workshops and technical assistance to strengthen
the testing and quality control of pharmaceuticals. It provided consultant support and proposed that the
Government finance civil works to provide new housing for a national testing and drug control laboratory, and
the Bank would provide equipment and technical assistance to upgrade the capacity of the drug testing
laboratories. These proposals were not accepted by the Government, however, due to recent policy changes
which made drug-testing activities off-budget and self-sustaining, and thus not within the legal purview for
Government borrowing.
Pharmaceutical Delivery and Distribution System Reform: Technical assistance and training to assess and
develop a drug and medical supplies delivery and distribution system was designed by the contractor and
supported by the Bank staff. The new approach(es) proposed by the Bank would have been piloted as part of
the demonstration programs in a number of rayons in the first two years of the project. The proposal would
have developed more copayment schemes for all patients, but have provided greater subsidies for those patients
requiring larger out-of-pocket purchases for pharmaceuticals. The pilots would have provided a greater supply
of both emergency and essential pharmaceuticals on an outpatient basis.  The proposal for essential
pharmaceuticals was rejected by the Government because it was viewed as inequitable across rayons (pilot
rayons would have, on average, greater access at less cost to patients and families), and also as susceptible to
corruption and black market reselling of pharmaceuticals across rayon borders.
The issue of emergency drugs has been addressed through a Cabinet of Ministers-level management plan for
assuring adequate supplies and distribution of emergency drugs. The Health project will establish a pool of
funds for these emergency drugs, however, to provide currency back-up in case funds are needed. Secondly,
the pool might be useful for allowing the government to competitively bid for purchases of needed
pharmaceuticals. This bid process will possibly lower the cost of pharmaceuticals relative to purchase from the
national government-run monopoly supplier Dori Darmon. If these funds are not needed, these funds will be
used for equipment.
Regional Vs. National Project: This would be the first project in the social sectors in Uzbekistan, a country
where the Bank has limited lending experience and the Government has taken a cautious approach with reforms.
For these reasons a smaller ("pilot") project was preferred that could test new approaches, and would have a
shorter preparation and implementation period than a national project. Experience from this project and
continued policy dialogue with the GOU and other donors could be applied to the design of a second Health
Project.
Choice of Oblasts:  The Bank staff originally requested 1-2 oblasts as pilot sites.  However, the
Government's response was to nominate three oblasts-Ferghana, Navoi and Syr Darya-as the Health
project area to represent three different types of geographic, economic and demographic areas in
Uzbekistan with very different prevalent health conditions. Both (i) a social assessment and (ii) an oblast-
by-oblast socio-economic analysis (Annex 11) confirmed the diversity of conditions and recommends that
findings in each oblast may be generalizable to those parts of the country that share its characteristics.



Page 13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank andl/or otlher development agencies (completedl, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                           Project                   Latest Supervision  (Form  590)
Ratings
_ (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed                          Water Supply, Sanitation    Effective  on
and Health Project       October 7, 1997
IFC                                    Intravenous fluids and    Ongoing
tableting (USS 4.0 mln)
Other development agencies
a) USAID                               Technical Assistance and    Ongoing. Funds
Training in Management    were utilized for
and Financing Reform     the project-
focusing primarily on    related facility
Ferghana, but including  rationalization
both Syr Darya and Navoi  workshop in
oblasts, to help prepare,    December 1997
design and implement     and in 1998 to
financing and management  develop the
changes in conjunction   capitation rate
with the Health project.    for Ferghana
SVPs for
implementation
in 1999.
b) British Know How Fund               Technical Assistance and    Committed
Training in GP and Family  $400,000 of
Practice of medicine,    support during
focusing primarily in    February
Tashkent but may include   Appraisal
other areas as well, to help   Mission, and
prepare, design and      competitive bid
implement GP training and  award to Health
curricula changes in     and Life
conjunction with the     Sciences
Health project           Partnership,
Summer, 1998.
c) UNFPA programs                      *  Improvement of         Ongoing
Reproductive Health
in Uzbekistan
("AVCS"
International)
*  Development of        Ongoing
unified curriculum on
family planning for
training medical
schools ("JHPIEGO")
d) GTZ  (Gesellschaft fur Technische  Promotion of               Ongoing
Zusammenarbeit)/EPOS                   Reproductive Health in the
Republic of Uzbekistan
e) USAID/BASICS                        Rapid  integrated  health  Ongoing
facility  assessment  in
._________________    Ferghana oblast under the



Page 14
Sector issue                         Project                 Latest Supervision  (Form  590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
USAID funded Central
Asian Infection Disease
Program
3.     Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank has limited lending experience in Uzbekistan. So far there have been only five projects which are
currently under implementation: the Institutional Building Technical Assistance Project ( or IB/TA) (Ln. 3560-
UZ);.the Cotton Sub-Sector Improvement Project (Ln. 3894-UZ); the Pilot Water Supply Engineering Project
(Ln. 4216-UZ); the Water Supply, Sanitation and Health project (Ln. 4090-UZ); and the Enterprise Institution
Building Project, formally negotiated in May 1998.  The current ratings for development objectives,
implementation progress, and project management are satisfactory for the IB/TA loan, the Cotton Project, and
the Pilot Water Supply Engineering project. Implementation of these projects was delayed considerably due to
delays in setting up the project implementation unit, unfamiliarity with the requirements of internationally-
financed projects, and the Government's pre-occupation with the transition process. The Pilot Water Supply
Engineering Project was declared effective only after several months time for building local expertise in
procurement and project management.
Lessons highlighted in the Bank's Europe and Central Asia Region 1994 Annual Report on Portfolio
Performance in Russia and Central Asia focus on: (a) the challenge of identifying a consistent counterpart team
with sufficient authority to move the project forward; (b) the difficulty of coordination among key government
agencies on critical issues; (c) the importance of setting up a project implementation/coordination unit early in
the project cycle and the training of its staff in Bank procurement, disbursement and financial management
procedures and requirements; and (d) the importance of involving local institutes in project design and
preparation.
The Health Project would be the Bank's first lending operation in the health sector in Uzbekistan. The
Government has recently enacted a new visionary law on health sector reform which envisages a series of
changes over the next 10 years related to diversification of revenues flowing into the sector, creation of health
insurance, and expanded privatization of providers and distribution networks. Nevertheless, the start-up of
Bank activities in Uzbekistan has been somewhat later than in the other FSU countries. Bank assistance to date
has focused on policy dialogue, grant support in the design of a reform program, and institution building. It also
has engaged in a long-standing dialogue on the prudence and relative cost-effectiveness of public investments
related to pharmaceutical and vaccine production.
Reviews of lessons learned from implementing its earliest health projects in ECA countries show that: a) health
sector reform is a lengthy, politicized process requiring: (i) carefully sequenced changes; (ii) strong support to
augment countries' overstretched institutional capacity for implementing reforms; and (iii) marketing of the
reforms to lawmakers, the medical community, and the public;  b) simple investments with simple
implementation arrangements are more likely to succeed; c) shorter projects linked to smaller, more realistic
sets of reforms are more likely to be effective. Project preparation in other sectors in Uzbekistan also indicates
the need for straightforward project design and implementation mechanisms, given limited institutional capacity
and weak financial systems. Achieving simplicity is difficult, however, given the necessity of oblast-level
interventions in order to implement change in the health sector, and the array of largely interlinked issues that
are involved in efforts to improve health sector performance-notably financing and management reforms,
changes in clinical information and practice, and new standards in the quality of health services.
The experiences gained and lessons learned have been incorporated into the proposed Health Project on an
ongoing basis:



Page 15
*  project design is relatively simple, focused on one level of outpatient care, though linked with the inpatient
sector conceptually;
*  is designed as a pilot, limited to three oblasts;
*  reforms proposed build partnerships in the strategic areas already initiated by the Borrower. The Borrower
has always perceived the project as the Government's own as a consequence;
*  a social assessment was completed with the participation of local institutes;
*  implementation period would be four years;
*  a national Task Force (Working Group) was established by the Government in early 1996 to provide
leadership at the stage of project preparation. The Minister of Health was the Chairman of this Task Force
and has been an effective counterpart with sufficient authority to make decisions about the project;
*  a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was established (in early 1996) to manage the Country-Executed
PHRD grant under the general guidance of the Task Force (Working Group). On behalf of the Government,
the PIU shortlisted and procured consulting services for the project preparation study and coordinated the
work of the selected contractor;
*  the Government requested a PPF in the amount of $750,000, which was approved by the Bank on November 20, 1997.
4.     Indications of Borrower's commitment and ownership:
*  The Government is clearly committed to the project (see D.3. above);
*  The Government's State Program (recent legislation) for the reform of the health sector shows commitment
to the sector;
-  Reforms in the sector have already been initiated in 1996, and by the year 2000 the GOU plans to close
most FAPs, SVAs, and SUBs. Most of these would be replaced by the new type of institution called "Rural
Medical Centers or "SVPs". Consolidation, rehabilitation and construction activities have already been
initiated in the three pilot oblasts. By the end of calendar 1997, 110 SVPs are expected to be opened in
these oblasts; a significant number of FAP and SVA facilities have already been closed as well;
*  During project preparation the national Task Force worked closely with the contractor to draft the medical,
laboratory, drugs, and medical supplies lists to be financed by the proposed loan and required to equip the
four different levels (types based on population served) of SVPs;
3 Most recently, the Bank and the Government worked closely during the Appraisal mission to develop
agreements on a number of outstanding issues:
*  an outline of a strengthened system of control over building quality and functioning, including
running water, toilet and waste water disposal;
*  a management plan for: (i) the control of emergency drugs at SVPs; and (ii) ensuring a constant
supply of essential drugs by Dori Darmon for SVPs patients and their families;
*  an assessment of needs of FAPs in remote areas of Navoi oblast;
*  an action plan for health promotion and health education at the oblast level, including staffing
needs, equipment, supplies and budget;
*  official approval of selected training sites, as well as design specifications and budget, to serve as a
training base of the five medical schools participating in the General Practice training component;
*  revised study tours and technical assistance Terms of Reference;
*  drafting of the necessary legal framework to begin the pilot demonstrations through a proposed
Cabinet of Ministers' resolution;
*  a rationalization strategy in each oblast to assure that the project will be financially sustainable after
the completion of the Bank's financing program;
*  the national and oblast project management structure;
*  selection of candidates for the central and oblast Project Implementation Bureaus and Steering
Commission;
*  process of setting-up Central (national) and Oblast Project Implementation Bureaus (i.e., provide
office space and select components coordinators);
*  facilitated monitoring and baseline data collection; and,



Page 16
* selection of an audit firm for the PHRD grant.
5.     Value added of Bank support in this project:
Much of the original thinking and re-focus on primary care by the Government's leadership is attributed to
Bank staff working with leaders in 1993 and 1994, with some evolutionary thinking since that time. It is
apparent that the health reforms include multiple dimensions of change in the three pilot oblasts. In addition,
the reforms embrace market-oriented principles and incentives. On both counts, the Government needs
technical and financial assistance to carry these out successfully. The proposed Health Project will accomplish
not only specific health objectives, but also will influence the general direction of the health reforms. The
project would provide the opportunity to test most of the Bank's sector work recommendations, and eventually
replicate them throughout the country. The Bank's project also has leveraged interest and support from other
international donors who had been frustrated previously by lack of dialogue on reforms with the Uzbek
leadership. The project effectively coalesces multi-party support and participation in the implementation of
major health reforms. Participants include UNDP and WHO, as well as with bilaterals such as British Know
How Fund (BKHF), and USAID. The project will help continue the Bank's presence and influence in the sector
on issues of broad sector policy. The continued presence of the Bank in the country may also influence general
policy, and contribute to accelerating the shift from a command to a market-oriented economy.
E: Summary Project Analysis
(Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1.     Economic (supported by Annex 4): -
[I]Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[X] Other (Cost-Benefit Analysis)
The primary finding illustrated in the summary table (Annex 4) is that there are tangible potential economic
benefits to be gained from the project, and these are large enough to justify the loan on a cost-benefit basis.
Discount rate for calculating the NPV was performed at 10 percent, based on the Bank's traditional
approach of using a notional range of 10-12 percent opportunity cost for borrowing for capital. A
sensitivity analysis was performed using an NPV of 4 percent; the results were the same in terms of
direction, though relative amounts changed (from 26.3 to 33.3 min USD). A substantial portion of savings
stem from savings that accrue to individuals and families outside the health sector, and potentially to the
employer. The economic justification therefore lies to a large extent in the fact of: i) benefits going to
patients and families and their employers; and ii) from a health care standpoint that the intervention is
directed at shifting health care toward known, established cost-effective strategies for addressing an
excessive burden of disease.
An analysis of the savings accruing to the health sector points out that the project is reliant on three
approaches to achieve sustainability in the long term. First, a substantial portion of funds will be saved
through closures of additional, duplicative facilities-including hospitals for inefficient care or unnecessary
care-and these can be shifted back to cover increased operating costs. This rationalization of facilities is a
covenant of the loan program. At the same time, the table shows negative cash flows are expected in some
years, in order to address increases in operating costs. It should be noted that costs and savings will be
refined each year, and while the Government has developed a rationalization strategy already, a more
aggressive rationalization strategy may be needed over the cycle of the project if financing gaps develop.
This needs to be developed and negotiated as cost and savings estimates are refined each year and facility-
specific plans are developed. Second, and concurrently, as a percentage of budget allocation, more of the
budget needs to be directed at outpatient and primary care. This should be possible as referrals and
admissions drop; bed capacity and decreases in personnel should follow in the inpatient sector. This is
consistent with recent trends both in Uzbekistan and in other FSU countries. This allocational shift of
budgetary resources will be a further covenant of the loan. Third, the Government will commit to
maintaining current levels of spending (in real terms) for health over the course of the project. At the same



Page 17
time, the Government may be willing to commit greater relative shares of spending for health services in the
future (based on income elasticities across similar countries), allowing the budgets to effectively cover more
costs and so becoming more affordable to the Government.
2.     Financial (see Annex 5): NPV=US$ -20.8 min
The net financial (fiscal) impact of the project shows that over a twenty year period total additional
discounted capital plus recurrent costs (at loan interest rate of 6.14%) amount to $136.8 mln. while
estimated savings are $116.3 min., a net total of $20.8 mln. Total repayments (discounted) amount to
$22.3 min The overall present value of net negative cash flow (net costs plus repayment) is $17.5 min.
This amounts to $4.41 per person over 20 years, or $0.22 per year for each inhabitant of the three oblasts.
Total negative cash flow over the life of the loan is $60.4 mln. This level of negative cash flow is minimal;
even under a no growth scenario, the impact is less than 1% of the national health budget over a 20 year
span.
3.      Technical: The project is technically justified on the basis of the relative importance of the health
problems it addresses, its use and reliance on cost-effective interventions and a strategy for sustainability,
and the social value of project objectives and interventions.
Addressing Health Indicators: The project design addresses the following important health problems:
*  An analysis of the premature loss of DALYs was performed, based on available mortality data, in order
to ensure that the project design takes into account the major causes of, and most cost-effective means
of reducing, premature deaths among the rural population. This analysis found that ARI, CDD, and
untreated hypertension are the most prominent causes of premature death among Uzbekistan's rural
population.
*  Nearly 70 percent of the population live in rural areas, perhaps increasing the IMR, the MMR, and the
birth rate in the aggregate as compared with other countries. The IMR (22.7/1,000) and MMR
(29.5/1,000), though declining in recent years due to government priority-setting, are still high as
compared to other countries in the world with similar incomes.
*  A package of PHC services would be provided to all citizens through the SVP structure. Included in
this package of services are essential individual clinical, promotive and preventive care, child health
services, reproductive health care and provision of emergency care. The SVPs will be equipped and
staffed to meet these needs. To round out their capacity to function effectively, each delivery point will
have communication and transport capacity to allow rapid and appropriate referral to the rayon level
facilities and permit the staff to conduct outreach activities.
*  Cost-Effectiveness and Sustainability: The SVPs that will be created will have better trained
personnel, better equipment, more supplies and pharmaceuticals than current primary care facilities and
therefore, will be able to provide a much greater amount and variety of higher-quality services.
However, these SVPs will have significantly higher recurrent costs. The additional costs must be
financed, or the activities to be financed by the project would not be sustainable in the longer-term.
Additional funds can be expected for health care due to: (i) expected economic growth and the
empirical trend of most countries willingness to increase spending for health care as a percentage of
GDP as GDP grows; and; (ii) from improved efficiencies related to management and financing reforms.
The extent of needed additional "savings" beyond this is unlikely, and will need to be captured through
rationalization of existing expenditures in other parts of the health care system, through facility
rationalization and other possible approaches. An estimate of the financing needs and gap was
calculated for each of the three leader oblasts for the period 1996-2001 and rationalization plans
developed that calls for closure of 703 facilities.
*  Reforms in Medical Education: A transformation of medical education and the training of health care
personnel in Uzbekistan has been underway since 1992. Reforms to date have intended to reduce



Page 18
reliance on specialist and sub-specialist care and promote and strengthen the education and role of GPs.
However, both international and local experts have concluded that changes to date have been
inadequate, and will have a modest impact on medical practice. The goal of the GP/UN Training
component of the project is to ensure that SVPs in the leader oblasts would be staffed with adequately
trained GPs and universal nurses, and to develop trainers, not only for the purposes of the project but
also to promote the development of teachers at medical schools who will lead the process of
restructuring medical education in the country.
* Social Value of the Project: Recent public opinion surveys conducted by the Bank (1997) and USAID
(1997) identify food and the quality of health services as the two biggest social concerns in the country
today. The project also is consistent with the stated priority areas for health care reform outlined by the
Government: women and child health protection; infectious diseases and prophylactics; strengthening
primary health care; and environmental protection. The proposed Health project would address most of
these priority areas. From an analytic/empirical standpoint, the project addresses both the major
morbidity and mortality issues identified in the project preparation's DALY analysis. Improved health
will provide an improved base for the country's human development but also strengthen it's capacity
for a strong and productive workforce.
4.     Institutional: The Institutional Assessment focused on the interests of the Government and health sector
personnel responsible for policy-making at national level, and on-the-ground project implementation issues in
the pilot oblasts.
The main findings of the institutional assessment are:
*  The government is characterized by a strong President who has held the post since the breakup of the
Soviet Union. He works with a Parliament, the Olliy Majlis, which has several Mandatory Committees
including a Committee on Labor and Social Protection of Population that covers health as well. The
Cabinet of Ministers (the Chairman of which is the President) is responsible for the day-to-day work of
the Government. The Prime Minister, with several sectoral Deputy Prime Ministers (among them there
is one responsible for the social sector), oversee the health care system in general and in coordination
with other state agencies (under other sectors) that provide medical services;
-  The Minister of Health, among other leading ministers, is a member of the central Government and the
Chairman of the Ministry of Health Board. The Minister has five Deputy Ministers (one is the head of
Tashkent city health department and has the status of the Deputy Minister) responsible for various sub-
sectors within the health system: (i) curative services and preventive care; (ii) maternal and child health
and family planning; (iii) medical educational establishments and science; (iv) sanitation and
epidemiological issues; (v) new technologies and medical equipment, etc. The Minister and each of the
Deputy Ministers supervise several central units;
*  The public sector health system  structure absorbs over 90%  of expenditures, with annual budget
allocations from the center. From a bureaucratic and infrastructure standpoint, the system is vast. It
comprises the MOH in Tashkent, the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Karakalpakstan, health care
related management bodies of Karakalpakstan, health departments of oblasts and the city of Tashkent,
and subdivisions of the above in towns and rayons. The public health sector system also comprises
curative-and-preventive facilities and scientific-research institutes, educational institutions to train and
retrain health and pharmaceutical personnel, pharmaceutical enterprises and organizations, sanitation-
and-prevention facilities, forensic medical units, enterprises producing medicines and medical
instruments/equipment as well as other enterprises, agencies and organizations under the public health
care system administration that deal with health care delivery. The public sector health system also
comprises clinics of research institutes, curative-and-preventive facilities and drug stores established by
other ministries, departments, state enterprises, agencies and organizations. Curative-and-preventive
facilities within the public health sector system, funded by the state budget, render their medical



Page 19
services to the public free of charge;
*  There are problems with the current system, similar to-other FSU countries in the region. For example:
(i) there is a parallel functioning of medical establishments run by enterprises and private entities
(mostly a vestige of Soviet times) that creates some overlap of responsibilities (a problem only in Navoi
from the perspective of this project); and; (ii) most of the rural medical establishments are located in
dilapidated or unfit premises. Of all FAPs, for example, 49% are located in buildings consisting of
small spaces of 1-2 rooms; rural facilities often lack heat, sanitation facilities and running water.
Supplies and equipment for diagnosis and treatment can be entirely absent;
*  The Ministry presents an organizational structure which is the outcome of a structure developed in the
FSU era, but with certain modifications in the course of the years of independence. Still the country's
highly centralized public administration system, with minimal delegation of authority, affects health
services management. High level managerial positions are held by specialists who infrequently receive
formal training in management of public administration (and which, in fact, did not exist in the Soviet
era). The Ministry identifies priorities in health care, deals with allocation of financial and logistic
resources for health care and medical science development. It sets state quality standards and costing
normatives for health services for all health facilities, and issues licenses for medical and
pharmaceutical practice, etc. In accordance with the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers, the
Ministry has set up a Principal Department for quality control of medicine and medical equipment. The
Department is responsible for maintaining quality control and certification of pharmaceutical
production, medical equipment, and special food-stuff aimed at controlling the sale of medical items
that do not meet standards. The objective over time is to shift gradually to the level of international
standards.
3  At the provincial/oblast level there is a Chief Health Administrator (Head of Oblzdrav) in each oblast
(12 total), Karakalpak Republic, and Tashkent city. The Administrator is responsible for the delivery
and coordination of all public health services in their regions. S/he is reporting not only to the Minister
of Health (on medical issues), but firstly to the Governor (Khokim) of province (oblast), especially on
administrative and financial issues. The Head of Oblzdrav has three deputies with almost the same
responsibilities as Deputy Ministers but at the oblast level. All the functions in the competence of local
health system authorities are defined in the State Law "On Health Care of the Population". Under the
supervision of oblast medical authorities there are district/rayon medical administrations led by the
Chief Doctor of the Central Rayon Hospital. Currently, the pyramid of medical facilities has five
layers, which under the Government's Program is going to be adjusted to a new system.
*  Project management and coordination: The CPIB would be oriented towards health policy, planning,
evaluation, dissemination and replication of pilots' results and in a Health 11 Project. The division of
responsibilities within the executing agency (i.e., procurement would be carried out by the specialized
firm of the MOH) would allow the CPIB to become a coordinator for the Government's State Program
of the Health System Development.
5.     Social: A social assessment found that the Health project corresponds to priority concerns of the poor,
rural populations. It identified areas of opportunity and/or risk to be addressed in project preparation. The
assessment was implemented in two stages, by a team of local consultants with assistance from the Bank
between March and June, 1997. The social assessment comprised focus group discussions, meetings with
health personnel, a questionnaire survey of approximately 1000 households in three pilot provinces of Navoi,
Syr Darya and Ferghana, and a workshop that reviewed and discussed findings. A second questionnaire was
administered where the household had sought medical treatment for illness in the last 30 days. The key findings
and recommendations of the social assessment are below:



Page 20
Findings                                        Recommendations
Health Knowledge
.  The intended health reforms confirm  with the  *   Involve stakeholders, provide detailed information
priorities, expectations, behavior and needs of the  to all levels of the health system  regarding the
rural population. However the assessment revealed    implementation of the reforms.
a relatively low level of health knowledge among  .   Project should incorporate public health education
the rural population, and a lack of information about  initiatives.
ongoing reforms.                                 *  Need to train and retrain doctors in areas of
preventive care, and in their role as educators of
their patients.
Access and Links to Referral Care
*   Existing  facilities  are  often   geographically  *   Ensure access in Navoi by providing necessary
inaccessible; the new  facilities have improved      digital, radio, and telephone communications and
geographical access except perhaps in Navoi.        transport equipment.
*  The new SVPs should have the improved links with
external services, such as maternity and emergency,
by  telephones,  ambulances   and   selective
improvements to public transport.
*  Continuity of services provided by FAPs must be  .   Problems linked with closing of FAPs should be
ensured in the field of maternal and child health.   closely monitored. FAPs in remote areas, such as
*  Adequate pharmaceutical and medical supplies are      Navoi, might remain open and equipped with Bank
often  not available  at present in  lower-level     financing.
facilities.                                      .   To the extent possible, ensure an adequate supply of
*  There is a risk that underfunded SVPs will be         pharmaceuticals and medical supplies under the
unable to provide a satisfactory level of service to  reform program.
compensate for the reduction in the number of  .  Allocate adequate budgets to the SVPs. Establish
facilities, and that the reforms will simply reduce  realistic  expectations  through  training, public
the net delivery of health services to rural areas.  education and publicity campaigns.
Emergency Services                                   *  Emergency services need to be rationalized, made
*   Emergency care capacity is severely impaired.        more  reliable,  effective  and  responsive  to
emergencies.
Decentralization and Local Flexibility
*  Current health planning system appears inflexible to  *   Decentralization   and  flexibility  should  be
respond to regional variations.                      encouraged  through  management training  and
education of family physicians.
Costs of Care
.   Direct cost of health  care to households has  .   Rationalize the direct out-of-pocket cost structures
increased dramatically, and often contribute to      now  faced by consumers, to improve incentives
behavior by families to bypass lower level facilities  related to utilization and quality.
and go directly to district level hospitals. Costs are  *   Ensure targeting of subsidies and protect the safety
directly  borne  through  demand  for informal       net.
payments  (typically  occurring  at district-level  *   Discuss cost-sharing  policies at national level,
facilities), and for all outpatient pharmaceuticals,  provide  information  about alternate  ways  of
and costs are indirectly borne in terms of lost time  financing of health services, and promote a debate
and travel costs.                                    so that all stakeholders can be involved in designing
*  Costs  faced  by  consumers  often   provide          a new, sustainable system.
disincentives for early presentation of symptoms,
and/or treatment using cost-effective approaches
(e.g., pharmaceuticals are covered by the State for
inpatient services only)



Page 21
Findings                                  Recommendations
Program Monitoring
*  Program monitoring and evaluation should focus  a  Project should include an adequate monitoring
on: (a) health needs; (b) access to the poor; (c)  program, to ensure that the quality of care improves
develop vvays to reach out to the population to  and  that the  benefits are  understood  and
compensate for greater distances; (d) tracking  appreciated.
mother and child health; and (e) effectiveness of
targeting.
6.    Environmental assessment:   Environmental Category       [] A   [ B    [X] C
No adverse environmental impacts are anticipated. Participating facilities would be required to certify that
physical plant meets established federal safety standards before ordering equipment which is subject to such
standards.
7.    Participatory approachl:
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups are listed below; each of these groups have been consulted with
during identification/preparation phase; collaboration has been fruitful with many of these groups:
* Beneficiaries/community groups were consulted during project preparation through the Social Assessment,
and would continue to be consulted during implementation, through the pilot program evaluation of users
satisfaction;
* Medical and Nursing Schools were actively consulted during preparation, and will collaborate in the
development and implementation of the GP/UN training programs to be carried out under the project, as
well as on the pilot program evaluation;
* The Khokimiat of each of the three pilot oblasts was actively involved in project preparation discussions.
The Khakims will continue to be actively involved in implementation through the Project Implementation
Bureau structure;
* A Donor Roundtable was held in late 1996 at the beginning of the PHRD-funded contract work on design
and preparation;
* NGOs were informed of project activities during preparation, including having copies of the contractor's
draft reports. This information dissemination and dialogue will continue during implementation;
* KfW had initially provided and maintained a commitment of grant funding of up to DM 22 mln for
equipment, supplies and pharmaceuticals, subject to project approval by the Bank's Board. Consultation
and collaboration have been routine through the course of the project. German government budgetary
issues related to the Maastricht Treaty has forced Bonn to communicate to KfW Frankfurt to put grant
funding on hold;
* The MOH and USAID, with the Bank's understanding and informal approval, signed a Memorandum of
Understanding in Fall 1997 for collaboration with TA/training in the preparation of the financing and
management component of this project, which would continue during 1998 and into 1999 during
implementation;
* The project and BKHF have developed and agreed upon some common activities related with short-term
GP training and longer-term curricula development. The BKHF will commit $400,000 in TA and training;
*  WHO, UNDP, UNICEF, and other UN agencies participated on mission teams and were actively consulted
during project preparation, and this would be expected to continue during implementation.



Page 22
F: Sustainability and Risks
1.     Sustainability:
The proposed project aims to create replicable models for health care delivery of critical services, financing and
cost recovery mechanisms, and effective management and information systems. The oblast level interventions
will be pilot programs, with built-in monitoring to measure impact and potential replicability. Operating costs
of care in the new rural medical centers will increase, and these costs will need to be offset with a multi-
dimensional strategy including:
(i) improved efficiency in the organization and provision of care. By focusing on the provision of the most
cost-effective care, the project would improve the efficiency of the health system. New provider payment
mechanisms would create ceilings, preventing cost-escalation and improving efficiency;
(ii) re-allocation of distribution of expenditures from inpatient to outpatient (see conditionalities);
(iii)increased commitment to spending for health care services as GDP grows, consistentwith the willingness
for increasing expenditures documented in other middle and upper-income countries;
(iv) facility rationalization strategy over the life of the project. The project would downsize and eliminate health
facilities in the three leader oblasts, and the resulting savings would be channeled to improving quality of
care.
2.     Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
The main risk to project success is the lack of administrative and institutional capacity in the Government, and
in the MOH generally. There are variations in capacity in the three oblasts. Ferghana is (by all measures) most
capable; Syr Darya least capable. For example, there may be inadequate capacity at the national and oblast
levels to implement the provider payment systems, and the management/information systems required for
effective and timely implementation. This has been addressed to some extent through intensive collaboration
with key counterparts on the part of the project team based in Tashkent (which includes the WHO-financed
Public Health Adviser to the Minister of Health), PHRD technical assistance during project preparation, other
donor collaboration (BKHF and USAID), and staff of the Resident Mission. Lack of experience with World
Bank procedures and processes could be a relative problem. This risk has been alleviated through PHRD
support and assistance during project preparation.



Page 23
Risk                                          Risk Rating     Risk Minimization Measure
Project Outputs to Development Objective      High
Politically and financially unsustainable health              Maintain health policy dialogue with
reforms.                                                     the Government.
Limited institutional and human resource capacity,            Involve beneficiaries and stakeholders
at the national and oblast levels.                            in project preparation, implementation
and evaluation.
Unwillingness to borrow for foreign technical
assistance, as well as for training.                          Cooperate with other international
agencies for grant support and to build
institutional capacity to carry out health
reforrns.
Loan conditionality as appropriate.
Project Components to Outputs                 High
Pilots not replicable.                                        Evaluation of pilots and
technical/policy dialogue on
sustainability and replication.
Limited institutional and human resource capacity at          Involve stakeholders in project
national and oblast level.                                    preparation and implementation.
Lack of knowledge of incentive structures or                  Build institutional capacity of MOH
mechanisms.                                                   and oblast leaders to carry out health
project.
Political difficulties in closing facilities for              Build institutional capacity. Many
sustainability purposes.                                      existing facilities are already
dilapidated and lack running water or
electricity.
Lack of knowledge of Bank procurement,                        Specialized training and TA will be
competitive bid process, disbursement, accounting,            provided to the Borrower to build a
and auditing rules and other procedures.                      capacity and knowledge in this
particular area of expertise.
Overall Risk Rating                           High
3.     Possible Controversial Aspects:
The new primary care program will be successful only if needed pharmaceuticals are available for patients. The
preparation phase saw the contractor develop a proposal to pilot which would restructure the distribution and
management of essential and emergency pharmaceuticals at the local level. It included a new coverage and co-
payment scheme, and assured adequate supplies of emergency and essential pharmaceuticals. The Government
rejected this on the grounds of equity (more pharmaceuticals available in pilot areas relative to others) and as
creating opportunities for corruption (re-selling of pharmaceuticals across oblast borders). The Bank has asked
and received from the Government a counter proposal for procurement, management and distribution of
emergency pharmaceuticals.  The Government proposes to supply emergency pharmaceuticals through
budgetary allocations to the state-run monopoly Dori Darmon. However, the Government may need to address
issues related to appropriate funding levels, currency exchange policies for importation of pharmaceuticals over
the life of the project, as well as operational management and distribution at the local level. The Bank, as a
back-up, has created a contingency funding pool for emergency drugs that the Government can utilize as



Page 24
necessary. Otherwise, funds can be utilized for equipment.
A second controversial aspect is closing of facilities for savings that can be utilized to cover increased recurrent
costs of new and better-equipped facilities. Facility closure has been quite difficult politically in many OECD
countries. At the same time, a number of former Soviet countries such as Russia, Kazakhstan, and Kyrgzstan
have begun to close both beds and facilities. Russia has closed 10-20% of bed capacity in most regions.
Kazakhstan has claimed closure of approximately'30% of its beds since 1990 (source: MOH). It also has closed
within the last few years, a number of rural FAPs, SVAs and SUBs on its own initiative for budgetary reasons,
and closed urban facilities under the Bank's Social Protection project. A second and related problem is closing
down the appropriate facilities based both on clinical and economic rationale, a concern in most countries
regardless of income levels. The project would include an analytic process, a policy process and then an
institutionalization of a health facility rationalization strategy to close and consolidate unneeded and costly
health facilities. Each of the oblasts have participated in initial workshops to model the financing gap and
examine options based on sound criteria, and have developed a rationalization strategy to assure closure of
duplicative functions, and better assure long-run sustainability.  Each year facility-specific plans will be
developed in each oblast. This will be a covenant of the project.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1.    Agreements Reached by Negotiation:
* Tashkent Institute of Advanced Medical Education (Tash IAME) will establish and equip its new
Department (or Faculty) of GP/Family Medicine responsible for development and coordination of all
GP/FM training programs including training curriculum (by December 1998);
* Each of five Medical Institutes (TashMI I, TashMI II, Tash PI, Andejan MI, Bukhara MI) and Tash
IAME should organize, establish, reconstruct and equip its own standardized (outpatient) training
unit/base for GP training, for use prior to the start of its respective training programs: TashIAME: 2
units, both by December 1998; TashMI I: 1 unit, by September 1998; TashPI: 2 units, will be later in
1998 or early 1999. (Others-TashMI II, AndejanMI, and BukharaMl will be expected only later, by
May 1999; Samarkand MI plans will be finalized during the first Supervision Mission);
* TashIAME also should have two affiliated, standardized "training SVPs" equal in principal to a SVP3,
but equipped a bit differently (and now called SVP-4). (Training SVPs will be used only for "training of
trainers" program.) Both training SVPs should be organized, reconstructed, and equipped (by end of
September 1998);
* Each oblast will develop detailed rationalization plans, including hospital rationalization plans, for the
first year under the project. These plans will identify specific facilities to be closed and beds reduced (as
part of the Annual Workplans and specific annual plans will be developed for each subsequent year of the
project.);
* The reconstructed building for Nursing School in Syr Darya (Gulistan) will be completed and opened (by
end of 1998);
* Mid-term review report furnished to the Bank on or about February 1, 2001, integrating the results of
monitoring and evaluation findings of the project, with recommendations and needed refinements in
achieving project objectives.
2.     Conditions of Effectiveness:
* The Central Project Implementation Bureau will adopt a Project Implementation Manual and
implementation plan acceptable to the Bank;
* Acceptable plan and adoption of incentive financing system for SVPs in model oblasts. The Cabinet of
Ministers shall pass a resolution allowing the provider payment demonstrations to be implemented in the
nine (9) pilot rayons in the three (3) leader oblasts;
* The MOH has prepared, in conjunction with the model oblasts, and furnished to the Bank, a list of training
sites to be rehabilitated under the second component of the project, together with an associated workplan



Page 25
and cost estimates:
*  The Borrower has in place a finanicial management svstem for the project. satisfactory to the Bank.
3.     Covenants:
*  Maintain the Steering Commission until completion of the project, withi terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank. to be responsible for facilitating actions required for project implementation at the policy level:
*  Maintain the central and oblast PlBs througilouit the project implementation period with staffing. fiunds.
facilities, and other resources in a manner satisfactory to the World Bank;
* Report to the World Bank on an annual basis on the status of the key indicators listed in Annex 1:
* Provide to the IBRD, within six months of the end of each Government fiscal year. with an audit report of
such scope and details as the IBRD may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by an independent
auditor acceptable to the IBRD, on disbursements against certified SOEs. The separate opinion should
mention whether SOEs submitted during the fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawal applications;
* Ministry of Finance assurance that: (i) the health budget as a share of the total budget (including oblast
budget, rayon budgets and municipal budgets) shall be no less than during the year of 1997; and (ii) the
actual health expenditures as a share of total expenditures shall be no less than the health budget as a share
of the total budget for the respective year: and (iii) the relative share of expenditures for inpatient care shall
be no more than 45 percent in the three pilot oblasts by December 31, 2001;
*  At the beginning of each project year, the annual work program for the Project, including the plan for
rationalization of specific facilities in each oblast, should be provided to the Bank;
*  Maintain the requisite supply of 34 emergency drugs at each SVP in the three model oblasts.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [x ] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation. - Not Yet Due: these are expected to be completed by Effectiveness
[x] The Project Imp'lementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
[  The following items are lacking.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
]  The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommend  for approval:
Program Team Leader: Mr. John C. Langenbru       ECSHD
Sector Director: Mr. Chris Lovelace, ECSHD
Country Director: Mr. lshrat Husain. ECCO0



Annex I - Page I
Annex 1
Uzbekistan Health Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary             Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                 (Goal to Bank Mission)
The February, 1998 CAS aims   *  Health Statistics         *  Bank-Government            *   Political Stability
to enhance the efficiency in the                               dialogue                  *  Social  and   Economic
use of constrained resources, to                           *  Continuous Feedback on         Conditions   change   as
improve the quality of services,                               Project                       assumed
to improve cost-effectiveness                               *  Pilot Evaluations
and to target vulnerable
groups. The strategy also
recognizes the need for urgent
reorganization in health
financing, and the importance
of health education and
promotion.
Project        Development
Objective:                                                 *  Health statistics          *  Inputs are timely provided
Regional Objectives:                                                                     *  Attitudinal and behavioral
(a) improve the quality and  *  Increase % of pregnant     *  Pilot Evaluation:              change regarding
cost-effectiveness of primary    women attending in I"         *  Quality, cost-             prevention and treatment
health care services;            trimester;                        effectiveness and     *  Providers  improve  their
*  Increase % of pregnant            efficiency                practice
women receiving tetanus      *  Health status
immunization;                *  Users and providers
*  Increase the % of users of        satisfaction
modem contraceptive;
*  Reduce the % of pregnant
women with anemia;
*  Reduce the % of children
under  5   years  with
nutritional disorder;
*  Increase the % of infants
fully immunized;
*  Decrease  referrals  to
(b) improved management and      specialists as %  of visits
efficiency of delivery services;  by 15%;
*  Increase utilization of
services by 10%;
*  Improve quality of care;
*  Shift locus of care to
primary/outpatient care;
*  Increased productivity at
SVPs (visits/staff);
*  Decreases in admissions;
(c) develop a new  cadre of  *  Implementation  of new
professional       providers     training  programs  and
(physicians    and    nurses)    curriculum  for GPs and
focused on general practice      UNs.
and family medicine;



Annex 1-Page 2
Narrative Summary  K3; -t;t t5t   ey Performnance Indicators  Monitoring and Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
National Objective:
(a) build capacity in the MOH   *   Increase    users    and  *   Users   and   Providers
to evaluate and disseminate the   providers satisfaction;       Satisfaction Study
results    of   the    pilot  *   Increase ability to apply
countrywide.                      reforms in other oblasts.
Outputs:
*  Upgraded facilities;       *  Between 266 and 320 SVP  *  Collection, recording and  *   Inputs are timely provided;
*   Upgraded and trained          facilities upgraded;          analysis of indicator data  *  Necessary political will;
health staff;             *   Installation and use of lab   at the oblast level in pilot  *   Institutional capacity to
*  GP training sites and          and diagnostic equipment      oblasts;                       apply results of pilot
Nurse schools established;    in 32 central rayon       *  Collection and comparison       program in other oblasts.
*  New educational curricula      polyclinics;                  in  remaining   oblasts
for Medical Training      *  Access to drugs increases:     nationally.
Institutes;                  *  80% of emergency        *   Semi-Annual        Work
*   Licensing and                    drugs available at all     Program Reports.
Accreditation                    times;                 *  Bank           Supervision
Commissions established;     *   no expired stock           Missions.
*  Decentralized legal               among emergency
structure adopted;               drugs;
*  New financial incentive    *   Health staff trained
structure adopted;           *  200 practicing
*  Rationalization of existing       physicians
facilities;                  *  64 physician trainers
*   Pilot evaluation.            *  320 universal nurses
*  new nurse educators;
* Implementation of new
medical education
curricula at 5-6 training
institutes;
* Training programs and
sites accredited;
* Provider payment and MIS
pilots conducted;
* Adoption of new legal
structures;
* Adoption of new incentive
system;
* Adoption of MIS systems;
* Parallel, duplicative
facilities closed;
* Pilot evaluation completed
Project    Components/Sub-                                                                *  Inputs are timely provided;
components: (see Annex 2 for                                                              *   Knowledge about
project description):                                                                         competitive mechanisms;
*   Knowledge about Bank
Strengthening Primary Care   *  $ 53.8 million                                                procedures
Services in Rural Area        *  TA hired;
*   Medical and Laboratory
Equipment, Furniture,
Emergency Drugs,
Medical Supplies,



Annex 1- Page 3
Narrative Summary             Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation     Critical Assumptions
Laboratory Reagents, and
Vehicles
Purchased/Installed in
SVPs and Polyclinics;
*  TQI workshops conducted
and training equipment
installed;
*  Health Promotion media
messages developed and
broadcast;
*  Health promotion training
conducted;
*  Radio Communication
trainer trained and
maintenance ability
established;
*  Radio Communication
Equipment installed.
Training of General          *  US$ 6.8 million
Practitioners and Universal    *  Faculty at TashIAME
Nurses                           established;
GP Training               *  Training Sites established;
*  TA hired;
*  # of teachers trained by
*  study tours
*  workshops;
*  # of GPs Trained by
* 1 year program
* short term
courses
* study tours;
*  Universal Nurse           *  Medical Equipment for
Training                     New Nursing Schools
purchased;
*  # of Computers installed
in Nursing schools;
*  TA hired;
*  Nurse educators study
tour;
*  # of nurses trained by
short term courses;
*  Continuing Medical        *  TA hired;
Education                *  number of training-of-
trainers workshops;
*  number of training of
practitioners courses;
*  Basic Medical Education   *  TA hired to develop
Unified GP curriculum for
undergraduate and
postgraduate training;
*  Launching workshop;
*  Accreditation,            *  Establish Accreditation



Annex 1- Page 4
.a ie Summ: ary              Key i0-  4  i  i;lkPerfrmance Indicators  Monitoring and Evaluation  Critical Assumptions
Certification, Licensing     Committee;
*  Study tour.
Strengthening of Finance and  *  US$ 3.9 million
Management                   *  TA hired;
* # of practice consultants
trained;
* % of computer equipment
installed;
* % of workshops held;
* % of study tours;
* number of provider
payment pilots completed
(established, evaluated,
disseminated and rolled
out);
* Annual Rationalization
plans by oblast;
* MIS Pilots completed
(new data systems
established, forms printed,
evaluation and roll out).
Project Management           *  $5 .3 million
*  establishment of I CPB    *  Bank Supervision Mission
and 3 oblast PBs;        *  Semi-Annual reports
*  9 staff hired for CPB and 3  *  Annual audit reports
for each PBs;
*  2 staff trained in Bank
procurement procedures;
*  Timely  submission   of
Annual work programs
and budgets.



Annex 2 - Page I
Annex 2
Uzbekistan Health Project
Project Description
The Govemment of Uzbekistan and the Bank are collaborating in the implementation of a health care
reform strategy in order to help improve the quality and the efficiency of health care services delivery.
Improvements in quality and efficiency can lead to improvements in health status of the people of
Uzbekistan. The project is focused on the residents of rural areas. The objectives can be met without
increasing significantly the total cost to the Government of the health care it provides. The Bank would
support a pilot project to test the Government's reforms through the proposed Health project in three pilot
or "leader" oblasts. These three oblasts, Ferghana (population: 2,584,400), Navoi (population: 769,600)
and Syr Darya (population: 642,900) were selected by the Government for their diversity in what is
perceived as an initial round of investment in its restructuring program. The oblasts differ in size,
economy, healtlh conditions, health status, and population density, and provide a window on conditions
prevailing elsewhere in Uzbekistan.
The Health Project would be the Bank's first lending operation in the health sector in Uzbekistan. The
Government has recently enacted a new visionary law on health sector reform which envisages a series of
changes over the next 10 years related to diversification of revenues flowing into the sector, creation of
health insurance, and expanded privatization of providers and distribution networks. Nevertheless, the
start-up of Bank activities in Uzbekistan has been somewhat later than in the other FSU countries. Bank
assistance to date has focused on policy dialogue, grant support in the design of a reform program, and
institution building. It also has engaged in a long-standing dialogue on the prudence and relative cost-
effectiveness of public investments related to pharmaceutical and vaccine production.
The proposed Health project objectives are both regional and national in scope. At the oblast level the
project would specifically seek to: (a) improve the quality and cost effectiveness of primary health care,
particularly in the rural areas where the great majority (approximately 70%) of the population live; (b)
develop a new cadre of medical personnel through short-term training programs for general practitioners
and universal nurses, and longer-run by redefining medical education curricula; and (c) fully strengthen
the management and financing of primary health care services, in part through incentive restructuring and
decentralization in both the financing and provision of health care. At the national level it would build
capacity in the Ministry of Health to evaluate and disseminate the results of the pilot country wide.
Combined results from these three very different oblasts which represent the diversity of conditions in
Uzbekistan, are expected to help guide the Government's effort to strengthen the primary health care
services in the country as a whole, and provide a baseline for more extended reforms nationally.
In order to achieve those objectives, the proposed project would have the following four components: (1)
Strengthening Primary Health Care Services; (2) Training of General Practitioners and Universal Nurses;
(3) Strengthening of Finance and Management; and, (4) Project Management. A description follows:
(1) Strengthening Primary Health Care Services: US$ 53.8 million (total cost of component):
This component would build and equip new rural outpatient centers (SVPs), as well as
consolidate, rehabilitate and upgrade some existing rural health facilities.
(i) Construction, Consolidation, and Rehabilitation: Reforms in this area have been underway
since 1996 when the Government announced its rural social infrastructure program. The
Bank will not finance this subcomponent; however, the Bank has contributed by providing
guidance and advice on SVP construction and design, and ensuring availability of
functioning acceptable water and wastewater disposal systems. The existing Soviet delivery
model of feldsher stations (FAPs), rural ambulatories (SVAs), and small (30-60 beds) rural



Annex 2- Page 2
hospitals (SUBs) would be either closed or converted into a new type of health facility, the
Sel'skiy vrachebnye post or "Rural Medical Centers" (or SVPs). The size of these facilities
depends on the population (catchment area) served, and these have been built and have been
staffed initially according to standards adopted by the Government. These SVP facilities are
three basic types and classified as SVPI, SVP2, and SVP3, accordingly. Each type serves a
population of approximately 2,000, 2,000-4,500, and 4,500 to 6,000, respectively. A fourth
type, SVP4, has been proposed to serve as both a service and training center but their
development remains under consideration. While much of the existing service delivery plant
in rural areas is beyond renovation, some have been salvageable. The Government is
renovating and upgrading these facilities to meet the new requirements. The combination of
renovated and new facilities is providing a sense of renewal in the health services in rural
areas. In two of the three pilot oblasts, the social assessment found that 80% of the
population will live within 1.5 km of the SVP. In Navoi oblast, with it's vast stretches of
desert and mountainous areas, a smaller percentage lives within this radius. Some FAPs will
be retained in Navoi, especially in the very remote areas as outreach posts. Steps will be
undertaken by the project to upgrade these FAP facilities in keeping with the general policy
of improving rural health services.
By the year 2002, the Government expects to build or rehabilitate from 266 up to 320
facilities. The numbers below reflect maximum targets for new or rehabilitated centers:
Closing/Transforming/Ne    Syr Darya      Navoi        Ferghana          Total
[ w Construction        l (in 10 rayons) l (in 8 rayons)  (in 16 rayons) J  (in 34 rayons)
Number of FAPs closed        125           110           300              535
Number of FAPs equipped       32           93             0               125
Number of SVAs closed         68            4             92               164
Number of SVAs                62            0             0                62
transformed into SVPs
Number of SUBs closed         0             4             0                4
Number of SUBs                0             0             0                0
transformed into SVPs
Number of SVPs newly         49            30             54              133
constructed/equipped
Number of new SVPs            65           16             44              125
(already constructed)                                                                l
Total Number of Facilities   193           118           392              703
closed                                l                                              l
Total Number of SVPs         176      |    46             98              320
(ii) Upgrading of Services: This subcomponent would ensure that a basic package of health
services will be provided through the SVPs. Included in this range of services are essential
individual clinical, promotive and preventive care, child health services, reproductive health
care and provision of emergency care. The SVPs will be equipped and staffed to meet these
needs. To round out their capacity to function effectively, each delivery point will have
communication, including packet radio in some locales and transport capacity to allow rapid
and appropriate referral to the rayon level facilities and permit the staff to conduct outreach
activities. The quality of services will be improved through a program designed to enhance
performance and improve local management.



Annex 2- Page 3
Supplies of drugs in rural areas are inconsistent and insufficient to meet the total demand for
medicines. The project would ensure a supply of emergency drugs and medical supplies for
the different types of SVPs are always available.  A quasi-independent (joint stock)
Government monopoly is responsible for purchasing and distributing drugs throughout the
country though it is possible to purchase drugs through private sources, including private
pharmacies and the black market. Pharmaceuticals are covered by the Government only for
inpatient care. However, there are between 12-44 categories (depending upon source used)
of persons eligible to receive drugs free from the state, and these groups consume about 50
percent of available Government-procured drugs. Otherwise, persons must purchase drugs
out-of-pocket using prescriptions.
There are additional challenges. Other consumables are made available to health facilities
through a well defined process, but availability has been constrained recently by finances.
There also is an orderly process for maintaining transport and equipment, through, in the
latter case, contracts with Medtekhnika, a quasi-independent organization which procures and
distributes equipment for the health services, is the main channel for equipment repair. In
some parts of the three oblasts, because of limited infrastructure and terrain, there are no
telephones at health facilities and a heavier form of vehicle than that provided by the
Government program is required for outreach and other activities.
(iii)Health Promotion: Public information and education on health issues is limited although
there is a vertical structure through the delivery system responsible to inform and promote
healthy lifestyles. Concepts about such programs and ability to deliver them are extremely
limited and there is considerable scope to improve the flow of knowledge and information to
the public on health issues. With analysis showing much of the mortality associated with
lifestyles, public education programs assume importance in any effort to improve the nation's
health profile. A health education initiative through the SVP structure will re-inforce the
increased emphasis toward primary care and support improvement of health status generally.
To support and strengthen the implementation of Government's plans to improve health services in
the rural areas in a sustainable manner, this subcomponent would finance: (i) basic diagnostic and
therapeutic equipment for all SVPs developed under the four year program at an appropriate level,
and also fumishings; (ii) diagnostic and laboratory equipment for central rayon polyclinics which
serve as the referral apex of the primary care services network; (iii) medical supplies and laboratory
reagents at SVPs and polyclinics; (iv) vehicles (20) for areas where the terrain is rough; (v) packet
radio communication system in selected remote locales of Navoi and Syr Darya; (vi) equipment, a
vehicle, training and foreign/local technical assistance for health education and promotion; and (vii)
training, workshops and technical assistance for management and quality assurance programs and to
enhance capacity for construction supervision.
(2) Training of General Practitioners/Family Practitioners (GP/FP) and Universal Nurses:
US$ 6.8 million (total cost of component): This component would ensure that SVPs in the three
leader oblasts would be staffed with adequately trained and competent medical providers. The
reforms in medical education and training stem from the Government's initiative in its new Act
on National Education, which calls for western (OECD) models of (medical) education and
training. These reforms would accelerate the introduction of GP and the strengthening of PHC
throughout the Republic. Component activities include both approaches for short-term retraining
of physicians and longer-term reforms in medical education for training new physicians:
(i) Retraining of Existing Physicians: This would cover about 200 physicians already practicing
in primary care settings in the three leader oblasts. A one-year intensive training program is



Annex 2- Page 4
the centerpiece activity for this subcomponent. The course would be organized by five
Medical Institutes, including three Tashkent-based medical institutes: First Tashkent Medical
Institute (TashMI I), Second Tashkent Medical Institute (TashMI II), and Tashkent Pediatric
Institute (Tash P1). These institutes would train physicians from Syr Darya oblast. Similarly,
Andizhan Medical Institute (An MI) would serve physicians from Ferghana oblast; Bukhara
Medical Institute (Bu MI) would train physicians from Navoi oblast. A sixth institute in
Samarkand also could begin in year 2 or 3 of the project to serve Navoi oblast. As a result,
all SVP1s would be staffed with GPs, a significant number of SVP2s, and a number of
SVP3s. Technical assistance would be required to develop the curriculum for a "training of
trainers" and the I year training course (see below), some of which ($400,000) will be
funded through a grant under the British Know How Fund. Study tours would be available
for a limited number of practicing physicians.
(ii) Continuing Medical Education of SVP Physicians in 3 leader oblasts: The Project would
support a continuing medical education consisting of a series of short courses, organized by
the Tashkent Institute of Advanced Medical Education (TashIAME). Each course would be
approximately one-two weeks in length, and include such topics as essential public health,
rational drug use, integrated management of the sick child, and tuberculosis control.
(iii)Training of Trainers of Existing Physicians: Funding would be provided for a I-year program
for 16 trainers for each year of the project (for a total of 64) from the associated Medical
Institutes. In addition, the Tashkent Institute for Advanced Medical Education (Tash IAME)
will establish a new Department (Faculty) of General Practice responsible for the development
and coordination of the training curriculum, and will coordinate closely with two other
institutes in Tashkent, Tash MI I and Tash PI. The Tash IAME will partner with Know How
Fund (under grant assistance) initially and with an outside (foreign) Medical School for the
duration of the project. Study tours would be included in the training of trainers program.
These trainers would then return to their institutions to organize and- conduct the 1-year
intensive retraining programs (above). The project would finance 3 foreign experts-of 1.5
months up to 3 months duration for individual assignments-to develop curricula in GP
training and in public health, and to oversee the implementation of the training program.
Foreign TA also would be used to formally evaluate this subcomponent after I year to see if the
approach is meeting objectives. The short-term courses (above) would train 15 trainers initially
using foreign TA; over 1,140 physicians would attend these short-term courses over the life of
the project.
(iv)Long-Term Reforms for Strengthening Medical Education: The jGP trainers also would be
trained to lead the process of restructuring undergraduate and postgraduate medical education
and training in Uzbekistan, by forming a core of planned new faculties of GP medicine in the
medical schools which educate and train physicians for three leader oblasts. The new
curriculum would be introduced in September 2000; a 3-year post-graduate residency training
program also will be developed. The subcomponent would finance a national workshop, and
would finance technical assistance which would be provided during the first and second year of
project-to assist the Medical Institutes in developing and finalizing a "unified" curriculum for
training the GP.
(v) Development of Training Sites: Training sites would be developed during the first year of the
project to support the training programs. Each of 5-6 training institution-Medical Institutes
(Tash MI 1, Tash MI II, Tash PI, An MI, Bu MI and Samarkand MI) would establish and
organize its own training site for GP training, and utilize existing polyclinics as well. The
project would finance necessary renovations, equipment, and supplies. In addition, there will



Annex 2- Page 5
be designated training SVPs, or a "SVP-4" level. The TASH IAME will have will establish
two affiliated training SVPs in a rural environment as part of the "training of trainers" program.
Each oblast will establish one training SVP for the existing physician training program.
(vi)Training of Universal Nurses: Nurses constitute the majority of the staff at SVPs. The
component would finance study tours for leading nurse educators. The tours would introduce
methods for preparing nurse trainers, and the role of nursing in general practice and primary
care. The Republic Center for Nursing, Akhunbabayev, would develop two short-course
training programs which would be implemented in the three leader oblasts during the Project:
the WHO LEarning Materials On Nursing (LEMON) program; and a one-month course on
general practice nursing. Each program would begin with "training of trainer" workshops in
Tashkent using technical assistance. Subsequently, these trainers would organize and lead the
training programs in the oblasts. Over the life of the project, at least one nurse from each SVP
would complete each program. In Navoi and Syr Darya oblasts, a nurse training school would
be upgraded and equipped to meet Government standards for training universal nurses. In
Ferghana oblast, three nursing schools will be supplemented with computers for training.
(vii)   Accreditation, Certification and Licensing: The project would support the Ministry of
Health to develop capacity through the establishment of a special commission for accreditation
of alil medical training programs, training sites, and institutions in the Republic. To facilitate
the commission's development, the Project would support study tours to observe other national
models, foreign technical assistance, and equipment and materials. The project also would
support establishing and strengthening the existing activity on Certification and Licensing of
Physicians. These commissions would be established by the MOH in cooperation with a new,
independent professional association, the National Association of Physicians.
In summary, this component would finance Civil Works (rehabilitation of training bases, SVPs' buildings
and nursing schools); Goods (training medical and laboratory equipment, medical fumiture, computers,
office equipment and furniture, training materials, emergency drugs and related consumables for training
centers); and Services (technical assistance and training for training of trainers courses-both for GPs and
universal nurses, workshops, fellowships and scholarships, and study tours).
(3) Strengthening of Finance and Management: US$ 3.9 million (total cost of component): The
current health system suffers from both underfunding and inefficiency. It also is overcentralized
in its decisionmaking process. The SVPs that will be created will have better trained personnel,
better equipment, more supplies and pharmaceuticals than current primary care facilities. As such,
these centers will be able to provide a greater amount and variety of higher-quality services.
However, these SVPs would be considerable more expensive to operate, and the additional costs
must be financed, or the activities to be financed by the project would not be sustainable. Since
significant additional funding is unlikely even with sustained growth in GDP, it is critical to (i)
improve the efficiency by which services are provided, and (ii) to rationalize duplicative parts of
the existing health care system, so that necessary funds are "saved".
(i) Rationalization: A computer-based impact and simulation model was created under the PHRD
grant funds, and was used to estimate the financing needs and gaps. These estimates and
current gaps were calculated for each of the three leader oblasts for the period 1996-2001. In
December 1997, a 3 day workshop was held in Tashkent to (i) train local experts in use of the
model, (ii) to explain the estimates and implications, and (iii) to develop a rationalization
strategy for each of the three oblasts.  Each oblast has developed a general plan for
rationalization over the life of the project. Each oblast will then develop specific lists of
facility closures at the beginning of each year of the project. The adoption of specific list of



Annex 2- Page 6
facility closures acceptable to the Bank for sustainability purposes will be a covenant of the
loan. Follow up technical assistance would be financed on an annual basis to provide analytic
support in carrying out this strategy over the life of the project.
(ii) New Financing and Management Models: The project will also introduce changes in the way
SVPs are currently managed and financed, to change incentives (and thus behavior) introduce
management flexibility, information, and administrative capacity at SVPs. This objective will
be to stimulate cost-effective changes in the mix and structure of the services provided, as
measured by fewer hospital admissions, specialty referrals, and so on. This subcomponent
would finance a new incentive-based payment system, an information management system,
and management and other training in specific districts/health care facilities.
The project will introduce these changes in two phases:
(a) pilot demonstrations in selected rayons in the three oblasts: There will be 9 financing pilots
and 7 management and information system (so-called "control") pilots. Ferghana pilot rayons
will implement new models first (in 12-18 months) with support of technical assistance and
training provided through a USAID grant. This will be followed by implementation of pilots
in the other two leader oblasts within 6 months of implementation in Ferghana. A new legal
status of pilot SVPs will be defined to allow local flexibility in use of funds relative to the
current approaches that are set in Tashkent. The pilot program SVPs will establish a more
autonomous status and will need to establish new procedures such as an individual bank
account and flexibility in resource use including staffing mix.
The financing pilots will actually test two models, both of which emphasize self-management
of SVPs, but differ in the complexity and power of their financial incentives. One model will
establish SVPs as independent juridical entities with their own bank accounts and a total
budget detected by a "capitation" formula. The second model, which is more complex,
presupposes the same basic organizational structure as in the first model, but assigns to SVPs
responsibility for providing or financing the specialty referral services used by residents of
the SVP catchment area. The second model introduces strong economic incentives to reduce
physicians' referrals and patients' self-referrals for specialty care and, by extension, to
improve the quality of services.
In the first model, SVPs would begin operating as fully self-managed facilities, directedby
the chief physician. A part-time "practice manager" would be trained and assigned to each
SVP who would provide administrative support for accounting and information systems.
SVPs in each pilot rayon would share a traveling practice manager who would specify in
these small rural clinics. A primary objective would be flexibility of a "global budget" to
SVPs. SVPs in the experimental rayons will not receive a budget divided by old line item
"chapters". Instead, SVPs will receive an aggregated budget amount and then decide on their
own how to allocate these limited funds. Each SVP also will exercise broad authority when
choosing staffing patterns.
The second model is similar to the "fund-holding" system for primary care used in Britain.
SVPs will be given the same legal and administrative rights of self-management and a "per
capita" global budget, as in the case of Model 1. In addition, however, a "modified fund-
holding" system will be introduced, concerning the provision of specialist ambulatory care
delivered by rayon polyclinics and hospitals. The fund-holding system will be operated
centrally by the oblast health department. Additional features of this second model should be
noted. First, the amount of financial reward-or risk-facing each SVP will be limited by
application of a partial "risk corridor." In practice, a SVP will be allowed to keep at the end



Annex 2- Page 7
of each quarter any residual funds from its referral budget for that quarter, to which it will be
entitled if needed referrals decline. At the same time, a SVP can lose no more than 5 percent
of its regular budget in any quarter, in case the number of referrals is greater than expected.
Second, in order to heighten the SVP's influence over the residents of its catchment area and
to discourage self-referrals, a small administrative charge will be introduced, which will
require self-referring patients at polyclinics, i.e. those patients who seek care without a
referral from their SVP-to pay a small fee to cover the cost of the additional form that the
polyclinic will have to complete for such patients. Polyclinics will be permitted to keep these
funds. The patient still will have the right to by-pass the SVP, but now will have an
economic incentive to go first to the SVP.
Both experiments will require a significant amount of information in order to function
successfully.   A  new  computerized  health management information  system  will be
introduced, which will collect the necessary data. This system will consist of interlocking
databases: population; patient-level encounters; and referrals to polyclinics and hospitals.
The population database will collect information on the residents in each SVP's catchment
area.  It will include information on age, sex, employment, exemption status, and
dispensarization status. The patient encounter database will collect detailed information on
each patient encounter; these will include diagnosis, treatments, and referrals.  Both
databases together will provide detailed information needed for the adjustment of capitation
rates, for monitoring the quality of care, and for measuring the staffs productivity.
The new information system will be implemented by setting up a computer network in
Tashkent, in each of the three oblast centers, and in all 16 participating rayons (including
nine rayons where the pilot demonstrations will be established and seven "control" rayons).
The oblast computer center will provide the data needed in order to administer the modified
fund-holding experiments; the oblast and rayon computer centers will serve as training sites.
This subcomponent would finance Civil Works (rehabilitation of computer centers); Goods
(computer and office equipment and software for 1 (one) national, 3 (three) oblast and 9
(nine) rayon computer centers, and 3 (three) pilot SVPs); and Services (technical assistance
and training for software development, pilots evaluation and dissemination; and seminars on
new financing and information management system).
(b) pilot demonstration evaluation and roll-out: The pilot demonstrations in the three oblasts and
the reforms would be evaluated, replicated and disseminated throughout the three oblasts.
The databases will collect information needed to evaluate the pilot projects and, in particular,
to detect and measure significant changes in utilization and referrals that are due to the
economic incentives introduced under each model.
This subcomponent would finance Goods (minor computer and office equipment for SVPs
and zonal polyclinics); and Services (technical assistance and training for pilots evaluation
and dissemination). It would also finance some technical assistance and training; computers,
software, training materials and operating and maintenance costs for the computer centers,
and evaluation of the initial pilots in 16 rayons and two evaluation workshops to discuss
results and refine the models for replication and roll-out.
(4) Project Management (US$ 5.3 million): National project implementation unit (Central Project
Implementation Bureau) and oblast implementation units (oblast Project Implementation
Bureaus) has been established within the MOH and oblast Health Departments, respectively, to
carry out day-to-day project implementation, management and monitoring.



Annex 2- Page 8
This component would finance CPIB and oblast Project Implementation Bureaus' staff salaries, technical
assistance and training, training materials, cost of the Project audit, office equipment, computers,
vehicles, furniture, and operating costs for the CPIB and three Oblast PIBs. The Government would
finance a Procurement agent and a Consolidator/Distributor.
The operating costs of the CPIB will be 100% financed out of the loan proceeds as they are, in fact,
incremental costs to this project. The CPIB is created only for the duration of the project, therefore, there
is no issue of sustainability. The Borrower will finance operating costs of the oblast PlBs.
An additional US$ 2.0 million of loan funds have been allocated for preparation of a "Health 11" project
(technical assistance and training), as discussed with the Government, and for procurement of equipment
for pilot sites to initiate a "roll-out" to other oblasts.



Annex 3 - Page I
Annex 3
Uzbekistan Health Project
Estimated Project Costs
Basis of Cost Estimates
Project costs have been estimated in US dollars and local currency (Sum). The costs for Civil Works, Goods
(medical, laboratory, office equipment, pharmaceuticals and reagents, furniture, vehicles and supplies) and
Services, including local and overseas training, have been based on current prices and recent fees paid in
similar projects financed by the Bank and other donor agencies in Uzbekistan and Former Soviet Union
countries. Costs for foreign consulting and technical services have been estimated on the basis of the cost of
fees, accommodation and subsistence in the Republic of Uzbekistan and include fees, overhead expenses,
subsistence, transportation. and other miscellaneous fees. Cost estimates for civil works, local fees and
salaries, local training and other operating costs have been based on current costs or costing standards
provided by the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Health and the Health Administrations of the Oblasts
participating in the project which were found acceptable by Bank staff. Base cost estimates reflect prices in
January 1998.
Foreign Exchange Component
The foreign exchange component was estimated as follows: (a) civil works, 0%; (b) medical and computer
equipment; spare parts and supplies, 100%; (c) pharmaceuticals, 100%; (d) foreign consulting and technical
services, outside of the country (including overseas) study tours and fellowships, 100%; (e) local consulting
services and locally conducted training, including seminars and workshops 0%; (f) training materials - 60%
and (g) incremental operating costs, 40%. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$ 29.7 million
including contingencies, or 43% of total project costs.
Contingency Allowances
Physical contingencies, representing about 7% of the total base cost of the project, were based on 15% for
civil works and 10% for goods and services. Price contingencies represent about 8% of the base cost plus
physical contingencies. Contingencies are expressed in US dollars with the following annual inflation rates:
1998, 3.0%; 1999, 2.5%; 2000, 2.3%; 2001, 2.5%; and 2002, 2.0%.
Taxes and Customs Duties
The proposed project is currently subject to taxes and duties at the rates in effect at the time of delivery of
goods and/or services provided. Medical equipment, ambulances and drugs are currently exempt from Value
Added Taxes (VAT) but subject to 5% import taxes. Other goods financed under the Project would be
subject to customs duties and taxes as follows: 24.5% on civil works and goods (office and other equipment,
vehicles and other supplies); 41% on local salaries including health and unemployment insurance and
pension contribution; and 12% personal income tax on short term local consulting services. For foreign
consultants local tax is not expected to be applicable. The current tax liability of the project (US$ 7.9
million) is based on the above described expectations. However, it is recognized that the current tax
legislation may change. The CPIB would monitor changes, if any, in rates and collection procedures related
to duties and taxes. The Borrowers would have full responsibility for financing all duties and taxes related
to the project including any increase in project tax liabilities above the current estimated amount.



Annex 3 - Page 2
Table A: Estimatedl Project Costs
Project Component                                         Local                Foreign          Total
----------------------US $ million-------
Primary Care                                         27.8                 17.7             45.5
GP and UN Training                                   1.9                  4.2              6.1
Financing and Management                             1.3                  2.3              3.6
Project Management                                   2.3                  0.8              3.1
Preparation of Health 11 Project                 0.0                   2.0             2.0
Total Base Costs  33.3                27.0             60.3
Physical Contingencies                                  3.2                  1.7             4.9
Price Contingencies                                     3.5                  1.0             4.5
Total Project Cost  40.0               29.7             69.7
Detailed costs of Project Components are included in the Project Implementation Plan.



Annex 4 - Page I
Annex 4
Uzbekistan Health Project
Economic Analysis Summary
(in US$ millions)
Table 1. Economic Costs and Saivings of thle Health Project
Additional Costs                                                          Economic Savings
A                                                                                                                                             ..
i             -                       I !I. ff  ii i                                                                                                         A    'X} .                             3 
1       4.130    3.700    3.700   0.ODO   0.000 o00        0.272    0.532    0.0      0.027    0.000    0.000    O.D       0.020    1.695     2.546     0.000    265    0302       oOO      2.S67     .109      .3.591
I       2.753    9.800    13.5    0.000   0.000   0.000 o.S44    1.063    0.000    0.032       0o.00    0.000    0o0o      0.033    3.390     5.062     0.091    5.130    0.603    376      9.540    -11.524    -21.324
3       3.220    L.OO    2L.600   0.000   0ooo    0.000   0.816    1.595      oo0o    0.03S     0.000    00O    0.000      0.040    5.084     7.573     0.1K    7.694    0.s05    3.716    12.503    -9.810    .17.910
4       2.920    5.900    27.500   D000   0.000   0.0      1.0L     2.126    O,000    0.045     0.000    0.000    0.000    0.047    6.779    20.085    0.1I8   10.260    1.206    3.716     15.370    4.264    -14.164
5                         27.50    0.000    OO0   0.000   1.085    2.126    0.000    0.045      0.000    0.392    1.206             6.779    11.636    0.1I8   10.260   1.206    3.716    15.370    J.733       -3.733
6                         26.215   1.619   1.285   2.974   1.OU     2.126    0.000    0.045     0.100    0.400    1.230             6.779    11.768    0.1U8   10.260    1.206    3.716    15.370    -3.601     -0.628
7                         24.850   1.610   1.364   2.974    1.08    2.126     00      0.045     0.350    0.408    1.255             6.779    II.51    8O8U  10.260   1.206    3.716    15.370    -.3519        .545
8                         23.403   3.526   3.448   2.      18       2.126   21.260    0.045     0.200    0.416    1.280             6.779    33.194    0.188   10.260    1.206    3.716    15.370    17.824     20.798
9                         23.866   3.437   3.537   2.974    3.088    2.126    0.000    0.045    0.300    0.424    1.305             6.779    11.868    0.18U   10.260    1.206    3.716    35.370    -3.502     -0.528
1o                        20.234  I343   3.631   2.974    1.08      2.126    0.000    0.045    0.000    0.433    1.332              6.779    11.803    0.188   10.260    1.206    3.716    15.370    J3.s67    -0.593
it                        15.503   1.242   1.731   2.974    1.088    2.126    0.000    0.045    0.300    0.441    1.3U8              6.779    11.938    .388   10.260   1.206    3.716    15.370    -3.432      -0.458
12                        16.665   1.136   3.838   2.974   1.ou     2.126    0.000    0.045     0.LSO    0.450    1.385              6.779    12.024    0.1o8    10.260    1.206    3.716    15.370    .3.346    0.372
13                        14.715   3.023   1.951   2.974    1.08     2.126   0ooo     0.045     0.200    0.459    1.433              6.779    12.111    0.188   10.260    1.206    3.716    15.370    -3.259    -0.285
14                        12.644   0.903   2.070   2.974    3.OU    2.126    0.000    0.045     0.100    0.468    1.441              6.779    12.048    0.188   10.260    1.206    3.716    15370    -3.322     -0.348
Is                        10.447   0.776   2.197   2.974    L.OU    2.126   0ooo      0.045     0.000    0.478    1.470              6.779    11.986    0.151   10.260    1.206    3.716    I5370    -3.384     4.410
16                         8L.S    0.641   2.332   2.974    1.ou    2.126   21.260    0.045     0.100    0.487    3.S50              6.779    33.385    0.181   10.260    1.206    3.716    15.370    18.015    20.989
17                         sA39   0.498   2.476   2.974    L.o0     2.126    0.000    0.045     0.150    0.497    1.529              6.779    12.215    0.381   10.260    1.206    3.716    15.370    -3.155    -0.181
Is                         3.011   0.346   2.628   2.974    1.068    2.126    0.000    0.045    0.200    0.507    I.560              6.779    12.306    0.388   10.260    1.206    3.716    15.370    -3.064    4.090
19                         0223   0LIS   2.789   2.974    L.ou      2.126    0.000    0.045     0.300    0.517    1.591              6.779    32.247    0.1O   10.260    1.206    3.716     5.370    -3.123    -0.149
20                        -2.738   0.014   2.960   2.974    1.088    2.126    0.000    0.045    0.000    0.528    1.623              6.779    12.189    0.181   10.260    1.206    3.716    15.370    -3.181     0.207
NPV(10%)  10.444    21.578                             14.045   7.870    IS.372   14.545    0.351   0.540    2347    7.220     0.108    49.017    97370    1.349   74.186    8.722    28.258   112.514  -26.278   -33.812
Total    13.023    27.500           34369  30.238  44.607   20.137   39.331   42.520    0.862     1.650    7.307    22A79    0.140    125.412   259.837    3.474   189.809  22312   70.604   286.19    40.38    -U2.731



Annex 4- Page 2
Macro-Economic Context
All indications point to a return in 1997 to positive economic growth. The GDP per capita in 1996 was
estimated at only US$ 1010. At the same time, Uzbekistan has experienced only a modest decline in GDP since
1991 compared to other countries in the FSU because of structural features of the economy which made it less
vulnerable to disruption of intra-FSU trade (i.e., its natural resource wealth of gold, gas, and cotton), and the
Government's continuing active role in the coordination of the economy. The Government took steps in 1997
toward financial stabilization through the reduction in fiscal deficits and control of the growth of money and
credit. Nevertheless, the Government has continued to exercise a substantial degree of control on production,
investment, and prices through a variety of means. The liberalization of foreign and domestic trade was
repeatedly delayed, and recently intensified restrictions on foreign exchange and trade. While the government
has projected annual growth rates of 5.2 percent, lagging production in agriculture means a far lest robust
growth. Table 2 makes the conservative assumption of an average annual real rate of growth of 2.7 percent,
based on the recent CAS discussions.
The projected budget for the Ministry of Health follows the experience of middle income countries generally
with a positive income elasticity (1.1, based on World Bank estimates, 1997) for government health care
spending. This again is a conservative projection since the Ministry projects a much higher increase in the
proportion of the budget devoted to health (Ministry of Health, 1996). (The proportion of the budget devoted to
health has remained stable hovering from around 9 to 1 I percent over the past 5 years.) The GOU's share of
investment costs is more significant in future years, but these are both primarily outpatient facility construction
expenses which are already programmed as additional funds outside the Ministry of Health and expenses for
equipment,-supplies and pharmaceuticals which will require replacement more frequently.
Table 2. Macro Economic Indicators
_______________ t=                              _1 _g_                      _      _
GDP Projections (Million Sum)  r    923,122      948,046     973,643       999,932      1,026,930
Annual change in average real                       1.22        1.03          1.03          1.03
exchange rate                  1 _           (1997-1998)
Health (MOH) Budget                 22,273 *      25,101      28,289        31,882        35,931
* - reflects actual expenditures
Scope of Work
The economic analysis is limited to an exploration of the likely effect of the most important elements of the
project relating to improvements in primary health services. The complexity of project benefits and means of
valuation makes any attempt to quantify them in one standard unit, monetary or otherwise, extremely difficult
and vulnerable to a wide confidence band. Estimates are hindered by a continuing divergence between official
and unofficial (parallel market) exchange rates, and accounting practices that still diverge from Western
practices (e.g., depreciation not included).
Summary of Benefits and Costs
The exchange rate used for all cost conversions was US$1 = 82.71 Uzbek sum (as of March 1998 when the
analysis was performed). All local costs were converted into US dollars. Several exchange rates exist defacto
in Uzbekistan. The official rate is 82.71 sum to US $1, while the unofficial rate is approximately double this
level. In the absence of information from the IMF or elsewhere, the official rate is used in the analysis. The
interest rate of the loan is estimated at 6.14 percent.
Purchasing Power Parity
The official exchange rate used to convert dollars to sum does not take into account differences in relative
purchasing power of the local currency arising from much lower cost of non-tradable items. Some recurrent
costs of the investment will be carried out locally where the cost is likely to be much lower than the dollar costs



Annex 4- Page 3
suggested. This is true of maintenance of health facilities and equipment. It is not probably true of equipment
replacement much of which is still likely to be imported or paid for at international prices.
Purchasing power parity estimates of GDP are not yet available for Uzbekistan. They are, however, available
for some other FSU countries. Estimates for Azerbaijan and Kyrgyzstan which are the most similar of the
countries for which estimates are available, suggest that GDP at PPP dollars is about 2.6 times GDP at market
rates. However, most purchases financed under the project will use international procedures and will in all
probability be foreign-based purchases with USD. Only civil works (the government's contribution) will be
local as will operations and maintenance (O&M) costs. This ratio is used in the analysis to deflate the estimates
of the cost of capital and cost of maintenance.
Cost Calculations
The project includes substantial civil works and equipment purchases, with a number of potential recurrent cost
implications. These are:
*  maintenance of the new and rehabilitated buildings
*  maintenance of equipment and vehicles;
*  replacement of the equipment which will occur for most equipment during the paying off period of the
loan;
*  maintenance of pharmaceuticals and supplies/reagents;
*  costs of training and general practitioners and nurses, and adding additional staff to larger SVP
complexes;
X  costs for salaries of new SVP managers, and MIS systems; and,
*  costs of the salaries and equipment/supplies of the project implementation bureaus
Several assumptions are used in calculation of costs. Buildings (and furniture which is included) will need to be
replaced and it is assumed to be once every 20 years, using the contractor's architectural assessment
(Government estimate is 30 years). Hence, no building replacement costs have been taken into account for this
analysis.  Depreciation costs are not included here as the Government has no mechanism  currently for
accounting or setting aside funds for replacement. Operation and maintenance (O&M) for buildings has been
estimated by the Govemment at 5.75% of the capital value of the buildings per year; this analysis uses 10%
based on an analysis and estimate of recurrent costs in 2 oblasts in Russia (Verniers, Health Reform Pilot
Project).
All facilities will be equipped by the end of year 4. Equipment costs will be substantial. Equipment recurrent
costs include maintenance on purchased items. Overhead and maintenance equipment costs has been estimated
at 10% of equipment investment costs per year (Government estimate is 4.5%), again using the experience of
the Russia project analysis. Also included is the expected replacement costs of equipment during the period of
the loan. Some equipment will require replacing after only a few years while other equipment will last
throughout the period of the project. On average, the replacement rate is 8 years. These rates of replacement
are incorporated into the calculations. These expenditures will impose substantial costs on the budget.
Vehicles will be purchased under the project. The analysis assumes recurrent costs of 8% for vehicles, based on
a local survey of professional drivers; on average the replacement rate is assumed at 5 years given the poor
conditions of roads, especially in rural and mountainous areas. The estimates for transport costs for referral
may be too low. The project will make services much more accessible, both through the quality of services and
through improved communication. It is likely that ambulance call outs will increase with a consequent increase
in depreciation and fuel costs. It is very difficult to anticipate the extent and impact of this effect.
All facilities also will be equipped with emergency pharmaceuticals by the end of year 4. The first four year
costs are derived based on actual cost estimates of needs based on rate of new SVP construction. It is further
estimated that the need for pharmaceuticals will increase at the population growth rate of 2% per year from
years 5 to 20. All facilities will be equipped with supplies and reagents by the end of year 4. The first four year
costs are derived based on actual cost estimates of needs based on rate of new SVP construction. It is estimated



Annex 4- Page 4
that the need for reagents will increase at the population growth rate of 2% per year from years 5 to 20.
The project envisages an increase in numbers of general practitioners and universal nurses during the life of the
project. Training costs are subsumed under disbursement costs. It is assumed existing physicians and nursing
staff are trained to function in new positions at these SVP outpatient centers. There will be additional auxiliary
staff hired to staff new SVPs, for diagnostic and testing services and for support services. There is increased
salary levels envisaged for the new newly-trained physician and nursing personnel. There will also be new
computer specialists and data entry programmers for the Financing and Management component. It is estimated
that salary costs will increase at about 1% per year. Additional personnel and incremental salary costs are
subsumed under estimates of incremental recurrent costs for each type of facility (e.g., FAPs, SVPI, SVP2...),
developed by the contractor using a facility survey of approximately 2,000 facilities in 1997 in the three oblasts.
Project management staff, equipment, and office space will be added under the project and are included under
Project Bureau Operating Costs. These estimates include salary and other recurrent costs for the project
implementation period only.
The economic analysis does not include $2.0 million in unallocated funds. These funds are assumed to be held
in reserve, and to be utilized in Years 3 and 4 to prepare for Health 11 project in the remaining 9 oblasts in the
country. The preparation would be based on mid-project review and evaluation. (Note: the Financial Analysis
in Annex 5 does include this $2.0 million reserve.)
Benefits
a)     Cost-Effective Indicators
Available data support the contention that the project's primary care focus is a cost-effective strategy of
addressing the nation's burden of disease. Table 2 summarizes the burden of disease (measured in DALYs) for
14 key medical conditions in Uzbekistan. These 14 conditions are among those targeted for expanded primary
care capability in the SVPs and constitute close to half of the entire DALY burden. (Note that the morbidity
portion of the tabulations depends on data which for Uzbekistan are not highly reliable, and probably
underestimate the global burden of disease.) The rural primary care program effectively targets the largest
sources of disease burden.  Moreover, these conditions are amenable to well-established, cost-effective
prevention activities and primary curative treatment. The last column in Table 3 summarizes the cost per
DALY saved of primary care activities developed from reviews of empirical literature. The standard suggested
by World Bank analysts (Jamison et al. 1993) is under $250 per DALY saved. There are interventions meeting
this standard in every disease category, most are rated as under $50. Given a goal of reducing disease burden in
Uzbekistan, the primary care strategy has been shown to be an effective way of stretching scarce health care
budgets.



Annex 4- Page 5
Table 3. Cost-Effectiveness of Targeted Primary Care Condlitions
Disease Category                      Uzbekistan (1995)                    Cost Effective Interventions
Infectious Diseases
Acute Respiratory Infections                         35.4                   Screening and referral for curative
services between $20 and S50 per
DALY; immunization for pertussis,
influenza , and measles plus
pneumococcal vaccine available.
Costs per DALY are higher.
Diarrheal Disease                                    8.9                    rehydration therapy; education to
improve weaning practices cost $30
per DALY
Tuberculosis                                         2.1                       Immunizations in high cost
environments is $7 per DALY;
targeted drug treatment in ambulatory
settings of reasonable cost
Hepatitis                                            1.7                     Immunization is $25 to $50 per
DALY depending upon prevalence
and targeting
Maternal and Perinatal
Perinatal                                            6.5                   Improving clinic outreach in prenatal
services cost $30-250 per DALY
Maternal                                             1.1                             See Perinatal
Chronic Conditions
Nutrition/Endocrine                                  9.1                    Treatment for iron deficiency and
Vitamin A deficiency $13 and $9 per
DALY
Asthma                                                1.5                  Specific study of cost per DALY not
available, but numerous studies show
cost-effective primary care with
emphasis on patient education
Diabetes                                             2.2                     Oral hypoglycemic cost $25 per
patient per year. Insulin therapy is
$210 or $240 per DALY
COPD                                                 5.0                  N/A, but smoking cessation programs
achieve rates of $20 per DALY
Cirrhosis                                            4.5                   Cost of treating significant morbidity
is high. Hepatitis B vaccine and
alcoholism treatment very effective
Cardio-vascular
Ischemic Heart Disease                               16.5                   Screening and referral services of
high risk cases for targeted
population costs $150 per DALY
Cerebrovascular                                      8.4                       See Ischemic heart disease
Although data to develop cost-effectiveness ratios using parameters specific to Uzbekistan are not available, all
indications are that the operating cost of health facilities in Uzbekistan (as with the rest of Central Asia) are low.
The project will reduce morbidity and mortality which, from  a human capital point of view, will increase the
economic value of people living in the area. The complexity of the project outcomes and difficulties in estimating
economic values of lives gained and disease averted make it hard to place monetary values on project outcomes and
even more difficult on project outputs. However, in the case of some diseases such as hepatitis and tuberculosis,
investment also has public good properties as it limits the spread of these communicable diseases. In effect the
investment reduces the negative externalities of disease contraction.



Annex 4- Page 6
b) Additional Benefits
The project is designed to increase cost effectiveness and affordability of health care services, by following
strategies which reduce costs and offer current and future benefits. These savings or benefits can be summarized
in three areas-
(i)      Facility Closures and Consolidation
The program is designed to minimize increases in operating cost by substituting more effective facilities for
existing sites of care. It closes poorly used and scattered facilities and replaces them with SVPs that are more
centrally located, better staffed and equipped, and better stocked with essential drugs. According to analysis of
the results of a rural household survey conducted in the three pilot Oblasts, there were 2.5 visits to rural
ambulatory facilities per 1,000 population per month. Allowing for a similar number of visits for preventive
services and administrative reasons and the fact that most feldsher stations (FAPs) serve under 1,000 people,
the survey results indicate that small stations have less than one visit a day.
The facility consolidation strategy in the three participating Oblasts will include 703 existing village-level
facilities that will cease current operation between 1996 and the year 2002 (535 feldsher posts, 164 polyclinics
and 4 rural hospitals). Some of these facilities (62 SVAs) will be rehabilitated as SVPs, and a range of 204-258
SVPs will be newly reconstructed (a mid-point is assumed for the analysis here). An additional 32 central rayon
polyclinics, as the apex of the primary care delivery system, will be equipped with selected laboratory and
diagnostic equipment.
There are two beneficial effects of this strategy. First, it holds down the investment cost of the project in
upgrading rural primary care. A second effect of the consolidation and substitution strategy is to reduce the net
operating costs of rural primary care. The savings from closures of out-of-date and under-used facilities will be
needed to cover a substantial portion of the increased operating cost. A further effect is to reduce unit operating
costs by increasing average facility utilization. Following the project's social assessment survey data above, the
new middle size SVP's (SVP2) can expect to average 17 to 20 visits per day. Although this is still low,
operating costs per visit will decline, particularly since a large share of costs are fixed.
Because of the large number of feldsher stations, this consolidation strategy appears to have no significant
effects on geographic access. Among 175 villages in the nine districts included in the health assessment survey,
the average distance to the nearest feldsher station or other rural health facility was less than 0.8 kilometers.
(Calculated as a weighted average from data in Table 2.2 in the Social Assessment). Analysis of the planned
SVP service areas indicates that typically 80 percent or more of each SVP's service population lives within 1.5
kilometers, the replacement and consolidation strategy does not substantially add to private travel costs.
(ii)    Site of Care Substitution
SVPs are designed to reduce the incidence of unnecessary referrals to hospitals and zonal polyclinics.
Demonstrating the degree to which SVPs can do this successfully with financial incentives and self-
management is a key objective of the financing and management pilot demonstrations and component generally.
Since specialty care typically costs more than primary care, each visit retained at the local level will save
budgetary costs of the Ministry of Health and to patients.
Nevertheless, the complexity of the project make its impact on demand for health care difficult to predict. Some
broad conclusions about likely impact are possible. Improved facilities should make services more attractive to
users, especially at the local level. In particular better transport and communication with rural primary care
facilities together with improved equipment and staff training is likely to increase demand for ambulatory
primary services. Much of the project investment is aimed at increasing the use of these facilities and dealing
with disease on an outpatient basis where possible. This will also be encouraged through the physician and



Annex 4- Page 7
nurse training.
The impact on demand for inpatient care is far less clear. On the one hand, more disease will be treated by
primary providers with reduced or no need for patient admission. At the same time improved primary care may
identify more disease that will then be treated in hospital. Reported statistics on admissions per capita are
extremely high by international standards. In these circumstances it seems reasonable to assume that admission
rates will fall. A 5 percent assumption is used, which is a conservative estimate based on reported drops in
admission of 7-27 percent in other parts of the FSU implementing new incentive systems for services. Average
length of stay is not assumed to decrease at all for admissions. Studies in other FSU countries such as Russia
and Kazakhstan suggest that many patients may be admitted, or have their stay in hospital prolonged, because of
inadequate outpatient care.  However, increased demand for care and newly-identified cases may offset
shortened LOS with sicker patients being admitted for longer periods of inpatient care.
The savings to MOH are based on a level of savings which can be generated by two scenarios-a 5 percent
reduction in hospitalizations and a shift of 10 percent of the "self-referred" visits that are now bypassing local
rural health facilities in favor of polyclinics and hospital-based ambulatories at the district level. Both these
targets appear conservative by one-half to one-third, relative to evidence from other parts of the FSU which
have identified high rates of unnecessary admissions and instituted new incentive structures (see, for example,
Sheiman, 1995; Sherman and Goldin, 1995). Focus groups and anecdotal data indicate that a high proportion of
visits bypassing village facilities is because of the lack of trained staff, and particularly the lack of
pharmaceuticals and supplies.
The potential savings from these two scenarios do not primarily accrue to the government budget. While
reductions in hospitalizations will favorably effect operating costs, the savings may be over stated. Hospital
operating budgets may not adjusted downward to account for attached ambulatory clinics, and to reflect only
marginal (not average total cost) of admissions.
The savings generated by increasing the share of ambulatory visits seen at the village level (instead of the zonal
polyclinic) are far more modest than the prevention of hospitalizations. Indeed, since SVPs are designed to
deliver an improved quality of care, there may be little if any cost savings to the Ministry of Health budget.
Usable data on visits and costs by type of ambulatory facility is lacking. Higher ambulatory costs of improved
primary care is not uncommon, and the evidence for substituting generalist practitioners for specialty clinics is
mixed. Two recent literature reviews found a plurality of studies reporting minimal or negative economic
impact of shifting care from generalists to specialists (Scott, 1996; Godber, 1997). (Note: estimated costs per
admission and referral is calculated from 1995 data on budgeted non-capital expenditures for short term
hospitals divided by the estimated number of admissions. Budget data from Haliun Dalantai, "Notes on
Analysis of Health Expenditure in Uzbekistan" unpublished memorandum. May, 1997. For the three oblasts,
these figures run 1,023, 941 and 1106 Uzbek Sum.)
The larger savings come from the substantial out-of-pocket expenditures for transportation, and particularly for
drugs and other treatment costs if a trip to the hospital or a trip to a zonal polyclinic can be avoided. The
project's social assessment showed the out-of-pocket costs on average to be far less (2256 vs 934 sum) for local
visits versus self-referral to the hospital. Patients' mothers also must stay with hospitalized young children.
Valuing the time of rural workers is difficult, since while their average productivity is low and falling, their
actual income received is substantially less than the value of production and from the value of time. The table
uses a surrogate measure of the value of marginal productivity and does not differentiate between men and
women.
(iii)   Personnel Savings
It is hoped that the economic incentive restructuring in the pilot demonstrations will force cutbacks in staff or a
more efficient mix of staff. Currently, the Government continues to rely on old Soviet-based input normatives
for staffing of existing and newly-opened facilities. The project will include legal changes that will provide
local flexibility for hiring and firing of staff, as well as changing the mix of inputs including personnel.



Annex 4- Page 8
Contractor estimates of personnel cutbacks were developed for each level of SVP facility, based on international
comparisons of levels of productivity (e.g., visits per physician). Estimates showed that over the life of the
project, decreases in levels and types of personnel can be expected to decrease personnel costs by about one-
third. The analysis assumes that these personnel will not be re-absorbed elsewhere in the health sector.
(iv)    Long-Term Benefits
The GOU's rural SVP program is nationwide, and it intends to learn from the experience of the three
participating Oblasts to improve primary care elsewhere. The program thus has the major advantage of a
providing a window for testing, learning, and for dissemination.
The training component is a particularly good example of this. The funding includes investments for this
project but will provide the first step for nationwide capacity to train primary care physicians.   While in
principle, investment in training depreciates over time, three-quarters of $4.8 million for component 2 of the
project is devoted to build future training capacity.
Table 4. Summary of Quantified Costs and Benefits Expectedfrom thte Project
1) Clinical                                        1) Reductions in Mortality and Morbidity, such as
Improved Facilities (e.g., water, sanitation)     infant mortality rate
Improved Equipment,. Supplies, and Pharmaceuticals.    reduction in rate of infant diseases
maternal mortality rate
2) Human Development                                  reduced incidence of diseases of pregnancy and puerperium
Training of Medical Personnel                      reduction in disability and morbidity associated with other
-- infectious diseases
-- chronic diseases
3) Financial and Managerial                         2) MOH Budget savings
New Incentive Structures                           facility closures
Management Strengthening                           reduced hospitalizations
MIS systems                                        reduced ambulatory referrals (to specialists)
reduced personnel costs
3) Consumer Out-of-Pocket Savings
pharmaceuticals
transportation costs from fewer self-referrals
4) Productivity Savings
economically-active patient days
caregiver days saved
value of days
Alternative Strategies
Is the SVP program the most cost-effective method of addressing the health problems of rural
Uzbekistan? An obvious alternative approach to the construction of new rural health centers would be to
upgrade and improve the existing nationwide infrastructure of both rural physician clinics as well as
Feldsher and midwife posts and rural clinics. There is good reason to support the GOU's decision to
construct new types of facilities. First, physically most of the existing FAP and SVA facilities have, after
years of sub-standard maintenance, been deemed irreparable and substandard. According to a GOU
survey, of only 9 percent of FAPs and SVAs were built as health facilities and only a handful of the
poorly adapted village houses meet minimum construction standards. In addition over 70 percent lack a
telephone, 69 percent lack running water, and 75 percent lack central gas heating. In sum, upgrading
existing facilities to minimum physical standards would require major construction effort. Second, the
current network of FAPs and SVAs are poorly equipped. Laboratories, patient transportation, packages
of minimum equipment, and inventories of essential drugs are all desperately needed. Eliminating some
of the number of rural locations under the consolidation strategy currently being carried out by the GOU



Annex 4 - Page 9
reduces the cost of equipment upgrades and improved inventories of drugs. Finally, the strategy of
replacing FAP personnel (feldshers, or physician assistants) with physician staffs appears to be cost-
effective. Since Uzbekistan has a general surplus stock of physicians that are underutilized, physicians
can be substituted for midlevels at relatively lower cost than major training to upgrade the medical skills
of feldshers. There are monthly salary differentials between a GP physician and a feldsher, but
productivity will improve (ultimately decreasing the demand for providers overall), and health outcomes
will improve.
Impacts: Targeting of Rural Population and Low Income Communities
The project will concentrate investment on new centers to be used by rural citizens of three oblasts. The
project targets purely rural village communities who are known to have per capita incomes below the
$1010 national average. Although published data is lacking, available information suggests that rural
standards of living are low and falling. Nationwide, agricultural production has mirrored the general
trends of falling production since 1990. The recent recovery of industrial production has not been
accompanied by similar growth in agricultural output. Moreover, analysis by the economic policy unit in
the U.S. Department of Agriculture shows that the rural-urban terms of trade has significantly eroded
since 1990.  The project thus addresses generally low income rural areas, and its three participating
Oblasts represent a diversity of rural living standards, from the comparatively prosperous rural
communities of the Ferghana valley, to the impoverished cattle raising, semi-nomadic settlements in the
sparsely settle northern regions of Navoi Oblast. Productivity savings will improve real incomes and
improve the relative value of the workforce for both govemment and industry.
Training will support the improved capacity and professional status of the primary care practitioner.
Specialists may be negatively affected as will the secondary (hospital) sector of health services.
Technical assistance and training for provider payments and financial management should enable senior
health staff to use resources in a more flexible way and give incentives for lowering admissions to the
specialty clinics and hospital. This should have positive impacts on both efficiency and quality. The
current system is characterized by excessive reliance on specialty and more expensive inpatient care.
During the early years of the project, the impact will be weighted toward input and clinical process
indicators more directly than changes in health status indicators which can be expected to change longer-
term. All these indicators will be monitored over the life of the project.
Summary
The primary finding illustrated in the summary Table I is that there are tangible potential economic
benefits to be gained from the project, and these are large enough to justify the loan on a cost-benefit
basis. Discount rate for calculating the NPV was performed at 10%, based on the Bank's traditional
approach of using a notional range of 10-12% opportunity cost for borrowing for capital. A sensitivity
analysis was performed using an NPV of 4%; the results were the same in terms of direction, though
relative amounts changed (from 26.3 to 33.3 million USD). A substantial portion of savings stem from
savings that accrue to individuals and families outside the health sector, and potentially to the employer.
The economic justification therefore lies to a large extent in the fact of i) benefits going to patients and
families and their employers and ii) from a health care standpoint that the intervention is directed at
shifting health care toward known, established cost-effective strategies for addressing an excessive
burden of disease.
An analysis of the savings accruing to the health sector points out that the project is reliant on three
approaches to achieve sustainability long term. First, a substantial portion of funds will be saved through



Annex 4 - Page 10
closures of additional, duplicative facilities-including hospitals for inefficient care or unnecessary
care-and these can be shifted back to cover increased operating costs. This rationalization of facilities is
a covenant of the loan program. At the same time, the table (Table 1) shows negative cash flows are
expected in some years to address increases in operating costs. It should be noted that costs and savings
will be refined each year, and while the Government has developed a rationalization strategy already, a
more aggressive rationalization strategy may be needed over the cycle of the project if financing gaps
develop. This needs to be developed and negotiated as cost and savings estimates are refined each year
and facility-specific plans are developed. Second, and concurrently, as a percentage of budget allocation,
more of the budget needs to be directed at outpatient and primary care. This should be possible as
referrals and admissions drop; bed capacity and decreases in personnel should follow in the inpatient
sector. This is consistent with recent trends both in Uzbekistan and in other FSU countries. This
allocational shift of budgetary resources will be a further covenant of the loan. Third, the Government
will commit to maintaining current levels of spending (in real terms) for health over the course of the
project. At the same time, the Government may be willing to commit greater relative shares of spending
for health services in the future (based on income elasticities across similar countries), allowing the
budgets to effectively cover more costs and so becoming more affordable to the government.



Annex 5 - Page I
Annex 5
Uzbekistan Health Project
Financial Analysis
(in US$ nmilliorns)
Table 1. Fi,(ancial Costs and Saviings of tile HealIth project
Additional Costs                                                         Financial Savings
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2                                                                                                                                2 i
.*                                                                                                                    a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
1       10.739    3.700      3.700    O.OOo     O.OOD     o.000     0.272     0.000     0.532      O.OOo     0.027      0.0010    0.000    0.000    0.020    1.695      2.546    o.Doo    2.565     0.302     2.867      6.718      3.018
2        7.159     9.S00    U3.500    C.800      0.0oO     0.000     0.544    O.GW0    1LK3        o.GoO     0.032      o.ooO     o.K00    O.ooO    0.033    3.390      5.062    0.091    5.130     0.603     5.824     -3.403     -131203
3        8371      9.300    22.800    0.000      O.Go3     O.OOo     O.S16     0.000     1.595     0.090     0.038      G.Ooo      o.ooO    a.ooo    0.040    5.0S4     7.573    O.ISS    7.694     n.905     S.787     -2.143     -11.443
4        21920     7.100    29,900    0.000      O.OD0     0.000    1L0as      O.OoO     2.126     O.oOC     0.045      0.000      o.K00    O.OoO    0.047    6.779    10.085   O.ISS    10.260    1.206      11.654    -5.748     -12.S48
5                           29.900    O.OOo      o.ooG     O.K0      LOSS3    0.000     2.126      0.000     0.045      0.000     0.392     1.206             6.779    11.636    O.1SS    10.260    1.206     11.654    -0.017      -0.017
6                           2S.615    1.U36      1.2as    3.121      1.088     0.000     2.126     O.ooo     0.04S      0.100      0.400    1.230             6.779    11.76$   O.ISS    10.260    1.206      11.654     o.11s      3.236
7                           27.250    1.757      1.364     3.121     I.osS    0.000     2.126      O.Ooo0    0.045      0.1S0     0.408    1.255              6.779    11.asl   o.1ss    10.260    1.206      11.654     0.197      331S
8                   ~~~~~~~~~2S.03    1.673  1.449  3.121     1.0sS    0.000     2.126     21.260     0.04S      0.200     0,416    1.280              6.779    33.194    0.18s    10.260    1.206    11.654    21.540      24.662
9                   ~~~~~~~~~24. 66    1.584  1.537  3.121    1.098    0.0010    2.126      O.oO0     0.045      0.100     0.424    1.305              6.779    11.86S    0.188    16.260    1.206     11.654     0.214      3.33S
o0                          22.634   1IA90       1.631     3.121     1.088    o.ooo     2.126      O.ooo     0.04s      O.K00     0.433   1U32                6.779    11.SO3   O.188    10.260    1.206      11.654     0.149      3.270
11                           20.903    1390      1.731     3.121     1.088     o.ooo     2.126     O.OoO      0.045      OJK0      0.441    135S               6.779    11.938   O.IS8    10.260    1-206     11.654     0.2S4      3.405
12                           19.065    1.293     1.93S     3.121     1.0ss     0.0003    2.126     o.ooo      0.045      0.150     0.450    1.38S              6.779    12.024    0.188    10.260    1.206    11.654     0370       3.491
13                           17.115    1.171     1.951     3.121     1.088     0.000     2.126     0.000      0.045      0120(     0.459    1.413              6.779    12.111    0.18S    10.260    1.206    11.654     0.457      3.578
14                           15.044    1.051     2.070     3.121     LO88     O.GoO     2.126     O.ooo      0.045      0.100     0.468    1.441              6.779    12.048   o.1ss    10.260    1.206     11.654     0.394      1.515
Is                           12.847    0.924     2.197     3.121     1.0SS     O.oOG0    2.126     O.W00      0.045      O.OW0     0.478   1IA70               6.779    11.986    O.ISS    10.260    1.2K6    11.654     0.332      3AS45
16                           10.S5i    0.789     2.332     3.121     1.088     0.000     2.126     21.260     0.045      0.100     0.4s7    I.500              6.779    33.385    O.1S8    10.2J;    1.206    11.654    21.731      24.ss3
17                    8~~~~~~.039  0.646  2.476     3.121     1.0SS    0.000     2.126      o.oO0     0.045      0.150     0.497    1.529              6.779    12.215   O.ISS    10.260    1.206      11.654     0.561      3.6S2
la                           5.411     0.494     2.628     3.121     1.eSs     o.ooo     2.126     o.ooo      0.045      0.200     0.507    1.560              6.779    12.306   o.18s    10.260    1.206     11.654     0.652      3.773
19                           2.623     0.332     2.789     3.121     I.osS     o.ooO     2.126     O.OoO      O.ws5      0.1oO     0.517    1.591              6.779    12.241    0.185    1G.260    1.206    11.654     0.s93      3.714
20                           -0.338    0.161     2.960     3.121     1.08S     O.Ooo     2.126     o.ooo      0.045      o.ooo     0.528    1.623              6.779  12.389    0.1ss    10.260    1.206       11.654    o.s3s      3.656
NPV(6.14%)  25.774 25.557                                 22.299    1O.864    0.000    21.220    21.393      0.476      0.806     3.513    10.980    0.119    67.663   136.862   1.86S   102.406   12.03S    116.312    20.767     17.se
Totsl  29.1S9    29.9W             16.5S0    30.23S    46.817    20.137    o.Goo    39.331    42.520      O.862      1.650    71307    22.479    0.140   125.412   259.a37   3.474   189.8o       21       1.9       43.532     60.449
., ,,  ,                                                                                           ,                                                     .8             _                 .* __.      .   



Annex 5 Page 2
Scope of Work and Methods
The financial analysis examines the impact of the project upon the costs of providing health care in the
three pilot oblasts. The financial analysis and fiscal impact is based on the investment and recurrent costs
of all project sub-components over a twenty year period (5 year grace and 15 year pay-back period).
Cost Conversions
All local costs were converted into US dollars. Several exchange rates existdefacto in Uzbekistan. The
official rate used was 82.71 sum to US $1 (March 1998 when the analysis was performed), while the
unofficial rate has been approximately double this level. In the absence of information from the IMF or
elsewhere, the official rate was used in the analysis.
Purchasing Power Parity
The official exchange rate used to convert dollars to sum does not take into account differences in relative
purchasing power of the local currency arising from much lower cost of non-tradable items. Some
recurrent costs of the investment will be carried out locally where the cost is likely to be much lower than
the dollar costs suggested. This is true of maintenance of health facilities and equipment. It is not
probably true of equipment replacement much of which is still likely to be imported or paid for at
international prices.
Purchasing power parity estimates of GDP could not be obtained for Uzbekistan. These are, however,
available for some other FSU countries. Estimates for Azerbaijan and Kyrgyzstan which are the most
similar of the countries for which estimates are available, suggest that GDP at PPP dollars is about 2.6
times GDP at market rates. However, most purchases financed under the project will use international
procedures and will in all probability be foreign-based purchases with USD. Only civil works (the
government's contribution) will be local as will facility operations and maintenance (O&M) costs. This
ratio is used in the analysis to deflate the estimates of the cost of capital and of maintenance.
Demandfor Health Services
SVPs are designed to reduce the incidence of unnecessary referrals to hospitals and zonal polyclinics.
Demonstrating the degree to which SVPs can do this successfully with financial incentives and self-
management is a key objective of the financing and management pilot demonstrations and component
generally. Since specialty care typically costs more than primary care, each visit retained at the local
level will save budgetary costs of the Ministry of Health and to patients.
Nevertheless, the complexity of the project make its impact on demand for health care difficult to predict.
Some broad conclusions about likely impact are possible. Improved facilities should make services more
attractive to users, especially at the local level. In particular better transport and communication with
rural primary care facilities together with improved equipment and-staff training is likely to increase
demand for ambulatory primary services. Much of the project investment is aimed at increasing the use
of these facilities and dealing with disease on an outpatient basis where possible. This will also be
encouraged through the physician and nurse training.
The impact on demand for inpatient care is far less clear. On one hand more disease will be treated by
primary providers with reduced or no need for patient admission. At the same time improved primary
care may identify more disease that will then be treated in hospital. Reported statistics on admissions per
capita are extremely high by international standards. In these circumstances it seems reasonable to
assume that admission rates will fall. A 5 percent assumption is used, which is a conservative estimate
based on reported drops in admission of 7-27 percent in other parts of the FSU implementing new



Annex 5 Page 3
incentive systems for services. Average length of stay is not assumed to decrease at all for admissions.
Studies in other FSU countries such as Russia and Kazakhstan suggest that many patients may be
admitted, or have their stay in hospital prolonged, because of inadequate outpatient care. However,
increased demand for care and newly-identified cases may offset shortened LOS with sicker patients
being admitted for longer periods of inpatient care.
Analysis
Cost Savings
From the demand analysis, and given the low level of actual state spending, it is unlikely that the project
will release much money directly through increases in the budget. In contrast to some projects, the
Uzbekistan project addresses the problems at the primary care level rather than the costs of treating one
or two diseases. The health budget is recognized to be low. For example, in 1997 the health budget is
estimated at 22,273 million Uzbek sum, though the Government has announced a massive program of
construction of new facilities. This should be assumed to be a one-shot support of health sector spending.
Instead the budget will need to be used more effectively in the treatment of disease with a greater
proportion being used to finance primary care. Some money will be released as a decreased admissions
and decreased referrals to zonal polyclinics.
Large savings can be released in the health sector when facilities, or parts of facilities, are actually closed.
The Government's program of construction is designed to minimize increases in operating cost by
substituting more effective facilities for existing sites of care.  It closes poorly used and scattered
facilities and replaces them with SVPs that are more centrally located, better staffed and equipped, and
better stocked with essential drugs.
The facility consolidation strategy in the three participating Oblasts will include 703 existing village-level
facilities that will cease current operation between 1996 and the year 2002 (535 feldsher posts, 164 SVAs
and 4 rural hospitals). At the same time, some of these facilities (62 SVAs) will be rehabilitated as SVPs,
and a range of 204-258 SVPs will be newly reconstructed (a mid-point is assumed for the analysis here).
An additional 32 central rayon polyclinics, as the apex of the primary care delivery system, will be
equipped with selected laboratory and diagnostic equipment.
There are savings from changes in the levels of personnel and the mix of personnel. The economic
incentive restructuring in the pilot demonstrations will force cutbacks in staff or a more efficient mix of
staff. Currently, the Government continues to rely on old Soviet-based input normatives for staffing of
existing and newly-opened facilities. The project will include legal changes that will provide local
flexibility for hiring and firing of staff, as well as changing the mix of inputs including personnel.
Estimates of personnel cutbacks were developed for each level of SVP facility, based on international
comparisons of levels of productivity (e.g., visits per physician). Estimates showed that over the life of
the project, decreases in levels and types of personnel can be expected to decrease baseline personnel
costs by about one-third. The analysis assumes that these personnel will not be re-absorbed elsewhere in
the health sector.
There also are savings from utilization. The savings to MOH are based on a level of savings which can
be generated by two scenarios-a 5 percent reduction in hospitalizations and a shift of 10 percent of the
"self-referred" visits that are now bypassing local rural health facilities in favor of polyclinics and
hospital-based ambulatories at the district level. Both these targets appear conservative by one-half to
one-third, relative to evidence from other parts of the FSU which have identified high rates of
unnecessary admissions and instituted new incentive structures (see, for example, Sheiman, 1995;
Sherman and Goldin, 1995). Focus groups and anecdotal data indicate that a high proportion of visits



Annex 5 Page 4
bypassing village facilities is because of the lack of trained staff, and particularly the lack of
pharmaceuticals and supplies.
The potential savings from these two scenarios do not primarily accrue to the government budget. While
reductions in hospitalizations will favorably effect operating costs, the savings may be over stated.
Hospital operating budgets may not adjusted downward to account for attached ambulatory clinics, and
to reflect only marginal (not average total cost) of admissions.
The savings generated by increasing the share of ambulatory visits seen at the village level (instead of the
zonal polyclinic) are far more modest than the prevention of hospitalizations. Indeed, since SVPs are
designed to deliver an improved quality of care, there may be little if any cost savings to the Ministry of
Health budget. Usable data on visits and costs by type of ambulatory facility is lacking. Higher
ambulatory costs of improved primary care is not uncommon, and the evidence for substituting generalist
practitioners for specialty clinics is mixed. Two recent literature reviews found a plurality of studies
reporting minimal or negative economic impact of shifting care from generalists to specialists (Scott,
1996; Godber, 1997). (Note: estimated costs per admission and referral is calculated from 1995 data on
budgeted non-capital expenditures for short term hospitals divided by the estimated number of
admissions. Budget data from Haliun Dalantai, "Notes on Analysis of Health Expenditure in Uzbekistan"
unpublished memorandum. May, 1997. For the three oblasts, these figures run 1,023, 941 and 1106
Uzbek sum.)
Recurrent Costs
The projected civil works and equipment purchases have a number of potential recurrent cost
implications. These are:
  maintenance of the new and rehabilitated buildings;
*  maintenance of equipment and vehicles;
*  replacement of the equipment which will occur for most equipment during the paying off period
ofthe loan;
*  maintenance of pharmaceuticals and supplies/reagents;
*  costs of training general practitioners and nurses, and increased staffing levels of SVPs;
*  costs of salaries of new SVP managers, and some MIS costs; and,
*  costs of the salaries and equipment/supplies of CPIB and oblast PlBs.
All facilities will be equipped by the end of year 4. Equipment costs will be substantial. Equipment
recurrent costs include maintenance on purchased items. Overhead and maintenance equipment costs has
been estimated at 10% of equipment investment costs per year (Govemment estimate is 4.5%), again
using the experience of the Russia project analysis. Also included is the expected replacement costs of
equipment during the period of the loan. Some equipment will require replacing after only a few years
while other equipment will last throughout the period of the project. On average, the replacement rate is
8 years. These rates of replacement are incorporated into the calculations. These expenditures will
impose substantial costs on the budget.
Vehicles will be purchased under the project. The analysis assumes recurrent costs of 8% for vehicles,
based on a local survey of professional drivers; on average the replacement rate is assumed at 5 years
given the poor conditions of roads, especially in rural and mountainous areas. The estimates for transport
costs for referral may be too low. The project will make services much more accessible, both through the
quality of services and through improved communication. It is likely that ambulance call outs will
increase with a consequent increase in depreciation and fuel costs. It is very difficult to anticipate the
extent and impact of this effect.



Annex 5 Page 5
All facilities also will be equipped with emergency pharmaceuticals by the end of year 4. The first four
year costs are derived based on actual cost estimates of needs based on rate of new SVP construction. It
is further estimated that the need for pharmaceuticals will increase at the population growth rate of 2%
per year from years 5 to 20. All facilities will be equipped with supplies and reagents by the end of year
4. The first four year costs are derived based on actual cost estimates of needs based on rate of new SVP
construction. It is estimated that the need for reagents will increase at the population growth rate of 2%
per year from years 5 to 20.
The project envisages an increase in numbers of general practitioners and universal nurses during the life
of the project. Training costs are subsumed under disbursement costs. It is assumed existing physicians
and nursing staff are trained to function in new positions at these SVP outpatient centers. There will be
additional auxiliary staff hired to staff new SVPs, for diagnostic and testing services and for support
services. There is increased salary levels envisaged for the new newly-trained physician and nursing
personnel. There will also be new computer specialists and data entry programmers for the Financing
and Management component. It is estimated that salary costs will increase at about 1% per year.
Additional personnel and incremental salary costs are subsumed under estimates of incremental recurrent
costs for each type of facility (e.g., FAPs, SVPI, SVP2...), developed by the contractor using a facility
survey of approximately 2,000 facilities in 1997 in the three oblasts.
Project management staff, equipment, and office space will be added under the project and are included
under Project Bureau Operating Costs. These estimates include salary and other recurrent costs for the
project implementation period only.
The financial analysis includes $2.0 million in unallocated funds. These funds are assumed to be held in
reserve, and to be utilized in Years 3 and 4 to prepare for Health 11 project in the remaining 9 oblasts in
the country. The preparation would be based on mid-project review and evaluation.
Fiscal Impact
The net financial impact of the project is shown in Table 1. Over a twenty year period total additional
discounted capital plus recurrent costs (at loan interest rate estimated at 6.14%) amount to $136.8 m, with
estimated savings are $116.3 m, a net total of $20.8 m. Total repayments (discounted) amount to $22.3
m. The overall present value of net negative cash flow (net costs plus repayment) is $17.5. This amounts
to a very small $4.41 per person over 20 years, or $0.22 per year for each inhabitant of the three oblasts.
Total negative cash flow over the life of the loan is $60.4 million.
Sustainability: Funding Recurrent Expenditures
Finance for increased project recurrent costs might come from several sources:
Expenditure from the State Budget
Part of the recurrent costs can be absorbed by the health budget.  Strictly speaking, the costs of
maintaining buildings and existing equipment are incurred with or without the project. In recent years,
however, little expenditure have been made on these items. It is probable that the cost of maintaining
buildings will fall as a result of the improvements since there is currently a large backlog of maintenance
that has become very expensive because it has been deferred. In contrast, spending will have to rise from
its current extremely low level, which is feasible if the economy generally does continue to show
economic growth. Another strategy would be to reduce the replacement schedule of the equipment and
supplies which could have negative health status impacts.
The national health budget is estimated to be about US$297 million in 1997. At a steady 2.7 percent



Annex 5 Page 6
GDP growth over the next 4-5 years, coupled with a relative growth of commitment to health spending
consistent with other middle income countries (a 10% relative increase in public spending), the increase
in the budget annually would be $37.7 million in year 1, rising to about a 43.1% increase or about $128
million increment in year 4 in real terms.
Even under an assumption of no growth, the impact on the health budget would be extremely small. Over
a 20 year period, it would absorb only about 1% (or about $3. 0 million) of the total health budget.
User Charges
A second funding strategy is to raise revenue by additional charging for services. Given that services in
the oblast will undergo substantial improvement it may be acceptable to charge for some services. By
law, patients already pay for all outpatient pharmaceuticals directly out-of-pocket. There are 12-44
(depending upon the source) of categories of exemption covering about 50% of all utilization. The social
assessment showed that patients already make substantial contributions to the cost of their care, both in
terms of time and lost wages, and for illegal informal payments for self-referrals at higher level facilities.
If services were raised to a level where most or all of these contributions were not required, then a fixed,
formal charge might become acceptable. It would be especially useful if structured to encourage high
quality care in appropriate settings of care. One example would be user fees for inpatient care for some
limited umber of days after admission.
To cover the full capital and recurrent costs of the project would require a charge per inpatient stay of
about $5.40 from all patients between the ages of 15 and 60 if admission rates of 28 percent (see the
Social Assessment) are assumed and half the population or more is assumed to be fall in those age
groups. The average per capita income is only about $84 per month so one stay in hospital could absorb
a significant percentage of disposable income for lower income groups, though income dispersion
statistics are not available at this time. Recently, however, the Government announced it would charge
all patients for food, linens, and other supplies while in the hospital. The specific charges for these
services are not available.
Rationalization Strategy
A potential source of increased cost savings would come from a more aggressive closure of facilities,
especially underutilized hospitals that may be incurring high fixed and recurrent costs. A workshop was
held in December by the contractor with all three oblasts to examine how a rationalization strategy might
be developed over the life of the project. A computer-based impact and simulation model was created
under the PHRD grant funds, and was used to estimate the financing needs and gaps. These estimates
and current gaps were calculated for each of the three leader oblasts for the period 1996-2001. The
workshop (i) trained local experts in use of the model, (ii) explained the estimates and implications, and
(iii) developed a rationalization strategy for each of the three oblasts. Each oblast now has a general plan
for rationalization over the life of the project, which calls for 703 facilities to be closed. Each oblast will
develop specific lists of facility closures at the beginning of each year of the project. The adoption of
specific list offacility closures acceptable to the Bankfor sustainability purposes will be a covenant of the
loan. Follow up technical assistance would be financed on an annual basis to provide analytic support in
refining the analysis on an annual basis and carrying out this strategy over the life of the project.
Sensitivity Analysis
The foregoing analysis clearly rests of some major assumptions:



Annex 5 Page 7
Growth Rate of the Economy
It is assumed that the budget will grow at the same or higher rate as the economy, and that average GDP
growth rate over the 20 year period will be 2.7 percent per year. Increasing the GDP rate by 2.7 percent
per year, coupled with an income elasticity of 1. 1, would cover the deficit in capital and recurrent costs of
the project. However, as indicated above, the impact is negligible if even there is no growth rate over the
next 20 years.
No Real Increase in Spendingfor Salaries or in the Purchases of Pharmaceuticals
The analysis assumes that staff salaries grow approximately with the growth in the economy (real
incomes). If this money were diverted instead from covering the recurrent costs of the project, then more
than 36 percent of the budget would go to these salary costs. The option of freezing incomes and salaries
would be difficult to implement. Salaries are already low and staffing consumes a relatively modest 33
percent of the budget. Holding real salaries constant implies that medical staff would lose heavily in
relation to other workers in the general workforce. This is likely to exacerbate the problem of informal
payments to workers and undermine attempts to introduce positive incentives for efficiency. Likewise,
pharmaceuticals are often in short supply, especially in rural areas. The Government may want to use
increases in real funding to meet significant unmet health needs currently in other oblasts first.
Budget and Actual Expenditures
It is assumed that the budget reflects actual expenditure. Yet in recent years in other FSU countries,
expenditures were less than stated budget.
Options for Additional Funding of Capital and Recurrent Costs
The potential economic benefits of the project are substantial. The project will target resources at high
priority interventions and services that have been shown to be highly cost-effective. In addition the
configuration of medical services, training of providers, and new management and financial payment
systems will serve as a useful model for other oblasts wishing to improve the cost-effectiveness of service
delivery.
The main concern must be with the sustainability of the remaining financial cost of the project for a
relatively small part of the country. The danger must be, even if the government covers the cost from the
public sector budget, that remaining areas will be denied or be delayed in having similar opportunities.
A number of possible options include:
(a) require that the Uzbek authorities to develop a more aggressive rationalization strategy to include
more hospital closures, or to cut costs on the inpatient side. Cutbacks in beds or departments within
hospitals would generate savings as well. This could be a condition of effectiveness for the loan, or
part of the loan covenant related to annual rationalization plans;
(b) set aside some portion of the budget plus some percentage of any increase in the real health budget
for replacement and maintenance of the project investments. This could also be done for specific
categories such as equipment or pharmaceuticals. This approach could be introduced as a condition
of the loan (although it should be emphasized that much of the equipment replacement will actually
occur beyond the end of the project).
(c) introduce an inpatient charge (based on 50% of patients) of some nominal amount to close any
remaining financing gaps. It may be politically and socially difficult to introduce charges in a poor
rural area before introducing them for services in richer urban areas for example. At the same time,
the recent decision to introduce charges for hospital patients may have already addressed the
sustainability issue to a significant offull extent.



Annex 6 - Page I
Annex 6
Uzbekistan Health Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Part I. Procurement
Summary of Procurement Procedures
The procurement of goods and services of the Bank financed components would be procured in
accordance to the Bank procurement guidelines. The project components not financed by the Bank
would be procured in accordance with the national regulations or the co-financing institutions
procurement regulations. The project elements, their estimated cost and procurement methods are
summarized in Table B of Annex 6. A procurement plan detailing the packaging and estimated schedule
of the major procurement actions is presented  in Table D  of  Annex 6.  All other procurement
information, including capability of the implementing agency, estimated dates for publication of GPN and
the Bank's review process is presented in Table C of Annex 6.
Table B: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                             Procurement Method                    Total Cost (incl.
contingencies)
ICB          NCB           Other         N.B.F**
1. Works
1.1 SVPs Construction & Rehab.   -             -             -             27.6        27.6
(0.0)
2. Goods
2.1 Medical Equipment            16.3          -             -             -            16.3
(16.3)                                                (16.3)
2.2 Computer Equipment           4.0                                                   4.0
(3.1)                                                 (3.1)
2.3 Office Furniture                                                       2.5         2.5
(0.0)
2.4 Emergency Drugs Fund                                     1.1 a/        1.6         2.7
(1.1)                     (1.1)
2.5 Reagents&Supplies                                        1.7                        1.7
(l.5)b/                   (1.5)
2.6 Medical Vehicles                                         0.4                       0.4
(0. 35) c/                (0.35)
2.7 Training materials                                       1.0                       1.0
(0.9) d/                  (0.9)
3. Consultancies
3.1 Technical Assistance                                     3.4           2.0         5.4
(3.4) e/                  (3.4)
3.2 Training                                                 2.1                       2.1
(I.9)f/                   (1.9)
4. Other
4.1 PPF                                                      0.8                       0.8
(0.75)                    (0.75)
4.2 Equipment O&M                                                         2.1          2.1
(0.0)
4.3 SVP(buildings) O&M                                                     2.0         2.0
(0.0)
4.4 Salaries                                                               0.4         0.4
(0.0)
4.5 Incremental Operating Costs                              0.8                       0.8
(Project Bureaus)                                            (0. 7)g/                  (0.7)
Total                            20.3          -             11.3          38.2        69.8
Total (IBRD)                     (19.4)                      (10.6)                    (30.0)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IBRD



Annex 6 - Page 2
**     Non-Bank Financed (NBF): includes US$ 27.6 million of civil works, US$ 2.5 million of furniture, US$1.6
million of emergency drugs (34 items), US$2.0 million of consultant fees (agents commission to U-medexport and
Uzmedtekhnika); US$ 0.4 million administrative costs for oblast PBs and salaries; and US$ 2.1 million of facilities
and equipment operating and maintenance costs.
Taxes of about $7.9 million would be financed by the Government.
a/ Emergency Drugs for SVPs in participating oblasts would be procured by the MOH and financed from the
Borrower's funds. However, if the Borrower fails to do so, it can use the Emergency Drugs Fund (with the prior
Bank's agreement) of US$1.1 million to procure the emergency drugs for the pilot SVPs . In this case procurement
will be done on an annual basis from UNICEF. Drug list is based on the WHO emergency drug list for the GPs
offices (all drugs are generic);
b/ Lab Reagents and Supplies would be procured under IS procedures. Procurement would be carried out twice a
year to ensure uninterrupted supply of reagents; over the life of the Project there will be 8 contracts below US$0.2
each;
c/ 17 Medical vehicles for the remote SVPs (total loan amount US$0.35) would be procured under International
Shopping procedures in Year 2 and Year 4 (two contracts, under US$0.2 each);
d/ Training Materials to be procured according to NS/IS procedures over the life of the Project for the total amount
of US$0.6. In addition, some specialized training materials (LEMON program for nurses; WHO modules) for the
total amount of US$0.3 would be procured from WHO;
e/ including QCBS (firms) - US$3.4 million; also includes US$0.3 million for specialized TA from WHO (Training-
of-training program in clinical modules under Continuing Medical Education sub-component of the Training of GPs
program). WHO has a well developed unique training program used world wide and which the GOU of Uzbekistan
desires to introduce in the Republic. Included are also US$0.3 million (aggregate) for individual consultants and
US$0.1 million for project audit (Least Cost Selection)
f/ Short list, except of US$0.2 allocated for transportation and subsistence expenses of study tours participants
within the KHF financed training program of GPs. KHF provides TA and all overheads associated with the training
in UK;
g/ Small contracts over the life of the Project, IS/NS procedures



Annex 6 - Page 3
Table C: Procurement Information
; ;00________                            Sect0ion 1:....................... }. E,recrr~ ~Jew  ________   ___'___-_r__i&tiw r
Goods  nn                             ICB           NCB              IS               NS              Minor          Other    Percentage of loan amount
Civil Works 2/                                                                                        Works         Methods   subject to prior review
Procurement thresholds:          Goods:              n/a       Goods:           Goods:                 n/a         Procureme
individiuals and aggregate       >$200,000                     > $50.000-       <$50,000                           nt from UN
$200,000                                            agencies:
(I) US$1.1
Aggregate:                        mill. of
Aggregate:                                     $0.4 million,                      Emergency
$20.3 mil.,                  Aggregate:        including                          drugs from
including                    $4.7 million,     $0.3 million                       UNICEF;
$19.4 mill.                  including $4.0    from the Loan                      (2) US$0.3
from the                     from the Loan                                        mill. of
Loan                                                                             training
materials
from WHO
(3) US$0.2
Med.
equipment
from
UNICEF
(PPF)
Prior review4/                    All packages                    First two         First two           n/a            All                77%
contracts        contracts                        packages
Consultants31                        QCBS           QBS         Fixed Budget          LCS          Qualifications    Single            Indlividluals
(firmn)                                         (frms)                          Source
Procurement method thresholds    Aggregate:     n/a            n/a              Aggregate:        n/a              from WlIO        $50,000 and above
$3.0 miilion.                                  $0.1 million                       up to an
aggregate
of $0.3 mil.  Aggregate: $0.3 million
Prior Review4l                   TORs and SL    n/a            n/a              TORs and SL for  n/a               All I'OR    TOR - All assignments:
for ALL                                        All assignments;                   and          Short List - All assignments:
assignments;                                   TORs/RFP/SI.,                      contracts    Contracts - first two and All
TOR/RFP/SL/                                    contracts - above                               above threshold ($50,000)
Contract -                                     threshold
above                                         ($/00,000) and
threshold                                     for the first
($100,000)                                     assignment
and for the                                   regardless of
first                                          value
assignment
regardless of
value
Ex-post Review                   Explain briefly the ex-post review mechanism:
In respect of each contract not covered by the above, review would be carried out in accordance with para 4 of Appendix I of
the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement and would also be reviewed during the Bank's supervisioni missions.



Annex 6 - Page 4
11Procurement of Goods
Goods (US$ 23.5 million, loan amount - US$22.1 million) consisting of medical, laboratory equipment and
reagents, medical furniture; computer, office equipment and related software for medical facilities; medical
vehicles for remote SVPs and FAPs; and training materials would be procured as described below. All lists
of goods and proposed grouping for procurement purposes would be subject to review by the Bank. A
preliminary schedule and packaging of goods is given in Table C.
(a) International Competitive Bidding (ICB) (US$20.3 million, US$19.4 million from the Loan
proceeds). ICB procedures would be used for up to twelve packages above US$ 200,000.
Medical and laboratory equipment, computer equipment , and medical furniture would be
procured by this method;
(b) International and National Shopping (IS and NS) (US$5. 1 million, including US$ 4.3 million of
the Loan funds). IS and NS would be used for readily available off-the-shelf goods of standard
specifications and training materials that are small in value.
* IS procedures may be used for contracts up to US$ 200,000 for an estimated aggregate total
cost of US$ 4.7 million (including US$4.0 million of Loan funds). It is expected that
Laboratory reagents and supplies (procured twice a year over the life of the Project; 8
contracts under US$0.2 million; up to an aggregated amount of US$ 1.7 million) would be
procured using IS procedures. IS is justified for Lab reagents as these items are not available
from UNICEF and there is lack of proper storage facilities requiring to maintain appropriate
shelf-life. Also, two packages of medical vehicles for remote SVPs and FAPs (procured in
Year 2 and Year 4 of the Project; totally US$ 0.35 million - 2 contracts) would be procured
using IS procedures. These procedures would require quotations from at least three (3)
suppliers from two different countries. For procurement of Lab reagents, the Borrower would
ensure that for repeated procurements not only the same companies shall be invited for
quotations.
* NS procedures would be used for contracts up to US$ 50,000 equivalent for an aggregate
total of US$ 400,000 (Loan - US$ 300,000). It is expected that minor office, computer
equipment and supplies, and certain teaching/training materials and equipment for the Project
Bureaus and pilot training sites would be procured using NS procedures. These procedures,
would require quotations from at least three (3) local suppliers.
(c) Procurement from UN Agencies. Medical Equipment for Training Bases and SVPs under
Component II would be procured from UNICEF catalogue with the financing out of PPF
proceeds (to ensure beginning of the first year GPs training program on September 1, 1998, these
training bases need to be equipped by the end of August 1998 at the latest. Total amount of the
contract $175,000.00). Specialized readily available training materials for training of GPs and
Universal Nurses would be procured from WHO up to an aggregate amount of USO.3 million.
2/ Procurement of goods, financed from the proceeds of the loan to be provided to the NBF facilities
(civil works), would be coordinated with the scheduled completion of those facilities. The CPB would be
responsible for maintaining an up-to-date schedule for completion of required work for each NBF facility
and, based upon this information, would closely monitor and adjust the schedule of equipment
procurement and final delivery to the facilities.



Annex 6 - Page 5
3/Procurement/Selection Procedlure for Consulting Services
About US$ 2.0 million equivalent would be paid in fees (NBF) by the Government to the Procurement
Agent and Consolidator/Distributor. The Procurement Agent (Uzniedexport) is a foreign trade association
(within the system of the Ministry of Health) specializing in procurement of medical equipment, medical
instruments, medical furniture, supplies, pharmaceuticals, reagents and etc. for the Ministry of Health. It
works with the MOH on a contractual basis and is paid a flat fee (which is set up by the Ministry of
Finance) of up to 1.2% of the contracts' value. 99% of the company's workload is procurement for the
MOH and its medical facilities through out the country. The company has an independent legal status
and its staff are not employees of the MOH. When procurement is done based on the orders from the
MOH and out of the MOH's budget, the payment to the Agent is done directly from the MOH's budget.
Over the last two years the company handled procurement of medical equipment and related supplies for
the total value of $60 min. in a form of EU credit to the Republic of Uzbekistan (was done in a form of an
international tender according to the EU procedures). The company also has an experience working with
the credits of the Asian Development Bank. Though it's recognized the Uzmedexport has no experience
working with the WB procedures (as the Health Project is the first Bank loan to the social sector of the
country), but there is a capacity and ability to learn the Bank procedures and handle the procurement in
compliance with the Bank Guidelines and procurement procedures. A detailed training plan for the
Agent's staff who had been assigned to the Project has been prepared. Bank SBDs and Guidelines were
passed to the Agent during the Project preparation and discussed during pre-appraisal and appraisal. Two
specialists from Uzmedexport undertook a training in procurement of equipment in Turin ILO Center.
Since procurement under ICB will start in Year 2 of the Project, it will allow the Agent's staff to
complete a comprehensive training (including on-the-job training with Kyrgyz PIU and Russia Medical
Equipment and Health Reform projects). On-the-job training will be carried out at the Government's
expense. However, to ensure compliance with the Bank procedures, procurement related TA (US$0.1
million of Loan funds) will be provided to the CPIB to contract a Procurement Specialist (Advisor)
experienced in the Bank financed procurement. His/her TOR and the selection process will be subject to
prior review by the Bank. The selection will be made on QCBS basis.
Consultant assignments to be contracted with the financing out of the Loan proceeds are estimated at US$
3.4 million. Consulting Services would be contracted in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by the World Bank as Executing Agency, dated January 1997, revised in September 1997. As
far as practicable, the contracts would be packaged to included a combination of related skills and
services to increase the size and, therefore, the market interest in each contract and reduce the number of
contracts to be administered. The Terms of Reference (TOR) and consultants' qualifications for all
assignments would be subject to Bank's prior review. The following methods of procurement would be
followed:
(a) Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedures would be used for consultant contracts
up to an aggregate amount of US$ 2.7 million;
(b) Individual Consultant procedures would be used for consultant contracts with individuals up to
an aggregate amount of US$ 0.3 million. These assignments are of short term duration and are
listed in Table D (items Nos. 28,30,35 and 37);
(c) Single Source Selection procedures would be used for assignments to the WHO to provide
specialized technical assistance in conducing training for GPs and nurses which represent unique
qualifications, up to US$ 0.3 million;
(d) Least Cost Selection procedure would be used to contract for audit services up to US$ 0.1
million as it is an assignment of a standard nature and well established practices and standards
exist.



Annex 6 - Page 6
Training
The project would also finance US$ 2.1 million for training purposes. This would include seminars,
workshops, study tours and fellowships.
The Central Project Implementation Bureau with assistance from oblast PlBs would develop an initial
plan for carrying out seminars and workshops which would be submitted for prior review to the Bank.
This plan would include, inter alia, the content, audience, schedule, location, and estimated costs. The
status of the plan would be included as part of the semi-annual progress reports and would be updated
and/or modified as may be mutually agreed between the CPIB and the Bank. Consultants to
coordinate/facilitate training seminars may be hired under individual contracts (included inpara (b)
above) and travel costs of seminar participants would be directly reimbursed (against SOEs).
A limited number of study tours would be financed under the Project. The CPIB would develop an initial
plan which would include the purpose, names/titles of participants, along with itinerary and estimated
costs; proposed training institution; and costs. The plan would be submitted for prior review by the Bank.
The status of the plan would be included as part of the semi-annual progress reports and updated and/or
modified as may be mutually agreed between the CPIB and the Bank. During the first year of the Project,
study tours would be arranged to UK in connection with the KHF program "Training of GPs". TA
provided by the KHF would also cover study tour overheads. The Loan proceeds would cover only
transportation and subsistence expenses of the participants (totally US$0.2 million) and would be
disbursed against SOEs.
4/Review By The Bank of Procurement Decisions
Schteduling of Procurement. Prior to the issuance of any invitation for bidding, the proposed
procurement plan (Table C) for the project would be reviewed by the CPIB, and the Bank would be
advised of any proposed modifications for its review in accordance with the provision of paragraph I of
Annex I of the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. Procurement of all goods and services would be
undertaken in accordance with the agreed procurement plan which would be adjusted as appropriate and
included as a part of the semi-annual progress reports and would be subject to Bank review.
Prior Review: (a) Goods. Prior review of bidding documents, including review of evaluations and
recommendations for award of contracts, would be carried out for all procurement utilizing ICB
procedures; and for the first two contracts under IS and NS procedures regardless of the amount of the
contract; (b) Consulting Services. Terms of reference of all consulting assignments would be subject to
prior Bank review. Terms and conditions of contracts, invitation packages and evaluation reports of
assignments costing more than US$ 50,000 each for individual consultants, and US$ 100,000 each for
firms would be subject to prior review by the Bank. All documents and recommendations involving sole
source contracting would also be subject to prior review as well.
After award of contract, should any material modifications or waiver of terms and conditions of a
contract result in an increase above 15% of the original price, the Bank would reserve the right to the
prior review of such modifications (including the modifications in contracts for Consulting Services).



Annex 6-- Page 7
Section 2: Capacity of tbe Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance requirements
Implenteniing Agencies
The Ministry of Health would be responsible for the administration of all procurement financed from the loan proceeds. The Central Project Implementation Bureau
would coordinate work of the specialized firm of the MOH  Jzrnedexport (Procurement Agent) and would communicate with the Bank on procurement matters and
actions requiring Bank review. Uz_nedexport would carry out procurement of goods, and services (as applicable), including arranging for the customs clearance.
Consolidation and distribution of the goods to the end users would be done by the national distribution company Uzmiedtekhnika (Consolidator/Distributor). Agent's
commission would be paid by the Borrower. All arrangements related to procurement of Services (TA and training) would be administered by the CPB with
assistance and input from oblasts PlBs. 'I'he capacity of the Procurement Agent to undertake the tasks under the project has been appraised by the Bank team
during the pre-appraisal and appraisal missions and found to be satisfactory. Training plan in the Bank procurement procedures for the lUmedtekhnika staff
assigned to the Project has been prepared and is being implemented Also, the CPIB budget has funds for TA which can be used in case the need arises.
Operating Costs of Project Bureaus
The Project Bureaus would be established within the implementing agencies for the purpose of Project implementation and as such the Loan would finance part
of the incremental operating costs (US$ 0.7 million, including US$0.1 of PPF funds). These would include, inter alia, minor office and computer equipment and
its maintenance; office supplies; travel and training of the PBs' personnel; bank charges and fees to maintain a Special Account; translation and interpretation
services; communication charges (including international telephone calls, facsimile transmissions and electronic mail); local and international transport related to
the Project; and other administrative costs as may be agreed. Central Project Implementation Bureau staff, selected on a competitive basis, would be hired as
individual consultants to the CPIB with their fees paid out of the Loan. Salaries of the oblast PlBs' personnel would be paid by the Government. The operating
costs of the CPIBs would be based on an annual budget reviewed by the Bank. All goods and services would be procured in accordance with the procedures for
goods and services described above and as set forth in the Loan Agreement. The CPIB would included, as a separate part of the semi-annual consolidated
reports, an update of the PlBs expenditures for review by the Bank.
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
A PPF in the amount of US$ 750,000 (No. P-333-0 UZ ) approved by the Bank on November 20, 1997 was advanced to the Government to: (a) establish the
pilot SVPs and training bases; (b) finance consulting services and training; and (c) establish thie Central PIB an(ld oblast PlBs.
Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) or                              Are the bidding documentsfor thte procurement actionsfor thefirst year read,
Country Procurement Strategy Paper status:                                    by negotiations
A CPAR has not been prepared for the Republic of Uzbekistan. For this Project, the  Yes  a    No X
Government would follow agreed Bank procurement procedures as described  in  The documents are under preparation (equipmenit list had been finalized only
this document and as set forth in the Loan Agreement.                         during appraisal mission in February 97) and will be tinalized by the Loan
eff'ectiveness date. First procurement ot'Goods under ICI3 procedures is not
scheduled betore 01/99.



Annex 6 - Page 8
Seetion 3: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date of Project Launch    Estimated diate of publication of   In(licate if there is procurement  Domestic Preferencefor  Domestic Preferencefor
Workshop                         General ProcurentenJ Notice5l    subject to mandatory SPN in       Goo(ds                       Works, f aipplicable
Development Business
_02_/01/99_                               _09_/30_/98_            Yes   X       No   a               Yes   X      No   0         Yes   a        No   X
Retroactivefinancing                                                                                                    Advance procurement
Yes O      No X   Explain:                                                                                                   Yes O      No X   Explain:
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
All project documentation which require prior-review would be cleared by a PAS and relevant technical staf'ft No packages above regional thresholds are anticipated. T'he CPB of'
the Borrower would maintain complete procurement files which would be reviewed by the Bank staff during the supervision missions. P'rocurement Plan would be updated
annually. Specialized procurement of medical equipment and emergency drugs which require prior review would involve consultations with technical experts in these areas.
Procurement information would be collected and recorded by the Borrower and submitted to the Bank as part of semi-aninual progress reports prepared by the CP13. These
information would include (a) revised cost estimates for individual contracts; (b) revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award. and
completion time for individual contracts; and (c) compliance with aggregate limits on specific methods of'procurement.
Co-financing: Explain briefly the Procurement arrangements under co-financing: N/A
Suction 4:- Procurement Staffing.
Indlicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank 's staff part of Task Team responsiblefor the procurement in the
Project: Uzbekistan Health Project Name: Maria Vannari, ext.84694 (under guidance and advise from PAS: Vijay Vijayaverl (ext.8 1467) and Ron Venezia (ext.85 196)
Explain briefly the expectedrole of tleFieledOffice in Procurement: P'rocurement Officer at Tashkent Res.Mission would carry out the first round of'pre-view ol'all
procurement documents and give recommendations to the Borrower whether the documents are ready to be sent to HQ for prior no-objection.
5/Notification of Business Opportunities
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) (the draft of GPN has been agreed upon at Negotiations) is scheduled to be published in the September 1998 edition of the
UN publication "Development Business" and, as appropriate, would be updated and published annually thereafter. For goods to be obtained by ICB and
consultants' contract above US$200,000, individual bidding opportunities would be advertised in the "Development Business" (in the English language) and in a
major local newspaper (in the national language) 30 days prior to availability of bidding opportunities and transmitted to potential bidders who expressed interest
in bidding in response to the published General Procurement Notice.



Annex 6 - Page 9
Uzbekistan Health Project
TABLED: PROCUREMENT Plan
1             2             3         1     4             5                                           6. Esiintated dates
Description      7)pe        Number of        Estimated   Procuremen   Pre-qual6 /SL     (BD/RFPP)           Bid              Contract              Contiract
slices/items/sub-   cost4       t Method15   1. Invitation    1. Preparation    1. Invitation       Signzing            Completion
packages3                                 GPN/SPN/                       GPN/SPN/Local
Local                          2. Opening
2. Opening                    3. Eval. & Recom.
3. Eval. &                    Award
Recom
A. NBF              NBF             n/a         38,200,000   Procurement of civil works, goods & services not financed from the Loan proceeds would be carried out in
accordance with the national regulations of the Borrower.
B.
Metlical Equipment    G                                                                                   GPN - 9/98 and
and Med. Furnituire                                                                                       annual updates
(9/99; 9/00)
I. Med.Equipmenm:     G             2           175,000       UNICEF           n/a            6/98        I .Inv-n -- 8/98;        10/98                 11/98
Trainintg Bases &                               (PPF)                                                     2.Opening -
T'raininig SVI's99;
9/98;
3.Ev.&Rec. 10/9
8
2. Med Equipment:     G             6           3,200,000        ICB           n/a       BDs prepared    1. GPN - 9/98;            7/99                  10/99
SVl's &Traning Bases                                                                     and ready for   SPN - 12/98
(saedr euipet and                                                                        distribution -    2.0pening -
instrniments tbr Gl's                                                                    1/99             4/99;
offices)                                                                                                  3.Ev.&Rec.-6/99
' Name of package or contract.
2 Codes: NBF - Non-Bank Financed; G - Goods; TA for Technical Assistants; TR for Training.
Number of slices, major items or sub-packages expected in the package.
Expressed in the US $"000", for example 5,000 = US $5.000.000.
ICB - International Competitive Bidding,                         LIB - Limited International Bidding
IS - International Shopping                                       NS - National Shopping
QCBS -for Quality and Cost based selection of consultant f-irms    LCS - Least cost selection of consultant firms
SLI - short-listed individual consultants                          SS (for sole-sourcing of firms or individuals),
Other (for recurrent costs on the basis of administrative procedures based on acceptable schedule and budget)
6 If needed.



Annex 6 - Page 10
3. Med Equipment:        G                6           3,000,000           ICB             n/a         BDs prepared    1. GPN - 9/99;                 7/00                    10/00
SVlds & remote FAo s                                                                                  and ready for    SPN -12/99
med     eqUipment aod                                                                                 distribution -    2.Opening -
istrisrntiiets for G(ls                                                                               1/00              4/00;
offices)                                                                                                                3. Ev.&Rec.6/00
4. Med Equipimient:      G                6            1,600,000          ICB             n/a         BDs prepared    1. GPN - 9/00;                 9/01                    11/01
SVI's & remote IAIs:                                                                                  and ready for    SPN -12/00
(standard sets of
med.equipment and                                                                                     distribution -    2.Opening -
instrmillelts Ibr GI's                                                                                1/01              4/0 1;
ollices)                                                                                                                3.Ev.&Rec. 7/01
5. Med.rraining          G               4             1,300,000          ICB             n/a         BDs prepared      1. GPN - 9/99;               8/00                    10/00
Eqtipmlest for Nursing                                                                               and ready for    SPN -I/00
c,rS TrainiiigiBases                                                                .distribution -    2.Opening -
1/00              4/00;
3.Ev.&Rec. 6/00
6. MedFurnitUre:         G               2             2,000,000          [CB             n/a         BDs prepared    1. GPN - 9/98;                 7/99                     9/99
SVPs&Training Bases                                                                                  and ready for    SPN -1 1/98
distribution -    2.Opening -
11/98             3/99;
3.
Eval.&Rec.5/99                                                  ...
7. Med.FurnitUre ibr     G               2             1,100,000         ICB              n/a        BDs prepared    1. GPN - 9/99;                  6/00                     9/00
PsvrS,                                                                                               and  ready for         SPN -11/99
distribution -    2. Opening -
11/99             2/00;
3. Ev&Rec.4/00
8. Med.Furnifture lor    G               2             1,100,000         ICB              n/a        BDs prepared    1. GPN - 9/00;                  8/01                    10/01
.VPs                                                                                                 and  ready for    SPN -11/00
distribution -    2.Opening -
11/00             4/01;
3. Ev&Rec.6/01
9. Laboratory            G               2             1,500,000         ICB              n/a         BDs prepared      1. GPN - 9/99;               1/01                     5/01
Equipment oir central                                                                                and ready for    SPN - 7/00
rayon policiCiics                                                                                    distribution -    2.Opening -
7/00              9/00;
3. Ev&Rec.-
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 1 1/0 0



Annex 6 - Page II
10. Medical equipimelit  G                            1,500,000         ICB             n/a             10/01         1. GPN -5/00                7/02                    10/02
tor SVI's (Roll-out oft.                                                                                                SPN - 10/01
licaltlh 11 Project)                                                                                                  2. Opening -
2/02
3. Ev&Rec.-
4/02
Coomputer and Office     G                                                                                            GPN - 5/98 and
Equipmentt                                                                                                            annual updales
(5/99;5/00)
11. Computer            G               2            125,000             IS             n/a              5/98         I.Inv-n - 9/98;             11/98                   12/98
EqU i pmeCt for
I:raipiiii tbasesrSVIs                              (PPF)                                                            2.Opening -
T~raininig B3ascs SVl's                                P)1/8
10/98;
3. Ev.&Recl 1/98
12. MinorOllice         G                I           50,000              Is             n/a              5/98         I.lnv-n--9/98;              11/98                   12/98
Equipmeint for CPI3                                  (PPF)                                                            2.0pening -
anid PBs
10/98;
3.Ev.&RecI 1/98
13. Computer &Office    G               2             1,500,000         ICB             n/a             11/98         I.GPN - 9/98;               6/99                    9/99
equipment for SVPs                                                                                                    SPN - 11/98
(Comp.l) and 'T'rainingi2
13ases (Compi11)                                                                                                       2  pening-
02/99
3.Ev.&Rec. -
4/99
14. Computer             G               1             400,000          ICB             n/a              5/99         I.GPN/ SPN-                 11/99                   01/00
equipmllelnt: Schools tor                                                                                             9/99;
Universal Nurses
2. Opening-
07/99
3.Ev.&Rec. -
9/99
15. EquipImenIt for      G               I             700,000          ICB             n/a              7/00         I.GPN-                       9/00                    11/00
Computer Centers                                                                                                      9/99;SPN- 6/00
(Componenit tII)                                                                                                      2. Opening
04/00
3.Ev.&Rec. -
6/00
16. Comp. Equipm. tor    G               I            1,400,000         ICB             n/a             01/00         I.GPN- 9/00
SVl's (Conmp. I) anid                                                                                                 SPN - 12/99;
I'ilot SV I's (CoIp. 111)                                                                                                                               . _



Annex 6 - Page 12
2. Opening-
04/00
3.Ev.&Rec. -
Emergency Drugs and    0
Reagents            _                            _                                                                  ,
17. Emergency Drugs    G      Currently it's agreed that the Borrower will finance procurement of emergency drugs out of its           11/98              01/99 - 6/99
(pre-approved list)           own funds. However, if it fails to provide uninterrupted supply of these drugs to the pilot SVPs, the
Bank can allow to use the Emergency Drugs Fund (US$ I,100,000) for procurement of generic
emergency drugs from UNICEF or through ICB procedures.
28. Lab Reagents and   G            8-10          1,500,000         IS       Procured up to 2 (two) times a year during the life of the Project ( Lack of proper storage
Supplies                                                                     facilities at the oblast level and short shelf life of lab reagents)
Velicles
19. Oflice Vehicles fbr  G            I            50,000          Is             n/a            5/98        I.lnv-n - 8/98;           11/98                 12/98
CPB and PBs                                         (PPF)                                                    2.Opening -
9/98;
3.Ev.&Rec 10/98
20. Medical Vehicles   G              1            160,000          Is            n/a            6/99        I.lnv-n - 6/99;           11/99                 12/99
(4WDs)tbr remote                                                                                             2.Opening -
SVPs and FAPs                                                                                                8/99;
3.Ev.&Rec..9/99
21. Medical Vehicles   G              I            190,000          IS            n/a            7/01        I.lnv-on- 7/01;           12/01                 02/02
(4WDs)for remnote                                                                                            2Oe-    /1
SVPs and FAPs                                                                                                2.0pen-g; 9/01;
3.Ev.&ReclO/01
23. Training and       G          up to 100        760,000        IS/NS      Small contracts over the life of the Project (Components I-IV)
Healthi Promotion
materials
24. 1 raining materials  G            2            340,000    from WHO            n/a             n/a        1998 - 2000        1998-2000             1998-2000
(WHO: LEMON)
Services
25. Management &    TA                1            225,000       QCBS        GPN/SPN-            11/99       I .RFP sent -             03/00              04/00 -12/01
Quality of Care                                                              09/99;                          10/99
(Component I)                                                                SL ready -                      2.Opening -
10/99                           12/99
3. Eval -01/00
26. Health Promotion    TA            3            500,000       QCBS        GPN/SPN-           09/99        1. 10/99                  03/99             04/99 - 12/01
(Component l)                                                                09/98;                          2. 12/99
SL: 6/99                       3. 2/99



Annex 6 - Page 13
27. Training of GI's  TA              2             855,000        QCBS       GPN -09/99;         01/00        1. RPF -2/00               8/00          09/00 - 06/02
and UJniversal Nurses                                                         SPN - 10/99                      2. Opening -
SL - 12/99                      4/00
3. Eval.- 6/00
28. Program         TA                2             35,000          SLI        GPN 09/99;         10/99              11/99               12/99                  06/00
Evaluation                                                                    SL - 10/99
29. Contin-g Med.   TA                 1            290,000         SS                            08/98             09/98                10/98                  12/99
Educ. Publ. lHaltah                                               (WHO)
30. Training of GPs  TA               2              10,000         SLI       SL - 10/98          11/98              11/98               08/98                  12/00
(national TA)            I__
31. Fellowships and  TR        for 196 students    300,000          SLI       Living allowances to students participating at Training-of-Trainers of GPs Program. Candidates
scholarships.                                                                 to the Program students are selected on a competitive basis and should commit to return to
__Componc______t_______                                   certain positions (training will be carried out during Year 1-4 of the Project)
32. Study tours      TR            for 1 80        1,100,000       QCBS       Will be procured for participants satisfying selection criteria, commitment to return to certain
(Components l.ll.ll              participants           .                     positions and acceptance to a foreign training institutions
33. Study tour       TR             for 26          200,000        Other      Allocated funds will cover only transportation/subsistence expenses of study tour participants
Cooperation with                 participants                                 and will be disbursed against SOEs. Study tours to UK will be organized by KHF and will
KIIF)                                                                         complement Training of GPs Program  financed by KHF. Study tours are planned for 09-10/98.
34. Financing&      TA                2            1,730,000       QCBS       GPN,SPN-            12/99        1.RPF - 1/00;      5/00                  02/03
Management                                                                    09/99                            2. Opening- 3/00
(Component Ill)                                                               SL-1 1/99                        3. Eval. - 4/00
35. Financing &      TA            up to 80         115,000         SLI       Contract value less than US$ 10,000 each. Individual national consultants will be selected on a
Management (national              contracts                                   competitive basis (Year 1-4 of the Project)
consultants; Comp. 111)
36. Project Managem..  TA              I            90,000         QCBS       GPN 09/98;          9/98         1. RPF -10/98             02/99           02/00
procurement (CPIU)                                                            SPN - 07/98                      2. Open.- 12/98
SL - 09/98                      3. Eval.- 1/99
37. Project          TA              2-4            100,000         LCS       Throughout the life of the Project, as required. This expenditure category is included in the
Management (financial                                                         CPIB's annual budgets which are subject to the annual approval by the Bank and the Borrower
management. audit)
38. CPIB and PlBs                                   800,000        Other       Several small transactions (contract value less than US$5,000) will be made during the life of t
Operating Expenses                                                             Project
39. TA and Training    TA/TR         2-10           500,000        QCBS        Timetable for preparation and roll-out of Health 11 Project will be developed after the first year
for preparation and roll    .                                                 evaluation of Health Project
out of Health 11 Project
Total Project: 69,800,000
(iNelJBRD: 30,00.00;
__ _ _ _ .__ _ _  .___ _                            iV___ _ _ __ _BF: 39,800.00)_



Annex 6 - Page 14
Part II: Disbursement
The proceeds of the Loan would be disbursed in accordance with procedures described in the Bank's
"Disbursement Handbook". The Disbursement Categories and Percentage of Expenditures to be
Financed and the Estimated Schedule of IBRD Loan Disbursements are shown in Tables D and E
below.
Table E: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                                 Amount in US$million   Financing Percentage
1. Goods                                                                      100%      of    foreign
expenditures. 100% of local
14.7                    expenditures   (ex-factory
(a) Med.Equipment and Med.Furniture          3.15                    cost) and 85%  of local
(b) Computer Equipment                       0.4                     expenditures for other items
(c) Medical Vehicles                         09poue oal
(d) Training Materials                       0.9                     procured locally
(e) Emergency drugs                          1.I                      100% of foreign expenditures
(f) Lab Reagents and Supplies                1.5
2. Consultants' Services and Training
(a) Technical Assistance                     2.9                     100%
(b) Training                                 1.9
3. Operating Costs                                   0.7                      100%
4. Refinancing of PPF                                0.75                     Amounts due pursuant to
Section 2.02 (c) of the Loan
Agreement
5. Unallocated                                       2.00
Total                         30.00
Table F: Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million equivalent)
Quarter ending                           Appraisal estimate                        Cumulative
FY99                                         3.000
Sept.                                        0.050                                 0.050
Dec.                                         0.700                                 0.750
March                                        0.750                                 1.500
June                                         1.500                                 3.000
FY00                                         8.300
Sept.                                        1.000                                 4.000
Dec                                          1.300                                 5.300
March                                        3.000                                 8.300
June                                         3.000                                 11.300
FYO 1                                       8.500
Sept.                                        1.900                                 13.200
Dec.                                         1.900                                 15.100
March                                        2.000                                 17.100
June                                         2.700                                  19.800
FY02                                          5.500
Sept.                                         1.500                                21.300
Dec.                                          1.500                                22.800
March                                         1.250                                24.050
June                                          1.250                                25.300
FY03                                         4.700
Sept.                                        2.500                                 27.800
Dec.                                          2.200                                30.000



Annex 6 - Page 15
The proposed Loan would be disbursed over a period of four to five years which includes six months for
finalization of accounts and submission of withdrawal applications. As there is no standard disbursement
profile for the Republics of Uzbekistan, the disbursement forecast is based on the Bank's experience in
financing similar health projects in other countries and is based on a detailed work program which the
Bank staff consider realistic. The Project Completion Date would be December 31, 2002 with a Loan
Closing Date of June 30, 2003.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs)
Disbursements would be made against Statements of Expenditures for: (a) goods costing less than
US$100,000.00 equivalent each contract; (b) services for contracts for (i) individuals costing less than
US$50,000.00 equivalent each; (ii) firms costing less than US$100,000.00 equivalent each; (c) seminars,
workshops, fellowships and study tours costing less than $10,000.00 each; and (d) PlBs operating costs.
Detailed documents evidencing these expenditures would be reviewed and retained by the CPIB and
made available for the required audit as well as to the Bank supervision missions. Disbursements against
goods and services exceeding the above limits would be made against normal documentation.
Disbursement/procurement documents using SOE procedures would be retained by the CPIB for a period
of at least two years after disbursement and made available to Bank staff and external auditors.
Special Account
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower would establish, maintain and operate, under
conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in US dollars in a commercial bank. The selection
process and criteria for selection of the commercial bank would follow the Bank standard selection
procedures. During the early stage of the Project, the initial allocation of the Special Account would be
limited to US$50,000. However, when the aggregate disbursement under the Loan have reached the level
of US$2,000,000, the initial allocation may be increased to the authorized allocation of US$100,000 by
submitting the relevant Application of Withdrawal. replenishments applications should be submitted at
least every three months, and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate
supporting documents.
The minimum application size for payments directly from the Loan Account for issuance of Special
Commitments is 20% of the Special Account authorized allocations.



Annex 7 - Page I
Annex 7
Uzbekistan Health
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                        Planned                Actual
Preparation                                  260                   280
Appraisal                                     63                    50
Negotiations                                  20                  13 (est)
Total:                                               343                   343
B. Project Schedule
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  would  be  about 48
months
First Bank mission (identification)         8/21/95
Appraisal rnission departure                1/24/98
Negotiations                                8/18/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness               12/18/98
Prepared by: Ministry of Health
Preparation assistance: PHRD grant (Yen 76.9 mln; about US$ 650,000); Netherlands Trust
Funds ($145, 000); Australian Trust Funds $40,000; PPF (US$ 750,000)
Bank staff who worked on the project Consultants who worked on the project
included:                                   included:
John C. Langenbrunner, Program  and Team   Hamdija Ramic, Training Specialist, KfW
Leader
Jeni Kiugman, Economist, Task Manager until Viviana Mangiaterra, Public Health  Spec.,
August 1996                                 WHO Euro
Robert  Castadot,  Primary  Health  Care Michael Porter, Primary Health Care Specialist
Specialist
Mamta Murthi, Economist                     George Wright, Health Economist
Zoe Kolovou, Counsel                        Elizabeth Gomart, Social Scientist
Aly Abu-Akeel. Counsel
Tariq Hassan, Counsel
Subash Chandra, Sr.Disbursement Officer
Hannah Koilpillai, Disbursement Officer
Keith Rennie, Social Scientist, MNSED
Elmira Muratova, Operations Officer, Tashkent
RM
Maria Vannari, Implementation Specialist
Suman Rajpai, Budget Officer
Mona Malhotra, Operations Analyst
Annie Milanzi, Team Assistant
Princess Jones, Team Assistant
Sidonie Jocktane, Team Assistant
Peer Reviewers:
George  Schieber,  Health  Sector  Leader.
MNSHD
Robert Hecht, Chief HD Network Operations,
HDDDR
Mariam Claeson, HDDDR



Annex 8 - Page I
Annex 8
Uzbekistan Health
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan (final version will be available after negotiations)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Abt Inc. Project Preparation Report, August, 1997
Social Assessment
Oblast Social and Economic Analysis
Economic and Financial Analysis
Institutional Assessment
Organizational Charts
C. Detailed Cost Tables
D. Public Health Education and Health Promotion. Assessment and Recommendations. Mary Anne
McDonald. February 1998.
E. Packet Radio System. Assessment and Recommendations. Brian E. Cloudesley. February 1998
F. Strategy for Strengthening the National Control Authority, Laboratory of Uzbekistan. Dr.Alistair
Davidson. October 1997
*Including electronic files.



Annex 9- Page I
MOP Schedule D
Status of Bank Group Operations in Uzbekistan
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                    and actual
Loarn or    Fiscal                                                                                                                           disbursements a/
Project ID      Credit      Year                Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                                 IBRD        IDA      Cancellatiorns  Undisbursed         Orig   FrmTi Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 2
Active Loans
UZ-PE-49582   IBRD43260    1998   TASHKENT MUNICIPALITY                 TASHKENT SOLID WASTE              24.00        0.00             0.00         24.00          .24       0.00
UZ-PE-55159   IBRD43530    1998   REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN                ENT. INST. BLDG.                  28.00        0.00            0.00          28.00         0.00       0.00
UZ-PE-9121     IBRD42160    1998   REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN               RURAL W.S. & SANITA.              75.00        0.00            0.00          71.85        -1.23       0.00
UZ-PE-9122    IBRD38940    1995   REP.OF UZBEKISTAN                     COTTON SUB-SEC IMPRV              66.00        0.00            0.00          57.71       25.56        0.00
UZ-PE-9123    IBRD36500    1994    REPUB. OF UZBEKISTAN                 INSTIT BLDG/TA                    21.00        0.00             0.00          4.12         4.13       0.00
Total                                                                                                    214.00        0.00             0.00        185.68        28.70       0.00
Active Loans          Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                    28.31              160.00               188.31
of which has been repaid:                    0.00                 0.00                0.00
Totai now held by IBRD and IDA:                   214.00              160.00               374.00
Amount sold                       :                 0.00                0.00                 0.00
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                 0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                 :               185.68                0.00               185.68
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparatior of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Followirng the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performanice
(ARPP), a letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see pr-oposed
Improvements irn Project arnd Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Annex 10- Page I
Annex 10
Uzbekistan Health
Project Supervision Plan
Dates                Task                        Staffing                           SWs
FY99
2nd Quarter FY99     Launch Workshop             Team Leader                        2.5
1st Supervision Mission     Implementation Specialist          2.0
Operations Officer (ResMis)        3.0
Public Health Specialist           2.5
Health Financing Specialist        2.5
GP Training Specialist             2.5
Procurement Specialist             1.0
Financial Management Specialist    1.0
4th Quarter FY99     2nd Supervision Mission     Team Leader                        2.0
Implementation Specialist          2.0
Operations Officer (ResMis)        2.0
Year Round           Non-Mission Tasks           Team Leader                        4.0
Implementation Specialist          6.0
Procurement Specialist             4.0
Operations Officer (ResMis)        4.0
Technical Specialists              2.0
Operations Assistant               4.0
Total FY99                                                                          47.0
FYOO
2nd Quarter FY00     3rd Supervision Mission     Team Leader                        2.5
1 st Year Review            Implementation Specialist          2.0
Operations Officer (ResMis)        3.0
Public Health Specialist           2.5
Health Financing Specialist        2.5
GP Training Specialist             2.5
Procurement Specialist             1.0
4th Quarter FY00     4th Supervision Mission     Team Leader                        2.0
Implementation Specialist          2.0
Operations Officer (ResMis)        2.0
Year Round           Non-Mission Tasks           Team Leader                        4.0
Implementation Specialist          4.0
Procurement Specialist             6.0
Operations Officer (ResMis)        4.0
Technical Specialists              2.0
Operations Assistant               4.0
Total FYOO                                                                          45.0



Annex I0 - Page 2
FY01
2nd Quarter FY01     5th Supervision Mission      Team Leader                        2.5
Mid-Project Review          Implementation Specialist           2.0
Operations Officer (ResMis)        3.0
Public Health Specialist           2.5
Health Financing Specialist        2.5
GP Training Specialist             2.5
Procurement Specialist             1.0
4th Quarter FY01     6th Supervision Mission      Team Leader                        2.0
Implementation Specialist          2.0
Operations Officer (ResMis)        2.0
Year Round           Non-Mission Tasks            Team Leader                         2.0
Implementation Specialist          4.0
Procurement Specialist             4.0
Operations Officer (ResMis)        4.Q
Technical Specialists              2.0
Operations Assistant               4.0
Total FYO1                                                                           41.0
FY02
2nd Quarter FY02     7th Supervision Mission      Team Leader                        2.5
Implementation Specialist          2.5
Operations Officer (ResMis)        3.0
Public Health Specialist           2.0
Health Financing Specialist        2.0
GP Training Specialist             2.0
Disbursement Specialist (ResMis)    1.0
4th Quarter FY02     8th Supervision Mission      Team Leader                        2.0
Implementation Specialist          2.0
Operations Officer (ResMis)        2.0
Year Round           Non-Mission Tasks            Team Leader                        2.0
Implementation Specialist          4.0
Procurement Specialist             4.0
Operations Officer (ResMis)        4.0
Technical Specialists              2.0
Operations Assistant               2.0
Total FY02                                                                           39.0
Total Staff Weeks                                                                     172



Annex 11 - Page I
Annex 11
Pilot Oblast Socio-Economic Analysis
Navoi, Ferghana and Syr Darya Oblasts of Uzbekistan
1.    The proposed Health project focuses on rural primary health care reforms in the three oblasts of
Navoi, Syr Darya and Ferghana. The socio-economic conditions in these three oblasts are considerably
diverse. This annex provides an overview and comparison of the socio-economic, demographic and
health conditions in these oblasts with national averages of Uzbekistan. Tables I and 2 provide social,
demographic and economic data; Tables 3 and 4 provide health status and expenditure data.
2.     Uzbekistan is the largest of the Central Asian nations with a population estimate of 23.4 million
at the beginning of 1997. Approximately 60% of the population is rural nationally (though the rural
population in the three pilot oblasts is closer to 70%), 71% are of Uzbek origin, and 88% are Muslim.
However, there remains substantial diversity and a rich cultural heritage.
3.     The life expectancy rates in 1996 were 67.8 for men and 72.7 for women, with a national average
of 70.2. Life expectancy in urban areas is higher than rural. Life expectancy has improved from an
average of 68.2 in 1985-86. The death rate was 6.2 in 1996; birth rate was 27.3 in 1996. Both the infant
(24.2 per 1,000 in 1996) and maternal mortality rates (20.7 per 1,000 births in 1996) have been declining
in recent years according to official Government statistics, though other sources dispute these drops (a
USAID-financed Demographic and Health Survey, for example, reported MMR in 1996 at 39 per 1,000).
Annual population growth rates decreased from 2.3% in 1980-89 to 1.8% in 1990-96, with 2% for 1996.
However, this drop has been mainly due to migration. Rural growth rates are higher than urban. Average
family size is 5.4, relatively high by OECD measures. Nearly 41% of the population is under 14 years of
age; only 4.2% over the age of 65.
4.     Human development indicators are relatively high in Uzbekistan. Both the male and female
population have at least 11 years of schooling on average, with a high secondary and tertiary school
enrollment. Rates for women were 46.5% in secondary school enrollment in 1996.
5.     The Republic of Uzbekistan is divided into six economic regions. Each of these regions has
distinct characteristics, due to the diversity in the existing natural resources, capital and infrastructure.
This is reflected in the structure of GDP and national income by individual oblast. The Republic's
national income in 1996 was 780.6 billion sum (US$14.19 billion or US$614.29 per capita). The
agriculture sector was the major contributor 33.6%, industry was second 20.4%, followed by retail trade
(16.9%), and transport and telecommunications (5.6%). Real GDP/capita in 1996 was $2,469 in PPP
terms; nominal GDP/capita was US$10101. There were also 34,452 small private enterprises created in
1996 which include dekhkan farms and small enterprises. Production of industrial and consumer goods,
retail trade turnover and foreign trade have been increasing. However the proportion of imports (50.7%)
exceeded exports (49.3%) in 1996; and the reverse was true in 1995. Foreign trade turnover in 1996 was
US$9,311.3 mln with 18.1% of goods imported from Germany and 10.4% of goods exported to the UK
followed by the US. Cotton is the major export item, while food items and equipment are the major
import items.
' Source: World Bank OP 3.10 Annex D, June 1997.



Annex II - Page 2
6.     The agriculture sector employs the largest group of workers, at 40.9%, followed by the service
(23.9%) and industry sectors (12.9%). Unemployment rate has remained steady at 0.4. The labor force
consists of 42.7% women. The percentage of workforce employed by state enterprises has shown
considerable decline, in part due to the increase in private sector activity and joint ventures. The average
monthly wage was 3,656 sum (US$66.5) I in 1996. The highest average monthly wage is in the credit
and state insurance industry and-the -lowest in health care and sports.
7.     Public expenditure on health care as a percentage of GDP has been averaging at about 3-4% over
the last decade, with a slight decline in 1996 to 3.5%. The expenditures on health as a percent of state
budget has remained relatively stable increasing only slightly from 9.8% in 1995, 10.6% in -1996 to 11%
in 1997(11.1% is estimated for 1998).
8.    Navoi Oblast is in the geographic center of the country, and a part of the Central Economic
Region of Uzbekistan. Due to its central location it has a favorable economic situation and a fairly well
developed transport network. In area it is one of the largest regions with 8 rayons, but desert comprises
37% of the territory. It is sparsely populated, with only 3% of the population with a density of 7
people/km2. Population in 1997 was 769.6 thousand, of which 59.8% live in rural areas. The ethnic
composition of the population is diverse comprising of people of Kazakh, Tajik and Uzbek origin. The
natural increase per 1,000 population was 18.4 in 1996.
9.     The economically active population in 1996 was 50.7% (i.e., ages 15-60), with an average family
size of 5.3. Unemployment was 1.8 percent, the highest amongst the three oblasts and considerably
higher than the national average. Average life expectancy is 72.6, slightly above the national average.
10.   Navoi is well endowed with non-ferrous and rare metals, phosphorites, marble, mineral pigments,
construction sands etc. Chemical and power industries prevail, accounting for more than half of
industrial output. Other branches are construction materials (12%) and light industry (8%). Its main
products are electric power, mineral fertilizers, nitron fibre, cement and marble. The Navoi Electric
Power station, Electrochemical plant, and Cement factory are enterprises that are considered to be of
national importance.  Industry contributed the highest (38.3%) percentage toward income, with
agriculture (27%), retail trade (17.9%), construction (11.6%), and other sectors (5.2%) following. Navoi
produces grain, raw cotton, vegetables and fruits. Livestock breeding is also a major activity.
11.   In 1996, the total income of Navoi was 36.6 bin sum (US$0.67 bin or US$891.55/capita). Real
GDP/capita in PPP$ was 3,609 in 1996. During the same period, 1,271 new small private enterprises
were created. Navoi is the fifth largest oblast in terms of imports at 5.7% of total, and contributes 4.5%
to total exports. However, the volume of industrial and consumer goods production, and retail trade
turnover have increased considerably since 1995.
12.   Ferghana Oblast is located in the Ferghana valley which is in the east and is part of the
Ferghana Economic Region which occupies a total area of 620 km2 and consists of 16 rayons. In 1997,
the total population was 2584.4 thousand of which 73%  is rural.  The ethnic composition is
homogeneous, consisting mainly of Uzbek. Approximately 50% of the population is in the economically
active age group, and with 40% in the age group of 0-14. About 4% are in the age group over 65.
Ferghana is the most densely populated oblast with a population of 365.7 per km2, as compared to the
' The exchange rate used for 1996 is 55 sums/$ and for 1995 is 35.5sums/$.



Annex 11 - Page 3
national average of 53.4 per km2. Life expectancy at 70.3 and the average family size 5.3 are both
comparable with the national averages.
13.   In 1996 the national income in Ferghana was 89.7 bin sum (US$1.63 bin or US$648.7 per
capita). Real GDP/capita in PPP$ in 1996 was 3,300. The industrial sector contributing the largest share
to income at 30.1%, followed by agriculture (28.9%), retail trade (26.8%), and construction (4.7%). Both
agriculture and industry are well developed. However, the oblast suffers from environmental concerns
such as poor water quality and supply, and industrial pollution. Ferghana is renowned for its nitrogen
fertilizer and leather industries. In 1996, 2,105 new, small private enterprises were created; the volume of
industrial, consumer and retail trade turnover showed an increase from 1995. Ferghana is the largest
single oblast contributor to exports at 5.5%, and consumes 3% of total imports.
14.   Syr Darya Oblast, located in the northeast, and borders on Tashkent city. Hence, it has access
to its supporting infrastructure, markets and social services. The oblast is located in a large flat and dry
plain and is part of the Hungry Steppe Economic Region. Syr Darya occupies a total area of 270 km2
consisting of 10 rayons. In 1997 the total population was 642.9 thousand of which 69% is rural. The
ethnic composition is homogenous consisting mainly of Uzbek. The natural increase per 1,000 people in
1996 was 19.7. Like the rest of the country the population is fairly young with 43.2% 14 years and
younger; only 48.2% are aged 15-60. The population density in Syr Darya is 127.9/km2 more than twice
the national average. The average family size is lower than the national average at 4.7. Life expectancy
(69.7) is the lowest amongst the three oblasts and also lower than the national average. Birth rate was
25.6; death rate was 5.9 in 1996. Unemployment is higher than the national average at 0.6.
15.    Syr Darya's income in 1996 was 23.7 bin sum (US$0.43 bin or US$677.81/capita).  Real
GDP/capita in PPP$ was 3,179 in 1996, above the national average. Agriculture was the highest
contributor to income at (38.8%), industry second with (22.3%) followed by retail trade (17.3%) and
construction (14.4%). A significant part of the area is situated in an irrigation zone developed in the
1950s-1970s; it is a major producer of raw cotton. Livestock breeding is also a major activity. In 1996,
1,280 small private enterprises were created. Syr Darya utilizes 1.2% of the total imports and contributes
2.8% to the total exports. In comparison to the other two oblasts its volume of industrial and consumer
goods production and retail trade turnover are very small, although showing an increasing trend.



Annex 11 - Page 4
Table 1: Social and Demographic Data:
Uzbekislan, Navoi, Ferghana and Syr Darya Oblasts_
Uzbekistan      Navoi       Ferghana    Syr Darya
Population (thousands)                                23130.4         751.5       2512.7         634.4
Urban Population (%)                                    38.4          40.2         29.4          30.9
Rural Population (%)                                    61.6          59.8         70.6          69.1
Economically Active Population (%)                      49.6          50.7         50.0          48.2
- Urban                                                 22.2
-- Rural                                                26.8
Population 0-14 of age (%)                              40.6          40.1         39.9          43.2
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
Population over 65 (%)                                  4.2            3.9          4.0           3.2
Natural increase per 1000 population                    21.1           18.4        21.6           19.7
Population density (people per kM2)                     53.4           7.0         365.7         127.9
Average Family Size2                                    5.4            5.3          5.3           4.7
-- Urban                                                5.2            5.2          5.2           4.6
Rural                                                  5.6            5.4          5.3           4.7
Birth rate (per 1,000)                                  27.3          24.7         27.4          25.6
Death rate (per 1,000)                                  6.2            6.3          5.8           5.9
Life Expectancy at Birth3                               70.2          72.6         70.3          69.7
Table 2: Economic Conditions:
Uzbekistan, Navoi, Ferghana and Syr Darya Oblasts4
Uzbekistan       Navoi   Ferghana    Syr Darya
National income (bin sum)                               780.6           36.6        89.7          23.7
Real GDP/capita (in PPP$)                               2469           3609        3300           3179
-- % Agriculture                                         33.6           27         28.9           38.8
-- % Industry                                           20.4            38.3        30.1          22.3
-- % Construction                                        10.9           11.6        4.7           14.4
-- % Transport and Telecommunications                    5.6             0           0             0
-- % Other sectors                                       12.6           5.2         9.5            7.2
-- % Retail Trade                                        16.9           17.9       26.8           17.3
Reported Unemployment Rate                               0.4            1.8         0.1            0.6
--Urban                                                  0.2            0.8         0.0            0.1
--Rural                                                  0.2             1.0        0.1            0.5
Private Enterprise Creation                             34452           1271       2105           1280
--Private                                               25015           1137       1682           667
-- Dekhkan Farms                                        3183            63          203           377
-- Small Enterprises                                    6254            71          220           236
Foreign Trade Turnover (USD mlns)                      9311.3
-- Exports                                              49.3            4.5         5.5            2.8
--Imports                                               50.7            5.7         3.0            1.2
Volume of Industrial Production (in bins of sums)       444.1           40.9        64             5.4
Volume of Consumer Goods Production (in bins of         147.5           3.3         15.8          2.1
sums)                                            I
Volume of Retail Trade Turnover (in bins of sums)       236.4           5.9         25             6.2
'Source: Ministry of Economy and Statistics and UNDP Human Development Report, 1997. All data are 1996
figures unless otherwise noted.
' 1995 figures.
3 National averages for life expectancy are: Men (67.8), Women (72.7), Rural (69.1), and Urban (71.5).
' Source: Ministry of Economy and Statistics, UNDP Human Development Report, 1997 and the Basic Indicators of
the Social and Economic Development of Uzbekistan, 1996. All data are 1996 figures unless otherwise noted.



Annex 11 - Page 5
Table 3: Health Status Measures:
Uzbekistan, Navoi, Ferghana and Syr Darya Oblastsl
______________  .         Uzbekistan          Navoi       Ferghana         Syr Darya
Causes of Morbidity (per 100,000)
-- Gonorrhea                                 38.2              46.2         60.8             32.9
-- Syphilis                                  26.5              56.5         26.6             27.8
--Tuberculosis                               45.4              51.2         48.1             33.6
-- Malignant Neoplasms                      311.2              324          NA               NA
-- Mental Disorders                         1144.3            587.1        1005.7           1322.6
-- Narcologic Disorders                     362.3             292.5         541.8            327.2
Causes of Death (per 100,000):
-- Cardio-vascular                          291.3             264.9         249.4            265.0
--Cerebral vascular                          75.7              45.6         67.3             171.3
-- Oncological                               42.2              61.5         31.7             45.0
-- Accidents, poisoning, other               49.4              63.2         38.5             58.3
-- Suicides, self infliction                  7.3              6.1           8.8             10.8
--Diabetes                                    9.9              10.9         13.1             11.7
-- Respiratory                               97.1              86.7         78.6             82.4
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000)-            49
Maternal Mortaliht Rate (per 1,000)         20.73              51.4         16.8             39.1
Infant Mortality by cause (per
1,000 born to dieid before the age of
1 year)
Total                                        24.2              27.6         23.2             22.1
Infections and parasites                    2.8               5.9          3.4              3.0
Respiratory                                12.8              11.9          11.1             11.0
Stomach                                    0.07              0.52           -              0.18
Birth defects                               1.3               2.2          1.7              1.5
Intra-uteral abnormalities                  5.4               3.6          5.7              3.7
Accidents, Traurna, Poisoning               0.85              1.1          0.64             0.78
NA = Not Available
' Source: MOH, ULNDP Human Development Report, 1997, Oblast Departments of Health. All data are 1996
figures unless otherwise noted.
2 Source: Demographiic and Health Survey, 1996 (USAID).
3Per 100,000 -- Source MOH Health statistics booklet, 1996.



Annex 11 - Page 6
Table 4: Health Care Utilization of Services and Allocation of Resources:
Uzbekistan, Navoi, Ferghana and Syr Darya Oblastsl_
Uzbekistan      Navoi       Ferghana       Syr Darya
Nurses (per 1,000 pop)                          11.0           10.0         11.1           13.0
Physicians (per 1,000 pop)                                     5.3          5.3            4.9
Beds (per 1,000 pop)                            13.9          13.9          12.4           13.9
Average Length of Stay (days)2                  14.0          12.9          13.8           13.6
Admissions Rate (% of pop)                       28           29.7          27.5           27.9
Admissions through Emergency and Specialty      NA            25.1          29.0           23.5
Referrals (%)
Average No. of Physicians Visit per year1       8.0            7.9          7.1            6.1
Specialist Consults, as % Physician Encounters  NA            42.8          45.2           30.1
% of Public Budget Expenditure on Health        10.6
Per Capita Spending (sum, 1995, in constant                   43.8          35.9           49.8
prices with 1990= 100)
Est. Total Health Budget 1997-2001                           3306.5        10,175         3104.5
(thousands of sum) 3
Est. Per Capita Spending 1997-2001              61.5          62.7          57.2           67.5
(thousands of sum) 3
Health Expenditure Allocation I
-- Inpatient (%)                                 56            57           NA              57
-- Outpatient (%)                                44            43           NA             43
NA = Not Available
'Source: MOH, UNDP Human Development Report, 1997, Oblast Departments of Health. All data are 1996
figures unless otherwise noted.
2 1997 figures (preliminary estimates).
Source: Project contractor report, August 1997.



Annex 12 Page 1
Uzbekistan at a glance
Europe &   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                Central  middle-
Uzbekistan       Asia  income        Development diamond*
Population mid-1996 (millions)                            23.2       478     1.125                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                                1.010      2,200    1,740
GNP 1996 (US$ billions)                                   23.5      1,050    1,962
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                             2.1        0.3      1.4       GNP                              Gross
Labor force (%)                                            2.7        0.5      1.7       per        -      -             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1990)                                  capita                       enrollment
Poverty: national headcount index (% of population)
Urban population (% of total population)                   41         66        56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                           69         68        67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                   24         24        40                 Access to safe water
Child malnutrtion (% of children under 5)                   4
Access to safe water (% of population)                      ..         ..       75
Illiteracy (% of popuiation age 15)                         ..         ..       20          -      Urbekistan
Gross pnmary enrollment (% of school-age population)       77        100       104                 Lower-middle-income group
Male                                                     78        101       107
Female                                                   76        100       101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975      1985       1995      1996    |
Economic ratios-
GDP (US$ billions)                                           .       23.2     25.2
Gross domestic investment/GDP                      .                 20.9     16.1                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                                    38.0     30.5
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                           20.5      8.7
Gross national savings/GDP
Current account balance/GDP                                          -0.2     -4.3      AS
Interest payments/GDP                                                 0.3      0.4       Savings       .              Investment
Total debt/GDP                                    .         ..        7.7       9.2
Total debt service/exports                                            6.2       6.9
Present value of debt/GNP                                              ..      9.0
Present value of debt/exports                                          ..    56.0                    Indebtedness
1975-85   1986-96       1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                                    -      Uzbekistan
GDP                                               ..      -1.7       -1.2      1.9                Lower-middle-income group
GNP per capita                                   ..       -3.9       -3,5     -0.8
Exports of goods and services                     .         .
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975      1985       1995      1996
(% of GDP)                                                            ,                  Growth of investment and GDP (%)
Agriculture                                                          32.1     26.0       20
Industry                                                             27.8     27.4       10
Manufacturng                                                        8.8       6.0        3
Services                                                            40.1      46.6       -10
Private consumption                                                  60.4     66.3      -20
General government consumption                                       19.1     25.1                -      GDl   -GO-GDP
Imports of goods and services                    ..         ..       38.4     38.0
1975-85   1986-96       1995     1996
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                      ..       -0.3        2.7     -8.0
Industry                                          .       -2.8       -5.6      1.2
Manufacturing                                   ..       0.6
Services                                         ..       -1.9        0.2      9.5
Private consumption                              ..
General government consumption                            -2.3
Gross domestic investment                                 -2.5        1.8
Imports of goods and services                                    ..
Gross national product                           ..       -1.7       -1.8      1.1
World Development Indicators 1998 CD-ROM, World Bank
Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared
with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will be incomplete.



Annex 12 Page 2
Uzbekistan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                                 1975      1985       1995      1996        Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                                1,500 .
Consumer prices                                              ..                           1,000
Implicit GDP deflator                                        ..      372.4      81.6
500-
Government finance                                                                          0
(% of GDP)                                                                                          91   92   93    94   95    96
Current revenue
Current budget balance                             .D ..                ..                              GDP def  -O-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                                                  _
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                  1975      1985       1995      1996       Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                               ..         ..         ..   2,671       5s0oo -
Food
Agricultural raw materials                                                              4.000 .
Fuels                                            .                                      3000 -
Ores and metals
Manufactures                                                                            2 ,000   0
Total imports (cif)                                                            4,761      1,000
Agricultural raw materials                                  ..                  ..
Fuels                                                                                          90   91 ..
Ores and metals                                  ..                                                   Exports    a Imports
Manufactures
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975      1985       1995      1996
(US$ millions)                                                                            Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                      ..        ..      3,806    4,161       2
Imports of goods and services                     ..         ..      3,848    5,175
Resource batance                                   ..        .         -42    -1.014
0. 
Net income                             .. ..                           -26      -69            o     1-             94   90
Net current transfers                             ..         ..        19         8      -2
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers                ..        ..        -49    -1,075      -4
Financing items (net)                             ..         ..       627      1,108
Changes in net reserves                                      ..      -578       -33
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (US$ millions)             ..
Conversion rate (local/US$)                       ..         ..       13.1      22.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975      1985       1995      1996
(US$ millions)                                                                            Composition of 1996 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              ..          .      1,787     2,319
IBRD                                            ..         ..       157       155                         G   A
IDA                                                        ..         0         0                         92 155    c
Total debt service                                ..                   243      289                                   238
IBRD                                                       ..         2        10
IDA                                                        ..         0         0              F                       D
762
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                            ..        13        27
Official creditors                                         ..       280       242
Private creditors                                           .       192       376                                   E
Foreign direct investment                                  ..       115        55                                  939
Portfolio equity                                 .          .         0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                      .          .       226         5       A - IBRD                      E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                   ..                  162         9       B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                                       ..         0         0       C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                        .          .       162         9
Interest payments                                          ..         2        10
Net transfers                                              ..       161        -1
World Development Indicators 1998 CD-ROM, World Bank



IBRD 2948
INSET B                                         NSKAYA
-4-
0                                                                 UZBEKISTAN
KAZAKHSTAN                                                                                                          f                       0                        ID
HEALTH PROJECT
It
Arol                                                                                                                                                          0   SVP,
IRRIGATED LAND
DESERT
FERGANS
SELECTED CITIES
OBLAST CAPITAL5
KYRGYZ RER
X                                                                                                                                                 NATIONAL CAPITAL
Mpk
MAIN ROADS
RAILROADI
K A R,  A,t PA KS                                                                           '\AZAKH STAN                                                                        R E
IV RS
OBLAST BOUNDARIES'
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
R                                                                                                                                                                                             R-blo -1-
KYRGYZ
R EJU B LI C
DAR'INS                                                     GANSKAYA
>             Adgb.
...... IANSKAYA
kmt
KilOR                                                                                                       KENTSP'
A.
INSET A
%_.sy, "Y.                                                                                                                                                                     T.
_qb
.1 il 17 'ASHKENJSKAYA                                                                                                                                                    lo -
KAZAKHSTAN                                                                                                                                                                        FERGANSKAYA                D 25 50 75 1001251500..-
0                                                                                                                                                                                 0   25  50  75  1M6,
L       0
0
C, 14'
0                                                                                       K                       AYA                                 IKISTAN                                             c.!=.= 2.:n
Go                                                                                                                                                                                                        ......
d.           1 -dd -1
6        g) OoDr'                                                                                                                                                                 G-. -y ,d..
O                 ir        i
OSYRDAR I        0
Jl
KAZAKHSTAN
L)zH;7AKSKAYA
TURKMENISTAN
RGYZ R
TAJIKISTAN
CHINA
TU
AFGHANISTAN
20                            ISLAMIC                                                                                                                           PAKISTAN
R   F                                                                                                                                             SLAMI, EPU
JERPO                                                                                                                                             01 AN BU                         NT- -
N                                                                                                        IIW                                                                      -    111
SEKEMBER 1998



