Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18631
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3321-CO)
November 10, 1998
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
Country Management Unit for Colombia, Ecuador, Venezuela
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 1997)
Currency Unit = peso
US$1.00= 1,297.13 pesos
GOVERNMENT'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BR          Colombia Central Banlk
BVC         Colombia value bonds
CFP         Popular Finance Corporation
CFs         Financial Corporations
DFC         Development finance company
DNP         National Planning Department
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IFI         Instituto de Fomento Industrial (Industrial
Strengthening Institute)
INDEREMA  Official Pollution Control Agency
IPCN        Environmental Policy Department
IPCU        Industrial Pollution Control Unit
IRDP        Industrial Restructuring and Development Project
MED         Ministry of Economic Development
MOE         Ministry of Environment
PAL         Labor Adjustment Assistance Project
PFI         Participating Financial Intermediaries
QR          Quantitative Restrictions
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SENA        National Vocational Training Agency
TA          Technical Assistance
TPED        Trade Policy and Export Diversification Loan
ULC         Unit labor costs
UMI         Industrial Monitoring Unit
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Management Unit Director: Andres Solimano
Sector Management Unit Director: Danny Leipziger
Task Manager: James Hanna



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3321-CO)
Table of Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ................................................i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ................................................ 1
A. BACKGROUND .1
B. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES .1
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES.                                          4
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .10
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ~~~~~~~~~~................................................   10
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY.1 0
F. BANK PERFORMANCE                                                  I11
F . BANK PERFORMANCE ~~................................................  11. . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . .
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .                                             11
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .                                            11
I. FUTURE OPERATION .                                                 11
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ................................................12
ANNEX 1 - MATRIX OF KEY PROJECT POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL ADJUSTMENTS
PART Il: STATISTICAL TABLES
APPENDIX A: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
.This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.-_ .



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3321-CO)
PREFACE
This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) reviews the Colombia Industrial
Restructuring and Development Project (IRDP), for which a loan in the amount of US$200
million equivalent was approved on May 2, 1991 and made effective on July 31, i 992. The loan
was closed in two phases - three of the Project's four components (credit program, industrial
monitoring program, and environmental program) were closed on schedule according to the
original closing date of December 31, 1996. As of August 28, 1998, US$182.9 were disbursed.
The balance of US$17.1 were cancelled. The majority of this ICR was prepared in 1997 to
address these areas. The fourth component, the Labor Adjustment Assistance Program, was
completed on March 31, 1998, following one extension of the closing date, to permit the full
implementation of this pilot effort, after which the ICR was completed.
Preparation of this ICR is based upon several broad project impact surveys and interviews
over 1997-98 with client firms by Econometria, a Colombian consulting firm, as well as further
analyses based on a completion mission and review of the project file carried out in May 1998 by
Mr. Manuel Lasaga, consultant, who also produced a first draft ICR. The review of the draft and
completion of the ICR was done by James Hanna, current Task manager, with the assistance of
Ms. Maria Victoria Lister and Ms. Lily Franchini. The borrower contributed indirectly to ICR
preparation by providing extensive consultation with the ICR mission and directly to it by
preparing its own report, which is included as Appendix A of this Report.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3321-CO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
i.   In February 19Y)), the Government of President Virgilio Barco set in motion a program to
liberalize the external trade regime, accelerate the reform of public services and develop an
internationally competitive private sector. The announcement mirrored the view held by many
policy-makers and entrepreneurs that the achievement of Colombia's socio-economic objectives
for the 1990s -- to accelerate economic growth and employment creation, lower prices to
consumers, and further diversify the nation's export structure -- hinged on an elimination of trade
barriers combined with less government interference in the domestic markets and the adoption by
the private sector of more competitive strategies.  The Bank's Industrial Restructuring and
Development Project (IRDP) was part of a package of policy and institutional adjustments to
facilitate the Government's program to liberalize the external trade regime and develop an
internationally competitive private sector. Active preparation of the IRDP started in mid-1988
with the support of a Bank executed PHRD Grant and a highly participatory approach organized
through sub-sector Working Groups.
ii.    Project Objectives. As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and in the Loan
Agreement, the objective of the projzct was to increase the international competitiveness of the
industrial sector in Colombia through the renovation, expansion and/or reduction of industrial
production capacity. The IRDP incorporated policy changes and support programs for this
purpose. On the former, it established at Board approval targets in the areas of quantitative
restrictions on imports and tariffs rates in the trade regime to help limit backsliding, facilitated
reorganization and liquidation in bankruptcy procedures for market exit, increased provisions for
labor mobility under labor legislation, reduced forced investments and interest rate subsidies in
the financial sector. In order to support the restructuring and development at the firm-level, the
project was expected to support 250 investments under a credit program over a three-year period
with a total cost of US$ 492 million. A technical assistance (TA) component of the project
provided resources for public sector support of industrial restructurings. The TA was directed at:
(i) development of a Labor Adjustment Assistance Program (PAL) to assist in the relocation of
displaced workers executed by the Government's vocational training agency, SENA; (ii)
establishment of a pollution control unit to monitor and enforce environmental regulations in the
National Planning Department (DNP); and (iii) ongoing feedback and evaluation via an Industrial
Monitoring Unit (UMI) within the Ministry of Economic Development. An amount of US$ 8
million was allocated to the TA component.
iii.   A pivotal factor in the successful design of the project was the diagnostic work performed
through five in-depth sub-sector studies. The sub-sector analysis---currently better know as



ii
cluster analysis---was a dynamic process, which brought together key government ministries,
producer associations, industrialists, and bankers' associations through sub-sector working
groups, which, through periodic meetings, provided a wealth of information on industry
competitiveness as well as critical public policy recommendations. As the lessons from past
Bank industrial restructuring operations have indicated, these complex projects need to be
precedecl by careful diagnosis and analysis of private sector potential and obstacles to
development.I
iv.   Achievement of Objectives.  The achievement of the policy conditionality as agreed
with the borrower is considered satisfactory. Basically, all the policy reforms were adopted prior
to loan effectiveness, and they were maintained during its implementation. The trade regime
continues to be within agreed parameters and new labor legislation and regulations approved in
1991 have been maintained. The more important measures included greater flexibility in the
transfer and dismissal of workers, in the negotiation of labor con.racts, and elimination of
inefficient rules that limited the ability of one enterprise to apply differential compensation rates
across production facilities. The Government raised interest rates on industrial directed credit
substantially to market equivalent, eliminated altogether the use of directed credit and transferred
most of the portfolio to the Instituto de Fomento Industrial (IFI).
V.    The credit component of the IRDP financed 264 sub-projects for an approved value of the
sub-loans of US$254.3 million. The Bank's component was US$178 million, or 70 percent of
the sub-loan amount. There was a fairly high degree of concentration by loan value, in that 10
sub-loans accounted for 60 percent of the total amount of the Loan. However, by number of
loans, the program was substantially oriented to small- to mid-sized enterprises, with
approximately 60 percent of the sub-loans being under US$100,000. This reflects the fact that,
even though Colombia experienced strong capital inflows during this period, they were not
readily available for long-term investments by small and medium-scale firms intermediated by
medium-sized financial institutions. The program's access advantage was also reinforced
according to client surveys to the improvement in technology achieved through the acquisition of
machinery and equipment, which in turn led to improved quality of final products.
vi.   A survey of firms participating in the Project showed that the IRDP's results were
positive. About 60 percent of the enterprises financed by the Project's credit program reported
an increase in their productive capacity, and a similar share experienced an increase in labor
productivity. The impact of labor reforms supported by the Project, appears also to have had
quite a favorable enabling impact on firm behavior. Overall, the Survey reported that 70 percent
of the firms viewed the labor policy reforms as a positive influence on the economy. About 45
percent of these firms increased employment, 40 percent did not change, while virtually none
reduced their net workforce.
vii.   T'he Industrial Monitoring Unit was established within the Ministry of Economic
Development (MED) in 1993 and, after adjustments, performed according to expectations.
lSee Mathieu, ibid.



iii
Subsequently, a private consulting firm, Econometria, was hired to monitor industrial trends and
published in-depth analyses of industrial competitiveness as well as information on international
market trends.  Under the environmental component, in addition to its contribution to
institutional building, it strengthened the legal framework for industrial pollution control in air
and water quality standards. Multiple seminars, workshops and conferences were offered mainly
on air and water pollution control, solid waste and hazardous waste management, groundwater
pollution, enforcement of pollution standards, and economic incentives to pullution control. In
some areas, such as the water and pollution control legislation, economic incentives for pollution
control and sectoral pollution control strategies, the pace of implementation much exceeded
expectations.
viii. The accomplishments of the Labor Adjustment Assistance Program (PAL) are considered
partially satisfactory in relation to its original objective. The PAL was developed under the
Project as a highly innovative pilot program to facilitate social adjustment to the industrial
restructuring process.  It was designed as a Jow-cost, demand-based program  partnership
financed by private sector firms and the Government with the specific aim of shortening the time
between jobs and reducing the social costs of adjustment for workers in firms who are displaced
by restructuring programs. A total of 75 )rograms were undertaken by 63 different firms
involved about 16,000 workers. Survey and interview work revealed that the immediacy of the
threat of layoff varied considerable among PAL programs. However, across this spectrum,
interviews reflect broad management and worker satisfaction with the Program, which supported
firm-wide industrial restructuring initiatives which, often in combination with other firm
investments, frequently helped to improve productivity and product quality. The PAL was often
structured around a firm seeking ISO 9000 certification and in some cases, supported training
where little such initiative had preceded it, or resulted in subcontracting relationships with former
employees. The evaluation suggests that firms already having reached the stage of having to
layoff workers did not perceive a strategic interest in helping exiting workers minimize the socio-
economic cost of dislocation. On the other, as a demand-based mechanism, the PAL succeeded
in supporting initiatives of participating firms to tailor-make programs to upgrade labor
productivity and improve the business environment for their workers.
ix.   Bank and Borrower Performance. Bank and borrower performance in the IRDP were
both satisfactory. Project identification, preparation, and appraisal by the Bank met expectations
in terms of organization, responsiveness, and analytical quality. One of the distinguishing
characteristics of this project was the permanence of the task-manager from identification
through the closing of the loan. In addition, from the start, the government was highly
committed to this project and its ownership was clearly in its hands. This commitment was also
evident in the strong support given to Bank missions throughout project implementation.
x.    Overall Outcome. On the basis of the review of this project, including the review of
legal documents, supervision reports, and the findings of the ICR mission, the IRDP is rated as
satisfactory. The project achieved its major objectives, particularly the near-term objective,
since it is still too early for a definitive assessment. One of the distinguishing characteristics of
this operation was the efficiency of the outcome. All of the policy reforms were implemented



iv
prior to loan effectiveness. Compliance with specific loan covenants was satisfactory. With
strong governrnent commitment to the policy reforms under the Project, one of the factors critical
to its success and continuity, and its long-established credibility in the management of
macroeconomic policy, sustainability of project achievements is considered likely.
Key Lesst,ns Learned:
o  Implementation of nolicy reforms prior to loan approval enhances the likelihood of a
successful outcome. .n the case of the IRDP, all policy reforms were implemented prior to
Board presentation. The project thus focused on the maintenance of those reforms.
o  Ongoing monitoring of relevant project information is critical to the success of the
implementation process. The UMI, designed as a monitoring and evaluation unit, served a
very useful purpose in gathering key industrial information and in preparing informative as
well as insightful reports on trends affecting international competitiveness within the project
itself:
o  Dissemination of project information and effective consultations with market players is
important during project implementation. In view of the extensive research and valuable
information produced by the UMI, a more useful approach may have been periodic, perhaps
quarterly, seminars for executives to discuss the latest trends in the industrial sector.
O  Flexibility in conditionality assures continuity of the project while avoiding tense relations
between the Bank and the borrower. An innovative condition of the IRDP was that sub-loan
comrnitments and disbursements under the credit program to the automotive sub-sector were
subject to the government adopting a liberalization of the vehicle assembly industry. If this
requirement had been a part of project-wide conditionality, the project outcome might have
been less successful.
o  The establishment of environmental screening mechanisms is a common strategy now used in
the Bank for FILs and sectoral investment operations. However, these procedures need to be
fully spelled out in project documents as well as complete agreement reached among all
relevant actors.
O  The design of labor adjustment assistance programs may utilize a strategy which focuses
exclusively on workers following layoff decisions or more upstream as part of firms' efforts
to regain market competitiveness and forestall layoffs..  Eligibility criteria need to be
carefiully defined to fit the target clientele, strategy and performance expectations adopted.
The design should also be very carefully tailored to the corporate culture of the country
involved, in particular ensuring that it is compatible with labor-management relations and
layofif practices. Also, institutional commitment to and its efficient internalization of such an
innovative program needs to be particularly strong when it integrally depends upon private
sector collaboration for its success.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3321-CO)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.   In February 1990, the Government of President Virgilio Barco set in motion a program to
liberalize the external trade regime, accelerate the reform of public services and develop an
internationally competitive private sector. The announcement mirrored the view held by many
policy-makers and entrepreneurs that the achievement of Colombia's socio-economic objectives
for the 1990s -- to accelerate economic growth and employment creation, lower prices to
consumers, and further diversify the nation's export structure -- hinged on an elimination of trade
barriers combined with less government interference in the domestic markets and the adoption by
the private sector of more competitive strategies. The Government's sound macroeconomic
management since the mid-1980s thus provided a generally adequate framework in which to
pursue an industrial restructuring strategy. The Government of President Cesar Gaviria, which
took office in August 1990, reaffirmed its support for this program and accelerated its
implementation.
2.    The Bank's Industrial Restructuring and Development Project (IRDP) was part of a
package of policy and institutional adjustments to facilitate the realization of this program. The
IRDP was designed in close collaboration with the private sector, and represented a significant
departure from previous Bank support for industrial developmer. in Colombia.  Active
preparation of the IRDP started in mid-1988, with the support of a Bank-executed PHRD Grant
and a highly participatory approach organized through Sub-sector Working Groups consisting of
representatives of Government agencies, private industrialists and the financial sector.
B. STATEMENTAND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
3.    As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and in the Loan Agreement, the objective
of the project was to increase the international competitiveness of the industrial sector in
Colombia through the renovation, expansion and / or reduction of industrial production capacity.
Its immediate objectives were to assist the private sector in changing the production mix toward
goods in which Colombia has a dynamic comparative advantage, by: (i) renovating existing
industrial production capacity so as to reduce costs; (ii) building new capacity, increasing product
quality and service; and (iii) phasing out production of those goods which were unlikely to
produce acceptable long-run returns in a competitive business environment.



2
4.    The basic strategy to achieve these objectives was to adopt a set of public policy
adjustnments which would increase the competitiveness of the domestic business environment and
to enable a set of enterprises to respond accordingly by making available financial, technical and
social resources to help industrial enterprises restructure and develop their operations.
5.     The public policy component consisted of adjustments in external trade, domestic
competition, financial sector and labor. In this regard the IRDP provided continuity with the
earlier TPED loan which emphasized trade reforms. However, the IRDP was designed differently
as a hybrid of sector adjustment and project financing. This project structure supported the
Government's broad policy reforms while helping to assure that participating firrns in the
industrial sector could adapt to the new environment. All of the recommended policies were
adopted prior to Board approval. The principal action steps were as follows:
Trade Policy:
L  Set targets as benchmarks against backsliding in the areas of quantitative restrictions
(QRs), average tariffs (max 16 percent) and number of tariff rates (four).
Domestic Competition Policy:
L  Revise existing legislation to expedite bankruptcy procedures, and thus provide an
incentive for firms to act proactively in restructuring their operations in order to avoid
insolvency.
L  Eliminate price controls on production of cotton in order to improve access to raw
materials by the textile and apparel industries.
L  Adopt a deregulation program for the auto and commercial vehicle parts industry.
Labor Regime:
o  Revise existing legislation to increase labor mobility, specifically reduce employer
liabilities in the event of worker dismissal and to allow differential wage scales within a
single firm.
o  Establish a Labor Adjustment Assistance Program (PAL) to assist those workers who
have been laid off as a result of industrial restructuring.
Financial Sector:
o Reduce the use of forced investments and reserve requirements to support directed
credit.
E Eliminate interest rate subsidies on Banco de la Republica (BR) industrial credit lines,
and raise the maximum lending rates to enterprises to DTF + 6 percentage points.
6.    In order to assist the restructuring and development of private sector enterprises, the
project was expected under a credit program to support 250 investments over a three-year period
with a total cost of US$ 492 million. From the Bank's loan of US$200 million, an amount of
2 See Policy Matrix in SAR, March 20, 1991, Report No. 8633-CO, and Pg. 74-79.



3
US$ 192 million would be available to finance 70 percent of the amount of sub-loans granted by
participating financial intermediaries (PFIs) to industrial enterprises or 40 percent of total
estimated project costs.
7.    A technical assistance (TA) component of the project provided resources for public sector
support directed at: (i) development of the Labor Adjustment Assistance Program (PAL) to assist
in the relocation of displaced workers; (ii) establishment of a pollution control unit to monitor
and enforce environmental regulations; and (iii) support the operations of an Industrial
Monitoring Unit (UMI) within the Ministry of Economic Development. An amount of US$ 8
million was allocated to the TA component.
8.    An important part of the Project's design was the diagnostic work performed through five
in-depth sub-sector studies which provided a wealth of information on industry competitiveness
as well as critical public policy recommendations. The five industries were: textiles & apparel,
shoes and leather goods, agro-industry, iron and steel, and vehicle assembly and parts. It was
made clear to all that "picking winners" did not underly these choices, but criteria which included
the sub-sector's importance relative to total industrial output, coverage of a wide-cross section of
activities such as consumer, intermediate, capital goods, and a wide course of firm size. A
Japanese PHRD Grant financed nearly all of project preparation. The sub-sector studies were
subsequently utilized during implementation to help the UMI carry out its monitoring of
industrial competitiveness, a task that was financed through the loan's TA component.
9.    The sub-sector analysis was a dynamic process, which brought together key government
ministries, producer associations, industrialists, and bankers' associations through sub-sector
working groups, which, through periodic meetings, provided very valuable input in the
preparation of the consultants' studies. As the lessons from past Bank industrial restructuring
operations have indicated, these complex projects need to be preceded by careful diagnosis and
analysis of private sector potential and obstacles to development.3 This process was particularly
helpful in identifying policy reforms in labor legislation, as it became apparent that modifications
were essential to the supply response. The labor component of the policy reform matrix among
others was derived from a combination of the consultant work associated with the sub-sector
studies which assessed the impact of the labor code from the firm level, and specialize analyses
by labor lawyers who evaluated the overall code.
10.   The core of the financial sector reforms dealt with the determination of interest rates,
specifically the dismantling of interest rate subsidies on directed lines of credit, and the use of the
so-called forced investment regulations applied to commercial banks. According to the SAR, the
interest rate subsidy had averaged 12 percentage points during 1981-1987. Directed credit
accounted for about 62 percent of total credit to manufacturing by commercial banks and finance
3 See Mathieu, ibid



4
companies. Interest rate subsidies, combined with the forced investment regulations, had
discouraged medium- to long-term lending by the financial sector.
11.   The technical assistance component was designed to support the Government's program
managernent requirements in the following areas: (i) an Industrial Monitoring Unit (UMI) within
the Ministry of Economic Development (MED); (ii) a Labor Adjustment Assistance Program
(PAL); and (iii) an environmental pollution control unit in the National Planning Department
(IPCU). The creation of the UMI aimed to both inform policy makers of trends in Colombia's
international competitiveness and monitor project progress. This unit benefited in large part
from the diagnostic work under the sub-sector studies, and its design properly captured the
importance of data gathering and analysis during the implementation stage.  The Labor
Adjustment Assistance Program, as designed, offered an innovative response, adapted from the
Canadian Industrial Adjustment Service, to the problem of unemployment that was expected to
arise from industrial restructuring. However, as later implementation experience demonstrated,
more attention might have been paid at the outset to adapting the Canadian program to the
Colombian environment and to the allocation of administrative resources to this initiative.
12.   The design of the environmental component suffered from a lack of adequate institutional
capacity at the time of appraisal, and the resistance by BR to perform environmental assessments
of sub-projects. On the other hand, the creation of the IPCU proved to be a pivotal transitional
resource in the subsequent establishment of the Ministry of the Environment. Considering the
lack of implementing capacity, both human and financial resources, Project designers correctly
opted to help reinforce the Government's central environmental management capacity rather than
insist on sub-project evaluations which might have detained the achievement of the Project's
principal financing objective. At appraisal, under the initiative of DNP, the Government was
preparing a draft law to be presented to congress by mid-1991 that would call for the
establishrment of a new Ministry of the Environment. This set the stage, as understood at that
time, for the subsequent successful incorporation of the unit into the ministry when it was
t. tablished.
C ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
13.   Based on the overall objective of enhancing the international competitiveness of
Colombia's industry, the IRDP can be considered successful at the time of this evaluation.
Nevertheless, this analysis is only a progress report on the realization of that objective, since a
definitive conclusion is not possible in the short period of time since the loan's closing, especially
when such an evaluation encompasses a wide array of quantitative as well as qualitative factors
that also evolve over time. As stated in the OED report, industrial restructuring is a long-term
response to economy-wide adjustment. That report also states that macroeconomic stability has a
major impact on the restructuring process. In this regard, Colombia's stable macroeconomic
environment, coupled with a strong government commitment to reforms, has been instrumental
in the successful outcome of the Project, and bodes well for its sustainability.



5
14.   The achievement of the policy conditionality as agreed with the borrower is considered
satisfactory. Basically, the following policy reforms were adopted prior to loan effectiveness and
maintained during its implementation:
* Trade Regime - Colombia's trade regime is substantially consistent with the reforms adopted in
1991 and the maintenance conditions in the Project. he average import-weighted tariff is 11.5
percent, compared with a condition that such a rate would not exceed 16 percent. There are five
tariff categories -- 3, 5, 10, 15, and 20 percent, compared to a commitment that the number of
categories would be reduced to no more than four from the 23 levels at the beginning of the reform
program;
*  Domestic Competition - The elimination of price controls on domestic cotton production was
achieved shortly after Board presentation and price controls have not been re-imposed. With respect
to the vehicle assembly and auto parts sector, a condition of first disbursement to such enterprises
was reduce domestic content requirements in local production. To this point, the Government has
resisted any such changes, and consequently no sub-loans were made to the automotive firms;
-  Labor Regime - New labor legislation and regulations approved in 1991 have bee maintained. The
more important measures included greater flexibility in the transfer and dismissal of workers, in the
negotiation of labor contracts, and elimination of inefficient rules that limited the abil:Py of one
enterprise to apply differential compensation rates across production facilities;
-  Financial Sector - The steps required prior to Board presentation were to (i) raise interest rates on
industrial directed credit managed by the BR to at least DTF to intermediaries and DTF+6 to sub-
borrowers (both, substantially market equivalent); and (ii) deregulate directed credit schemes. This
was done and the Government went further by eliminating altogether the use of directed credit and
transferring most of the portfolio to the Instituto de Fomeh o Industrial (IFI).
15.   The credit component of the IRDP financed 264 sub-projects for an approved value of the
sub-loans of US$254.3 million. The Bank's component was US$178 million, or 70 percent of
the sub-loan amount. The weighted average term for fixed assets financing was 7.8 years with an
interest rate spread of 3.7 percentage points. While 10 sub-loans accounted for 60 percent of the
total amount of the Loan, there was an otherwise strong focus on small- to mid-sized enterprises
as approximately 60 percent of the 264 sub-loans financed by the project were under
US$100,000. Financing of fixed assets comprised 91 percent of the loan, the rest was for
working capital, which concurs with the loan's objective of supporting restructuring activity.
Most of this went to purchase new machinerj and equipment often embod-ing higher levels of
technology.
16.   About 90 percent of the Loan was disbursed to 9 industries: food and beverages 61.9
percent; wood processing 6.1 percent; textiles & apparel 3.8 percent; healthcare services 4.8
percent; printing & publishing 3.9 percent; hotels 3.9 percent; non-metallic minerals 2.6 percent;
telecommunications 1.5 percent; and chemicals 1.0 percent. According to the Econometria



6
survey, one of the key outcomes of the credit component was the improvement in technology
through the acquisition of machinery and equipment, which in turn led to improved quality of
final products.
17.   Two surveys performed by a local consulting firm for the ICR on a sample of sub-
borrowers of the credit program and the clients of the PAL and the final report of the
implementing agency4 suggest a positive overall impact by the Project. The intentions of the
majority of borrowers was to increase competitiveness, including by gaining economies of scale
with added production capacity and penetrating new markets. The majority stated that such
investmeents had a strong positive impact on production processes (70 percent), production
capacity (65 percent), sales (60 percent), and profitability (65 percent), improving such things as
labor productivity, the efficiency in use of raw materials, utilization of physical space, product
quality and marketing. Typically, this did not involve new product innovation (65 percent) or
organizational reforms (80 percent), but resulted more from technical process innovation (70
percent) and development of new markets (60 percent).
18.   In addition, the UMI reports prepared throughout the Project concluded that the industrial
sector was positively impacted by several the Governmnent's major policy reforms during the
early 1990s which were supported by the IRDP. The UMI looked at indicators of production,
productivity, and unit labor costs (ULC), as well as the balance of trade for 26 sub-sectors in
their evaluation of changes in competitiveness.5  Based on this analysis, overall industrial
production grew by an average rate of 3.9 percent per annum during 1992-1995. Productivity
grew at an average rate of 4.1 percent, while labor costs, as measured by ULC, grew at a
moderately slower pace of 3.4 percent. The Survey, prepared for the ICR, though providing less
specific data, shows that the enterprises financed by the Project's credit program also had
positive results. About two-thirds of the firms reported an increase in their productive capacity,
and 60 percent experienced an increase in labor productivity.
19.   Based on the Surveys, 60 percent of the firms viewed the trade liberalization policies as
having had a positive impact on their business. With respect specifically to the simplification
and reduction in tariffs, 50 percent considered them as having been positive and 40 percent as
having been neutral to their business. Two sub-sectors, food processing and textiles & apparel
which were hit harder than most by imports, did respond negatively to the effects of trade
4 The corisultant's survey report was prepared by a firm that also played an instrumental role in the
development of the Industrial Monitoring Unit, Proyecto de Reconversion y Desarrollo Industrial
Colombiano: Evaluacion del Impacto del Credito BIRF, by Econometria, August, 1997 (the Survey); and
the other report was prepared by the implementing agency, Banco de la Republica, Informe de
Evaluacion del Proyecto Linea BIRF 3321-CO, April 28, 1997 (the BR Report).
5Two studies, which appeared in the UMI's publication Indicadores de Competitividad de la Industria
Colombicna, provide detailed information on developments in the industrial sector. See "La Industria
Colombiana," August 1996, and "Competitividad de los Sectores Industriales," December 1996.



7
liberalization. The impact of the Government's labor reforms aimed to increase factor mobility
and flexibility, appears also to have had quite a favorable enabling impact on many firms.
Overall, the Survey reported that 70 percent of the firms viewed the labor policy refornns as a
positive influence on the economy. About 45 percent of the firms increased employment, 40
percent did not change, while virtually none reduced their net workforce. Apparently, the
increased flexibility in labor management introduced by the 1990 law, combined with moderate
increases in real wages and increased capital investments that were in part financed through the
IRDP, did contribute to increases in international competitiveness and labor productivity.
20.   Regarding the TA program, the industrial monitoring unit component (UMI) was
established within MED in 1993. Periodic reports were issued by the UMI in 1993. However, at
the end of 1993, the MED restructured the UMI by closing down the analytical operation within
the Ministry, naming a new Coordinator, and to alleviate political influences over the unit,
subcontracting the remainder of the operation to a private firm. After an effective and speedy
selection process, a contract was signed with a private firm, Econometria, in February 1994.
21.   As part of its assigned responsibilities, Econometria published a quarterly periodical
"Indicadores de competitividad de la Industria Colombiana", which was distributed to industrial
enterprises, financial institutions, business organizations, and government agencies. This
periodical contained in-depth analyses of industrial competitiveness as well as valuable
information on international market trends. The information contained in these bulletins was also
valuable to the Bank in measuring the impact of the IRDP on the industrial sector. In view of the
challenges faced by the Bank in monitoring its own lending operations, greater consideration
should be given to a UMI-type of arrangement in other Bank projects.
22.   At the same time, more benefits could have been gained from UMI analyses. Several
recommendations were made to pursue a more proactive approach with Government and
producer associations on the influence of specific public policies and institutions on firm
competitiveness.  Between October and November 1994, the MED did invite industrial
associations and entrepreneurs from the majority of the industrial sectors to attend several
meetings to identify the main problems arising from the Apertura Program. Still, a more useful
approach may have been to use UMI work as a basis for periodic seminars for executives to
discuss the latest trends in the industrial sector and to seek their comments in terms of their own
experiences. In addition, it might have also been productive if MED had encouraged continued
publication of UMI work via its privatization.
23.   The environmental component was particularly effective in building institutional
capacity. The principal instrument to implement these objectives was the establishment of an
Industrial Pollution Control Unit (IPCU) within DNP in order to assist with the design and
implementation of industrial pollution control programs. Initially, it was necessary to establish
the IPCU within DNP due to the poor implementation record of the official pollution control
agency (INDEREMA). When the Environmental Law of 1993 created the Ministry of the
Environment (MOE), and thus eliminated INDEREMA, the IPCU played an instrumental role in



8
the institutional development of the new ministry. Many of the rules and regulations that were
subsequently adopted by MOE were originally developed by the IPCU.
24.   In addition to its contribution to institutional building, the IPCU contributed to increased
awareness of the environmental challenges facing the country. Efforts towards strengthening the
legal and institutional framework for industrial pollution control were consolidated with
substantial progress made in air and water quality standards. Multiple seminars, workshops and
conferences were offered mainly on air and water pollution control, solid waste and hazardous
waste mnanagement, groundwater pollution, enforcement of pollution standards, and economic
incentives to pollution control. In some key areas such as the water and pollution control
legislation, economic incentives for pollution control and sectoral pollution control strategies, the
pace of implementation far exceeded expectations.
25.   The only element of the environmental program not implemented as expected was
regarding environmental assessments of sub-projects. Contrary to understandings at project
appraisal, the IPCU did not have the legal authority to perform its responsibilities. The Bank's
environmental guidelines, OD 4.00, had just been introduced at the time of appraisal.
Nevertheless, given simultaneously the urgency of supporting industrial restructuring and the
limited environmiental assessment capacity, it was agreed that a component would be managed by
DNP so as to focus on the highest priorities for pollution control, whether or not they were
projects financed by the IRDP credit program. In addition, the implementing agency, BR, was
adamant about not assuming any responsibility for environmental evaluations, nor requiring
financial intermediaries to do so. Their position was that this type of activity went beyond the
normal scope of financial intermediation. A subsequent ex-post evaluation of 15 sub-projects did
not reveal significant environmental issues.
26.  'The Labor Adjustment Assistance Program (PAL was developed under the Project as a
highly innovative pilot program to facilitate social adjustment to the industrial restructuring
process. It was administered by SENA (the national vocational training agency) under the
Ministry of Labor and Social Security. It was designed as a low-cost, demand-based program
partnership financed in equal shares (later modified to a 40/60 relationship) by private sector
firms and the Government with the specific aim of shortening the time between jobs and
reducing the social costs of adjustment for workers in firms who are displaced by restructuring
program's. It was intended to finance mainly the partial cost of self-assessment and career
counseling, job search, short-term retraining and entrepreneurship development programs.
27.   The initial implementation of the PAL, adapted from the Canadian Industrial Adjustment
Service model, suffered from inadequacies in the oriainal effort to adapt this model to
Colombian conditions and from the process of restructuring SENA itself, which took place over
1992-94 and left the PAL substantially without sponsorship over this period. However, these
problems were substantially alleviated when the Program was restructured in 1995 after
extensive dialogue with the new Government. Learning from initial implementation difficulties,
the changes entailed mainly (a) the elimination of the labor committee concept, given the



9
frequently difficult working relations between management and labor in Colombia and lack of
tradition of working in this concerted style; (b) a broader programmatic eligibility, offering
support to firms at risk of having to displace workers in addition to those who have already
negotiated and declared redundancies; (c) new management and a new administration system,
separate from SENA but operating in close coordination with its Employment Department. The
system, produced with the help of Arthur Anderson Consulting, included streamlined operational
procedures and contracting, PAL management and program performance indicators, and new
progress monitoring and financial procedures; and (d) development and implementation of a new
PAL promotion program.
28.   Subsequently, level of commitments achieved rose from  11 firm-level programs
involving about 1,300 workers to a total of 75 programs at the Project's closing date undertaken
by 63 different firms involved about 16,000 workers. According to surveys, of the total number
of beneficiaries, about 72% participated in self-assessment and career counseling, 48% in skills
upgrading and occupational retraining, and 17% in entrepreneurship development programs.
Contrary to the original aims, the majority of these activities used a group-based approach to
skills upgrading to address broad productivity problems within the firm rather than
individualized assistance to find new jobs elsewhere. About 7% of participants were severe-'
from employment with the firms participating in PAL, of which 9 of 10 had found jobs in other
firms, while the remainder stayed within the same job or secured a new job in the PAL-
participating firm. The average time for those dislocated to find a new job was 7.6 weeks, which
is relatively short in relation to the average period of unemployment in general in Colombia. A
number of the participating firms dislocating employees reported that the PAL was very
supportive for both parties in facilitating resolution of difficult labor issues. For those employees
remaining in participating firms who were interviewed during the evaluation, 11% had increases
in salary (mostly related to those who had moved within the firm) and 96% considered that they
had acquired knowledge applicable to assume new responsibilities.
29.    The broadening of eligibility of firms and workers for PAL assistance from essentially
curative efforts to include preventative restructuring strategies was the main driver of the growth
of PAL following its own restructuring. Detailed interviews with 28 firms following survey
work revealed that the immediacy of the threat of layoff varied considerable among PAL
programs. However, across this spectrum, interviews reflect broad management and worker
satisfaction with the Program. In seemingly all cases, the PAL was reported to positively support
firm-wide industrial restructuring initiatives which, often in combination with other firm
investments, frequently helped to improve productivity and product quality. In this regard, PAL
was often structured around a firm seeking ISO 9000 certification and in some cases, supported
training where little such initiative had preceded it, or resulted in subcontracting relationships
with former employees. The evaluation suggests that firms already having reached the stage of
having to layoff workers, did not perceive a strategic interest in helping exiting workers
minimize the socio-economic cost of dislocation. On the other, as a demand-based mechanism,
the PAL succeeded in supporting initiatives of participating firms to tailor-make programs to
upgrade labor productivity and improve the business environment for their workers.



10
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
30.   The main success of the IRDP is attributed to a strong government commitment to its
policy changes and programs and to a solid working relationship between the Bank and the
government. Government's strong commitment to the reforms contributed to a high credibility
factor early on in the process and to the better than expected outcome from the macroeconomic
adjustment. At the time of Board presentation in May 1991, all of the policy reform measures
had been put in place, including those requiring legislative action. Borrower ownership of the
Project was instrumental in achieving these results. In 1990, at a time when the loan was at an
advanced stage of negotiations, a new government took office with an even stronger commitment
to trade reforms. Excellent macroeconomic management contributed to a favorable environment
for restructurings. GDP growth averaged 4.6 percent during 1992-1996, with a stable but high
inflation rate of 23 percent.
31.   The implementing agency, BR, complied diligently with the credit program as per the
Loan Agreement. However, at the time of loan approval, it was going through a transition from a
mu..a-faceted monetary authority with direct lending capabilities, to a single-purpose central
banking entity. In fact, in May 1994, BR informed the bank of its intention to eliminate its
external credit line management, in line v Ith its new mission statement, and suggested the
transfer of the credit program to IFI. Concerned about management efficiency and continuity of
the credit component which was well into implementation, the Bank and BR agreed that it
maintain its role through the completion of commitments of sub-loans.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
32.   Bly its nature, an industrial restructuring project has a significantly higher risk factor than
other Bank industrial finance projects. For this reason, Bank staff devoted a considerable amount
of resources during the identification and appraisal stages of the project in order to assure a
successfal outcome.  Project sustainability based on the objective of increasing the
competitiveness of Colombia's industrial sector, and the near-term objective of assisting the
private sector in renovating existing industrial production capacity is considered likely. Strong
government commitment to the policy reforms has been one of the factors critical to its success
and continuity.  The Government's long-established credibility in the management of
macroeconomic policy bodes well for the sustainability of the project. Nevertheless, this
assessment is based exclusively on an evaluation of the current government's economic policies,
specially the apertura program.



11
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
33.   Bank performance in the IRDP was satisfactory. Project identification, preparation, and
appraisal exceeded expectations in terms of organization, responsiveness, and analytical quality.
One of the distinguishing characteristics of this project was the permanence of the task-manager
from identification through the closing of the loan. Continuity of Bank staff is important in terms
of nurturing the Bank - Borrower relationship and the capacity to make mid-course adjustments
without compromising the original objectives. Staff turnover coupled with changeover in
government can jeopardize the final outcome
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
34.   Borrower performance during the IRDP is also considered satisfactory. From the start,
the government was highly committed to this project. Ownership of the program was clearly in
the hands of the government. During preparation and appraisal the government provided
extensive cooperation. This commitment was also evident in the strong support given to Bank
missions throughout the period of the loan.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
35.   On the basis of the review of this project, including the review of legal documents,
supervision reports, and the findings of the ICR mission, the IRDP is rated as satisfactory. The
project achieved its major objectives, particularly the near-term objective, since it is still too early
for a definitive assessment. One of the distinguishing characteristics of this operation was the
efficiency of the outcome. All of the policy reforms were implemented prior to loan
effectiveness. Compliance with specific loan covenants was satisfactory. Sustainability of the
objectives is considered as likely.
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS
36.   Continuity of the IRDP's objectives could however be challenged by the following two
factors: (i) additional capital needs by the industrial sector in order to achieve the desired level of
competitiveness, but a lack of long-term financial resources in the terms comparable te those
provided by this loan; and (ii) continued real appreciation of the peso followed by an abrupt
adjustment to the currency which could overturn the financial advantage of dollar-based
financing. This project was designed as the last of its kind in Colombia, there are no plans for
future country operations in this area.



12
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
37.   Some of the key lessons learned from this project are:
o  Implementation of policy reforms prior to loan approval enhances the likelihood of a
successful outcome. In th_ case of the IRDP, all policy reforms were implemented prior to
Board presentation. The project thus focused on the maintenance of those reforms. A
particularly difficult condition for disbursements is the passage of legislation, since it requires
a degree of expertise on the political process, which goes beyond the Bank's economic
development capabilities. The IRDP included passage of labor code reforms as conditions to
Board approval, and thus avoided the treacherous position of conditioning future
disbuirsements on passage of legislation.
O Ongoing monitoring of relevant project information is critical to the success of the
implementation process, this should not be postponed to the final phase of the completion
report. The UMI served a very useful purpose in gathering key industrial information and in
preparing informative as well as insightful reports on trends affecting their competitiveness.
The Bank's initiative in developing a Survey of Project beneficiaries also prove X ve'y helpful
in developing an objective assessment of the outcome.
O At the same time, dissemination of project information and effective consultations with
market players is important during project implementation. In view of the extensive research
and valuable information produced by the UMI, a more useful approach may have been
periodic, perhaps quarterly, seminars for executives to discuss the latest trends in the
industrial sector and to seek their comments in terms of their own experiences.
O Flexibility in conditionality assures continuity of the project while avoiding tense relations
between the Bank and the borrower. An innovative condition of the IRDP was that
disbu:rsements to the automotive sub-sector were subject to the government adopting a
liberalization of the vehicle assembly industry. Because of the government's failure to adopt
such a policy, no sub-loans to the automotive industry were approved. Nevertheless, the
project was able to support lending to other industries. If a more rigid requirement of full
compliance with all conditions had been inserted in the loan agreement, the outcome might
have been less successful.
O  The establishment of environmental screening mechanisms is a common strategy now used in
the Bank for FILs and sectoral investment operations. Howe) ., these procedures need to be
fully spelled out in project documents as well as complete agreement among all relevant
actors. In addition, the assignment of functions to executing units should be carefully
evaluated as to its practical -- and legal -- implications.
o The design of labor adjustment assistance programs may utilize a strategy which focuses
exclusively on workers following layoff decisions or more upstream as part of firms' efforts



13
to regain market competitiveness and forestall layoffs.. Eligibility criteria need to be
carefully defined to fit the target clientele, strategy and performance expectations adopted.
The design should also be very carefully tailored to the corporate culture of the country
involved, in particular ensuring that it is compatible with labor-management relations and
layoff practices. Also, institutional commitment to and its efficient internalization of such an
innovative program needs to be particularly strong when it integrally depends upon private
sector collaboration for its success.



ANNEX I
Page I of 6
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Matrix of Key Project Policy and Institutional Adjustments
T                          I   Recent/Present         II                                                  II
I Policy Area & Objective  I       Policy             ;          Adjustment              I Responsibility I Action By
It. Trade Policy          I                           I                                  I                I             I
| (a) Replace QRs with    I QR (prior license)       I Convert QRs to equivalent         I Min Economic  I              I
tariffs and the      I requirements or import    tariffs.                            Development    I             I
exchange rate as the I prohibitions cover 82%
main instruments of  I of domestic production;  I (i) Announce Phase I program to                   I Achieved
I    protection.            a pplications for prior   I     replace QRs with tariffs.                     IFebruary 19901
|                         I licenses are denied if                                                        I
I                         I there  is significant    I (ii) Initial movement of 1921    I                 I Achieved   I
I                         I domestic production.            tariff positions from prior I                 I Sept. 1990 
I                          I l    license to free list.                        I             I
I                         I                           C(iii) Reduce production coverage  j                I Achieved   |
I lI    of QRs to 44%.                                       I                  Sept. 1990
I                         I                          i (iv) Eliminate QRs excepting tho-I                 I Achieved    I
I                         I                          |      se associated with health,  I                 I November    I
safety and limited agricul- I               I  1990
ture com,odities           I                I             a
(b) Increase import coa- I Fourteen tariff rates    I Reduce average level end         i Min Finance    j             i
I    petition and reduce    r ranging from 0% to 200%. I dispersion of tariffs.          I                I 
anti-export bias by  I                          |
reducing and rationa-I Average tariff (includingl(i)Import weighted average tariff I                I Achieved
lizing protection.   I 18X surcharge) is 4S%.   I   (including surcharges) reduced I                I September
I  to 3OX  and tariff rate         I                I 199W.
I ||I  categories reduced to 10.                              I                I
I            I                         ~~~~                                                ~       ~     ~~~~~~~~I  I  II
l                         I                          1(H) Announce the tariff structurel                  I Achieve
(maximum, imported-weighted  I                I Novmber   I
average including surcharge, I                I   1990.
number of rates) for the end I                I
of Phase II: 23X, 1X (inclu-I                I
ding surcharge), 4 tariff    I                I
rates.                       I                I
I                         I                          I                                  I                 I             I
I, __________________________________  I ________________________________~.I. - ___________________________________________  I ,_____________,______   I, _______________I  I



ANNEX  I
Page 2 of 8
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Matrix of Key Project -olicy and Institutional Adjus'ents
I Policy Area A Obje .tive  I Recent/Present Policy   I         Adjustment                I Responsibility   Action By   I
I                          I                          I                                   I                I   -I
Law 75 surcharge of 18%  j(i) Include surcharge in final          MinFinance  I  Achieved
on CIF cost plus tariff  Itarget tariff under trade progrom,l                 I  February
land announce publically                                 a I  and Novem-1
I  I  I                              I                   ber 199S.
I                          I                          1(ii) Reduce progressively          I                I  Achieved  I
I t01(13% at present)                                         I                 I Sept. 190 I
I (c) Facilitate exports.  IPIan Vallejo application- I Revise operation so as to make      Min Eco Dev   I Achieved   i
Ito- approval time averagesi approval not exceed about 10 daysl                 I June 1990   |
I                          labout 27 days             I for new applications and 2 days  I                 I
I                          I                          I for changes                       I
12. Domestic Comptition
I  Polc.                   I                          I                                   I                I              I
I  V27r1_c1I                                   II                                                   I 
I (a) Lower barriers to    I Concordato Law - regula- I Adopt regulations/adolnistratlon I Superintendencyl Law revised |
I    market exit           I tions permit firms long  I to *xpedite concordsto process   I de Sociedades     December andl
I                          I delays in restructuring    A  provide incentives for real    II                made *ffec-
I                          I enterprise restructuring                           I tive, May'9I
I (b) Reduce raw materials I Price controls on domes- I Convert to price stabilization       MinAgriculturo I Flrst loan  I
I    prices for textiles  I tic production of cotton I scheme linked closely to           I                I com_itment  I
and clothing                                      I I international pricos          I                 I to subsectorl
I  I  I  I       I enterpri    I
I      ,I                                             I-                                  I     ,I                        I



ANNEX I
Page 3 of R
INDUSTRIA. RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Matrix of Key Project Policy and Institutional Adjustments
I                           1-                          I                                    I                  
I Policy Area A Objective      Recent/Present Policy   j         Adjustment                 I Responsibility   Action By
i-                          I                           I-                           'I                       I              I
I (c) Produce locally auto I Positive list A percenta-I Adoption of a deregulation pro-  I   MinEconDev  l First loan
I    A commercial vehicle I go integrations requiro- I gram satisfactory to the Bank.   I                       commitment
parts which are of   I ments for each model of  I                                     I                 I to subsectorl
comparable interna-  I auto assombled.            I                                   I                 I nterprises.1
tional cost, quality I                            I                                   I                 I
and service.          I                           I                                   I                 I
I                   ~~~~~~I                      I                                   I                 II
13. Financial Sector        I                           I                                   I                                I
I                           I                           I                                   III
I  Rationalize interest   I BR rate to participating IDTF applicable to all industrial  I Junta Monetarial  Achieved   I
I  rates by eliminating   I financial intermediarios Icredit lines for all CFs and banks,                     ISeptember'90 I
I  BR directed credit sub-I (PFIs) range DTF-3.0X to Iremove regional Incentives for
)idies to industry      I DTF for FIP A DTF-0.6X toleotherl cities and reduce for
A sotting rates to          I DTF+1.6X FCE.             Ilfrontlor zon-sx.
f firmo according to                                    I
competition A risk.                   I
PFI to firm margin range lIncresse maximum PFI bose rate to I Junta Monetarial  Achieved
fixed at 3.0X to 6.76X   IDTF+6 (excluding  frontior zoneer)l                   ISoptember'9
per location A maturity  ladding 0.26X points for every y-arl                   I              I
lot grace and *aturity for the res-I                  I              I
Itructuring loan up to a li-year   I                  I              I
II aturity for loans capitalizing  I                                 I
,!                          i                           Imore than SX of Interest due.                        i              I
I                           I                           I                                   I                 I_             I 



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 8
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Matrix of Koy Project Policy and Institutional Adjustments
I Policy Aroa A Objective I Resent/Pres-nt Policy    I               Adjustment                Rsponsibility   Action By
i            ji                                         I                                   I                 I 'i!
4. Labor Rogime            I                           I                                   I                 I
(a) Xncr..s. labor        I ArtileJ 409  - cannot d,.-I Expand "just causel standard to       MinL abor     JAchl,eved
I    mobility              Icharge or transfer employ-I include competitiveness criterin.j                    IDecember 1990. 
I                           lees without  Just cause,. I                                                      i I
I             I                          ~~~~                                                  ~~~~~~~~~I III
Unidad de Emprosa - applyl Suspend usc  of  unidad  for       I  MinLabor       I    *
uniform salary scales A  I 10 yoars to permit s*parato  laborl                 I                   I
labor contracts to affi- I contract negotiations with econ- I
listed but economically  I omically distinct units of same *
distinct units of firm      firm.
Unit Closing minimum      I Expand standtard to Include          MIrinLbor            a *
standard force m*e3ur    I competitiveness criteria;
or accident - MinLabor       reduce scope of Min Labor
I                           I authorization required.    a uthorization.
i                           i Labor contract duration -I Expand definition to set durationi   MinLabor        I       *          I
unlimitod except for       a as function of firm production
increaens In production,   requiremnts and coetitivenes 
s  sales/tronsport of goods   c eriteria                        I                                    I
Collective dismissal -   I Expand standard to Include coa-      MinLabor       I      *            I
MinLabor authorization   I petitivenose criteria; reduce
required; minimum  tn-     scope of MInLabor authorization.
Idard force mjeure
I. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _     _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _I__ _ _ __   . _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _     _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ I _ _ _ _ _ _I__ _ _ _ _ _ _  



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 8
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Matrix of Key Project Policy and Institutional Adjustments
1            1                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I II  
I Policy Area A Objective  I Recent/Present Policy    I         Adjustment              I Responsibility I Action By   I
.;                        I                          I           .                      i                I             i
14. Labor R-gime (cont'd)  I                         I                                  I                I             I
i (a) Increase labor      lEmployment reintegration  ; Eliminate reintegration require                   ii
mobility (cont'd)    ilabor judge may order ro-  ment.                            I  MinLabor      lAchieved     I
Iturn of those dismissed   I                                 I                I19S0
I                         lemployees with more than  I                                  I                l             I
I                         110 years of service.                                         I                I             I
IIII                                                             I                                     I
IIII                                                             I                                     I
I                         IService Program system    I Eliminate partial withdrawl pro- I  MinLabor      I    *
I                         lincluding partial with-   I vision.                          I                I 
I                         Idrawl of accumulated ba-  I                                                   I  
I                          llances during employment. I                                 I                                                    0 o
I                         Iprovious working norms    I                                                     I
I                         I                          I                                  III
I                         I                          I                                  III
I (b) Reduce economic A    I No provisions           I Establish Labor Adjustment       I  MinLabor      I Achieved    I
I    social cost of labor I                          I Assistance Program (LAAP)        I               I February    I
I    displacement         I                          I                                  I                1991          I
II                                      I                             I                         I                      I
is. T*chnoloA.            I                          I                                  I               I              I
I  Technical Cooperation  I                          I                                  I               1              l
I    Facilitate technologyl Decro- 444 of 1967 sets  I Effectively eliminite technology I  MinEcoDev    I Achieved
I    acquisition, adapta- I 10 criteria to review    I selection criteria, convert con- I  June 1990.  I
I    tion A dissemination I technology and technical I tract roview by royalties comit-I                I              I
I                         I contracts.               I tee into registration and veri-
I                         I                          I fication of contract data, and   I               I
i I                       I reduce contract processing tim.
Ley 81 of 1988 fixes    I
16 days maximum to reviewl
I  contracts.
I   I                          I               ~I                                 I              I



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 8
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Matrix of Key Project Policy and Institutional Adjustments
Policy Area & Objective  I Recent/Presxnt/Policy    I         Adjustment                 | Responsibility   Action By   |
lC.Enviromental Protection I                         I                                   I
Increass compliance with  ILimited capacity to enfor-I Establish Pollution Control      I   DNP            Achieved
eoxisting *nv;ro.ental    lc, regulations under fra- I Support Program to carry out      J                I February
llaws.                    lmwork environmental laws.1 environmental assessu nts of       I                I 1991        I
I                         I                             invostments.                     I                I             I
I                         I                          I                                   i                I             I
I                         I                          I                                                    II
17.IRDP Managemnt         I                          I                                   I                I             I
lIneroase support of publiclLimitod capacity of Min - | Establish IRDP Monitoring            M MinEcoD-v   I Achieved    I
lpolicy-making and lmple- _ EcoDoev for sector analysisl Program in MinEcoDev.           I                  February
Im_ntatio for Industrial   land outreach.            I                                   I                  1991
lcompetitivenocss.        I                                                                               i
I                         I                          wI,                                 I                I             I
ji                        I                          I                                   I                I      -I
I                         I                          I  .I                                                I             I
!                         I                          ,i                                 ,i                I
I           .                                        I.I                                                   



20
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Tab]l[e 1:  Sumpmary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:  Key Indicators for I -oject Operation
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions



21
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial        Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                                      E a                                 El
Sector Policies                      0              E                 E                 O
Financial Objectives                 0              E                 E                1
Institutional Development                           EJ                E                 O
Physical Objectives                 E               I                 a                  ]
Poverty Reduction                   E               E                 E                E
Gender Issues                        a               a                O]
Other Social Objectives             E                0                E                   ]
Environmental Objectives             0              El                a                I
Public Sector Management            E               I                 a                E
Private Sector Development           0              E                 E                I
Other (specify)                     E               E                 E                 E
(Continued)
B. Proiect Sustainabilitv              Likely                  Unlikelv                  Uncertain
(1)                       (V)                       (1)
Hiably
C. Bank Performance                     satisfactory          Satisfactorv                Deficient
(1)                      (v)                       (v')
Identification                      E                         0                         E
Preparation Assistance              E                         0                         El
Appraisal                            a                        0
Supervision                          a                        0                         E



22
igh ly
D. Borrower Performance                       satisfactorv    Satisfactorv    Deficient
(,)           (0)              (/)
Preparation                                   ]                             j]
Implementation                                                              O
Covenant Compliance                           E                               l
Opieration (if applicable)                   L                               LI
Highly                                            Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome              satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactorv     unsatisfactory
(L)                              LI)               [1)(



23
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title               Purpose      Year of            Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. DFC IX                    Credit Line        1984        Closed 06/90
Following operations
1. Export Development (3608)                    1993
2. Finan.Mkts.Dev. T.A(4196)                    1997
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned           Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                    October 3, 1988
Preparation                                                   January 18, 1989
Appraisal                                                     May 13, 1990
Negotiations                                                  January 14, 1991
Board Presentation                                            May 2, 1991
Signing                                                      January 22, 1992
Effectiveness                            April 22, 1992       July 31, 1992
Project Completion                       June 30, 1996        June 30, 1996
Loan Closing                             December 31, 1996   December 31, 1996
March 31, 1998



24
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY92    FY93   FY94   FY95    FY96   FY97   FY98
Appraisal Estimate                6.0       50.0     120.0   158.0    180.0    192.0   200.0
Actual                           0.0        0.0     88.6    154.9    178.2    180.7   182.9
Actual as % of Estimate           0.0%     0.0%      126.6%  174.5%   105.9%   20.8%   91.44%'
Date of Final Disbursement        August 28, 1998
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR/ President's           Estimated                           Actual
R eport__                        _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _   _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _  _
1.
2.         N/A                                   N/A                                N/A
3.
11. Modified Indicators (if
applicable)
2.         N/A                                   N/A                                N/A
3.
111. Other Indicators (if applicable)
1.
2.         N/A                                    N/A                               N/A
Cancellations totaling 17.1 million were made to take account of funds cancelled under the credit program and the
labor adjustment assistance program.



25
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
1. Key Operating Indicators in
SAR/President's Report                 Estimated                          Actual
1.
2.        N/A                                 N/A                              N/A
3.
11. Modified Indicators (if
Applicable)
I .
2.         N/A                                 N/A                              N/A
3.
111. Modified Indicators for Future
Operation (if aprlicabic)
I .
2.          N/A                               N/A                               N/A
3.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study            at Appraisal/Redefined            Status            Impact of Study
1. Econometria          Structural Changes in       Complied                Positive
the Industrial Sector



26
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)             Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Item                             Local        Foreign     Total          Local        Foreign        Total
Costs        Costs                     Costs         Costs
Private Sector Credit
Program/Public: Sector Support  2
for Restructuring               295.0          197.0        492         267.3          178.2        445.5
Labor Adjustment Assistance      3.5            1.5          5.0         0.0            2.0
Environmental Pollution Control   1.0           1.0          2.0                        1.8          4.6
Project Management Support        0.5           0.5          1.0                        0.8
TOTAL                          300.0          200.0        500.0                      182.8        450.1
Table 8B: Project Financing
_____________________________        Appraisal Estimate (US$M)               Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local        Foreign       Total        Local        Foreign       Total
Source                        Costs         Costs                     Costs         Costs
Enterprises                       148                        148        133.65                      133.65
Participating Financial           103                        103        133.65                      133.65
Intermediaries
Private Investments & Enterprise  49                         49          N/A            0.0          N/A
Equity Funds
World Bank                                      200          200                       182.8        182.8
TOTAL                           3000           200          200                       182.8        450.1
*-costs imputed.



27
TABLE 9: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
OrinaSl     Revised
Cove_n    Ptent    fWllbnent   flilment
Agremet    Setion         tre        stm          date        date                  escription of covenant               Co tents
LOa          2.02 (b)                C/CD/C    N/A          N/A         Special deposit account in the Account Bank  In compliance
PINC?                              to be established
2.03                              N/A         N/A          Closing date sham l be iecenber 31. 1996      In compliance
3.02 (a)                          N/A         N/A          Proueds of the Loan allocated for tbe excto   In compliance
of Pan A of the Project shatl be relent to
Participating Financial Intermediaries under
Participation Agreements.
3.02 (b)                          N/A         NIA          Proceeds of Loan allocated for Part B of Project   In compliance
shal be distributed among Execusing Enities
under Pan B Contractual Arrangements.
3.03 (a)                          N/A         N/A          Borrower shall cause Participating Ftnancial  In compliance
Intenrediaries to make available proceeds of
Loan allocated for Part A of Project as set forth
in Schedule S of this Agreement.
3.04                              N/A         N/A          Unless otherwise agreed, procurement of goods,   In compliance
works and consultants services to be rtnanced
out of Loan shall be governed by provision of
Schedule 4 of this Agreemnent.
3.05                              N/A         N/A          Borrower shall submit to the Bank semi-annual  In compliance
reports containing analysis of perfornance data
on implementation of Part A.
4.02 (a)                          N/A         N/A          Borrower shall: (i) have records and accounts as   In compliance
referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement. (ii)
furnish to Bank as soon as possible or no later
dtn six months after end of each year.
Remedies     5.01 (a)                           N/A         N/A         Credit Regulations shall have been amended,    In compliance
of the Bank                                                              suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived to
af. , materially and adversely, ability of the
Borrower to aury out the Project.
5.01 (s)                          N/A         N/A          Estatulos or Credit Regulations shall have been  In compliance
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect mnaterially and adversely
the ability of Borrower to carry our Project or
perform obligations under this Agreemnent or each
of the Participation Agreemenu.
5.01 (h)                          N/A         N/A          Guarantor shall have increased coverage of    In compliance
quantitative restrictions on manufactured items to
more thn 5% of total production of items
manufactured in Colombia.
5.01 (i)                          N/A         N/A          FONDOS regulation shall have been amended.     In compliance
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived to
extent which shIl muterially and adversely affect
the implemendtaon of the Project.
5.01 0)                           N/A         N/A          Labor Amendments shall have been totally or   In compliance
partially amendd suspended, abrogated.
repealed or waived so as to muterially and
adversely affect the implementation of the
Project.
5.01 (k)                          N/A         N/A          That the interest rate charged by Borrower on  In compliance
funds ent under Fondos de Fomento to fitancial
institutions, (including Corporaciones
Financieras) is reduced to less than the DTF rate
or maximum interest rate such financial
institutions are allowed to charge, on funds
onrent to the beneficiaries our of credit s
provided by the Borrower.
Guarantee    3.01 (c)                           N/A         N/A          Guarantor shall enter into contractual        In compliance
arrangements with each of SENA, FONADE and
CORNARE for purposes of making available to
each of the respective Executing Entities the
proceeds of thc Loan.
3.02                              N/A         N/A          Guarantor shall; (a) maintain PCSU and PMSU    In compliance
with staffg, hnctions and responsibilities; nd,
(b) provide or cause to be provided alt the funds,
facilities, staff and resources required by the
PCSU and the PMSU to carry out their funcdons
and responsibilities in an efricient and timely
manner.



28
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                    Planned               Revised              Actual
Project C'ycle
Weeks       US$       Weeks      US$      Weeks    US$
Preparation to Appraisal                                                139.5     265
Appraisal                                                                15.1     29.8
Negotiations through Board                                               11.2     25.8
Approval
Supervision                    19        48.6       18.5    52.4        72.5      187.1
Completion                    14.3       44.6       12.8    37.3         6.6      17.1
TOTAL                        33.3       93.2       31.3    89.7        244.9    524.8



29
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number               Specialized    Implemen-    Develop-
Stage of       Month/      of       Days in   Staff Skills     tation       ment       Types of
Project Cycle      Year    Persons      Field    Represented     Status     Objectives   Problems
Through Appraisal   02/88    3          10        Sr. Oper.Off.      _            _
05/88    2          10        Steel Spec.
04/89    2          3         Ind.Rest.Spec.
01/89    3         9          Agrobus.Spec.
01/90    1          5         Proj.Eval. &
04/90    1          5         Fin.Spec.
Appraisal through
Board Approval     05/90     1          5         Sr. Oper.Off.
Supervision        03/94    2           5
10/95    2         0          Sr. Oper.Off.      S            S
09/96    1          5
06/97    I          0
Completion          11/97    1          4                            S            S
04/98    1          4                            S            S



30
APPENDIX A
lORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR



31
Excerpts of the Evaluation Report BIRF 3321 -CO
(Unofficial Translation)
In order to show the development, implementation and results of Ln. 332 1-CO, this
report first analyzes the loan amounts and type of sub-projects approved by Banco de la
Republica (BR), corresponding to Component A or Industrial Restructuring , as well as
its conduct in the different sectors. Thereafter, the evaluation summarv of the activities
carried out by the Government (Component B) is presented, headed by the Ministry of
Economy and Ministry of Environment, in regard to the areas of Industrial Monitoring
and Environmental Control.
The credit program of Loan 3321-CO was made available to a total of 264
beneficiaries, the use of this credit, for a gross use of resources in the amount of
US$254.3 million. The net amount, which is the 70% (US$178.0 million) directly
administered by BR, served the most dynamic sectors such as the food processing
products, textiles, the production of mineral, and non-metallic products. BR requested
the first disbursement, as an advance, in the amount of US$17.0 million on December 23,
1993, amount that was deposited in the Special Account on January 26, 199A , this way
authorizing the first deductions (r-descuentos) to the financial intermediaries, on
February 4, 1994. In regard to monitoring by BR, since the very beginning of the loan
operations, efforts have been made to maintain a timely follow-up of the re-discounted
operations, by requesting justification of the investments or the financial statements of
the firms or by visiting the companies directly.
At the end of the project in February 1996, an information system was developed
and installed in the Industrial Monitoring Unit (UMI) in the Ministry of Economic
Development (MED), which met all of the required objectives. The information which
was developed and analyzed was published in a magazine titled "Indicadores de
Competividad de la Industria Colombiana". When the consultant firm's contract expired,
UMI alone took over this job already advanced by said firm. Presently the UMI, which
operates with three professionals and one assistant, produces at a lower cost, a magazine
that includes the traditional subjects dealt with by the consultant firm and also includes
macroeconomic issues which cannot be overlooked considering the evolution of the
industrial sector. This magazine is very well received amongst leaders and analysts of
the industry, at the government and private sector level and is continually requested by
new clients.
When the project was designed, it was predicted that once the consultant firm finished its
job, it would be continued by the UMI, this unit would be composed of staff from MED,
therefore, this staff would get a relative permanent position in the future. This objective
has not been achieved since staff working now in the UMI is all hired under six-month
consultant contracts which are not always renewed.  This is a counter-productive
situation of uncertainty since the project may end or the consultant firm be hired again to
do the job. There are two reasons why this interim situation has remained: i) UMI does
not exist in the structural organization of the MED; ii) the salary range required for the
consultants to become staff would be much higher than the rest of the Ministry staff's
salary. Finally, since the Ministers of Development are not permanent staff either, a new



32
minister might come and end the UMI. It would be important for the World Bank, before
committing to help a project like this, to make sure the project will survive, if this is the
expected objective. The MED made 6 disbursement requests for a total amount of
US$803,330.00, equivalent to 80.33% from the total of US$1,000,000.00 assigned.
To April 28, 1997, the 24 disbursements of the Bank to the Special Account totaled
US$183,556,092.11 and leaves a balance to be disbursed of US$11,791,462.89 from
which US$9,347,555.00 will be cancelled because it was not used by a beneficiary.



33
BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
Departamento de Lineas Externas y Cartera
Secci6n Lineas Externas
INFORME DE EVALUACION DEL PROYECTO LINEA BIRF 3321 - CO
Santa Fe de Bogota, Abril 28 de 1997



34
I N D I C E
INTRODUCCION
I.-     CARACTERISTICAS GENERALES DE LA LINEA BIRF 3321-CO
II.-    TIPOS DE PROYECTOS FINANCIADOS
A.- RECONVERSION INDUSTRIAL
B.- GOBIERNO NACIONAL
III.-   INTERMEDIARIOS FINANCIEROS
A.- SISTEMA BANCARIO
B.- CORPORACIONES FINANCIERAS
IV.-    POLITICAS DEL SISTEMA FINANCIERO
CONCLUSIONES



35
INTRODUCCION
Con el fin de mostrar el desarrollo, implementaci6n y resultados de la Linea BIRF 3321-
CO   se analizan en primer lugar las cifras de aprobaci6n y los tipos de proyectos
presentados, correspondientes a la parte del Componente A o Reconversi6n Industrial,
asi como su comportamiento en los diferentes sectores.
Posteriormente se presenta el resumen evaluativo de las actividades desarrolladas por
el Gobierno Nacional (Componente B) en cabeza de los Ministerios de Desarrollo
Econ6mico y Ministerio del Medio Ambiente, referentes a las areas de Monitoria
Industrial  y Control del Medio Ambiente, y los conceptos emitidos por estos
Organismos.
En cuanto al Programa de Adaptacion Laboral que ejecuta el Sena, le fue prorrogado el
plazo final de desembolsos hasta el 30 de Septiembre de 1997, motivo por el cual no se
incluye en el presente informe la parte pertinente al proyecto.



36
I - CARACTERISTICAS DE LA LINEA BIRF 3321 - CO
El 22 de Enero de 1992, se celebr6 un contrato entre el BANCO INTERNACIONAL DE
RECONSTRUCCION Y FOMENTO (BIRF) y el BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA, por el
cual el 13IRF concedi6 un prestamo en canasta de monedas, por un monto equivalente
de US$200.0 millones, de los cuales US$192.0 millones se destinaron para los sectores
Industrial, Comercial y de Servicios (Componente A) y cedidos al Gobiemo US$8.0
millones, asi:  US$5.0 millones para el Programa de Ajuste Laboral  (PAL) que
ejecutaria el Sena, US$1.0 millon para la Unidad de Monitoria Industrial (UMI) que
ejecutaria el Ministerio de Desarrollo Econ6mico y US$2.0 millones para la Unidad de
Apoyo al Control de la Contaminaci6n Ambiental (PCSU) del Ministerio del Medio
Ambiente (Componente B).
Las negociaciones estipularon que el lntermediario tendrfa la autonomia para aprobar
directarmente operaciones de credito con cargo a los recursos del pr6stamo hasta por el
equivalente en pesos de Cinco Millones de D6lares (US$5.000.000) como Limite Libre
y montos superiores quedarian supeditados a la calificaci6n de redescontabilidad por
parte del Banco de la Republica.
El credito fu6 canalizado a traves de las Corporaciones Financieras y los Bancos
Comerciales.
Con los recursos de la Linea se financiaron proyectos desarrollados por empresas
privadas de los sectores manufacturero, agroindustrial, textilero, fabricaci6n de
productos minerales y actividades relacionadas con la salud humana entre otras.
Los prestamos se denominaron en pesos y en d6lares, a unas tasas variables de
redescuento asi:
Para prestamos denominados en d6lares la tasa oscil6 entre Libor +1.84 y Libor + 3.54.
Para prestamos denominados en pesos la tasa oscil6 entre DTF + 2.85 y DTF + 4.71.



37
Dichas tasas de interes se fijaron trimestralmente en los meses de Febrero, Mayo,
Agosto y Noviembre de cada ano por el Banco de la Republica y se comunicaron a los
Intermediarios Financieros para los redescuentos del respectivo periodo de acuerdo con
lo dispuesto en la Resoluci6n No. 5 de 1991 y la Circular Reglamentaria DC-24 de
Marzo 5 de 1993.
Los recursos cedidos a la Naci6n tienen la misma tasa de interes y plazos otorgados al
Banco de la Republica por el Organismo Internacional.
Inicialmente se fij6 un maximo de seis (6) puntos porcentuales para los puntos
adicionales sobre la tasa de redescuento que se constituyen en el margen de
intermediaci6n por disposici6n de la misma Resoluci6n. A partir de 1994 se determin6
que dicho tope fuese de libre acuerdo entre el intermediario financiero y el usuario.
(Circular Reglamentaria DLEC-40 de Mayo 27 de 1994.)
Los plazos fueron fijados como maximo de hasta 12 afios incluido un periodo de gracia
de hasta 3 anos, tanto para activos fijos como para capital de trabajo. El Banco de la
Republica otorg6 a los 4ntermediarios Financieros, el 70% de los subprestamos para
los proyectos de inversi6n denominados en pesos o en dolares (margen de
redescuento) y estos debian aportar como contrapartida el 30% restante.
Por reglamentaci6n para  acceder al credito, el beneficiario debia tener un
endeudamiento maximo del 70%.
Por decisi6n de la Junta Directiva del Banco de la Republica, la colocacion de los
recursos se suspendi6 el 18 de Agosto de 1994 (Carta Circular SG-OB 170 de Agosto
18/94) continuando con los desembolsos de la parte comprometida y con el control de
los creditos, hasta tanto se recibiera respuesta del Banco Mundial sobre la factibilidad de
sustituir al Banco de la Republica por el Instituto de Fomento Industrial (IFI) como
prestatario de la Linea.
No obstante lo anterio,, se convino con Carta Circular DLEC-29 de Febrero 14/95
reiniciar la colocaci6n del saldo de los recursos, (Aprox.US$100.0 millones) que fueron
asignados en su totalidad desde esta fecha hasta el 8 de Junio del mismo afio,
habiendose otorgado finalmente financiaci6n a 264 proyectos para el Componente A por
US$ 254.310.995.72 de los cuales el BIRF a traves de la Linea financiaria el 70% es
decir US$178.017.697.00 (92.7% del monto total), distribuidos en 255 proyectos de
Limite Libre y 9 operaciones calificadas como redescontables por el Organismo
Irternacional.
Con posterioridad a Junio de 1995 y al estar cerrada la recepci6n de solicitudes por
parte del Banco de la Republica, se comunic6 al Banco Mundial que algunas sumas no
serian utilizadas, solicitando una cancelaci6n de US$4.652.445.00. En consecuencia la
parte A del proyecto se redujo a US$187.347.555.00 y el monto de la Linea a
US$195.347.555.00.
Pr6ximamente se solicitara la cancelaci6n de US$9.347.555.00 correspondiente a una
operaci6n sobre la cual el beneficiario inform6 a uiltimo momento, que no desembolsaria.



38
Por su parte el Gobiemo desembols6 US$3.060.332.92 de los US$8.000.000, quedando
pendiente US$4.518.871.08 correspondientes a la parte del SENA (Programa PAL) a
quien le fue concedido por el Banco Mundial un plazo hasta Septiembre 30/97 para
culminar los desembolsos y US$420.796.00 correspondiente a los programas de
Mindesarrollo y Minambiente los cuales no fueron desembolsados y cuya cancelaci6n se
solicitara con el componente de la parte A antes citado.
1.- TIPOS DE PROYECTOS FINANCIADOS
Resultados Alcanzados
COMPIDNENTE A. RECONVERSION INDUSTRIAL
El cuaciro No. 1 muestra la colocaci6n de la Linea por Actividad Economica y el valor de
las solicitudes aprobadas tanto para activos .os como para capital de trabajo.
Dentro de las 264 solicitudes aprobadas el sector que mayor numero de proyectos
present6 fue el de la elaboraci6n de productos alimenticios con 23 que equivalen al
8.71%, seguido de la fabricaci6n de productos minerales no metalicos con 22 proyectos
para uln 8.33%. Entre las actividades que presentaron menor movimiento se tiene la de
cultivos agricolas, fabricaci6n y venta de maquinarias diversas y telecomunicaciones
entre otras, al alcanzar solo una solicitud con un 0.38% de participaci6n. Sin embargo
hay que resaltar que un solo proyecto absorvi6 el 43.23% de la Linea.
El cuaciro No. 2 muestra la distribuci6n geografica de las aprobaciones, de las cuales
corresponden a Santa Fe de Bogota 25.38%, Valle del Cauca 20.38% y Antioquta
14.39%. Igual que en los creditos de las Lineas anteriores se puede decir que la
concentraci6n estuvo en las grandes ciudades. En cuanto a monto el Departamento de
Cundinamarca fue el mayor con US$77.3 Millones.
La Lineia BIRF 3321-CO fue colocada entre 22 intermediarios financieros pudiendose
observar en el cuadro No. 3 que el Banco Popular fu6 la entidad que mas utiliz6 esta
Linea cle Credito al presentar 49 operaciones equivalentes al 18.56%, seguido del
Banco del Estado con 38 aprobaciones correspondientes al 14.39% y el Banco Cafetero
con 37 operaciones, (14.02%.)
El lnterrnediario mas dinamico y lider por excelencia en cuanto a montos aprobados, fu6
Corfinsura que en total tramit6 la colocaci6n del 59.52% de ia Linea (US$131.3
Millones), seguido del Banco de Colombia con el 7.69% (US$16.9 Millones).



39
En el cuadro No. 4 se observa la clasificaci6n de los prestamos segun el nivel de activos
de las empresas, y muestra que de los 264 proyectos, 39 (14.77%) se otorgaron a
empresas con activos totales entre $50.0 a $100.0 Millones y 38 operaciones (14.39%)
a empresas con activos entre $25.0 a $50.0 millones.
Segun las tasas de interes la de mayor utilizaci6n, en los 67 creditos otorgados en
d6lares fue la de Libor + (3.1 a 4.0) correspondiente a 21 operaciones (31.34%),
seguida de la tasa Libor + (5.1 a 6.0) con 20 operaciones (29.85%), como lo podemos
observar en el Cuadro No. 5
Para los 197 creditos otorgados en pesos la tasa de mayor utilizaci6n correspondi6 a la
del DTF + (5.1 a 6.0) con 98 operaciones (49.75%) seguida de la DTF +(0.0 a 3.0) con
56 operaciones (28.43%) segun se aprecia en el cuadro No. 6.
El plazo mas otorgado por los intermediarios para el repago de las obligaciones, fue de
8  anos (40.28%  de las aprobaciones), seguido de las operaciones a 7 anos
equivalentes al 29.88% como lo vemos en el cuadro No. 7. La tendencia de los plazos
hacia los 8 anios se aument6 con relaci6n a los creditos de Lineas anteriores debido a la
ampliaci6n en el plazo maximo y a que al Capital de Trabajo se le coloc6 el mismo plazo
que los Activos Fijos.
Como se puede observar en el cuadro No. 8 la Linea se coloco entre Noviembre de
1992 y Junio de 1995, siendo el ano del mayor numero de operaciones aprobadas 1994
con 172 solicitudes que equivalen al 65.15% (US$42.1 Millones) seguido por 1993 con
61 operaciones que equivalen al 23.11 % (US$76.1 Millones). Es importante resaltar que
el ano de mayor monto colocado fu6 1995 con 28 operaciones por US$98.7 Millones
con el 44.76% del monto total, debido al cierre inminente de la Linea y a las expectativas
creadas a raiz de la Reforma Constitucional sobre el manejo de los recursos de fomento
por parte del Banco de la Republica.
Del total de Empresas beneficiaras del credito 185 son empresas antiguas con el 70.8%
(US$ 131.2 millones) y 79 son empresas nuevas' con el 29.92%(US$89.5 Millones),
como se puede observar en el cuadro No. 9. Esto se debe a que empresas antiguas
iniciaron proceso de reestructuraci6n en sus plantas.
COMPONENTE B.- GOBIERNO NACIONAL
Ministerio de Desarrollo Economico.- Unidad de Monitoria Industrial.
Transcribimos el Informe presentado por el Dr. Hugo Belalcazar Coordinador de la
Unidad de Monitoria Industrial del Ministerio de Desarrollo Econ6mico, recibido en estas
dependencias en Abril 23 de 1997.
Empresas iniciando o por iniciar operaciones en el ano de asignaci6n de los recursos.



40
"Obje1:ivos.
El prcayecto buscaba desarrollar un sistema de informaci6n que supervisara el
desempeho del sector industrial durante el proceso de reestructuraci6n y reconversi6n
industrial y determinar como el sector responde al proceso de la apertura econ6mica,
con el fin de dotar al Ministerio de Desarrollo Econ6mico y al Gobierno de una sere de
herrarrientas para el disefio de la politica industrial del pais.
Procedimientos
Para cumplir con este objetivo se contrat6 los servicios de una firma consultora que
apoyara las tareas de la UMI, para la elaboraci6n y analisis de indicadores
operacionales y financieros de las empresas , la elaboraci6n de indicadores de
competitividad intemacional y la de analisis de indicadores cualitativos y cuantitativos del
entomo empresarial de las industrias del pais.
Resultados alcanzados
A la terminaci6n del proyecto en Febrero de 1996 , podria decirse que tras haber
seguido los procedimientos establecidos se logr6 desarrollar e instalar en la Unidad de
Monitoria Industrial del Ministerio de Desarrollo un sistema de informaci6n que llenaba
aceptablemente los objetivos buscados. La informaci6n que se desarrollaba y analizaba,
se publicaba en una revista peri6dica titulada lndicadores de Competitividad de la
lndustriia Colombiana. Cuando la firma consultora termin6 el contrato original mas una
pr6rroga de tres meses, la Unidad de Monitoria Industrial continu6 sola con el trabajo
que venia adelantando dicha firma.
En la actualidad la Unidad de Monitoria Industrial, que funciona con tres profesionales y
una secretaria, produce a menor costo que antes, una revista  con los temas
tradicionales que trataba la firma consultora y ademas incluye el tema macroecon6mico
que no puede dejar de examinarse al considerar la evoluci6n del sector industrial.
La revista Indicadores de Competitividad de la Industria Colombiana ha logrado una muy
buena aceptaci6n entre dirigentes y analistas de la industria, a nivel del gobiemo y del
sector privado, y continuamente es solicitada por nuevos interesados.
Fortalezas y Debilidades.
Cuando se diseno el proyecto, se 1-abia previsto que cuando la firma consultora
terminara su trabajo, este pasaria a manos de una Unidad de Monitoria Industrial, que
estaria compuesto por personal de planta del Ministerio de Desarrollo y que, por lo tanto
hacia el futuro tendria una relativa permanencia o estabilidad.  Este objetivo no ha
podido cumplirse por cuanto el personal que ahora trabaja en la UMI esta todo
contratado por terminos no mayores de seis meses, al final de los cuales por voluntad
de cualquiera de las partes puede haber o no una renovaci6n del contrato. Esta es una
situaci6n de inestabilidad contraproducente, pues en cualquier momento puede terminar
con el proyecto o volverlo a la situaci6n cuando el trabajo era contratado con una firma
consultora externa. Las razones por las cuales se ha mantenido esta situaci6n de
interinidlad son dos: De una parte, no existe en la estructura organizacional del
Ministeiio de Desarrollo la Unidad de Monitoria Industrial; de otra parte, parece que los
niveles salariales que requieren los consultores temporales para volverse funcionarios
de planita, serian mas altos que aquellos de los demas funcionaros del Ministero.



41
Finalmente como los Ministros de Desarrollo tampoco son permanentes, un nuevo
ministro puede siempre venir y terminar con la UMI.
Lecciones Importantes
Parece que seria importante que el Banco Mundial antes de comprometer slJ ayuda en
un proyecto como 6ste, deberia asegurar su supervivencia, si es que este es tambien
uno de los objetivos buscados."
En total el Ministerio de Desarrollo present6 6 solicitudes de desembolso por un monto
de US$803.330.00, equivalentes al 80.33% del total asignado de US$1.000.000.00.
Ministerio del Medio Ambiente.- Unidad de Apovo al Control de la Contaminacion
Ambiental.
De la misma manera que el proyecto anterior, transcribimos el Informe presentado por el
Dr. Carlos Manuel Herrera Santos, Director Ambiental Sectorial del Ministerio del Medio
Ambiente, recibido en nuestras dependencias el 25 de Abril de 1997.
"En relaci6n con los principales objetivos del proyecto, los aportes han sido:
1. Otorgar sustanciales elementos de juicio: diagn6sticos, politicas y herramientas para
la toma de decisiones por parte de las autoridades ambientales, provenientes del
estudio de la problematica y la forma de solucionarla en materia del Recurso Hidrico,
Recurso Aire, Residuos Solidos y Peligrosos, Licencias Ambientales, Tasas
Retributivas y compensatorias y analisis sectoriales que ha venido desarrollando la
Unidad desde su creaci6n.
2. Formular una metodologia para la Gestion Ambiental en el pais aplicada al Recurso
Hidrico, Recurso Aire, Residuos S6lidos y Peligrosos y Licencias Ambientales, con los
contenidos senialados en el punto anterior que permitira a la autoridad ambiental
trabajar sobre metas reales de mejora de la calidad del medio ambiente, esta
metodologia ha sido publicamente aceptada por diferentes autoridades publicas y
celebrada como un acierto y un gran avance del Estado por el sector privado.
3. Iniciar el proceso de elaboracion de diagnosticos sectoriales, con elementos de juicio
propios que permitiran el ajuste ambiental de cada sector.
4. Permitir un mayor acercamiento de las diferentes entidades del Sector Privado hacia
el Ministerio del Medio Ambiente y propiciar espacios de Coordinaci6n
Interinstitucional Publica sobre los mismos temas que hacen que buena parte del
trabajo realizado este apropado por otras entidades y sectores.
5. Creaci6n y consolidaci6n del Centro de Informacion Referencia y Enlace -CIRE- que
ha permitido la divulgaci6n de la informaci6n del Ministerio del Medio Ambiente a
Nivel Mundial.



42
Una vez constituido funcionalmente el Ministerio del Medio Ambiente en concepto del
mismo, se inici6 un proceso de lnstitucionalizaci6n de alguna de las actividades que
venia dlesarrollando la Unidad y que como todas las que se han asignado, constituyen
importantes funciones del Ministerio el que acorde con sus necesidades, recogio
funciones asignadas en el Plan Operativo a la Unidad y las sigue desarrollando con sus
asesorlias y participaci6n, especializandola en temas que al tratarlos en su interior
resultarian deficientes, no obstante se ha trabajado en un proceso de estrecha
coordinaci6n lo que facilitara la plena instituciona. .zacion cde las funciones a su cargo,
situacic)n que se evidencia en la delegacion que el pro mecto CO [/93/008 se le hiciera a
la Direccion del Medio Ambiente Fisico, mediante la KRsolui6n 
En total el Ministerio del Medio Ambiente, present6 5 solicitudes de desembolso por un
monto de US$1.775.874.G0 equivalentes al 88. 79% del total asignado de
US$2. 000.000.00.
Servicio Nacional de ADrendizaie - SENA. Programa de Aiuste Laboral (PAL)
Referente al PAL el informe final sera presentado una vez ternminen los desembolsos en
Septienibre 30 de 1997.
Mll.- INTERMEDIARIOS FINANCIEROS
A.- SiSTrEMA BANCARIO
A partir de la iniciaci6n de los redescuentos de la Linea en 1994 y hasta el cierre de los
desembolsos por parte del Organismo Internacional en 1996, los Bancos del pais
mostraron una tendencia ascendente en cuanto a sus Activos Totales que registran un
incremento del 56.2% al pasar de $18.8 Billones de pesos a $29.5 Billones de pesos.
Respecto del Patrimonio este presenta un incremento del 80.9% entre 1994 y 1996, que
con relacion al incremento de los activos es muy superior.
En cuarito a la cartera del Sector Bancario entre 1994 y 1996 presenta un incremento de
65.5% cifra muy representatva dentro del movimiento crediticio del pais, aunque es
menor al presentado en periodos anteriores.



43
Mientras tanto los indicadores de riesgo aurnentaron asi: los Activos Improductivos
pasan de 0.86 a 1.39 es decir se oumentan en un 61.62%; la Exposici6n Patrimonial
pas6 de 5.98% a 8.38% con aumento del 40.13%.
De otra parte la Rentabilidad Patrimonial descendi6 en un 21.38% al pasar de 16.33% a
12.84%.
Al mediar la eficiencia Laboral y Administrativa podemos observar que mejor6, al pasar
de 8.54% a 8.82%.
Las utilidades del Sistema Bancario, se incrementaron de $249.147 Miles de Millones a
$379.449 Miles de Millones, con lo cual podemos observar la dinamica del Sector en
este aspecto.
En terminos generales puede conc!uirse, como lo muestra el cuadro No. 10 que durante
el periodo de colocaci6n y desembolso de los recursos, los bancos comerciales que en
su gran mayoria son intermediarios de la Linea BIRF 3321-CO, presentaron resultados
positivos especialmente en lo que respecta al crecimiento de los activos. patrimon!o y
utilidades.
B.- CORPORACIONES FINANCIERAS
De las cifras que se muestran en el cuadro No. 11 indicadores financieros del Sistema
de Corporaciones, se pueden establecer los siguientes parametros en el mismo periodo:
Al igual que el sistema Bancario las Corporaciones Financieras mostraron una tendencia
ascendente en cuanto a sus Activos Totales, que se reflejo en un incremento del
74.23% al pasar de $4.1 Bill6n a $7.3 Billones de pesos.
Con relaci6n al Patrimonio este tambien present6 un incremento del 84.32% con lo que
se mantiene la tendencia del crecimiento del Sistema Financiero.
La Cartera de los creditos present6 un incremento del 72.37% entre 1994 y 1996 lo que
indica que el movimiento de los cr6ditos otorgados por las Corporaciones Financieras
siguen la tendencia al alza. Estas Cuentas por Cobrar pasaron de $2.6 Billones de
Pesos a $4.6 Billones de pesos.
De otra parte los indicadores de Riesgo presentaron un incremento al igual que el
Sistema Bancario, asi: Los Activos Improductivos del 57.31%, la Exposici6n del
Patrimonio 48.58%, el Endeudamiento 71.16%.
En cuanto a la Rentabilidad. del Patrimonio, fue del 23.09% en 1996 lo que indica que
presento una ligera disminuci6n dentro del periodo de desembolso de la Linea.



44
Midiendo la eficiencia laboral como mayores gastos en relacion con el volumen de
operaciones se establece que disminuy6 la eficiencia de las Corporaciones en un 23.5%
al pasar de 3.15% al 2.41%.
Las utilidades de las Corporaciones Financieras, presentaron un incremento del 94.32%
al pasar de $69.79 Millones a $135.61 Millones, lo que demuestra que su fortalecin,iento
dentro dlel Sisterma Financiero continua vigente.
Como lo podemos ver, al igual que el Sistema Bancario, las Corporaciones presentaron
un balance positivo en lo que respecta al crecimiento de Activos, Patrimonio y
Utilidades.
IV.- POLITICAS DEL SISTEMA FINANCIERO
La Linea BIRF 3321 - CO oper6 bajo los parametros estipulado en la Resoluci6n Interna
No. 5 del 13 de Noviembre de 1991, la Junta Directiva del Banco de la Republica, que
fiji las politicas para la Administraci6n de las Lineas de Credito Externo que
intermediaba el Banco; Clasifico los Intermediarios Financieros segun su capacidad
tecnica para evaluar proyectos y les di6 attonomia para aprobar automaticamente
(Limite Libre) creditos, establecio como margen de redescuento el 70% del prestamo y
el beneficiario debia aportar el 30% del proyecto. Tambiln excluyo la financiacion de
Instituciones Financieras y el Sector de Vivienda, con recursos de Lineas Externas.
Los prestamos podrian desembolsarse en pesos o en dolares a escogencia del
beneficiario.
Como condiciones financieras fij6 que la tasa de interes al usuario no podia superar en
mas de 6 puntos la tasa de redescuento. modificado posteriormente por la Circular
Reglamentaria DLEC-040 de Mayo 27 de 1994. El Intermediario y el beneficiario
acordarian libremente la periodicidad del cobro de intereses, en forma vencida. La tasa
de redescuento seria calculada peri6dicamente para prestamos en pesos y en dolares
(Anexo No. 1) para aplicarla a nuevos redescuentos. Posteriormente se reglamento que
su calculo se efectuaria trimestralmente.
Para los plazos, la Resolucion establecio un maximo de 12 anos incluyendo hasta 3
affos con periodo de gracia.



45
Con la Resoluci6n Intema No. 2 de Noviembre 6/92 la Junta Directiva del Banco de la
Republica, autoriz6 que todos los Intermediarios Financieros tendrian una autonomia
para aprobar creditos automaticamente hasta por us$5.0 millones, a partir de Junio 1193.
En 1994, la Junta Directiva del Banco de la Repub,ica decidio utilizar un sistema de
bandas cambiarias dentro de la cual el mercado debe ubicar la tasa de cambio. Cabe
anotar que la utilizacion en pesos de ia L.inea se h,zo con base en este nuevo sistema
de fijaci6n de tasa de cambio.



46
CONCLUSIONES
L-a Linea BIRF 3321-CO permiti6 que un numero de 264 beneficiarios utilizaran el
credito, para una colocaci6n bruta de recursos de US$254.3 millones. En cifras netas es
d,cir al 70% (US$178.0 Millones) atendidos directamente por el BIRF siendo los
sectores mas dinamicos los de elaboraci6n de productos alimenticios y el de la
fai7.;-!cadcion de productos minerales no metalicos.
El Banco de la Republica solicit6 el primer desembolso como anticipo por US$17.0
. .ones el 23 de Diciembre de 1993, recursos que fueron abonados en la Cuenta
EspecizlI  el 26 de enero de 1994, autorizando los primeros redescuentos a los
internediarios Financieros, para el 4 de Febrero del mismo ano.
En cuanto a la labor de control, desde el comienzo mismo de las operaciones de la
Linea, se ha venido trabajando en mantener un seguimiento oportuno a las operaciones
redescontadas, bien sea solicitando la justificaci6n de las inversiones y los estados
firiancieros de las firmas o bien visitando directamente las empresas.
Rc; pecto de los usuarios. conviene resaitar a Cerveceria Leona S.A., a la cual se le
concedicb un primer credito de US$53.0 Millones y un aumento posterior de US$30.0
millones para duplicar la capacidad de la planta de Tocancipa.
Por parte del Gobierno Nacional se han tramitado 14 operaciones por valor de
US$3.060.332.92, quedando pendiente de ejecutar US$4.518.871.08 del Programa de
Ajuste Laboral (PAL) que desarrolla el SENA, y que tiene su vencimiento final en
Septiembre 30 de 1997.
De otra parte, los Intermediarios Financieros, siguieron presentando un aumento
considerable en sus Activos, Patrimonio y Cartera.
A Abril 28 de 1997, los 24 desembolsos del Organismo Internacional a la Cuenta
Especial ascienden a la suma de US$183.556.092.11 y arroja un saldo por desembolsar
de US$11.791.462.89, de los cuales se cancelaran US$9.347.555.00 por no utilizaci6n
de un beneficiario. Adicionalmente se cuenta con US$2.263.019.70 en la Cuenta
Especial para atender los proximos desembolsos del Gobierno Nacional.



BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
DEPARTAMENTO DE LINEAS EXTERNAS Y CARTERA
CREDITOS APPC2A- . ,- SEC`UN ACTIVIDAD ECON0MIC.,s
NELA B'RF 3321- CO
C(114D rb.1
CIIU                    NOM9RE                                   - CTALES          I        ACT vOS 7jZ 'S ICP -A'r ABA->'  Vn APROBADO I
N.J'MERO!  a- v      h/A OR MM$ PAR R T %    VALOR    ! V,  LRM'sis LWuSS
11 Cultivos en General, cultivos de productos mercado    1   0 3860%       842.2  0.38%             842.2              0       l 000.000.0
12 Cria de Animales                                      1   0.38%         2398   0.11%               0.0           239.8         350.0000
14 ActividaddeServiciosAgricolasyganaderos               1   038%          2400   0.119 '.60.0                       800          289.404.2
20 Silvicultura, extracci6n de madera y actividades conexas  1   0 38%      60 0  0.03%               47 5            12 5         73.085 7
50 Pesca, explotaci6n de criaderos de peces              3    1 14%        327 3  0 15%               52 6          274 7         383,974.8
112 Actividad de servicios relacionados con petr6leo      1   0 38%         647 3  0 2!%             621 1            26 2         791.093.0
141 Extracci6n de piedra, arena y arcilla                 4    1 52%        547.5  0 25%              476 9            70 6        666.160.0
151 Producci6n, procesamiento y conservacion de carne     7   2 65%       12.546.5  5.69%           9.754 1         2 792 4     15.037.270.5
152 Elaboracion de productos lacteos                      5    1 89%        385.8  0.17%              214 2           171 6        465,229.3
153 Elaboracibn de productos de molineria. almidones      2   076%         1.200.0  0.54%               00          1.2000       1.394,081 8
154 Elaboraci6ndeotrosproductosalimenticios              23    8.71%     44755.1  20.29%           44 1.934           561 7     49.106.525.0
155 Elaboraci6nde bebidas                                 5    1 89%      77.564.3  35.16%         72 603.5         4,960.8     91,911.292.1
1'I Hilatura,tejedurayacabadodeproductostextiles          4    1.52%       2.069.6  0.94%           1.359.3           710.3      2.393,763.8
172 Fabricaci6ndeotrosproductostextiles                   7   265%          625.7  0.28%              419.0           206.7        737.961.7
181 Fabricaci6ndeprendasdevestr                          11   4.17%        5.694.2  2.58%           3,7069          1,9873       6.665,094.0
182 Adobo y tefido de pieles, fabricaci6n articulos de piel  1   0.38%       25.0  0.01%               20.0             5 0         29.696.2
191 Curtidoyadbodecueros,fabricaci6n de maletas           5    1.89%        111.2  0.05%               53.3            57.9        132,996.4
200 Producci6ndemadeerayfabricaci6nde productos           1   0.38%       13.495.9  6.12%          13.495 9             0.0      15.400,000.0
201 Aserradoy acepilladura de madera                      3    1 14%         50.0  0.02%               16.0            34.0         59,513.5
202 Fabricaci6nde productosde madera                      4    1.52%        221.6  0.10%               88.6           133.0        265,477.7
210 Fabricaci6n de papel y de productos de papel          2    0.76%        503.5  0.23%              453.5            50.0        611.001 0
221 Actihdesdeedici6n                                     6    2.27%       8.717.4  3.95%           8.6674             50.0       9,941.664.2
222 Acdles de lmpresi6n y actvidades Conexas              4    1.52%        173.2  0.08%              157.6            15.6        207,847.6
231 Fabricaci6n de productos de hornos de coque           1   0.38%         700.0  0.32%              700 0             0.0        835,000.0
241 Fabricaci6ndesustanciasquimicasbSsicas                3    1.14%        571.0  0.26%              536.0            350         674,037.3
242 Fabricaci6n de otros productos quimicos               8    3.03%       1,644.9  0.75%           1,417.9           227.0       1,864,752.2
243 Fabricaci6n de fibras manufacturadas                  1   0.38%           5.0  0.00%                0.0             5.0          6.042.7
251 Fabricaci6ndeproductosdecaucho                        3    1.14%        530.0  0.24%              313.0           217.0        647,341.5
252 Fabricaci6n de productos de plastico                  8    3.03%        758.0  0.34%              445.9           312.1        900,979.2
261 Fabricacidn de vidros y productos de vidrio           2    0.76%        100.0  0.05%               48.0            52.0        122,276.1
269 Fabricaci6n de productos minerales no metalicos      22    8.33%       5,761.0  2.61%           5,478.2           282.8       6.730,726.7
271 Industrias bsicas de hierro y acero                   1   0.38%          20.0  0.01%                4.0            16.0         24,390.2
273 Fundicid6n de metales                                 2    0.76%        880.0  0.40%              765.0           115.0       1.065,825.1
281 Fabricaci6n de productos metalicos para uso estructural  3    1.14%     640.0  0.29%              161.0           479.0        780,927.2
289 Fabricaci6n de otros productos elaborados de metal   16   6.06%        1,748.9  0.79%           1,079.0           669.9       2,067,298.8
291 Fabricaci6n de maquinaria de uso general              4    1.52%        477.0  0.22%               71.0           406.0        581,631.1
292 Fabricaci6n de maquinaha de uso especial              1   0.38%         270.0  0.12%                0.0           270.0        330.071.6
300 Fabricaci6n de maquinaria de oficina. contabilidad    1   0.38%         100.0  0.05%               90.0            10.0        121,698.2
312 Fabricaci6n de aparatos de distribuci6n y control     1   0.38%          80.0  0.04%                0.0            80.0         97,797.1



BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
DEPARTAMENTO DE LINEAS EXTERNAS Y CART F-'
O'REF3TC)S APR'C>BA,0S  SE' jN A'_ H;VDAE  :CO9NQMICA
LINEA 3B,F 3321- C3
CNOM kRE                                    TOTALES                 IF 'AC  VS  JOS  CA-PSTAL TRIBAJO  VR APROBADO
||NVAERO       A        LOR MM PART  J L7.a      tS  |  VALORMMS                  US$
313 Fabricaci6n de hilos y cables aislados                  1    0.38%          80.0   0 04%              60.0             20.0         95.268.7
319 Fabricaci6n de otrostipos de equipo electrico           4    1.52%         158.0  0.07%                7.3            1507         189,167.7
331 Fabricaci6n de tubos y vlvulas electr0nicos             1    0.38%         200.0   0 09%              46.0            154 0        240,067.0
341 Fabricaci6n de automotores                              1   0.38%           22.0  0.01 c/%            22 0              0.0         26,094.8
342 Fabricacion de carrocerias para vehiculos automotores   1   0,38%           50.0  0.02%                0.0             50 0         61,271.5
343 Fabricaci6n de partes, piezas y accesorios para vehfculo  1   0.38%         57.0  0.03%                00              570          69,677.9
361 Fabricaci6n de muebles                                  6    2.27%         827 7  0.38%              790.8             36.9       1.009,217.7
369 Industrias manufactureras                               2    076%        2,548.8   1 16%           2518.8              30.0      2,991,203.2
371 Reciclamiento de desperdicios y deshechos metalicos     2    0.76%          41.0  0.02%               34.2              6 8         49,264.,
401 Generacion, captacion y distribuci6n de energia electrica  1   0.38%     1,041.3  0.47%            1,041.3              0 0       1,202,573.5
410 Captaci6n,depuraci6nydistribuciondeagua                 1   0.38%          100.0  0.05%               12.8             87.2        122,400n
452 Construcci6ndeedificioscompletosodepartedeedif          1   0,38%          150.0  0.07%                0.0            150.0        184,0039
501 Venta de vehiculos automotores                          1   0.38%          205.2  0.09%                0.0           205.2         250.000.0
502 Mantenimiento y reparacidn de motocicletas y sus partes  3    1 14%         55.5  0.03%               31.0            24.5          65,900.J,
503 Venta de partes, piezas y reparaci6n de motocicletas    3    1.14%          70.0  0.03%                7.6            62.4          83,116.3           CO
512 Venta aa por mayor de materias primas agropecuarias     1   0.38%          100.0  0.05%              100.0              00         121,165.7
513 Venta al por mayordeenseresdomesticos                   2    0.76%         220.0  0.10%               43.8           176.2         249,994.1
514 Venta al por mayor de productos intermedios             1   0.38%           70.0  0.03%                0.0            70.0          84,808.6
515 Venta al por mayor de maquinara, equipo y materiales    1    0.38%          51.2  0.02%               37.6            13.6          62,309.6
519 Ventaalpormayordeotrosproductos                         1    0.38%          30.0  0.01%                0.0            30.0          36,73' i
522 Venta al por menor de alimentos, bebidas, tabaco etc.   2    0.76%          60.0  0.03%                2.3            57.7          72.56? ;
523 Comercio al por menor de otros productos nuevos        13    4.92%       2,607.0   1 18%             589.0          2,018.0      3,113,576.8
525 Comercio al por menor no realizaddo en almacenes        1   0.38%           50.0  0.02%               50.0             0.0          61,452.2
551 Hoteles, campamentos u otros tipos de hospedajes        2    0.76%       8,588.5  3.89%            8,588.5             0.0       8,731,297.7
602 Otros 6pos de transporte via terrestre                  4    1.52%         722.1  0.33%              642.1            80 0         870,081.7
630 Actividades de transporte complementaria                1    0.38%          61.5  0.03%               61.5             0.0          75,000.0
642 Telecomunicaciones                                      1    0.38%       3,362.4  1.52%            3,362.4             0.0       4,331,977.0
712 Alquiler de otros 6pos de maquinaria y equipo           1    0.38%          23.0  0.01%               23.0             0.0          27,674.2
720 Inform6tica y actividades conexas                       1    0.38%         190.0  0.09%              190.0             0.0         231,103.2
802 Enseflanza secundaria                                   2    0.76%       1,500.0  0.68%            1,500.0             0.0       1,760,375.5
803 Enseflanza superior                                     1    0.38%         800.0  0.36%              800.0             0.0         731,494.5
851 Actividadesrelacionadascon lasalud humana              11    4.17%      10,658.1  4.83%           10,053.2           604.9      11,760,569.2
930 Otras actividades de serviclos                         10    3.79%         556.1  0.25%              533.3            22.8         585,649.7
TOTALES                                              264    100%        220,585  100%             199,660          20,925    254,310,995.72
CEDEB - ABRIL 21 DE 1997
INFINAL.XLS- t



BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
DEPARTAMENTO DE LINEAS EXTERNAS Y CARTERA
CREDITOS APROBADOS - SEGUN LOCAL.!Z:CDON
LiNEA BIRF 3321 -CO
CUADRO b.2
LOCALIZACION                                       TOTALES ,, v R.JC s    CAPT T                                       'IFi VPR B
PROYECTO                     Nc            PART %      APROBADO MM$    PART %            'A_ V--          VALOR V OF          USWA
5 ANTIOQUiA                          38            14.39%             33,912.7    15.37%             29.975 4          3.937 3       37.984,429.7
8 ATLANTICO                          4             1.52%               5,227.6    2.37%               4.507 2           720.4         6,386,068.8
13 BOLIVAR                            1             0.38%               7,588.5    3 44%                7588.5             0 0         7.532,757.0
15 BOYACA                             3             1.14%                110.0    0.05%                  104 2             5.8          134,181.2
17 CALDAS                             3             1.14%               1,068.8    0.48%               1 048.9            199          1,219;530.0
85 CASANARE                           1             0.38%                100.0     0 05%                  61.0            39.0          122,462.0
19 CAUCA                              4             1 52%               7,355.4    3 33%               7156.7            198 7         8,380,453.3
25 CUNDINAMARCA                       14            5.30%              74,266.0    33.67%             69.317 7          4,948.3       88,352,405.0
41 HUILA                               1            0.38%                  18.0    0.01%                  14.9             3.1           21,391.9
50 META                               3             1.14%               1,250.0    0.57%                  17.0          1,233.0        1.454,989.8
52 NARINO                             22            8.33%               2,084.3    0.94%               1,931 3           153.0         2,556,199.3
54 NORTE DE SANTANDER                 17            6.44%                796.0    0.36%                  412.0           384.0          970,488.1
63 QUINDIO                             1            0.38%                130.0    0.06%                  130.0             0.0           156,392.9
66 RISARALDA                          3             1.14%               7,689.6    3.49%               7,602.4            87.2         9,013,244.1
11 SANTAFE DE BOGOTA D.C.             67            25.38%            28,296.6    12.83%              23,939.6         4,357.0        32.998,070.0
68 SANTANDER                          21            7.95%               4,827.0    2.19%               .;121.5   .       705.5         5.815,372.8
70 SUCRE                              1             0.38%                239.8    0.11%                    0.0           239.8          350,000.0
73 TOLIMA                             5             1.89%               1,085.6    0.49%                 718.8           368.8         1,315,529.1
76 VALLE                              55            20.83%             44,539.4    20.19%             41,015.4          3,524.0       49,547,030.4
TOTAL                  264           100.00%           220,585.3   100.00%             199,660.5        20,924.8     254,310,995.72
CEDEB.- ABRIL 21 DE 1997
04FINAL.XLS-C



0                              N)                            Cco0
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 
CD)
m
r')AiTIOQUIA                                     (: f;m
ATLANTICO                                                                                   rm
BOLIVAR
CD
BOYACA
CALDAS
CASANARE
CAUCA
CUNr iNAM.
0
HUILA
META _
z
0
0
NARINO0 
I-
NORTE SANT    __
QUINDOI
RISARALDA
STAFE BOGOTA
SANTANDER
SUCRE                                                                                 U
z
0
TOLIMA
VALLE  _                                                                             Z
Os



BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
DEPARTAMENTO DE LINEAS EXTERNAS Y CAP-!
CREDITOS AFIR":    . -- SN INTERMED14RIOS F.N;'NCIFROS
I;i.Lk ^3IPRF 3321 - CO
CIADRsO hb.3
INTERNIED!ARIO                            () _I's ! iS_'IJ(>xI                        i TPI RAfBAJOi    VR APROBADO
No    FPARI    APROBADO, s            PAR1,                            '     \
1 BOGOTA                   5         1.89%               464.6    0 21%           357 1           107.5             562.427 0
2 POPULAR                  49       18.56%              4,083 1   1.85%          2 464 2         1 618 9          4,571.926.5
3 COLOMBIA                 21        7.95%             16,953.0    769%         14.866 8         2,086 2         19,829,171 5
5 CAFETERO                 37       14.02%             2.607.0    1 18%           975 1          1.631 9          3,142.309.8
6 BANCOQUIA                 4        1 52%               362 0   0 16%            33/ 5            24 Y             440,050.0
7 INDUSTRIAL COL.          2         0.76%               445.0   0.20%            44a o             -               542 741.7
13 GANADERO                 31       11.740/c            4,919.5    2 23%         4 ?09 7          709 8           5,249 400.6
20 DELESTADO                38       14.39%              5.794.1   263%              16           '1,i805          6,773,641.4
110 C.F.COLOMBIANA           13        4.92%              7,362.4   3.34%          7 273 7           8&.7           8,362,276.1
115 C F.DE CALDAS            4         1 52%              1,243.2   0.56%          1 223 3            19 9          1,468,480.9
118 C.F.CUNDINAMARCA         10        3.79%               643.2   0.29%            269 6           373 6             780,278.9
130 C F. OCCiDENTE           2         0.76%               687.3    0 310/c         631 1             56.2            839,348.6
133 LATINCORP                 5        1.89%              4,186.1    1 90%         1.952 9         2 233.2          4,911,813.2
136 C.F. SANTANDER           3         1.14%              1,380.0   0.63%          1.179 4          200.6           1,655,752.3
151 C.F.DEL NORTE            4         1.52%              5,227.6   2.37%          4.507 2          720.4           61386,068.8
160 C.F. DEL VALLE           8         3.03%             18,520.4   8.40%         18,131 0          389.4          22,328,788.3
161 C.F. PACIFICO             1        0.38%                60.0   0.03%              55.0             5.0             73,171.0
172 C.F.UNION                2         0.76%               989.8   0.45%            405.8           584.0           1,261,292 1
174 C.F.DE BOYACA             1        0.38%               150.0   0.07%               0.0           150.0            184,003.9
175 CORFINSURA               14        5.30%            131,281.5   59.5S2%      124,152.0         7,129.5        150,874,731.7
190 I.F.I.                   4         1.52%             11,367.5   5.15%         11,3675             -            11,888,063.0
194 BANCOOP                  2         0.76%              1,680.0   0.76%           680.0          1,000.0          1,969,726.3
199 UCONAL                   4         1.52%               178.0   0.08%             63.0            115.0            215,531.9
TOTALES                       264       100.00%           220,585.3  100.00%       199,660 5        20,924.8       254,310,995.72
CEDEB - ABRIL 21 DE 1997
INFINAL.XLS-D



C)                                                                                              D w
m                              _~   -      N t.J  (s3  C., C.   .>          g                    a 
w                                                    0
BOGOTA
POPULAR
;: E g S   -                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D co
COLOMBIA                         :                                                     _
m O
CAFETERO
n
COPOO                                                                      cI     v
(I)
BANCOQUIADA
BIC   11   :                                                                   (D
CORFIOCOL O
C)
CORFISANLAS
CORFICNORTE   _                                                                 zl
C)
DERFISATANDO2
M
CORFIOCTL                                                                      0 
CORFIVALLS                                                                     C)
C:
CORFIPACIF 
CORFIUNION
CORFIBOYACAi
CORFINSURA
IFI                                                               a 
UCGRFNALLm
BARINCOOP>
U
z
UACONALP
0



BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
DEPARTAMENTO DE LINEAS EXTERNAS Y CARTERA
CREDITOS APROBADOS - SEGUN ESCALA DE ACTIVOS
LINEA BIRF 3321 - CO
aIDRO NDb.4
ESCALA DE ACTIOS                                  TOTALES                          ACT. FIJOS    CAPIT.TRABAJO    VR. APROBADO
Escala en Mllones de Pes          No.     PART.%  | APROBADO MM$ |  PART.%           VALOR MM        VALOR MMSS
HASTA 25                                     33       12.50%            8,084.4     3 66%            7,786.8           297.6        9,495,200.9
MAS DE             25.1 A            50.0    38       14.39%            10,020.2    4.54%            9,626.5           393.7        12,053,843.6
MAS DE             50.1 A           100.0    39       14.77%            2,770.5    1.26%             1,7e2.3           988.2        3,340,808.1
MAS DE             100.1 A          200.0    33       12.50%            2,542,7    1.15%             1,425.4         1,117.3        3,080,386.9
MAS DE            200.1 A           300.0    16       6.06%              1,313.1    0.60%              287.5          1,025.6        1,581,949.3
MAS DE            300.1 A           500.0    12       4.55%              1,624.6    0.74%              848.6           776.0         1,962,241.4
MAS DE            500.1 A         1,000.0    24       9.09%             8,787.9    3.98%             5,464.9         3,323.0       10,485,812.5
MAS DE           1,000.1 A          2,000    20       7.58%             12,291.5    5.57%           1.,228.4          1,063.1       14,003,701.2
MAS DE           2,000.1 A        5,000.0    17       6.44%             81,189.3    36.81%          73,872.3         7,317.0       96,311,975.7
MAS DE           5,000.1 A         10,000    10       3.79%             19,176.4    8.69%           17,284.9          1,891.5      22,519,484.3
MAS DE          10,000.1 A         20,000    5        1.89%             10,718.1    4.86%           10,718.1              0.0      11,160,528.0
MAS DE          20,000.1 A         30,000    4        1.52%             4,513.5    2.05%             4,513.5              0.0       4,715,584.5
MAS DE          30,000.1 A         50,000    4        1.52%             23,007.7    10.43%          22,028.1           979.6       27,301,279.6
MAS DE          50,000.1 A        100,000    4        1.52%              7,008.1    3.18%            5,255.9          1,752.2       8,011,093.0
MAS DE         100,000.1 A        150,000    2        0.76%             13,208.0    5.99%           13,208.0              0.0       11,920,524.3
MAS DE         150,000.1 A        200,000    2        0.76%              8,771.2    3.98%            8,771,2              0.0       10,000,000.0
MAS DE         200,000.1 A        400,000     1       0.38%              5,558.1    2.52%             5558.1             0.0        6,366,582.0
264     100.00%           220,585.3   100.00%         199,660.5        20,924.8     254,310,995.72
CEDEB.- ABRIL 21 DE 1997
INFINAL.XLS-E



BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
Departamento de Lineas Externas y Cartera
BIRF 3321-CO - SEGUN ESCALA DE ACTIVOS (MILLONESI
*No.OPERACIONES
40
35
30
25
Ul
20
15
10
5
(N     U,      8       0       0       $       0      0       0       0       $       0       0       0       0       0       0
_4      _      _       N       V       ,       0       0              0       0       0       0       0 O             0       0
<      <         CO            to              t               .      <       <       <       <         
w~~        ~ I- I- I-      I- I(           4 
a:  a:  I    I       4       4       ~      ~~~~ Co  co     co      CO                       -      I
3          a               <       <       <       CO     Co       C      CO
IB I0          I       I
CEDEB - 22-04-97



BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
DEPARTAMENTO DE LINEAS EXTERNAS Y CARTERA
CREDITOS APROBADOS EN US$ - SEGUN TASA DE INTERES
LINEA BIRF 3321 - CO
CLR4   Nb.5
TOTAL                     |ACTIVOS FIJOS                           VR.APROBADO
TASA DE INTERES         No.     PART.%  I APROBADO MM$|  PART.%  |       VALOR MM$          VALOR MMS             USS
LIBOR + (0.0 A 3 0)         17       25.37%           59,345.9  30.42%              54,009.2           5,336.7         71,874,649.4
LIBOR + (3.1 A 4 0)         21       31 34%          112.207.3  57.51%             108,885.3           3,322.0         124,802,611.6
LIBOR + (4.1 A 5.0)          9       1343%e            5.951 1   3.05%               5,729.8            221.3           7,075,383.5
LIBOR+(5 1 A6 0             2C       29 85%-^         17 589.6  9.02%,'             14,475.9           3,113.7         20,572,720.6
TZTAL              6c-      '00;J:         195.0939   100 00%            183.100.2          11,993.7        224,325,365.06
CEDEB.- ABRIL 21 DE 1997                                                                                                                   ut
INFINAL.XLS-H



BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
Departamento de Lineas Externas y Cartera
BIRF 3321-CO   SEGUN TASA DE NTERESUS
r%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .#F   .-  .  ..
* No .OPERACIONES
25
20
15                                                                                                                                          0
I0
5
o                               o                                o                                0
o                               0                                0                                0
I                               I                                I                                I
CEDEB - 22-04-97



BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
DEPARTAMENTO DE LINEAS EXTERNAS Y CARTERA
CREDITOS APROBADOS EN $ - SEGUN TASAS DE INTERES
LINEA BIRF 3321 - CO
alADRD ND.6
.                 ~~~~~~TOTALES                    rACTIVOS FIJOS  |CPT. DE TRABAJO  VR. APROBADO|
||TASA DE INTERES   .No.        PART.%  || APROBADO MM:|PRT]/.%                   AORMSd            AO MM$           US$ 
DTF + (0.0 A 3.0),       56       28.43%              13,524.1    53.05%               11,578.9           1,945.2    15,954,959.0
DTF + (3.1 A 4.0)        25       12.69%               3,100.0     12.16%               1,417.8           1,682.2    3,762,792.9
DTF + (4.1 A 5.0)        16        8.12%                896.6      3.52%                  154.5            742.1     1,094,849.5
DTF + (5.1 A6.0)         98       49,75%               7,910.7    31.03%                3,404.6           4,506.1    9,100,208.3
DTF + (6.1 A 7.0),       2         1.02%                 60.0      0.24%                    4.5             55.5        72,820.4
TOTALES           197      100.00%             25,491.4    100.00%               16,560.3          8,931.1   29,985,630.66
CEDEB.- ABRIL 21 DE 1997
INFINAL.XLS-I



BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
Departamento de Lineas Externas y Cartera
BIRF 3321-CO - SEGUN TASA DE 'NTERES:
U"No.OPERACIONESg
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
100  :- ': : :       :  :     ,-       ::    :  g   ;        :: i     :      ;;             -    ,    E  i   LL     LL
CEDEB - 22I-04 97H
:~ ~ ~                                              0                                      0                                      0:fi f 0  '::  .  ,    ; S'  ; 0ji;   S  :7 -iiS :           : : .         .  E  :iT:
;    f ::    : :   ' 4:  :            : :           '   4::             ,                  .::                                             :      '  :ErS
So ~~ I                                                                                                                              I;000;t00 00      0 
4EDEB - 2204;: it-9;0007 ;  



BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
DEPARTAMENTO DE LINEAS EXTERNAS Y CARTERA
CREDITOS APROBADOS - SEGUN PLAZO
LINEA BIRF 3321 - CO
QIDR  rb.7
_~~~~~~~~~~~~b                                ND . 7    
TOTALES                              ACTIVOS FIJOS                          CAPITAL DE TRABAJO
ANOS      APROBADO MM$       PART.%           No,           VALOR            PART 0o         No.      VALOR  I   PART.%
3.0                   1,140.2     0.52%            6                 892.9       0.45%           12           247.3   1.18%
3.5                      0.4      0.00%            0                   0.0       0.00%            1             0.4   0.00%
4.0                    519.0      0.24%            2                 192.2       0.10%            3           326.8   1.56%
4.5                    166.8      0.08%            0                   0.0       0.00%            4           166.8   0.80%
5.0                  13,392.5     6.07%           61                7,679.1      3.85%           98         5,713.4   27.30%
5.5                     95.8      0.04%            2                  26.4       0.01%            9           69.40    0.33%
6.0                  10,952.7     4.97%            40               9,435.0      4.73%            19        1,517.7   7.25%
6.5                     31 0      0.01%            2                  31.0       0.02%            0             0.0   0.00%
7.0                  65,901.5     29.88%           33              60,637.9     30.37%            16        5,263.6   25.15%    s
8.0                  88,860.0     40.28%           27              82,090.4      41.11%           10        6,769.6   32.35%
10.0                 26,233.1     11.89%           10              25,389.1      12.72%           4           844.0   4.03%
12.0                 13,292.3     6.03%            10              13,286.5      6.65%             1            5.8   0.03%
220,585.3    100.00%         193             199,660.5     100.00%          177       20,924.8   100.00%
CEDEB - ABRII 21 DE 1997
INFINAL.XLS-F



BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
Departamento de Lineas Externas y Cartera
BIRF 3321-CO - SEGUN PLAZO (SMILLONES)
90,000.0
80,000.0
70,000.0
60,000.0
50,000.0
40,000.0
30,000.0
20,000.0
10,000.0
o           0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0
fn                                                         In                                              CO t   lw^>   ut>   (D   (D   -  '  o
CEDEB - 22-04-97



BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
DEPARTAMENTO DE LINEAS EXTERNAS Y CARTERA
CREDITOS OTORGADOS - SEGUN ANO DE APROBACION
LINEA BIRB 3321 CO
QU&IM t%.8
rIZIIIII             TOTALES                      ICVSFIOS  CAPT.DE TRABAJO  VR. APROBADO
|APROBAC    |   No.   PART.%   APROBADO MM$    PART.%           VALOR MM$       VALOR MM$          US$
92     3        1.14%            3,631.9    1.65%              3,631.9            0.00     4,538,628.3
93     61      23.11%          76,054.6    34.48%            66,540.3          9,514.3    90,919,961.0
94    172      65.15%          42,175.4    19.12%            34,525.1          7,650.3    50,297,087.9
95     28       10.61%         98,723.4    44.76%            94,963.2          3,760.2   108,555,317.9
TOTALES    264       100.00%        220,585.3    100.00%           199,660.5        20,924.8  254,310,995.72
CEDEB - ABRIL 21 DE 1997
INFINAL.XLS-G



BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
Departamento de Lineas Externas y Cartera
BIRF 3321-CO - SEGUN ANO DE APROBACION
U No.OPERACIONES
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
j t::: S ;k: 4 j f f 7    ; f                             I   |                                                   s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  1
CEDER - 22-EV04-97  :: 
CEE 00  22-04   :    f0  9I7



BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
DEPARTAMENTO DE LINEAS EXTERNAS Y CARTERA
CREDITOS OTORGADOS - A TIPOS DE EMPRESAS
LINEA BIRF 3321-CO
aDM Kb.9
_   . _. _               ~~~~TOTALES                  gACTIVOS FIJOS  CAPT.TRABAJO    VR AROAD   |
7TIPO                                                                                 AJOTLE    VR. APROBADO
EMPRESA     NUMERO       PART.%    VALOR MM$    PART.%         VALOR MM$      VALOR MM$          US$
2 ANTIGUA       185         70.08%       131,131.8   59.45%         117,069.8       14,062.0     147,687,897.5
1 NUEVA          79        29.92%         89,453.5   40.55%          82,590.7        6,862.8     106,623,097.7
264       100.00%       220,585.3   100.00%       199,660.5        20,924.8    254,310,995.72
CEDEB.- ABRIL 21 DE 1997
INFINAL.XLS-J



BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
Departamento de Lineas Externas y Cartera
BiRF 332i-CO - SEGUN TiPO DE EMPhFSA
1 No.OPERACIONES
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
CEDEB - 220497              I
z      _
CEE              :              I2-4_9



BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA                                 6 5                                                                BR- 0528 0
CUA,Di No. 10
SISTEMA BANCARIO
PRINCIPALES PASIVOS Y PATRIMONIO
PASIVO  Y  PATRLMONIO                 SALDOS (MILLONES DE S)         PARTICIP. SOBRE EL ACTIVO (YO)        VARIACION %
1994       1995       1996        1994       1995        1996     DIC 951    DIC 96t
DIC.       DIC.        DIC        DIC.       DIC.        DIC       DIC 94      DIC 95
DEPOSITOS Y EXIGIBILIDADES                    11.472.381  13.S58.283  17.865.096     60,75      58,29       60,57      20,S0       28,91
Cuentas Cormentes                            4.144.261   4.744,968   5.702.890     21,94       19,96      19,33       14,49       20,19
Dep6sitos de Ahoo Ordinarios                  2.304.5S4   3.172.936   4.292.222     12,20      13,34      14,55       37,68       35,28
CDAT                                           431.914    550.053     489.583       2,29        2,31       1,66       27,35      -10,99
Cen. Dep. Termino (CDT)                       3.393.509   3.769.892   4.694.290     17,97      15,S6      15,91       11.09       24,52
Servicios Bancarios de Recaudo                 321.699    403.918    506.484        1,70        1,70       1,72       25,56      25,39
Bonos                                          413.408    642.056   1.304.519       2,19        2,70       4,42       55,31      103,18
Otros Dep6silos y Exigibilidades               463.005    574.460    875.108        2,45        2.42       2,97       24,07       52,34
FDOS rNTERBANCARIOS Y R.EPOS                     134.227    346.249    200.715        0,71        1,46       0,68     157,96      *42,03
ACEPTACIONES BA-NCARIAS                          340.283    295.784    215.967        1,80       1,24        0,73      -13,08     -26,98
CREDITOBCOS YOTRASOBL.                         3 198.S47   4.349.16S   4.999.S39     16,94       18,29      16,95      35,96       14,96
Bancode laRepublica                            115.493     112.666     97.716       0,61        0,47       0,33       -2,45      -13,27
Bcosy Ent. Fin. MJLgal                        3.083.354   4.236.503   4.902.123     16,33      17,82      16,62       37,40       15,71
CUENTAS POR PAGAR                               430.528    556.550    623.683         2,2S       2,34        2,11      29,27       12,06
OTROSPASIVOS                                     593.069    739.977    674.713        3,14       3,11        2,29      24,77       -S,82
PAS IVOS EST Y PROVIS.                           128.788    192.665    234.951        0,68       0,81        0,80      49.60       21.95
TOTAL PASIVO                                 16.298.122  20.338.676  24.S14.972    36,30       85,54      34,13       24,79      22.01
Capial Pagado                                 773.830    903.563     356.148       4,10        3,30       2,90       16,77       *5,25
Resccas                                      665.487   1.016.773   1.567.257      3,52        4,28       5.31       52,79      54,14
Suz -wit                                      808.727   1.098.401   1.273.656      4,28        4,62       4,32       35,S2      15,96
Revalorizaci6n del Patnmonio                  2S1.615    476.454    793.179        1,49        2,00       2,69      69,19       66,4S
: Bonos Oblig. Convertibles en Acciones         7.175      S.000      33.0S7       0,04        0,03       0,11       11,50     313,60
Fdos DesiiMci6n Especifica                      3.25S      4.303      6.444        0,02        0,02       0,02      47,39       34,18
.R saJados Ejercicio Anterior                -201.905   -316.946   -22S.167        -1,07      -1.33      -0,77       36,98      -28,01
R,sultados Ejercicio Actual                   249.147    246.527    379.449        1.32        1,04       1.29      .1,05       53.92
,TOTAL PATRIMONIO                             2.587.332   3.437.575   4.6S1.052      13,70      14.46      15,87       32,86       36,17
-'TOTAL PASIVO Y PATRIM.                      18.835.454  23.776.250  29.496.024    100,00     100,00      100,00      25,90       24,06
rn
>



BANiCO DE LA REPUBLICA                                   66                                                                BP 0 528 0
qaD No. 10
SISTEMA BANCARIO
PRINCIPALES ACTIVOS_
A C  T I V  0                         SALDOS (MIlLONES DES)              PARTICIP. SOBRE EL AClVO (%)   VAMLCION %
1994       1995        1996       1994        1995        1996 DIC 95t    DIC961
DIC.       DIC.        DIC        DIC.        DIC.        DIC        DIC 94      DIC 95
DISPOND3LE                                      3.115.723   2.S92;638   2.730.756      16,50      12,17        9,26       .7,16       .5,61
FDOSINTERB VENDMDOS                              311.971     351.885    36J.934         1,65       1.4S        1.25       12.79       4,84
INVERSIONES                                     1.949.369   2.492.555   4.341.004      10,32      10.4S       14.72      27,86       74,16
lnvers. negociables reta fija                             1.009.782   2.847.920                   4,25       9,66                 12,03
Invers. nonegociablcsrentafija                             541.7S3     618.3S6                    2,2S       2,10                   14,14
Iners. negociables renta variable                           38.547      51.527                   0,16        0,17                   33,68
Invers. no negociables renta variable                      694.81'    S52.641                    2,92        2.89                   22,71
Invers. de cobertua                                              0           0                   0,00        0,00                   N.A.
Derechos de Recompra de Inversiones                        263.071      23.458                    1,11       0,08                  *91,08
Provision de Inversiontes                                   55.445      52.928                   0,23        0,18                   .4,54
CARTEhA DE CREDITOS                            10.544.837  14.342.607  17.450.811     55,S4       60,32       39,16      36,02       21,67
COMERCLAL Y DE CONSU!MO                                              17.161.144                             5S,18
Vigenrte y vencida hasta 4 ineses           10.272.792  13.967.322  16,953.897      54,40      58,74       57,48       35,96       21,38
Vencida mAs de 4 meses                         326.872    536.415     792.054        1,73       2,26        2.69       64,11       47.66
Provisiones (-.)                                                      584.807                               1,98
HUPOTECARJA                                                            289.667                               0,98
Vigente y venrcida hasla 4 meses               165.685    245.909     277.892        0,88       1.03        0,94       48,42       13,01
Vencida mAs dt 4 meses                           1.191      6.102      15.387        0.01       0,03        0,05      412,22      152,14
Prov.siones (-                                                          3.612                               0,01
PR.OV1SONhi.% OTALES DE CARTERA                 221.703    413.141     588.419        1,17        1,74       1,99       S6,35       42,43
ACEPTACIOCES Y DERIVATIVOS                       338.690     293.798    214.206        1,79        1,24       0,73       .13,25      -27,09
CUTt-TAS POR COBRARNETA                          820.827     957.672   1.238.797       4,35        4,03       4,20       16,67       29,36
B1ENES RECIB EN PAGO NETOS                        5. 486      84.455    19.896        0,30        0,36       0,64       49,52      124.85
Af:C IVOS FJOS                                   462.717    654.753      894.328       2,45        2,75        3,03      41,50       36,59
TsROS ACTIV0S                                   1.2S4.836   1.705.887   2.067,293      6.80        7.17        7.01      32.77       21.19
- LAc                                         18.5.455  23.776.250  29.496.024      105,29      106,02      106,77      25,90       24,06
o z
t..~ 
z



BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA                              6 7                                                               BR O S,
caDR No. 10
SISTEMA BANCARIO
REESGO
1994       1995        1996
DIC.       DIC.         DIC
Relaci6n de Solvencia                                13,41       13,41       13,72
Activos improductivos                                 0,86        0,90        1,3
Exposici6n de] pntimonio                              5,98        5,76        8,3i
dic-93
Activos Productivos                              9.373.561
Pasivos con costo                                7.077.131
SISTEMA BANCARIO
ANALISIS DE RENTABILIDAD DE DUPONT
1994       1995         1996
DIC.       DIC.         DIC
Rendimiero dc Activos Productivos %                 34,25      38,02       34,63
Costo Financiero Pasivos con Costo %                20,23       22,93       20,24
Spread Neto de Intereses %                           14,02       15,08       14,40
Posic. Neta e Int. a Actv Productivos                 0,12       0,03         0,05
Ganancia. o Perdida relativa a la Posic. Nets de Int.  2,33      0,80         1,05
Margen Noto de nt. / Activ. Productivos %            16,35       15,89       15,45
Multiplicador de Activos Productivos                  0,67        0,70        0,74
Margen Neto de Interescs o MFB %                     11,01       11,11       11,38
Ingresos operacionales no financieros %               1,22       2,43         2,43
C <               ~~~~~~Eficiencia laboraly Administrativa  %            8,54        8,66        8,82
0                       Provisiones %                                         1,45        2,65        3,27
o                         Margen Operativo Neto (MON) %                         2,24        2,23        1,72
I U                        lMargenno Operacional Nato %                        -0,23       .0,66        0,13
Rentabilidad del Activo  %                            2,01        1.58        1,86
Multiplicador del Capital                             8,11        7,43       6,91
o,                        Rentabilidad patimonial %                            16,33       11,71       12.84
Revalorizaci6n del Patrinonio %                      12,32      11,93        13,22
Creciniento del patrimonio %                          1,18        1,11        1,11
Rentabdidad Patrimonial del Ncgocio%                33,71       26,19       28,96



68
FINANII     S                                            - 528
BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
INDICADORES DE EF'CIENCIA
Dic-94      Dic-95       Dic-96
Ef. Lab y Admnon.               3.15         2.41         2.41
Eficiencia Agregada             16.03        18.91       18.01
No. de Empleados               3417.00      3506.00
No. de Oficinas                149.00       179.00
Eficiencia Lab. y Admon    Eficiencia Agregada      Ranking
ENT'IDADES                     Dic-95       Dic-96       Die-95      Dic-96
ANDES                           4.06         3.26        25.59        22.82               15
BOYACA                          3.30         3.87        24.00        23.19               18
CALDAS                          2.69         2.65        20.05        19.44               10
COLOMBIANA                      2.21         2.29        20.51        18.64               6
CORFIGAN'                       3.29         2.66        16.25        17.33              11
C '-vRCA                        3.42         4.06        27.86        28.49               19
rALLE                           2.11         1.98        15.79        14.30               3
IF                              1.85         1.71        15.36        15.17               2
rNiDlJFIN.                      2.39         2.61        22.94        22.90               9
CORFES                          2.37         2.38        24.91        23.47                7
CORFrNSURA                      1.78         2.00        16.55        16.46               4
NORTE                           2.43         2.88        21.94        21.39               13
OCCIDENTE                       3.01         2.87        24.97        23.87               12
LATINCORP                       3.03         3.47        26.97        27.98               16
DESARROL.                       5.85         5.60        29.81        30.74              21
D0 ROGRESO                     2.17         2.19        24.35        22.51               5
..   C(ORFINANSA                       2.53         2.53        23.37        23.20               8
TOLIMA                          4.99         4.49        29.09        31.56              20
l RANs SP.                      3.99         3.51        20.05        23.02              17
PACIFICO                        3.95         3.01        25.00        25.01              14
TEQUEND.                        6.61         5.90        28.96        29.28              22
COLCORP                         1.72         1.68         2.42         3.18                1
ESTADO                          6.06         6.06         8.00        24.31              23
lNG. COL                        4.71        20.45         4.74        23.68              24
FINAN Y PROYECT                 N.A         30.83         N.A         30.39              25
TOTAL                           2.41         2.41        18.91        18.01



69
0ORKORcia     FINANCIERAS
BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA                        C,.DR  No. 11
INDICADORES DE RIESGO
Dic-94      Dic-95       Dic-96
Relacion deSolvencia       17.76        16.49       15.73
Activos Improductivos      0.82         1.18         1.29
Exposicion Patrimonial     3.52         4.82         5.23
ENTIDAD                   Relacion de Solvencia    Activos Improductivos    Exposicibn Patrimonial    Ranking
Dic-95      Dic-96       Dic-95       Dic-96      Dic-95       Dic- 96
C/MARCA                    15.81        12.88        2.10        15.09        12.76       119.19         25    '
TOLIMA                     9.68         6.13         2.55        9.59         20.26        50.80         24
CORFES                     9.44         10.13        2.07        6.15         18.15        47.45         23
INDUFIN.                   14.39        16.35        2.30        5.93         14.03        32.54         22
DESARROL.                  10.83        9.22         5.00        5.74         36.29        53.60         21
TRANSP.                    16.76        13.00        2.44        5.62         9.53         19.37         20
LATrNCORP                  10.96        12.52        1.76        4.16         13.90       27.96          19
TEQUEND.                   17.14        19.08        0.18        3.69         1.08         18.68         18
NORTE                      13.07        13.63        1.18        2.84         6.71         15.68         17
PROGRESO                   13.50        11.11        2.15        2.03         11.07       112.40         16
CORFINANSA                 12.72        15.21        0.78         1.79        5.27         9.98          15
CALDAS                     10.31        12.22        0.27         1.55        1.20         8.56          14
COLCORP                    64.31        50.67        0.00        2.34         0.00         2.61          13
CORFIGAN                   35.82        24.15        1.10         1.45        2.34         3.97          12
E
ANDES                      9.76         10.60        0.62        0.75         4.40         4.76          11
A2      IFI                         18.72        18.48        3.05        0.97         11.00        3.80   -      10
C4 la   VALLE                       15.23       12.99        0.09         0.81         0.35         3.30          9
'7   PACIFICO                   9.01         9.92        0.33         0.60         2.05         3.49          S
z Z     OCCIDENTE                   10.60        9.28         0.93        0.28         5.25         1.91          7
O c     COLOMBIANA                  19.81        25.59        0.03        0.39         0.15         1.08          6
a     BOYACA                      18.97        16.35       -0.06        0.14         -0.25        0.59          5
Wi      FINAN Y PROYECT                         86.38                     0.00                      0.00          4
U)
o       ING. COL                   260.18       49.34         0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00          3
ESTADO                     62.05        23.24        0.00        -0.06        0.00        -0.24          2
CORFINSURA                 11.63        14.09        0.08        -0.12        0.28        -0.48       _    _
TOTAL                      16.49        15.73        1.18         1.29        482          523



70
BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA                                                                                             SR.0-S28 ,
CRAl.CIC  FfINANCIE
C         No. 11                                _
SALD  S                % DEL ACTIVO             Crec %
=               AC:IVO                               1995 l    1996      1994  199S    1996    94/95   95/96
DISPFONIBLE                                  69.96     98.57   102.19    1.67    1.69     1.40   40.90    3.67
FDOS INTERB VENDIDOS                          23.19     40.75    60.99    0.55    0.70     0.84    75.69   49.67
INVERSIONES                                  77486    918.05  1282.46   18.51   15.77    17.58    18.48   39.69
CARTERA DE CREDITOS                         2677.07   3766.63  4614.60   63.96   64.68    63.27    40.70   22.51
COMERCIAL Y CONSUMO
Vilgente y Vencida hasta 4 meses          2673.50   3746.34  4592.26   63.87   64.34   62.97    40.13   22.58
Veacidamisde4meses                          24.44     77.43   112.86    0.58    1.33     1.55   216.77   45.77
HIPFOTECARIA
Hipotecaria Vigente y Vcda. hasta 4 meses    0.03      0.00     2.36    0.00    0.00     0.03     0.00
Hipotecaria Vcda. mhs de 4 meses             0.01      0.00     0.01    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
PROVISION CARTERA CREDITOS                   20.91     57.18    92.93    0.50    0.98     1.27   173.44   62.52
DERECHOS RECOMP CART NEG                      0.00      0.00     0.04    0.00    0.00     0.00
ACEPTACIONES Y DERIVATIVOS                     6.14      5.94     6.98    0.15    0.10     0.10    -3.21    17.39
CUENTAS POR COBRAR                           157.49    247.07   321.04    3.76    4.24     4.40    56.88   29.94
BIENES RECIB. EN PAGO NETOS                   30.79     48.72    74.20    0.74    0.84     1.02    58.22   52 31
ACTIVOS FIJOS                                 31.02     45.51    96.86    0.74    0.78     1.33   46.71   112.82
OTROS ACTIVOS                                415.23    651.83   733.67    9.92   11.19    10.06    56.98    12.56
TOTAL ACTIVO                              4185.75   5823.07  7292.98  100.00  100.00   100.00    39.12   25 24
SALDOS                PARTICIPACION              Crec %
PASIVO  V  PATRIMONIO                  1994   1995      1996      1994  1995    1996    94/95   95/96
DEPOSITOS Y EXIGIBILIDADES                  1640.79   2159.64  2872.95   39.20   37.09    39.39    31.62   33.03
Cert. Dep.Termino                         1184.04   1475.02  1719.67   28.29   25.33    23.58    24.58    16.59
0
C 5       Dep. Ahorro Ordinarios                        3.74      0.76     3.72    0.09    0.01     0.05   -79.76  391.92
Z <      C.D.A.T.                                     0.79      0.83     5.25    0.02    0.01     0.07     4.55  533.29
i       Serv. Banc. de Recaudo                       0.05       0.09    0.05    0.00    0.00     0.00    65.07  -40.96
o          Bonos                                      445.45    676.48  1127.15   10.64   11.62    15.46    51.87   66.62
)   Bancos y Corresp.                                0.00      0.00     6.60    0.00    0.00     0.09     0.00
w          Otros Dep. Y Exig.                           6.72       6.46    10.51    0.16    0.11    0.14    -3.84   62.67
o        FDOS INTERBANCARIOS Y REPOS                    14.97     72.31   118.38    0.36    1.24     1.62   382.95   63.72
o        ACEPTACIONESBANCARIAS                          6.14       5.96    6.96    0.15    0.10     0.10    -2.88    16.73
CREDMTO BCOS Y OTRAS OBL.                   1355.29   1909.37  2223.59   32.38   32.79    30.49    40.88    16.46
CUENTASPORPAGAR                              110.58    166.01   182.39    2.64    2.85     2.50    50.12    9.87
OTROS PASIVOS                                 51.98     54.50    64.75    1.24    0.94     0.89    4.85    18.80
PASIVOS EST. Y PROVIS.                        29.60     23.01    24.20    0.71    0.40     0.33   -22.27    5.16
TOTAL PASIVO                              3209.36   4390.80  5493.23   76.67-  75.40    75.32    36.81   25.11
PATRIMONIO
Capital Pagado                            224.63    362.37   433.84    5.37    6.22     5.95    61.32    19.72
Reservas                                  242.75    321.19   420.43    5.80    5.52     5.76    32.31    30.90
Superavit                                 299.61    512.78   544.89    7.16    8.81     7.47    71.15    6.26
Reval. del Patrimonio                     136.27    148.92   264.41    3.26    2.56     3.63     9.28   77.56
Bonos Oblig.Conv.Accion.                    4,94      6.24     3.16    0.12    0.11     0.04    26.29   49.43
Fdos Destinac. Especif                      0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00
ResLultados Ejerc. Ant.                    -1.60     -1.13    *2.58   .0.04   -0.02    -0.04   -29.53   128.97
Resulltados Ejerc. Act.                    69.79     81.89   135.61    1.67    1.41     1.86    17.34   65.60
TOTAL PATRIMONIO                           976.40   1432.26  1799.76   23.33   24.60    24.68    46.69   25.66
TOTAL PASIVO Y PATRIM.                    4185.75   5823.07  7292.98  100.00  100.00   100       39.12   2:5.24



71
ANEXO  No. 1
BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
LINEAS DE CREDITO EXTERNO
TASA DE REDESCUENTO Y COTAS INFERIOR Y SUPERIOR
\IGE,NC, IA             SUBPRESTAMOS EN DOLARES 11                  SUBRESTAMOS EN PESOS
DESDE   HASTA       COTA         TASA DE         COTA         COTA         TASA DE        COTA
INFERIOR   REDESCUENTO   SUPERIOR    INFERIOR   REDESCUENTO  SUPERIOR
NOV-93  ENE-94   LIBOR+0.98    LIBOR+2.90    LIBOR+3.08    DTF+1.19        DTF+3.61      DTF+3.84
FEB-94   ABR-94   LlBOR+1.40    LIBOR+3.48    LIBOR+3.70    DTF+1 .87      DTF+4.34      DTF+4.66
MAY-94   JUL-94   LIBOR+0.96    LIBOR+2.88    LIBOR+3.06    DTF+1.22       DTF+3.64      DTF+3.87
AGO-94  OCT-94   LIBOR40.75    LIBOR+2.83    LIBOR+3.05    DTF+0.89        OTF+3.36      DTF+3.68
NOV-94  ENE-95   LIBOR+0.22    LIBOR+2.14    LIBOR+2.32    DTF+0.77        DTF+3.19      DTF+3.42
FEB-95  ABR-95      LIBOR       LIBOR+1.84    LIBOR+2.06    DTF+0.38       DTF+2.85      DTF+3.17
MAY-95  JUL-95   LIBOR+1.01    LIBOR+2.93    LIBOR+3.11    D)TF+1.81       DTF+4.23      DTF+4.46
AGO-95  OCT-95   LIBOR+0.90    LIBOR+2.98    LIBOR+3.20    DTF+1.73        DTF+4.20      DTF+4.52
NOV-95  ENE-96   LIBOR+1.22    LIBOR+3.14    LIBOR+3.32    DTF+2.29        DTF+4.71      DTF+4.94
FEB-96  ABR-96   LIBOR+1.46    LIBOR+3.54    LIBOR+3.76    DTF+2.59        DTF+5.06      DTF+5,38
MAY-96  JUL-96   LIBOR+I.15    LIBOR+3.07    LIBOR+3.25    DTF+2.24        DTF+4,66      DTF+4,89
AGO-96  OCT-96   LIBOR+0.76    LIBOR+2.84    LIBOR+3.06    DTF+1.63        DTF+4.10      DTF+4.42
NOV-96  ENE-97   LIBOR+1.23    LIBOR+3.15    LIBOR+3.33    DTF+1.76        DTF+4.18      DTF+4.41
FEBW97  ABR197   LIBOR+1.34    LIBOR+3.42    LIBOR+3.64    DTF+2.20        DTF+4.67      DTF+4.99
1/ Para subprestamos en d6lares, se ubiza la tasa LIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rate) a seis meses.
FUENTE: Banco de la RepiNbica. C:MCALTASAMISTORIA
Abril 24/97



