Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 8633-CO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLOMIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARCH 20, 1991
Trade, Finance and Industry Division
Departuetit III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
lhi doefe hats a rdesed  _ _tNd   and maly be use by we   ely1he    _         o
tbe ogfddd         bcu,f   a  -taui be                   Wid 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as at September 15, 1990)
Currency Unit   Colombian Peso (Col$)
US$ 1  592.85 Cols
Col$ 1 - .00189
FISCAL YEAR OF TM GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ANDI        National Association of Industries
APDR        Acerias Paz del Rio Steel Company
BCH         Central Mortgage Bank
BR          Central Bank
CF          Development bank
COLPUERTOS  Colombian Ports Authority
CKD         Completely knocked down parts for assembly
DNP         National Planning Department
DTF         Average rate for 90-day time deposits
FDI         Foreign direct investment
FFIC        Industry and Commerce Financial Fund
FCE         Enterprise Capitalization Fund
FIP         Private Industry Fund
lAS         Industrial Adjustment Service
ICBF        Colombian Family Welfare Institute
IFC         International Finance Corporation
IFI         Industrial Development Institute
INCOMEX     External Trade Institute
ISIC        International Standard Industrial Classification
LIBOR       London Inter-Bank Offering Rate
NIC         Newly industrialized country
NPA         Non-Performing Assets
NWB         Non-wage benefit
OECD        organization of Economic Cooperation and Development
PROEXPO     Export Promotion Agency
PFI         Participating Financial Intermediary
QR          Quantitative Restriction
SENA        National Vocational Training Service
SME         Small and medium scale enterprise
SOE         Statement of expenditures
This Report was prepared by James Hanna (Task Manager), with the contributions
and teamwork of Mmes./Messrs. Kristin Hallberg, E.C. Hwa (LA3C1), Jennifer
Keller, Julie Phillips (LA3TF), Luis Prado (LATEN); Izak Atiyas (IENIN), Har
Bhattacharya (EMTIE), Edmund Mangan (ASTIF), Len Jordan, Ira Lieberman, Guillermo
Lopez Guerra, and Maurice Meunier (Consultants), and includes the results of
industrial subsector studies. Financial support for this work was provided in
large part by the Japanese Grant Facility.



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
an"
TR3L  OF CONOM
gm NO.
LOAN A   POJC             ..........                                      
1. THU HBED FOR INDUSTRIAL -ESTUC!URNInS AMW DNUOT NT. -      9m9*9999  ....... 3
1. 1 Volatile Output Grow......................... *.       ........  3
1.2 Stagnant Production Structure...                                  4
1.3 Domestic Market orientation.. .                 ..... ... 9999999  5
1.4 Weak Competitive Position ................................... * 9  5
2. PUBLIC POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT FOM Fi...U Nn         .. 0 0....O..... 20
2.1 Organization of Sector-wide RestructurLng..                      20
2.2 Macroeconomic Framuwork 999999999999......  .  *                 24
2.3 External Trade Regime ...........       ................*  . *   25
2.4 Doesstic competition Policies.l.                                 32
2.5 Financial Sector ...                                             36
2.6 Labor Regime .........................45
2.7 Technology Policy 999999999999999999.999999.....99 99    S4
2.8 Environmental Prot ction S......    57
3. TIE  PROJ.CT....... ...... .....9.....  60
3.1 Origin and Relation to the Country Lending Stratewy......... 60
3.2 Lessons from Past Bank Assistance to Colombian Industry.... 61
3.3 Objectives, Strategy and Beneficiaries..................... 62
3.4 Description .............. *.,P.  99999999*..***9  63
industrial restructuring policy framework..r......             63
private sector credit program.............................  65
public sector support for restructuring.................... 66
.3.5 Cost and Financing.......g    67
3.6 Relending Terms and Conditions............................. 67
3.7 Project Implementation ......................................68
(a) administration and ove      ts i g h t   68
(b) procurement and disbursement ......                        69
(c) accounts, auditing and reporting.**.****... *.......... 70
3.8 Project Benefits and Risks ................................ 71
4. A@BUUNTS RBACEED                              .......9                     71
This document has a stricted distbution and may be used by recipients only in h perfonnuam    I
of their ofcil utudes. Its contents may not othenwie be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



1. Rey Restructuring measures Reuired to Achieve international
Ccmpetitiveness for Selected Subsector ............................    6
2. Cost Competltiveness of Colombian TeSxtilep and Costs of Capital
Stock ln Colombia      ..............        a.,.              .       8
3.  Labor Coat and Productivity comparisons in the Textile Industry       .  9 e
4.  Cost Competitiveness of Colombian Clothing.. 10
S. Cost Competitiveness of Colombian Shoe. ..................... ........  12
6.  Increasing Productivity in the Clothing Industry ...... o....... a........ 13
7. Reasons for Lack of Competitiveness in the Fruit and
Vegetables Sector .........................................  14
8.  Cost Competitiveness of Colambian em.                     .     .       16
9.  Cost Competitiveness of Colombian Vehicle Assembly (Autos and Light
Vehicles) ............                                               16
10.  Cost Competitiveness of Colombian Auto Parts ........................  18
11. Cost Competitiveness of Colombian vehicle Assembly (Heavy Trucks and
12. Cumulative Cost and Cascade Mffats of Duties Surcharge  and
Taxes on Imported Capital c ** .....  .......... ... ... .. .. ....... . . 27
13. Turnaround Time for 0807" Clothing Ixports ...................... o .....  29
14. Incomex Duty-Drawback system............................--....--....-  30
15. Maritim  Freight Charges' ........... ..........................   ...   31 
16. status of Firma  nt*ring the Fecevership Process over 1982-May 1989.  34
17.  Productivity of Labor In Colombia by Product Line*,  ..................  47
18.  Investment Costs Required of a Synthotic Fibers Company to Comply
with 1984 3nvironm.ntal Regulations .............................   58
19.  Project Organization and Flow Chart .....................i............  64
20.  Organization of the Ministry-of   onmic Dvlopment                       73
21. Matrix of Key Project Policy and Institutional Mjustments...... .....  74
1.1 Labor Productivity of Colombian Textile Industry
1.2  Capital Productivity of Colombian Textile Industry
1.3  Price Trends for Colombian Cotton in Relation to Internatiotial. Levels
1.4 Age of Spinning Squipmsnt in the Colombian Textile IndAustry
1.5 Investment in Open Xnded Technology Over Past Five Years
1.6 International Comparison of Age of Textile Uquipment
1-7  Productivity of Textile Production According to Plant Integration
Level
1.8  Product Delivery Time in the Textile Industry According to Integration
2.1 Colombian Industrial Sector-Overall Capital Structure, 1970-85  and       
Overall Not Worth Struoture, 1970-85
2.2  Foreign Direct Investment-Level an& C0Msptton in Manufacturi0g,
1968-89; and total Foreign Direct Investment-Sector
Composition, 1968-89



1.1  Manufacturing Output by Subsector, 1967-87
1.2  Manufacturing Output Growth, 1967-87
1.3  Share of GDP by Subsector, 1967-87
1.4 Manufacturing 8hare of GDPs International Comparisons, 1967-87
1.5 Share of Maufacturing Output by 8ubsector, 1967-87
1.6 Share of Manufacturing Value Added by Subseotor-International
Comparison
1.7 Distribution of Plants by Size, 1977-85
1.8 Distribiation of Plants by Major Metropolitan Area, 1977-85
1.9  Distributior of Plants by Age, 1977-85
1.10 Concentration of Production, 1968 and 1984
1.11 Colombian Exports (FOB), 1980-88
1.12 Colombian Exporto (t of total), 1980-88
1.13 Manufacturing Exports, 1974-87
1.14 8hare of Total Manufactured Exports, 1974-87
-.1S Export Orientation of Manufacturing, 1975-86
1.16 Technology Level in the Textile Industry, by Enterprise size
1.17 GBowth of Caribbean Countries' Expoits in the 1980.
1.8 ,Comparativs Price Indices for Automotive Commodities
*.1  Key Macroeconomic Indicators, 1986-95
2.2  Balance of Payments, 1986-97
2.3  Ptoduction Coverage of QRs by 2-Digit Subsector, 1990
2.4  Import Penetration-International Comparisnsx, 1986-88
2.5 Frequency Distribution of Tariff Rates, 1990
2.6 Import Weighted Average Tariffs, 1990, by Total Economy, Manufacturing
SObsector, and Manufacturing 2-Digit Subsector
2.7  Reform in the Import Licensing Regime
2.8 Licening Requirements by Sector and Stage of Processing, 1990
2.9  Plan Vallejo Export Registrations, 1980-86
2,10 rinancial Sector Institutions
2411 Solvency of Commercial Banks, 1980-89
2* 12 .6lvacy of Development Banks, 1980-89-
2.13 Solvency of Commercial Banks and Development Banks, 1980-89
2.14 Profitability of Commercial Banks, 1980-89
2.15 Profitabil3ty of Development Banks, 1980-89
2.16 Risk Management of Commercial Banks, 1980-89
2.17 Risk management of Development Banks, 1980-89
2.18 Operational Efficiency of Commercial Banks and Development Banks,
1980-89
2.19 Directed Credit to Industry, 1983-88
* 2.20 Interest Rates on Directed and Non-Directed Credit, 1981-87
2.21 Development Credit Interest Rates-Annual Effective Terms
2.22 Develop mt Credit Interest Rates-Annual Effective Terms,
in relation to Commercial Lending Rates (%)
2.23  Value of the Implicit Interest Rate Subsidies on Directed Credit
2.24 Securities Markets indicators, 1984-88
2.25 Aggregate Financial Structure of 164 Colombian Eaterprises, 1987-89
2.26 Real Remuneration infManqfwcturing, 1970-86
2.27 Comparative Average Total Remuneration Rates per Unit Time-Selected
Industrial Subsectors
2.28 Statutory Non-Wage benefits



2429 Wage and Mon-Wag. Payments to Labor, 1970-96
2.30 Non-Wage Costs-International Comparisons, 1965-65
2 31 Average Productivity-Adjusted Total Remuneration Rates in the Clothing
Industry, 1989
2.32 Estimated Labor Force Changes After Restructuring
2.33 Technical Service Contract Payments, By Economic Activity, 1976-88
2.34 Royalty Payments by Economic Activity, 1976-88
3 N RUtimated Reotructuring Investments for Selected Subseetors
SUPPORTING IU?OmNmUoN AND ANELYgSE
1. subsector competitiveness analyses and restructuring issues
(a) agroindustry
(b) textiles and clothing
(c) leather and shoes
(d) iron and steel
(e) vehicles and parts
2. status of Bank operations
3. Experience under past Bank lending to Colombian industry
49  Detailed credit line design for proposod Bank loan and for directed
credic lines (PIP and PCs)
S. Participating financial intermediaries
6. Public sector support fQr restructuring
(a) environmental pollution control
(b) project management unit
-7. schedule of estimated Bank loan disbursements
8. Key indicators for Project implementation
9. Documents available in the Project file
MAP 1*0370R



,R,R"mmRU¢sWS"w NM DEuom p2=4
Loan and ?roiReot Summry
Bosnzx  Banco de la Republica (bR)
9uaX"rKs        Republic of Colombia
DAUUSL9alMite (a) Bnterprises in the manufacturing and mining sector, and
institutions providing services to help prepare and implement
investments by such sector businessee; (b) industrial workers
displaced by the restructuring process; and (c) Government
agencies managing environmental pollution control and Project
Monitoring Program.
sLoan Man%s  Us$ 20P million equivalent, to be repaid in 17 years, including
5 years of grace, at the ptandard variable interest rate.
R"l1Sds2g     For the Project s private sector credit program component, BR
Tom$s         would relend US$ '12 million of the proceeds of the loan in local
currency to participating financial intermediaries (PIle) and
charge at least'the fully variable average deposit rate of the
Colombian  banking ,ytem  (.TF)  plus  a  margin  to  cover
administrative costs and foreign exchange risk if denominated in
Peso or, if denominated in US$ equivalent, a rate reflecting at
least the Barkl s interest rate plus a fee to cover the cross-
currency ri4t and RR's administrative costs. Relending rates to
enterprises would be determined by the PF2. according to the
maturity, credit risk, operational cost and competition of each
investment loan up to a maximum of six percentage points above
SR's rate to the PFI. The ceiling on the spread has been set to
equal or exceed the current average free market spreads. For Peso
loans, SR would bear explicitly the full foreign exchange risk,
and would bear only the cross-currency risk for US$ equivalent
loans. For the public sector support component, US$ 8 million of
the loan proceeds would be made avallable by BR to the Government
on terms identical to BR's repayment obligations to the Bank.
2MrlA&Uos  The proposed Project Is intend4d to provide capital and other
support to assist the private sector in renovating existing
industrial production capacity so as to reduce costs, increasing
product quality and service, building now capacity for goods in
which Colombia has a dynamic comparative advantage, or phasing out
capacity which ie unlikely to produce acceptable long run'returns
in an Internationally competitive business environment. The
Project incorporates those public policy and regulatory
adjustments in the areas of external trade, domestic competitlon,
the finanoial sector, labor and technology needed to achieve its
objectives. Most of these adjustments have already been achieved.
The Project would also includes   (a) a private sector credit
program to finance investments an4 technical assistance at the
enterprlse level and upporting sezvices at the subsector level,
and (b) programs to facilitato labor force adjustment,
environmental pollution control and Project monitoring support.



hlggk Riuha* The main risks to successful Project implementation are that (a)
revrsals may occur in the Government's trade refom program; (b)
PIls are reluctant to lend for restructuring investments because
of higher credit risks; and (0) investments are inadequately
prepared. To mitigate these risks, the trade program has been
publicly announced, is well underway and the Project includes
safeguards which would tie the Bank's loan to the maintenance of
the trade program's progress., The Project enables Pile to chare
rates according to credit risk up to a maximum which would equal
or exceed current average free market spreads, which is nearly $
percentage points higher than the previous Bank credit line to
Colombian  industry.    Finally,  during  Project  preparation,
restructuring issues were identified under five subsector studies
and steps initiated in part as a demonstration to formulate sound
restructuring strategies.   An agile pre-investment financing
mechanism has also been included in the Project to finance pre-
investment work by enterprises.
Nstimated , cost
Local    Foreign    Total
*------US$ millions- ---
Private Sector Credit Program               295         197      492    98
Public Sector Support for Restructuring
Labor Adjustment Assistance                    3.5         1.5      S.0
Unviramental Pollution Control                 1.0         1.0      2.0
Project Managemnt support                     0.           0.5.     1.0
Subtotal                         5.0         3.0      8.0   2
Total                       300         200      500   100
Nnterprises               .148                                    148   23
Participating Financial Intermediaries       103                  103    17
Private Investment & Znterprise EquLty Funds 49                    49    20
World Bank                                              200       200   40
Total                             300        200       SOO  100
Cofinancing of the Project is currently under consideration by the Nxport-Import
Bank of Japan.
_ ---U8S milxlons -…---
i.Ut' Iu   0     in a a             FY  92  93   94  95   96  97  98
(avg profile for Bank loans
to indoatry in Colombia)
Annual                                 6  44    70  38  22  12    8
Cumulative                             6  SO  120 158  180  192  200
rlats of letua Restructuring loan approvals would require normally at least a
12 percent iinancial rate of return in real terms.



-2-
STAF APRAX SL RO!
iNDUSTRIaL ESTRUCI URIN ANDo -DNLPIEENT PROJUCT
1.    In Febru.ty 1990, the Government of President Virgillo Barco set in motion
a program to liberalize the external trade regime, accelerate the  "eform of
public services and develop an internationally competitive private sector. The
announcement marked recognition by many policy-makers and private entrepeneurs
that Colombia's socio-economic objectives for the 1990s---to accelerate the
country's rate of economic growth and employment creatior, lower prices to
consumers, and further diversify the nation's export etructure---cannot be met
by continued high trade protection, import substitution, and capital-driven
growth. The Government of President Cesar Gaviria, which took office in August
1990, has reaffirmed its support for this program and accelerated its
implementation.
2.   The proposed Bank loan for an Industrial Restructuring and Development
Project (XRDP) is part of a package of policy and institutional adjustments to
facilitate  the realization of this program.   Sector wQrk  t and policy
discussions with the Government have beon intensive over the past two years on
trade, industrial and financial sector issues. A Bank loan of US$80 million
equivalent was approved in 1989 for a Fifth Small and Medium Scale Enterprise
(SME) Project, and a loan of US$300 million has recently been approved to support
broad-based public sector regulatory and enterprise reforms. Wo other projects
are expected to be ready soon which aim to facilitate the reorganisation of
Colombia's industrial development bank for large scale enterprises, the Instituto
do Fomento Industrial (IZrv, and to promote export development.
3.   The IRDP has been designed in close collaboration with the private sector,
upon which Colombian Industry depends almost entirely, and represents a
significant departure from previous Bank support for industrial development in
Colombia. Building upon the past sequence of Goverament reforms in the financial
sector,  corporate taxation  (1986), foreign direct investment  (1987) and
receivership (1988), and in tandem with trade reform, it promotes domestic policy
and institutional changes which seem to be the most essential for industrial
restructuring and developmant to succeed. 2 It also gives particular attention
to instruments needed at the enterprise level to prepare and implmaent
restructuring investments.
4.   The first two chapters of this Report develop the justification for the
Project by reviewing past sector performance trends and the present competitive
position of selected industries, then outlining the public policy and
institutional support framework for sector-wide industrial restructuring.
" "Colombia: Industrial Competition and Performance" (Grey Cover),
June 29, 1990.
2 For background, see 0 Industrial Restructuring-Policy and Practice",
March 20, 1989, and "Strengthening Trade Policy Reform", November 1989.



-3-
1I  T mm NED FOR INDUSTRIAL RS!RUC!URING ANDM 
S.    At the sector-wide level, industrial restructuring is viewed as a long-term
effort to align the industrial apparatus with the country's comparative
advantage. The Colombian Government's decision to undertake this wide-ranging
process recognizes the weak competitive position of its industry as well as an
acute sense of a number of well-known international trendsJ the technoloqical
revolution, particularly with respect to microelectronics, information and
communication, and biotechnology; the prominent success of and benefits accruing
to many countries employing export-oriented ievelopment strategies (such as those
in East Asia); the opportunities which may arise with the consolidation of the
European Common Market scheduled for- 19921 and the increasing emphasis being
placed by nations (such as those of Eastern Europe* on marketplace competition.
Its decision also reflects its understandLng that the long-standing inward focus
of its economy and the present intensity of internai .onal industrial competition
are likely to require a complex and all-embracing restructuring offort.
6.   The growth pattern of overall industrial production in Colombia shows
substantial volatility over time. still, it. production structure has remained
relatively static since the mid-1970s and of modest importance to the economy,
contrasting sharply with the dramatic cha-nge which have taken place in many
newly  industrialized  countries  (NICas).     Production  facilities  have  a
preponderance of older equipment and output has been- concentrated increasingly
in a limited number of plants. Industrial output has been focused consistently
on the domestic market and has failed to generate 4    Ievel of exports which would
re4uce ColombiaJ s heavy dependence on commodity exports.   The competitive
position in international markets of a number of important Colombian industries
is, on average, quite weak. However, with concerted action to deal with a
variety of restructuring issues, it appears that industrLalists can gain and
maintain comparative advantage in many product lines in a relatively open
competitive environment.  These points are discussed below.
1.1   Volate 291=   grh
7.   The gaowth of the industrial sector in Colombia ov- the past 25 years has
fluctuated substantially, largely as a function of shifts in domestic aggregate
demand and the real foreign exchange rate.   rollowing a substantial real
devaluation and estabishment of the crawling peg exchange rate system in the mid-
1960., the 1967-74 period was characterized by significant growth and
diversification of Colombian industry, both as a result of import substitution
and export expansion. Manufacturing output grew by 8.68 per year in real terms
(Tables 1.11 and 1.2). Thereafter, a highly overvalued exchange rate and other
macroeconomic problems asociated with a boom in world coffee prices in the later
19709 led to a fall in the industrial growth rate to an average of 4.1% over the
1975-19 period. With the persistence of an unfavorable macroeconomic policy
framework and the  international recession at the outset of the  1980.,
manufacturing output fell, by an average of -0.5%-per year during 1980-83.



-4-
8.    in 1984, the Governmant undertook a macroeconomic adjustment program which
restored internal and external balance in the economy as well as growth
momentum.3 one of its distinguishing features was the impressive growth of the
industrial sector, whlch registered growth rates averaging 5.4% over 1986-87.
In 1988-89, sector growth slowed to 2.3% and 1.7b, respectively, as the pace of
aggregate demand began to slackon. Most of the growth in industrial output was
achieved through the use of existLng installed capacity, idled since the early
1980., rather than substantial new investment.
1.2   fSta9aat Pgtuj"Lon Strugture
9.   Along its volatile gtowth path, the share of manufacturing in GDP has
remained relatively constant. It comprLsed 18% of non-coffee CUP in 1967 and 19%
in 1987 (Table 1.3).  Th  tagnation of Ladustry's share of GDP in Colombia
contrasts with the experience of many NICs, such as Rorea, Indonesia, ThaLland,
the Philippines, Turkey, andf Mxico, in which manufacturing growth has becom an
increasingly important contrtbutor to the economy (Table 1.4).
10. The structure of industrial production has also demonstrated remarkable
continuity over the past 15 years, again unlike many othe MICa. In the two
decades followLng World War 21, the concentration in traditLonal consumer goods
was substantially dlluted with growth in industrLes such as steel, chemicals,
petroleum ref in7Lg, and pper. The share of nondurable consumer goods in sector
output fell from 85$ in 1945 to 53% ln the early 19706. Since then, however, the
pace of diversification hai virtually stagnated (Table 1.S).  International
comparisons show that the she" of nondurable consumer goods in Colombia remains
high (50% in 1985) oompared to the averages of other Latin American countries and
all NICs (44% and 32%, respectLvely -  e  Table 1.6), where they have fallen
progressLvely. Colombian captal goods accounted for only 7% of output, compared
to 15% in Latin Amerlc ant4 26.% Li NICs.
11. There has also been little change in the size and geographLcal distribution
of plants over time (Tables 1.7 and 1.8). as would be expected, there are a
large number of small plants -nd few large plants, wlth the majority having 10-49
employees. Approximately one-third of all plants are located in the Bogota area,
23% in the Medellin area, and 11% in the Cali area. The four departments along
the Atlantic coastal area acoount for no more than 9% of all plants, confirming
the accepted notion that an4fcturing activity is heavily concentrated in a few
interlor regions of the country.
12.  Change  is evident, however, ln the age distribution of industrLal
facilities. While the proportion of new plants has remaLned falrly constant,
there has bee" a reduction In the share of plants betwoen three and ten years of
age, and a growLng shareof, p0ats over 11 years (Table 1.9).  The production
structure also show a high and increasing concentration of output in a limited
number of plnts.  In the cotton spinALng stage of the textles Industry, for
example, three firms represent more than 70% of total Lnstalled capacity. At the-
plant level, the concentration in also high, with more than 4S% of spindles found
in plants with more than a total of 40,000 spindles, cmpwared with 10% in Mexico,
3S"e the Cologbia CounWry Bconomic Memorandum, August 2S, 1989.



-5-
St in Spain, 20% in Turxey, 15% in the UK. This is a common phenomenon in
Colombian industry, as shown by calculations at the tour-digit 280 level for
19S8 and 1984 of the four-plant concentratlon ratio (CR4, see Table 1.10), whlih
reflects the proportion of subsector produption accounted for by the top four
plants.4
1.3  Dmetiga Mret Orientation
13.  The heavy dependence of Colombia's export structure upon coffee was
tempered in the 1980s by the rapid development of minerals, such as petroleum,
coal, nickel and gold. Their growth rates were particularly impressive over
1985-88 (averaging 23% p.a., se  Tables 1.11 and 1.12), and reduced the
predominance of coffee from Sl% to 32% of total expwrts over 1980-88.  This
achievement has been a key factor underlying the Governmont' aability to maintaLn
relative macroeconomic stability and to its decision to undertake trade reform.
Still, by the end of the 19809, Colombia's comtodity export dependence remained
higher than in 1975.
14.  The growth of anufactured exports was high during the late 1960. and early
1970. 1l3-16% p.a. during 1965-74). Growth suffered over the following six
years, - particularly from the effects of overvaluation of the peso, as
industrialists lost market ohare to competitors in both export markets and their
own domestic market. rollowing the international recession and the Government's
1984 acroeconomic adjustment program, increm ints in industrial exports were
impressive (40% over 1986-87 and 17% over 1988-89,0.see Tables 1.13 and 1.14).
The leading industrial performers were the textiles, garments, leather, and shoes
industries (40% average annual growth in 1987 and 19e8), followed by lndustrial
chemicals (22%), and paper and printing (11%). Remaining industrial exports had
growth rates below 10% per year in nominal US Dollar terms.
15.  The most recent trends are a respons mainly to th. sharp real devaluation
under the adjustment program by a limited number of firms ra          than the
realisation of a broad-based commitment to the export market. Investigations
suggest strongly that exporting by Colombian industrieA has been consistently a
residual activity to balance supply with fluctuation ln domeatic market demand,
rarely contributing more than 10% to annual outpwi growth in any subsector.
Consequently, the export orientation of the industrial sector Iha remained low
(7.5% of domestic production in 197S and 6.3% in 1986, (ame Table 1.15). This is
ln contrast with many gICs, which have derived significant advantages for growth
and structural change from expansion in the international market. The lack of
commitment to export is partly due to the greater risk and initial information
costs involved in selling Ln external markets, but probably mostly expl6 ned by
the anti-export bia of the trade policy and infrastructure regime, whic ma ke
sales to the dcmesti# market signiiicantly  ore profitable than exforting.
1.4  Weak  aomuet4ie Position
16.  Industrial "competitionw in the global environment now demands not only
that firm minimise product cost, but that they also give equaL emphasis to
developing product designs carefully keyed to market nlchea and ever responsive
to changing demand, exacting high product quality, and achieving rapid
4 Misa (198P).



-6-
-- -- --   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - -         --   -
- 3       x-X                   x  x---  -            I
rn                                                     -
j~~~~~~3 x              N  x  xxxxx       xxx
J ~ ~~ 3 x          xx    xx  N34xxx$    xx    I
-   -     |  X  K    X     X  X K     X   X
II k-- _ --- -----_-                    --- -  - - - - -   -
#~~~~ ..K X                      XKXXKXX    X   X  XX 
,l i  tg       X   XX      KX   XX XKXXXXX    XX K
--------------------------
ii       I .       K   XXX   XX    MX" XXXXX'. XX 
H                        '
'Ii-
.i     j                            I__ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
KS~~~~~~~~~~~4



-7-
distribution and service times. To determine with some procision the oompetitive
position of a representative sample of Colembian industry in the global economy
and how to improve it, subsector studies were done during Project preparation for
agroindustry, textiles and clothing, leather and shoes, iron and steel, and
vehicle assembly and parts.   This group was selected to reflect several
characteristicas (a) a significant share of total sector output and employment
(about 33% and 65t, respectively)I (b) a fairly broad sample of industrlal
activity across consumer, intermediate and capital goods, and enterprise size
(interviews were held with a total of 526 industrial firms, more than 30 public
agencies involved with trade, training, developmant banking, and with private
producers associations)I (c) a possible need for restructurLng, as Lidicated by
long-term growth, productivity and financial performanco trendsl and (d) a range
of likely restructuring strategies, from mainly expansionary ("offensive") to
primarily contractionary ("defensive") activities.
17.   Tht studies were designed to determine in detail (a) the degree of
competitiveness of local producers in the subsector in relation to international
levels, (b) the principal causes of gaps in competitiveness stemming from factors
within enterprises, market structure and public policies, (c) the potential for
improving performance and its socio-economic impact, and, in more general terms,
(d) policy changes and strategy options for restructuring and development.
18. The studies suggest that, while there is a range of enterprise performance
within each subsector, the average enterprise in most of these subeotors would
not at present meet one or more of the main criteria needed for competitiveness
in an open domestic market environment or in export markets. Average product
costs are in most cases above their NIC and other developing country comparators.
Factor productivity is generally low by international standards.5  Product
designs suffer basically from inadequate communication with external markets and
local institutional support.  Product quality is hampered both by inadequate
quality of raw materials and the aging technology frequently in. use. Market
response time is uniformly high, due largely to organizational problems of
producers, public administration and infrastructure which are not geared to nor
disciplined by overseas markets. The studies also conclude that many firms in
these subsectors do have the potential to become internationally competitive with
existing or newly-developed product lines and, indeed, to generate growth in
local value added, exports and employment.  They further confirm that the
restructuring process can reduce energy cosisumption and environmental
contamination, frequently on a profltable basis.  Key restructuring measures
required to achieve international competitiveness in these subsectors are
reflected on the previous page. The conclusions of each of theqe studies are
outlined below (fuller summaries of the studies are provided in Annex 1) and help
inter alia to put into context the policy and institutional adjustments discussed
in the following chapter. These colusions do not necessarlX anoly to other
subsectors nor is taraetina of subsectors a 2art of the Project.-
5 These results coincide with an analysis of economy-wide productivity
changes by Garcia-Garcia (1988), which demonstrated that macroeconomic growth
since 1950 has been very costly, depending primarily upon additional inputs of
labor and capital rather than productivity increases to gen.*ate growth.'



Cost Comp.tltlwness of
Colonibtan Texttl"
(Splas5ng & wetin  Combine)
10
seeCOt _ "t C"  w t td SbkI,o                 bA
OA~~ ~ -
06-
04-
Ietrnt 306 Med*l
0.a-
commum" ooet           ttZ wo *aC> v
33.                                      ... .at   3    t.*g  ,ahtial. met. ..  30t
*C COwbae Wp1 .41303- . .3.
*~~~~~~~~                                                       'IilJ          dtesE-'''' '..



-9-
19. in the main product areas of the textile tnduetry, Colombia ia not will
positioned among its international competLtors. in cotton spinning (the main
fiber used in Colombia), competitiveness is con straind mainly by hlgh raw
material costs and, in the value added chain, by very low productivity and
significant imperfections in finished product quallty (Figures 1.1-1.3). The
characteristics of the weaving industry are similar. Combined product costs for
the two processes are above all NIC competitors (    facing page).
20. Unit aveLage labor costs In this industry eppear to be in line with many
NiC competitors. However, labor productivity is relatively low, which is due
mainly to inadequate operator capacity (basica skll, training and machine
operation) and to redundant labor. In relation to hl4h-wage industrial countries
with high labor productivity (eq., Spain), relatively low remuneration levels in
Colombia can compensate today for its low labor productivity (see box). However,
productivity-adjusted wage comparisons
with significant exporters having .
simtilar hourlyLwages (eq., Brasil and !           I
Turkey)  demonstrate  that  Colombia |
clearly loses this advantage.  This
problem is accentuated for large scale        ,      f
textile  firms,  where  the  average *..
hourly remuneration is about twice   *  
that of small firms in the industry  :~~
due to bargaining power and extra-                   I
legal  non-wage  benefits.      Most                ,
importantly,   to    gain    dynamicb f
advantage,   Colombian    labor.|
productivity growth wil probably have 
to    equal   or   exceed   recent    
international averoage trends -in this           *
subsector . of  5-8%  per  year  and.. .
confront the incoease in the number of of |
low-wage countries newly entering the
market or expanding 'exports of these  : a<l   ( w .
products.
21.  As  capacity  utilisation  is 
relatively high in tets Industry, low  av...g-in.e...t
capitand productivity J,is  mainly  a      l     .
function of the combination, of high
capital costs (intereht rates, importicul   rl          r
duties and taxes) and the high share
of older, traditional technology preddinently InA zie.  Inadequate equipment
maintenance an4 shortcomings in businessaorganixation (factors influencing the
Input flow of materials) are subaidiary probl9ms.
22. The Colombian textil* industry incturs the highest ~cobn" average interest
rate and import duties oha?gps on sector equipmeAtt (ee facing page) in relatiO
to textile output among twelve comparator countries. .. Xts rate of investment in
recent technology has been substantially 'hehind eqptngcutre,patclarly
~with resjtect to the open end -pinnLng process anod preparation equipment, and
overall age profile of equipment is substantially older than comparator



-10-
Cost Competitiveness of
Colombian Clothing
Sports Shirts
Truastormattou Cost (OUS)
1.4-
).2
0.8 
0.6-
0.4 
0.2 
Dota Rep  C. Rice    KONG  COLOURIA MlotJ¢    Talwau  xovk Koft    US
E$.abor        inac   costs   Rea1oMust   MAdnl. Costs      Sales Costs
Sourc: IBCQ Analysis
Cost Competitiveness of
Colomblan Clothing
'Mens PCMts
TransSormatton Cost (SUS)
2.0 
'.5   -
Dlom. Rep  C. Rica    Komea  COLOWIZA  M)XIco    ltiwan Rong 1ng   us
*  Lqbot  CFtnanlil COO,t   R   at  mAdinin. Costs  YlIJa:.s Costs
soewce: 2C6 Analysis



countries. The presence of recent technology,, uch as shuttleless looms, also
appears to be relatively higher in 8Me than in large firm  (Vigares 1.4-1.6 and
Table 1.16). A high level of vertical integration of spinning, weaving and
finishing among large firms also negatively affects productivlty and supply time
(about 70 days for standard products) relative to le  integrated enterprles
(Figures 1. 7-1. 8) Trends in knitwear fLnLshaing enterprises further uggnest that
higher vertical integration tends to have lower capacity utilization levels (64%)
than in enterprises to which a segment of the production process is subcontracted
(92%).
23.  The strategic thrust of restructuring to gear textiles for garment exports
and the direct overseas sales of toxtiles entails (a) decontrol of prices on the
domestic production of cotton, (b) reduction in import duties o* other key
imported inputs, such as machinery, polyester and acrylic fibers, and dyes, (c)
a  reduction of vertical integration,  and  (4) development  of subeotor
institutions  to  support  product  dsign,  materlals  purchase,  production
coordination, quality oontrol and marketing
clothino
24.  Clothing products are currently cost compettive iA relatlon to industrill
countrLes and most NICe, thanks mainly to competitLve sourly Wages in an industry
mainly of smaller enterprises and labor-intensive manufacturing (see facing
page). Yet, the sector has important weaknesses at the enterprise level which
hinder its overall competitiveness: doestic raw matkiai prices (about one-half
of product cost) are about 20-30% above prices in countries with competitive
prices; raw material quallty is frequently of inappropriate width, unevenly dyed
and with excessive imperfections; and factor productivity L low. te industry
suffers particularly from low labor productlvity as a oonsequence of a lack of
product specialization, insufficient amployee training, and inadequacies Ln
workshop organization and materials flow.  In addition, as in the textile
industry, the age of equipment is relatively high.
25.  In the external business onvironment, supply times are relatively long (60-
120 days) thanks to Colambia's sluggish export infrastructure.  This is a
critical bottleneck for a consumer goods industry in which "quick response"
delivery is an imperative.  Increasingly, retailers are obliged to compete
through reduced inventory management and cost while achieving fewer stock-outs,
better tracking of seasonal market trends and offering fewer discounts for unsold
merchandise. Caribbean countries, which represent Colombia's main labor cost
competitors at present, have demonstrated more responsive supply times and have
substantially increased clothing exports in the 1980. (Table 1.17).
26.  Given the importance of delivery time and Colombia's proximity to a major
market, the USA, reasonable air freight tariffs, and labor costs below a number
of major East Asian clothing exporters, the industry's export potential is very
good. These advantages contrast with the position of major Bast Asian clothing
exporters, which have higher productivity levels, and better quality' raw
materials and software, but are disadvantaged by higher wages, longer delivery
times and import quota restrictions.
27.  Fulfilling the potential of Colombian producers is likely to entail a
continued focus on the already cost competitive cotton fiber-based clothing



-12-
Cost Competlltveness of
Colombian Shoes
(Work, Stre.t. Sport Shoes)
Ag. Cost per Pitr
8                    ~~~~~~~6.95
I                                               8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.7
6-
4-                                             J9 
2 
=new mcw.tats mwxor [::o#h*e
SOugcw: gurt Salmion Assocatets.



-13-
iulustry for the USA market, with diversifioation to the UC. it will probably
also imply an emphasis on products for which delivery time is particularly
important (eg., cotton fahion dresses, cotton weaters) and on a high level of
design complexity which would reduce the liklihood of automated ompeVtition. A
medlum-term restructuring strategy is expected to accord, hlghest ptLority to (a)
restructuring the cotton textile industry to achiev international
competitiveness, and increasing the quality of cotton and synthetic fibers, (b)
increasing factor productivity, and (c) investments in "intangibles" like
monitoring fashion trends, product design, quality control, and training.
26.  investments in intangibles is
particularly  crucial, as time  and  -         "S.'
motion 'studies suggest that only 20%  Ii.
of worker time is devoted to actual . I                        ' 9
seing while S0%  is involved with   l  i          § s i |.' * 
organixing  materials  (see  adjacent        . |              . .
box), increasing  productivity  will     ...
result largely from increased training    :*  . .
and   a reorganization.L i.
framenedenterprises with organizing 
agents to   fopurchase  raw  materials,
create trademarkse, respa  id to large          .
export orders (which are 4-6 times the                 w.
avera fwordes for Colombia 's dometic0
imarket) , monitor fashion and market  zrv w
trends, and  *pport product design and f.
internationg.L a mrket prcootion 'will                                   _
*also  be essential to  improve the   ~<.~S* .~
sectorl's  relative 'position.    In
addition, the indusatry can be expected
to 'Increase  its  association  with m                  ., .1n.
universities with design curriculaci,                         NW. '....
create a national dqsign school, work
toward the standardisation of ZarLmat
sizes.
29.  Unlike for clothinig, raw' material prices for loather hides are below
internatinal $lsovev. The industry Is cost compottive (see facing page) 'in
certain shoe models, such,as work and children's shoes, which are exported by a
very few fiwms. However, a 6i,asi cost -competitiveness cannot be turned into
market competitiveness in', & global market" which. now- has a  high level of
prdutin technology, complexity of cmpeonents and materials, strong fashion
trends, and strict quality standards for these product 'in... While the market
is currently dcminated by developing country exporters like Taiwan, Korea, China,
Hong Kopg and Brazil (77% *1 global production in 1986)., labor cost Increases in
a number of these areas are encouraging new market entrants from countries such
as Thailand, Indonesia and t#ie Philippines.
30.. ~-Colombian. shoe produce*8 'suffer from inadequate quality of tanned leather,
slow supply time in even the domestic market '(2S-35 dsy vs. 18 days in tho USA),
and a lack of standardization of sizes and product specialization. Low 'facTtor
productivity is also evident in this industry as a consequence of' indequaLte



E 'i              {    r          22
@'Ix- 0YXX- 0{fl
-Mx         X   xx j-
__ _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _   ____!



-15-
operator skills, poorly organized plants, and obsolescent production and chemical
technology equipment.   interviews of shoe producers also confLrm that the
external trade apparatus is unwieldly, frequently registering transit times for
imported production inputs of 4-5 months to arrive at the importer's warehouse,
of which up to half $. due to administration by Incomex ,(import licensing),
customs and banks. This results not only in costly charges for working capital
but a serious barrier to competitiveness for a highly fashion-influenced
industry.
31. With a saturated domestic market and idle capacity, the industry has
manifeated considerable interest in the export market and is likely to pursue the
following restructuring strategys (a) improve domestic leather quality through
consolidation of smaller tanneries, a price and quality classification system for
leather hides, access to leather imports to alleviate likely supply constraints
in the short run, and better quality domestic hides ln the long run, (b) launch
programs to establish standarization, quality norms and industry-wide fabrication
of lasts to permit the production of components for shoes and greater economies
of scale, (c) reconfigure plant layout and operations to increase labor
productivity, (d) establish subsector training, technology and extension centers
to increase plant efficiency, improve chemical treatment in tanning, and improve
quality control, and (e) develop an export promotion program to build upon the
initial export success so far..
32.   In the fruits and vegetables processing industry, backward integration is
low, quality of raw materials is erratic, and nearly all products are oriented
toward the domestic market.   Adaptive research of different varieties of
vegetables and trials of post-harvest treatment are inadequate, as are efforts
to control the Mediterranean fruit fly for fresh fruit exports.  Technology
transfer through the Technology Research Institute (IIT) is weak and, as in other
industries, agroindustry also suffers from poor transportation facilities and
capacity constraints in air freight (see facing page).
33. This indusOry appears to have good market potential in a number of fresh
and processed tropical fruits and in the *winter vegeteble. market. To realise
it, producers must increse and sustain quality through better selection of seed
varieties, adaptive research, cultivation practices and technology, and post-
harvest treatment.   In the remaining segments of the agribusiness chain,
entrepeneurs must expand collection centers/packing housee, refriger;ted
containers, cold storage warehouses, air cargo space, and links with importers.
Food processing and packaging facilities need to be updated, a uniform quality
grading system established, and existing R&D institutes reorganized.
Iron and Stel
34.  Production costs of steel products are marginally competitive at current
import prices (see following page). Local selling prices in 1989 cqntained
substantial mark-ups of about 40-50% (not accounting for interest costs) in
Colombia's trade protected environment. Production costs (excluding interest
'charges) across a number of products (billets, bars, wire rods, profile and
plate) are comparable to dellvered imports from neighboring Venezuela. Import
costs tend to be inflated by relatively small lot sizes and high transportation



-16-
Cost Competttivnon of Colombian Sb1l
coWfou ($US)
400- I                    3t
400 9
300-
200 -
too
100
Col-"APDR   outO.C  Kotea  3rua11/V  Cal-9oa    u
_i Law Meraltas       t "ry          M  Labor
\lat                            MM  F bP/l
SnMA arwp Maeqrnat cuats
C=os COMPETTIVENESS OF COLOMBIAN
VEHICLE ASSEMBLY
(AutomobIGe #d Other Lght Vehiles)
Sbo_wds at dollas
814 -
612 ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ M
$is
7.8                *~~~~~~~7*
*6l1
S~^_s
s.4
MO tl' - oM i OdMMS M. *M of  _
660~AsbI



-17-
osats in maritime shipping, the ports and domestic modes, which tends so far to
offer significant protection to domestic steel production.
35. Productivity is low compared to efflcLent international producers, as a
result of the older processes used and the poor condition of the facilities of
the country's only integrated producer, Acerias Paz del Rio (APDR). Colombian
iron ore costs are low on a per ton basis. However, the quality is relativewly
inferior and, together with the small size of the integrated steolworks
facilities, the advantage is lost. Electricity costs are comparable to other
developing countries (Venezuela is an exception) and lower than industrialized
countries. Locally purchased scrap is nominally at the international cost level
(though probably higher if adjusted for quality differences) while imported scrap
cost is more than twice the comparable international cost due to tariff and
transportation costs.
36.  Enterprise restructuring is expected to consist mainly of a (a) reduction
of duties on imported scrap, refractories and spare partsl (b) reduction in the
vertical inteogralon of APDR, streamlining of its administration and sales
operations, downsizing of its labor force, and modernization of APDR's production
facilities, reducing APOR's overall product ecosts by an estimated l0%s (a) modest
upgrading of facilities of the country's four mini mills, and (d) possible joint
venture with Venesuelan enterprises for certain products.
Vehicle Assembly and Parts
37.  Automobile and light trucks are assembled in Colombia by local affiliates
of Renault, Mazda, and General Motors, primarily through import of CRD
(completely knocked down) sub-assemblies and other components representing 80s
of all vehicle materials. -When taking "ito account the absence of a number of
product features found on most internationally traded vehicles (safety and air
quality features, powertrain and fuel injection technolgy, costing about
US$l,300-l,800 per car), local automobile costs are about 5% above vehicle
imports from the USA (se  facing page).   This reflects the international
efficiency in the fabrication overseas of the componnts, relatively low domestic
wages and reasonable operating efficiency for a labor-based aseembly operation.
38. However, assemblers are faced with the prospects of local market stagnation
at best. Thl country's market sise remains small (about 60.,000 units) and lacks
the large middle class needed to justify economically even one plant (150,000-
250,000 cars/yr is generally considered a minimum economic plant size). Export
market competition is expected to intensify with supply/demand trends and the
drive to compete based upon quality. And, most importantly, gradual reductions
in trade protection are expected to eventually lead to an increases in market
share by those imports offering a variety of styles, quality and options.
39.  The vehicle assembly policy framework utilized since the 1960G  by the
government is very similar to thoss applied in IICs with a large domstic market
for vehicles (such as Brazil, Mexico, Korea, Taiwan and India), which is designed
inter alia to stimulate significant output growth and transfere of tecbnology.
ColombLa's assembly regime has encompased a system of controls aimed to Lncrease
the scale of domestlc production as far as possible toward minimum efficient
levls, mainly by restricting the number of vehicles models and setting annually
the number of units produced. The promotion of local auto parts production has
been mainly tbrough trade protection, price controls, and integration



* g |r    C  : 1   s  X            t  ig |          <r  1    1 1
§~   IiIIl |                  Ii               §s1et    I ' --           0 gI
n             '! '       f* 51.                                         3!
g~~~~~~~~ |}   P  r                                         1 1  1    |t
is~~~ 0Mgfil g    *1  -
*~~~~~~~                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 9  p  |  _    ___
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. .
a ~ ~~ ~*'                                        I'KI  'II  I    I~~~,, 



-19-
requirements with vehicle assemblers in the country. And concern about the
balance of payments effects of the industry has led to stipulations of export
regyirements. This rgime, along with basic market constraints, has produced far
less than the results anticipated.
40.   In the global auto parts industry, competition is intensifying rapidly with
the proliferation in the number of models, the use of electronics, new materials,
and reductions in product cycle times (from about 7 to 4-6 years). Underlying
this is the revolution in industrial organization and management with such things
as procurement of sub-assembly systems from a few suppliers rather than a wide
number of individual components, just-in-time delivery and inventory systems,
flexible production runs of different models without retooling, exacting quality
and rapid order-to-delivery cycles. Market entry is made even more difficult by
requirements that auto parts suppliers undertake a considerable share of the
product development mad technological innovation work. In practice, this is
being accomplished by only a few developing eountrles, such as Braxil, Mexieo,
S. Korea and Talwaa, whleh have strong foreign direct lnvestment commitments by
clobal vehlcle companies due in part to the saze of the domestlc market and their
vehlcle exports.
41. In this environment, the present production structure of ColombLa's auto
parts industry is, for the most part, poorly positioned for international
competitlon. Labor-intensive assembly of parts, such as wire harnesses and seat
assemblies, do have a cost advantage over imports.   'owaver, more capital
intensive products with local raw materials, such as metaI-finished parts (e.g.,
fuel tanks, shock absorbers) and plastic molded componenta (trim, door panel),
are not internationally competitive (see facing page). 2a)w. sector is limited in
the medium-term basically by Colombia's relatively modest mLnufacturlng capacity
(size, organization, and technological level), lavestment requlrements ln product
development and engn"eri7ng, and an inabillty to attract major producers in a
joint venture to produce components fot new automobiles.  They are further
disadvantaged like other industries in Colombia by non-competltive prices for
many locally produced intermediate inputs (Table 1.18).
42.  A restructuring strategy for thli  lndustry is expected to include
progressive decontrol of regulations on vehicle assembly.   ThLs would be
complemented by a private-sector driven program to encourag a shift ln the use
of lnstalled capacity toward the production locally of trucks and buses, which
appears to be a "natural" economic activity and in which major fleet renovation
is required. Labor-intensive assembly rather than economies of soale is a key
factor conditioning comparative advantage, whlch li apparent in the few heavy
duty trucks now assembled (12% Cost advantage over -mports) and lnitial
projections for a local bus productlon program (24% cost advantage).
43.  Restructuring of Colombia's auto parts industry should be founded upon the
phasLng out of integration requlrements for the inclusLon of local parts Ln local
vehicle assembly. It would strenuously ptomote a strategy fopuaing on a market
OnLche* which requires the production of low-technology, labor-intenslve
replacement components for automobiles, which has modeet demands' related to
cost, quality and dellvey. The Us market alone is large (about US$25 billion
/year) and has provided substantial export revenue for highly supcegsful
countrLes such as Taiwan (US$400 millon/year).  Pursuing-this strategy will
entail malnly (a) productlvity and operational iprovments to improve cost and
quality competitiveness, (b) consolidation and closing of non-competLtive



-20-.
suppliers, and (c) a well organized export promotion program for relatively low
volume parts in collaboration with independent distrlbution channels.   Local
parts producers would be expected to also build market share under the truck and
bus program,
First Steam Towaxg Restructurina
44.  Response to Project preparation work has been positive and wLdespread.
Agroindustrialists have prograimd aeminars in export marketing and quality
control, obsorvation missions to examine technology and marketing isues ln
various agroindustrial enterprises in Europe, market and product development
studies for canned vegetables, and preinvestment work for cold chain and
collection center needs. in March, 1990, the Fifth Congress of Textile Producers
adopted a proposal by the National Association of ntdustries (ANDI) to establish
a research and development center for textlles and clothing. Tho center will
offer consulting and training services on raw material quality and product
design, production processes and technology adaptation, equipment and finished
products.
45.  The auto parts industry has adopted a strategy which includes a program to
increase product standardization among producers, training and promotion to meet
export network requiremnts. for the aftermarket.  The leather lndustry is
refining its export market research and developing a technology conter, as is the
region of Antioquia in cooperation with a variety of industries and regional
universities. The shoe producers association, CORNICAL, has taken the ltad with
the support of its membership to establish two private sector-oriented centers
with a number of regional branches for technology and training and an, intgrated
export promotion program, particularly in support of efforts to increase product
specialization and components. Producers plan to learn from similar centers
already operating in Spain, Brazil and Mexico. Existing training centers oq the
industry are expected to be reorganized to-better focus upon enterprise n4e to
Increase the skills of supervisors and operators. The export program would
concentrate  upon  increasing  participation  in  international trade  fairs,
promotional programs and broker relationships, traiing in export markets and
mechanism, and improved airport facilities to handle exports.
2.                mmS pffi^Z        m 2.1
2.1 aMrUaiatiMgr   seet S¢r-wiqe R3structuina
46.  "Restructuring" by industrial enterprises is obviously a new word for a
very old concept. It describes a response, small or large, to changing
competitive conditions in the business environment, or initiatives to take
advantage of new basines opportunities. Todaya restructuring places a strong
emphasis on bringing the product innovation process closer to the customer,
reducing production errors, and reducing order-to-delivery and resupply times.
The focies is a much on organLzation and proce"s, or "software", as on fixed
production assete. As a consequenc  large contralized production facilities are
giving way to smaller Iunits, les  organizational stratifioation and more
functional integration. This permlts a shift from large production runs with a
wide range of different products to more highly specialized lines, able to
produce interchangeably different models according to market swings.- It also
leads frequently to the pooling of resources through strategic alliances and



-21-
equity contributions fo' "externalities", such as technology, product
development, training and information, as well as to a  haring of mrket
channels. This Chapter desoribes the public polioy, institutional, and service
support framework which will be needed to promote such processe on a sector-wide
basis.
Ina£tutional SettinM
47.  The main institutions directing macroeconomic policy in Colombia, the
Ministry of Flnance and Public Credit, the Baneo de la Republica (BR), and the
National PlannLag Department (DNP), also have sectoral p-lLcy functions crltical
to industry. The iLnlstry of Finance, together with 8R, oversee the work of the
Monetary Board (Junta Monetaria) in making fiLancial sector pollcles.  BR
administers development credit lines for the industrial sector and ha influence
over PROUXPO for export promotion. OMP defines foreign investment pollcy in
various areas.
48.   The MLnistry of Development has a number of. imortant policy and oversight
responsibLlities involving industry: ZNONU  timpart adminietratLon) and PRONRP
(expot promotion)'; the Instituto, de Fomento Industrial (Ill) and the
corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP), the public developpent banks for large
scale and small and mediLus scale enterplwies, gespectivelyl industrial fre
zonesl the Superintendencia do sociLdades (enterprise reistration and
mnitoring);  the  SuperLntendencLa  de  Industria  y  Ooamlco  (industrial
regnlation)I and the Comision Nocional de Valore (securities commission). as
if thli is not enough for the 1inistry's very mail staff, it also h         Iovernmt
responsibility for tourism, internal c mmeree, and houing and urban devlopment.
49.  The main Government channels to the industrial sector ar through a number
of producer associations repreoenting business interest.   The three most
important multL-subsectoral assoclatiops  are the  AociacLon  Nacional de
Industrlales (ANDI), the FederacLon Mtalme c (IiDUTL), and the asoclaclon
CblombLana de PequeSios Industriales (ACOP?), representing ama  and madLum scale
industry. There are many other influential associations, such as ACOPLASTICOS,
ORNICAL, ASOCUNRO and ACOLIA, which represent the interests of the manufacturers
of plastlcs, shoes, leather and auto parts.
50.  Untll recently, the effective teamwork behbnd m&croeonomio management has
not been undertaken on behalf of industry. While the DNP has pepared indicative
sector programs for each Government, the ctual policy-making process has rarely
given high priority to nor been well coordinated from the lndustrLal perspective.
Productive communication and working relations betwen the Government and the
producer assocLations have been quLte weak over the long run. On the one hand,
the associatlons have sensed the low policy-making priorLty accorded to industry
by the Government, a lack of respons to their complaints of inefficient public
services, a lack of continuity in the positLon of XlMnLter of Development, and
the inadequate capacity of the MiLnstry to address thear overall pollcy
interests. Government, on the other hand, has felt confronted frequently by
demands for concessLons from particular subuectors and from  large, well
established firm to reinforce their market positions.
These institutLons are expected to become the responsibliLty of a
new Ministry of Trade now being created.



-22--
51. However, the trade reform and industrial restructuring and development
programs formulated over the past two years reflect the most explicit, concerted
effort to define and redirect industrial policy since the adoption of the import
substitution strategy in the 1950s. Inter-agency teamwork has been very active
and, in part through Subsector Working Groups composed of public and private
sector representatives, the dialogue with Industry has improved on policy issues
influencing competitiveness. The Government and producer associations seek to
iaintain consultations within the Subseotor Groups as restructuring and
development proceed under the proposed Project.
S2.  Still, implementation of these programs through daily administration and
coordination will require a considerable boost in the present capacity of the
Ministry of Economic Development. While the Ministry was recently reorganised
on paper to give more attention to technology, mall and medium scale industry,
international trade, and industrial free sones,   its human and. budgotary
resources have changed little. Strengthening It in the coming year is essential
and is addresed through a Project Monitoring Program under the Public Sector
Support Program Component of the proposed Project in order to better (a) monitor
industry's response to trade reform, (b) maintain regular consultations with
producer associations to identify fine tuning measures to reducf' bottlenecks to
the supply response, and (c) increase coordination with other Governmental
entities to encourage further changes in policies needed to achieve international
competitiveness.
S3.  As the previous Chapter and Qolombian entrepreneurs themselves emphadsie
clearly, the enterprise restructuring and development proces is ncessary but
far from sufficient to achieve international competitiveness. Basic comparative
advantages of Colombia, such as low unit labor costs, abundant raw materials
supplies and good geographical position, hive frequently been offset by factors
which are outside the control of enterpries. Public policy and institutional
factors which diminish compatitivenes express thmselves in many forms-
o    Price ontrols & standards - domestic raw materials an4d ntermediate
goods (eg., cotton, leather, uome chemical and steel products) which
exceed international prices and/or fail to meet quality requirements -
due to price regulations and a lack of grading standauds               -
o    Taxation - imported capital goods and technology laden with high
duties and surcharges (18% and 42a in .989, respectively) :
o    Transportatil  - domestic and maritime transportation facilities
which are time-consuming and costlyp
o     Piuace - scarce long-term,credit and high 'teal interest rates p
O    Labor - a labor force whose mobility has been highly constrained by
regulationsl and
a     Administration  - public administration and regulations which,
through excesslve controls, seriously hinder the approval of
technology contracts, duty drawbacks, and directed credit.



-23-
The Project aims to reduco or eliminate a nusber of problems within these area
in order to permit and support the restructuring process. They are discussed in
more detail in later sections of this Chapte:.
supporting services
54. The fundaenntal importance of the policy framework should not overshadAw
the equally essential need to stimulate nd support the restructuring and
development process at the enterprise level. A catalyst which can develop,
package and later diffuse to other the essential knowledge and techniques of
that industry in such areas as management, technology and marketlng has been
frequently found to be important to the proces.' Among many OECD countries in
which industrial restructuring has taken place, such support is often readily
available.^ However, in Colombia, the network to help identify and implement
sound restructuring investments i particularly nascent in the following ares:s
o     Technology Promotion and Product Quaity - The eubsector studies
show uniformly that advisory, training and infoilmation extension
services  for  technology  need  to  b   expanded.  Increased
competitiveness and export success also require adopting'the
appropriate standards for design, production and 0ost control, which
tend  to  reduce  the  risk  of  product  failure,  and  promote
oempatibility and interchangeability.   standards in Colombian
industry overseen by the National Ocuncll ot Standards and Quality,
are generally: incoSpleto or unrelated to international standards;
o     Investment Usakmag - Nnterpriseu  are expected to ned. considerable
support in financial engineering of new restructuring investments to
ralss risk capital and adjust existing vipital structures to
underpin operational restructuring. Investment banking can provwide
important support for. thece purpose  as, well as help ases
subsector trends and promote joint ventures with, international
partneral
G     zxport promotion - Colombia has very limited experience in product
design and fashion. Where exports ido exist, exporters depend
heavily on clients for designs. A strong ptogram. for wintangibles",
to acq6ire these skills and incwrese product 'jromotion is very
important; and
O     Training  and Labor Adjustmmet Assitatneo  -  The  services of*
2.                   Colom~ab$4  National Vocationai Training Service (SNA) need to be
refocused and complemented by other-services to update and retrain
supervisory, technical, and operating employees in industry.  A
substantial increaso in on-the-job training is also needed by highly
6xperienced (usually foreign) porsonnel, which has been demonStrated
See .The Role of Catalytic Agents in Entering international Markets",
Industry Series Paper No. 5, IENIN, March 1989.



-24- '
as a highly effeative technique to increase slr11l formation.
services also ned  to be providd to displaced workers in skills
evaluation, job councelLng and referrals, antrepeneuri
programs.
The Project aims to help meet these needs through.provision. under lts components
for the Private Sector Credit Program and ths Public Sector Support Program.
They are outlined in later sections of thls Chapter and the following Chapter.
2.2            sca EiniZaik
55.  During a process of major restructuring, industrial enterprises are more
vulnerable than usual to. significant:change  in mcroeconomic trends.   A
substantial  egmuet of Colombian  industry can be expected to undertake
investments with higher risks as they increase their production orientation
toward export markets and face greater competition inL domestic markets.
Maintenance of a s- able and competitive fq,reign exchange rate, conistent with
changes in the trade; regime, and adequato publi¢ budget dLcipline are
particularly crucial to the success of Lndustrial koftruoturing. The ColombLan
overnment has demonstrated relatively sound acrcoecenoz4c *anagement over the
past flve years, partlcularly in the face of several shocks.  This setion
descriItos briefly recent macroeconocic performance an the Gcoverment'  mediumr-
term policy framework within which restructuring Ls expected to proceed.
56.  Following a period of serious economic crisis in the early 1980. and
sweeping macroeconomlc reforms in 1984. -Colombia regained macroeconomic stability
and reduced sharply fLscai deficits to an annual average of 1% of GDP. CDP
growth reached an annual average of 5.6% during 1986-87, the unemployment rate
was reduped by 5 percentage points to about.10%, inflation was kept at about 22%
annual average, the current account balance improved from a deficit of 6% of GDP
to about balance, and international reserves recovered to above 5 months of
imports of goods and services.
57.  Recently, however, macroeonomic stability hae beon seriously threatened
by food shortages and the laggLag effects of an expansbonary credit policy in the
second half of 1987, which spurred inflation of 28% in 1988. A decline in the
coffee crop and coffee export quotas and a reduction of petroleum output and
exports contributed to an increase ln the flscal deficit to 2.8% of GDP and to
a deceleration of the rate of real GDP growth to 3.7* in 1988.  The collapse of
the International Coffee Agreemnt and the surge in mid-1989 in the conflict
between drug traffickers and the Government compounded this weakened performance.
The economic authorities reacted quickly to reverse these trends with a
tightening of credit policy, investment cuts, and lower subsidies. By year-end
1989, the fiscal deficit was held to about 1.8% of GDP and inflation to about
26%. Real GDP growth, however, slowed down to about 3% for the year.
58.   in 1990, the Governuemt adopted further measures, which lnclude: (a) a
devaluation of 6-8% in the real exchange rate by end-1990, representing a
decision to devalue the real rate beyond the December 1986 benchmark used so fart
and (b) enhanced fiscal austerity, inter alia by eliminating major subsidLes in
Ibid, page 54.



-25-
the coffee sector and enforcing a decline in the real domestic cof fee price,
holding down public sector wage increases to below expected inflatLon for 1990,
raising the domestic prle of gasoline and postponing public sector lnvestments
in selected areas. These measures together are expected to Lepresent a reduction
ln the consolidated non-flnanclal public sector defLclt by about 1.Si of GDP from
what it would otherwise were (2.7% instead of 4.2%) due to the Ocof fee drug"
shock. They represent a consLatent response to the external shocks, have been
dlicussed wlth IMF staff, and have been approved by the Fund's Board as part of
1989's Artlele IV consultations.
59.  The Government also adopted in 1990 an Economic ModernLsatLon Program
contaLnLng a set of structural reform in the public, trade, and flnancLal
sectors, as well as macroeconomlc polLcies deslgned to increase productlvity and
ralse economic growth to about S annually, slow inflation to about 20% per year,
and reduce the incldence of poverty. The centerpLece of the Program is a five-
year trade reform program aimed at increasing the competltlveness of the
tradeable goods  sector.   Complementary  financial sector and  industrial
restructurLng polLcies are designed to improve resource moblILzation and ensure
an adequate supply response of the productive sectors. Public sector reforms,
to be supported by the proposed operation, would Liprove the efflciency of public
sector services and institutions. These structural reforms would be underpinned
by stabilization measures in fiscal and exchange rate policies to maintain
internal and external balance.
60.  The medium-term macroeconomlc pollcy framework for the Program is based on
the continued pursult of prudent macroeconomic policies and the malntenance of
an adequate level of external competLtiveness through the implementation of an
actlve exchange rate pollcy. In addition to the beneficial effects on growth and
prLces, the implementation of these polLcies over the medium term is expected to
produce a decline in the external current account defLcit and the maintenance of
an adequate level of lnternational reserves, thus contributlng to the achlevement
of a viable external payments situatlon. The macroeconomic framework envisages
a gradual reduction of the nonfinancial publie sector deficit to 2% of GDP or
less in 1991 and a further deeline to no less than 1 of GDP ln 1992. Public
sector revenues would improve on the basLi of strict control of current
expenditure,  improvement  in  tax  administration,  higher  revenue  from
internatlonal trade taxes stemming maLnly from the replacement of quantitative
import restrictions by tarlffe, and adjustments in selected public sector prices.
The reduction ln the fiscal defLeit will enable the nonflnancial public sector
to elimlnate its need for credit from the domestlc fLnancial system, so that
expansion of financlal system credit to the private sector will be in line wlth
the growth of nominal GDP during this period. More detail on key macroeconomic
indicators and the balance of payments is contalned in Tables 2.1-2.2.
2.3 External Trade Reaime
(a) Imoort ComretLtion
61.  The trade reform program announced early in 1990 by President Barco
(*Programa de Modernizacion de la Economia colombLanaw) and reaffirmed by
President GavlrLa recognLzes that the tradltlonal import substitution model of
economLc growth has generated dlitortions in relative prices and has isolated
domestic production from Lnternational competition. It acknowledges that the
results of this strategy have been to limit economic growth, access to modern



-26-
technology, productivity, export grofth, end employment, and to increase costs
to consumers. Consequently, the program is to shift withln a period of Lve
years the regime from quantitative restrictions (GMs) to reliance on the forein
exchange rate and a tariff structure with modest protection level. This process
is expected to provide the incentives for industry to seek international
competitiveness and the lRDP would be carried out parL pasu with its
implementation. The following section describes the essential feature of the
program.
62.  Recoat Trade Policy Rfowms. External sector policLes over the last twenty
years have been tied to the macroeconomic management of cycles in agricultural
exports, particularly coffee. Rather than relying on macroeconomic policies to
smooth out aggregate expenditures in response to external payment deficits or
coffee boom8, impo* O and foreign oxchange controls have been alternately
tightened or eased.  The use of trade policy as a stabilization device has
resulted in the extensive use of QRs, uncertainty about access to Lmported
production inputs, and a highly volatile volume of trade.
63.  The  1984-86 macroeconoic  adjustment program  iacluded measures  to
rationalize and liberalize the trade regime. The program broke nev ground in
stressing the role of macroeconomic policies instead of QRs for stabilixing the
economy and its major achievement was the establishment and maintonance of a
competitive exchange rate.9 The program also reduced significantly both the
levels and dispersion of tariff rates: the average tariff rate fell from 61% to
30%, and the standard deviation was cut, in half between 1985 and 1988. However,
tariff surcharges were introduced in 1985 at a uniform rate of 10% and increased
to 18% in 1987.
64.  While these reforms were important, they mainly reversed the protectionist
trend of the early 1980. without liberalizing the importation of goods competing
with locally manufactured goods and changing the incentives for industry to
maintain a strong  inwird-looking orientation.   The coverage of domestic
manufacturing by import restrictions fell from 100% in 1984 to 82% in February
1990 (Table 2.3).'° The largest percentages of freely importable item  were in
intermediate semi-processed inputs, raw materials, and capital qulpment. The
most tightly restricted groups were finished goods, -which virtually gave local
industry protection from all competing impottp, - and food and agricultural
products. While such an indicator is only an approximation of the protection
effects of the import regime, it appears that it has been high by international
standards. For example, the coverage of domestic manufacturing by quantitative
restrictions over 1986-88 was 18% in Argentina, 41% in Brazil, 23% in Mexico, and
48% in Venezuela (Table 2.4).   Bolivia and Chile have no import licensing
requirements.
" "Colombia: Commercial PolLcy Survey", February 23, 1989 (Greoe  Cover).
1IkId-. The coverage of domestic manufacturing by import restrict$ons for
each industry is defined as the proportion of tariff positions (NABAMIN)
related to each four-digit ISIC category that were either prohibited from import
or subject to prior import licenses. The QR coverage ratio is a weighted average
of the subsector values, using production shares as weights.



-27-
65 *  Under the tariff code in effect            -
prior to  Colombia's  trade  reforme
there were 23 tarif f rates ranging                                           i
from 0% to 200%*.  The majorLty of         l    1
tariff  positions  (67%) had  tariff                   
rates less than or equal to 30% (Table    E_______________L ___. __
2.5).  The highest tariff rates, 100%
and  200%,  were  assigned  to  motor
vehicles.     The  tariff  structure
exhibited   the   usual   cascading
structure, with an average tarif f of         c r   a.
41% for manufactured consumer goodes, e  wt t.
24% for intermesdate goods, and 26%         tax     T   cvt
for capital goods (Table 2.6). Across
two-digit   industrial   subsectors,         s
average tariffs were highest for food              $  l            b
and beverages, textiles, wood and to a
lesser extent, paper products. eatest
were lowest for mining and petroleum, i
agricultural products, chemicals and
basic metals.  1Etimates of effective
protection  based  on  1986  price..
comparisons show a sharp bias against  ....
agriculture and mining in favor of          r.t ar                           .
industry.    In  that  year, average
effective protection was -S% for
agriculture and mining, compared to 71% for industry. Actual tariffs paid were
reduced by an extenaive system of exemptions, covering about half of all tariff
positions. Imports continued to be subject to the uniform 18% tariff surcharge
and most are subject to a value-added sales tax. The cumulative effect of this
regime on the cost of imported capital goost has beeni very signiticant (see box)
66.  Currint Trade poucy Reform.  The program adopted in February 1990 and
accelerated and extended to the agricultural sector by the new Governnmnt, aims
under two phases to achieve greater  neutrality in incentives, both across
products and across markets (doestic versus export), and to subetantially reduce
protection. It will alIso reduce administrative discretion-, achieving a more
transparent and automatic system. The program is complemented by the medium-term
macroeconomic framework described in the previous section of this Chapter.
67. under Phase 1 of the Program, import licensess were eliminated over March-
November 1990 and tariffs and-the exchange rate became the main instrument of
protection. The Goverrnment began in march 1990 to implemer.t Phase 1 of the
reform program and, through September 1990, had transferred 1921 positions from
the prior license and prohibited categories to the free list.* This increased the
proportion of freely importable tariff positions from 39% to 76% (Table 2.7) and
reducod the coverage of domestic manufacturing by import restrictions from 82%
to 44% (Table 2.3). Most of the remaining 1239 itiem (24% of tariff lpositionts)
on the prior license list, excepting imports associated with health and' security
And Some agjricultural products, were also moved to the free-list in November.
68.  Phase 2, to be completed by the and of the current Government, in 1994, will
increase the degree of import competition by gradually reducing the level and
dispersion of tariff protection, and by simplifying and Making more transparent



-20-
the tariff regime. The new Government announced in November 1990 average tariff
targets (including the surcharge) for the end of the trade program of an import-
weighted average tariff of 15% and a maximum of 25% economy-wide to be reached
by 1994. It also resolved to reduce the number of tariff categories to only four
by 1993. For those agricultural producta with substantLal international prLce
fluctuations, flexible tariffs are contemplated as a means of price
stabilisation. Over March-November 1990, the Government took -teps toward these
targets.  Twenty three different level were reduoed to ten. About 77% of the
tariff positions now have tariff rates les than or equal to 30% (Table 2.8) and
99.9% are less than 50% (automobiles are, to date, excepted).   Tarlffa were
reduced such that most raw materials and capital goods now have rates of between
5% and 10%. Rates of 20%-30% tend to apply to raw materials, inputs and most
capital goods with local production. Levels of 40%-50% cover most imported final
goods which compete with local production. The weighted average tariff for
industry has thereby decreased from 26% to 18% (Table 2. 5).  The 18% tariff
surcharge has also been reduced already to 13%.
69.  The program also includes several other steps to support the Implementation
of the trade reform process. To control under-invoicing of imports and to
provide information for possible cases of dumping, a price information system
will be developed to be used by Customs and INCOMUX. Other mechanism of control
would include the registration of bidders in the import license auction.
Customs administration would also be streamlined and anti-dumping legislation
will be prepared.
(b) xnort PrMotin
70. opening the way to export opportunities will be a sharp contrast from the
domestic market  for many  industrialists.    In undertaking  rstructuring
investments, they will have to address a number of issues and attitudes which
they have formulated about the export market, as are clearly reflected in their
c3mments during recent interviewis
o     demand in export markets is unstablel
o     quality requirements are very highp
o     financial risks and working capital needs are highl
o     information and overseas offices to analyze trends ln export markets
and the competition are absent;
o     capacity is inadequate to supply the large orders requested-
o     no experience with export procedures; (or)
o     experience with export procedures reflects duty drawback and customs
administration which are inordinately cumbersome (especially for
8MEs), time-consuming and costly;
Marked changes in public sector services and private sector initiatives will be
required to resolve such problems if the. good export potential described in the
subsector studies is to be realized for products such as clothing, leather,
shoes, fruits and vegetables, and replacement auto parts.
71.  Public Services., Operating and response time of the public export-import
system are not competitive, as is illustrated by the turnaround times in Colombia
and its competing countries under the "807" clothing export program with the USa
(see box). Under this program, precut materials are imported from the USA,
assembled and exported as final goods. A competitive position in this and similar



-29-
product lines characterLzed by rapid 
changes in product design, fashi on 
treids, "quick response retailing and             i
"just-in-time" systems, i.s dictated
largely by response time. 1   d        l                                    " ";
72.  While air freight charges f roi e I
Colombia appear competitive, port and                           ,.
martim transport services are highly 
inefficient and costly  (ee box on
following page).  The Government is    '".. 
well aware of these problem and
introduced in January 1990 a number of  l       .  .                   1
measures to stimulate competition in
port services. * it has authorized 
recently two private ports and allowed
for increased foreign investmet.  A v .r    f  t
plan l    trlo restructure   the  ports                        at        Railway
administration,l COPNTS  is also
under preparation.  First steps have        c                o
also been taken to reduce the State a  b
monbpoly In sea freight (Robhnan  de
CUM), by eliminating the monopoly on              h   b    le cf o
bulk commodities and establishing a
mximh  of 50% of total gemeral cargo volume reserved forwthe national fleet.
Rail transport is being restructured with the liquidation of the National Railway
Company and the authorization of private sector provision of rail services.
These reforms are being addressed by the Government with Dank support under the
Public Sector Reform Project.
73.  The present structure of export incentives  a  beme in effect for over
twenty years. The three major elements, codified under Decreto Lay 444 in 1967,
ar. the Plan Vallejo system (WV), which provides exporters with access to duty-
free imported inputs, the CURT indirect tax rebate scheme, and PROZXPO's
subsidized credit and marketing assistance. Key change in thi scheme which
are being made to pemit the private sector to be successful in export markets
include (a) a radical simpltfication of PV, to accelerate its turnaround time and
increase a,ccess to SNes, (b) reform of the C3RT system to further reduce the
anti-tport bias, and (c) promotiont of refor  export development serices. The
first item is being addressed under the proposed Project, as described below, and
the remining points are to be covered under the Trade and uxport Development
Project now being prepared.
74. Plan Vallejo allows registered exporters to import duty-free inputs with
import licenses granted without regard to the availability of domstically
produced substitutes. Under present regulations, an exporter must register for
Plan Vallejo by establishing an export plan in a contract with INCONKI. Oc
registered, the exporter may import -- fre.s ofl prior deposits, licenses,, customs
or consular fees -- the followings
o     inputs and rawe materials for production of articles exclusively destined
for export;p
o     inputs and raw materials for indirect exports -- products which will
subsequently be incorporated into export products;j



INCOMEX DUTY-DRAWBACK SYSTEM
Application Processing Procedures and Average Times
Evaluatton Expert                                               Division Chief Special Committee
s8tudy,    | Intnlo. Into   erif oation  }"Authorization                     r
Srepaatudy    inCo.mputo     oericatI       by               Authorization   Authorliation      F
Preparation   Computer                      Expert                                              F
Real Time Spent Working:
a Hours                                10 Minutes   6 Minutes         10
Minutes
TOTAL * 6 12 Hours
Calendar Time Spent (Working Days):
12 Days (average)                                        6 days'          3
days
Total * 18 days
* The committee meets only on Fridays



-31-.
o     inputs and raw materials for
indirect exports -- products
which  will  subsequently  be                              .    p
incorporated    into    export          i  
products                         '
o    production of articles whicha if
imported, would be exempt of
customs duties, even when such
production is only partially for 
export;.#O.
o    equi_nment or machinery to create       Q   I*..*Q .
or expand  capacity, provided______
that all the additional output  . |      N f
will be exporteds and                           * w j i
-     foreign-financed capital goods.
7S.  Use of Plan Vallejo fluctuates, 
as shown in Table 2.9. in 1980, 41%
of   non-coffee,   non-oil   export             ~.
registratioe were by Plan Vallejo j.                                   .
exporters. This percentage reached a     ..                             .
peak of 62% in 1984 and declined to.                            .
53% in 1986. During 1983-86, products          
in which over 90% of exports used Plan      M;
Vallejo were: banianas, steel, ceienAt,   ~ .
cartons, and fabric. in the cases of
sugar, precious stones, tobacco, beef,                           _
phamaeuicals, rice, ammonia, glass          ~      
products, and wheels, le than 15% of
exports were under Plan Vallej o.         ~
76.  In general, PV seems to provide                                   4
an adesuate drawback  scheme.   St
provides access to production inputs
at international prices and a tax
rebate on indirect taxes paid on local             ~..
value  added.    Uowever, the   js.ame.~ '~~
required to execute PV procedures in
INCOMEX, nearly  four weeks, mkes prohibitive exporting ln highly time
competitive markets (see chart on facing page). This is due to an excesslve
number of application forms (one each for input/product, changes of product,
order compoditlon and volume), handling of the data, and the number of
application review levels. Zn addition, PV applications are excessLvely compl.ex
for smallor scale Industries and the cost in time and administration accordlng
to intervlew  is equivalent to about 2% of product cost.  PV system  have been
designed with thelr SME needs in mind in other countrles such as Italy, Hong
Kong, and Turkey, where thousands of SKIs make up the export lndustry.
77.  Under the Project, reform steps have already been adopted by the Government
(June 1990) by whlch application forms have been simplifed and pamphlets
prepared to explain clearly how the process functions. Requirements for theo



-32-
provision of guarantees from PV users has been made more flexible by permltting
the use of personal guarantees ln addition to those through bankLag Lnstitutions.
Administratlve adjustments have also been made within INCOMEX so as to reduce
processing time to less than about 10 days for new applicatLons and 2 days for
changes. This has been achLeved by reducing the number of levels requlred to
approve applicatLons ind LncreasLng the authorlty of INCOMEX 6 regLonal offlces,
leaving the PV committee to formulate and monitor polLcels.
78. Private 3aterpriso. Enterprises themselves need to undertake measures to
position themselves for exporting successfullyt in particular to develop
strateglc market information systems and establish worganlzingI enterprises to
provide a bridging function between 8WEs and large scale export markets.
Monitoring product trends, competLtion, distributlon nhannels and transport
options is a critlcal information functLon whlch needs to be organised jointly
between PROBXPO and subsector institutions. It has beon well executed ln a
number of countries, such as Spain, where it has been sequenced to determine
market requirements, feedback and encourage product design centers, and to mount
publicity campaigns.
79., SMU have substantial export market advantages with respect to flexible
organizations for production, low labor costs, and mainmum overheads. They lack
advantages which comm with large scale raw materials purchase (eg., volume
discounts, design advice, quality control) and marketing (large orders, marketing
"and distribution cqsts).  The development of organizing agnts can provids
important sca+* advantages by (a) maintaining an export marketing departmcnt, (b)
obtaining and transmitting fashion and product design change in the market, (a)
(channeling orders among producers, (d) ordering raw materlals .in bulk, (e)
monitoring the quality from raw material to finished product, and (f) assisting
with export/import procedures. Under the proposed Project, technical assitance
and capital financing would be offered to promote and expand such agents.
2.4,           ZNW&tion
80.  An important complement to the trade reform program is a regulatory
framework whlch promotes competition within the domestic market. A number of
important domestic pollcy changeu have been made since 1986 by the Government to
reduce barriers to market entry and exit.   Reforms of. tie tax code and
receivershlp process were undertaken in 1986 and 1988, respectively, and price
controls have been progressively liberalLsed. This sectlons examines these
policy areas and their probable effects on the industrial restructurLag process.
(a) Zauthaa
81.  The maIn objectives of the 1986 tax reform (Law 75) were to achieve equity,
neutralLty cross forms of busines organliation and different economic sectors,
and admainitrative effLciency. in additlon, the tax reform sought to achleve
neutrality in incentivea with respect to a firm's choice of financing. Law 75
unifted the corporate income tax at 30%, reforming the prevLpus system in which
tax rates differed according to the form of business organization. It also
eliminated the majority of special exemptions and deductions that differed across
sectors. Regional and municipal taxes or infuttry and comerce are in general
relatively low and sectoral dlfferences are relatively unimportant. Sales taxes
are set at 10%, except for automobiles (20%) and some luxury goods (35%).



-33-
82. The principal cases of non-neutrality within industry are in the publishing
industry, which has complete exemptlon from income tax and partial exomptlon of
property tax, and the petroleum lndustry, wlth deductlons of up to S0% of proflt
for exhaustion of reserves.   In general, however, and ln contrast to the
situation of the 1960., the lncentives created by the current tax regime can be
said to be baslcally neutral across industrial activities. This contrasts with
the situatlon of import tariffs, which have shown substantial variation acrose
lndustrial activities, altering relative prlese nd thereby affecting resource
allocation.
(b) ROc lvershLi
83.  The receivership process (Cgncordato) was established in 1971 as a
framework within Colombia I s CommercLal Code to glve pr9tection from creditors to
those enterprises facing or anticipating difficulties in the repayment of curreot
obligations, and the opportunity to r"gain long-term viability prior to filing
for bankruptcy. When an enterprise is admitted to receivership, debt collectlon
cannot be initlated and the enterpriese cannot be sued for bankruptcy until the
receivership process is terminated.
64.  The central problem with the system has been that the suspension -of a
firm's payments to its ereditors could in practice last anywhere from 6 months
to at least 6 year. In effect, it both acted as a barrier to market exit of the
enterprise and placed inordinate pressure on creditore to accept financial
conceseLons, such as lower interest charges and/or extended loan maturLties,
rather than promoting operational changes needed by the enterprise to compete.
These long-standing rules were changed by Congress with effect in May 1989.
85.  The incidence of fitms involved ln receivership has been appreciable. in
March 1987, 69 industrial lrfims had filed requests for protection i4nder
roceivership, whlih constituted about one-eighth of the total asset value of the
industrial corporations, partnerships and proprietorship re4gstered lith the
Superintendency of Enterprises. More than three-fcurths wer,. fond admon firms
producing textiles and4 clothiLng, paper, basic chemicals, cerAent and transport
equipment. By early 1989, the number of industrial firms had risen toA 105.
86.  Under previous reulations, after admission of the 4sbtor firm into the
receivership procedure, both the debtor and the creditors prosented their own
versLons of listes of credits owed by the debtor. If there wer disagreements
over the existence or nature of credits involved, objections wets raised at that
time,   once dieagreements about credlts were resolved,, and credits wer#
classified and prioritized by the judge, the partles were then convened in a
hearing with the purpose of establishing a plan for the future c,oura e of the
company and especially for the repayment of the credits.
87.   If the partie were able to reach an agreement, it would be sent to the
judge for confirmation. Once confirmed, th reet$versiLp procedure reached its
aexeeution" stage, in which the aireement w& carried out  if the agreement wa"
not confirmed by the judge,' then the firm was declarsd bankrupt. At the end of
the execution stage, when the prorisimAs of, the agreement have beensuccessfully
carried out, the concordato is declared         .        - MPWtQ4-
88.  As of May 1989, of the tot*l of 190 receivership proeses initiated over
1982-89, 166 had not been not completOd %me  box). Of theie, 72 airesmsits hat
-            2    @  '   ,  '   _   ; 2   'J    .  '          ,~~~~~~~~~



-34-
been reached and were under execution.   -     -
Of the remaining 82 uncompleted case    * a E
in  which  no  agreement  had  been  ;
reached, about 66% (54 cases) were    o          . A
without agreements for more than 2
years.      In   cases   where   the
receivership   process   had   been
completed by May 1989 (agreement plus  > 
Lmplementation), average duration was   .
about 4 years.                          -i
89.   The stage causing the most delay   '
was -the validation of debts.  it was  ''.,<
relatively easy for the creditors or
the debtors to object to the list of >  X
credits presented by either side. and 
there were no measures In the law to
penalize debtors or creditors whenever.
they filed object ions simply to.gain         .
time or disrupt the process.   In                 ..
practice, then, the right to object to H      i* 
credits  provided  debtors  in  the ',            a  E>t4
receivership  process  with  a  very                 HE
important strategic tool whereby they ~
could 'prolong  the  processamot '-    '               ..
Indefinitely without reaching, an
agreement.i     In   addition,'  the
receivership process was delayed
simply because of the overload of the judicial system.
90.  The new law makes the Superintendency of Enterprises the competent body to
oversee mandatory reesivership.  In particular, the Superintendency is now
endowed with an administrative authority to docide on matters that previously
required the intervention of the district judge. The law also introduces a much
more rigid timetable within which the receivership process is implemented and
most of these decisions on the timing of the procedure are explicitly
characterized as not appealable. Violations of the timetable generally permit
the Superintendency of Enterpries to intervene to resolve the problem, including-
via the nomination of a co-administrator of the firm and plaoing an embargo on
fixed assets.  The law also requires the debtor to present a proposal of
agreement with its creditors at the time of application for admission into a
receivership process, which may be expected tobelp shorten the time spent under
receivership as it encourages the actual bargaining to begin from the outset.
91.  The modifications under the new law are likely to substantially reduce the
possibilIty of using receivership as a barrier to marIXet exit. Though its long-
term application will determine whether this is the case, an acceleration in the
processing of receivership oases Is already evident. Between May and December
1989, 23 cases reached the execution stage, of which 11 through liquidation, and
the number of cases still in process was reduced to 60.  In addition, the
Superintendency is facilitating the restructuring process through ths preparation
of subsector studies on competitiveness and, for those enterprises entering the
receivership process; by counseling enterprises on the range of services



-35-
available to help prepare financial and operatlonal restructuring plans under the
receivership process.
(c) Price Controls
92.   Price controls in Colombia have been in place since the 1940e on selected
industrial and agricultural products and some services. Until 1976, the National
Production and Prices Superintendency administered price controls. Thereafter,
this responsibility was assigned to a number of different ministries and other
Government institutions. The number of industrial producte that are subject to
price controls has been reduced substantially. Products previously controlled
that have been liberalized since 1976 include detergents and soaps, light bulbs,
taxis and other automobiles, tin and glass packaging materials, and garments.
93.   Currently, the main industrial products that are subject to price controls
administered by the Ministry of Economic Development are commercial transport
vehicles (buses, trucks, and campers), tires produced for commercial transport,
inputs for the tire industry, cement and cement products- beer and soft drinks,
and industrial ammonia.  Those administered by the Minlitry of Agriculture
include fertilizers and pOsticides; those by the Ministry of Education include
textbooks and notebooks; and those by the Ministry of Health include drugs and
pharmaceutical products.  While many Q4  these items are of some direct or
indirect significance to the,basket of consumer goods in lower-income households,
no particular and consistent rationale for price controls is apparent.
94.  Currently, the Ministry of sconomic Development applies an automatic
adjustment system under which the firms use agreed upon adjustment. formulas and
notify the Ministry of their actions. The formulas allow for annual adjustments
in the cost structure coefficients and attempt to acoount. for productivity gains
by limiting to 95% the proportion of input price increases that may be passed
along to the consumer.  Price adjustments are allowed no more frequently than
every six months. While this methodology represents an advancement compared to
previous systems, it captures only supply-side factors which would determine
market prices and ignore changes in demand or in the structure of markets.
95.   While the effects of price controls on investment and growth of the
industry are difficult to quantify, it is clear that enterprisq. in many of the
industries subject to price controls havy  maintained healthy profits.   The
profitability of the lPO largest firms in Colombia over 1985-87 suggests that
those that produce goods subject to price controls have had very good or at least
satisfactory levels of profits, implying inter alla that the price control system
as recently operated is not likely to have a significant negative impact on the
financial sector.  In addition, at the four-digit I8IC industrial subsector
level, the growth rates of production for goods subject to price controls,(with
the exception of rubber tires and non-alcoholic beyerages) have been above that
of the manufacturing sector as a whole.
96.  Under the Government' a, trade reform program, as domestically produced goods
are subject increaingly to -import competition, price controls to counter the
monopoly price effects of protection from quantitative restrictions will becom
redundant and are expected to be gradually phased out. Under the proposed



-36- -
Project, quantitative restrictions and price controls on domestic cotton
production would be replaced by a price stabilization scheme closely linked to
international price levels, and those on vehicles assembled locally are also
expected to be liboralized as part of adjustments in the sub-sector regime.
2.5  Financial Segtor
97.  The  success  of  industrial restructuring  and  trade  reform  depend
substantially on the full and broad-based support of the financial system. This
will require that financial lntermediaries have adequate incentivea and the
skills to finance restructuring investments which, almost by definition, are
likely to contain on average a higher level of risk than those encountered in the
past. Financial margins must reflect these risk levels and be complemented by
a minimum of regulation in credit lines designed to finance restructuring and in
their wanagement by the second-tier inatitution.   Intermediaries must also be
prepared to restructure existing indebtedness and require increased equity
investments in such enterprises to ensure an appropriate capital structure for
restructuring. This sectlon reviews the structure and past performance of the
financlal intermediaries concerned with the proposed Project, as well as key
policy issues and institutional development needs to ensure the appropriate
involvement of the system.
(a) Structure and Performance
98.  About 80% of the total assets of Colombia's banking system are held by
commercial banks, development banks, and the central bank (Sanco de la Republica,
or BR), which plays a signiflcant role in credit markets in addition to its
functlon as the monotary authority. Aavings and loan associations, trade finance
companies, insurance companies, investment and mutual funds constitute the
remainder. The 26 commercial banks domlnate the iihancial sector, accounted in
1987 for 60% of total deposits and 39% of total assets of the institutionalioed
financial sector (Table 2.10).   Four of these commercial banks have been
traditionally-owned by the public sector, and 5 more were nationalized after
1982, and consigning the private sector institutions to a minority role in the
sector.  Together, these 8 public banks accounted for 57% of the assets of
commercial banks at the end of 1989, in nearly equal proportions between,these
two groups. Of the remaining 17 private commercial banks, 9 (30% of commercial
bank assets) are Gwned br Colombian stockholders, and 8 (7% of commercial bank
assets) have foreign equity participation.
99.  The four banks nationalized ln the early 1980. (Colombia, Comercio,
Tequendama and Trabajadores) have the lowest efficiency levels among copmerctal
banks, wilLe the traditionally public institutions rank somewhat higher. The
Government has adopted explicitly the objective of re-privatizing these entLtios.
The remaining public banks had origini in particular promotional objectives (eg.,
agroindustry  and  small. enterprises)  which  iave  taken  precedence  over
profitabllity and efficiency aims in many instances.  In the context of the
Government's efforts to increase the competitiveness of the financial sector,
consideration iL being glven to additional privatization, Lncreasing the clarity
of objectives and operations among thob. Vhich remain a part of the public
sector, increasing incentlves for efficiency, and maintaining a neutral policy
stance among policy-making agencies like the *uperintendency of Banks between '
publlc and prlvate entlties.



-37-
100. There are 16 development banks (CorporacLones financierae, or CrP) which
lend to industrial firm. Eight of thoes have tradltlonally lent on a long-term
baseis wth the support of sank loans. Recently, the remalnder have met the
quallfying conditions of the CF Reform Act of 1987 (which li based upon Dank
elLglbLlity crlterla) and are expected to enter the long-term market.  The
performance path, of commercLal and development banking latermediaries during the
1980. is described below.
101. Solvency.  Over the flrst half of the 19809, pald-in capltal, legal
reserves and obllgatorlly convertible bonds of the commerclal banking system fell
ln real term nearly by one-half the total, wlth the natLonalLsed banks
representing the majority of the losses (Tables 2*11-2.13). The syst_e overall
debt/equity ratio rose from 10.1 to 42.3 during this porLod wlth negative equlty
recorded among the natlonalized banks..  Among CV, capltal fell ln real term
only modestly and debt/equity rose in the aggregate from 6.9 to 9.0. By 1989,
the all major commercial banklng categories of the system and the cr group had,
again ln real terms, rebullt thelr capital base to a point surpassing the 1980
level. The aggreate debt/equLty ratios returned to very- reasonable levels (
10.7 for banks and 7.9 for Ces), though natLonalized baks continued to recover
more slowly (16.3 in 1989).
102. Profltablilty. The profltablilty of commercLal banks fell sharply ln the
1980s with the rise ln non-performing &ssets. Profits as a share of pald-ln
capital and legal reserves dropped from 29.3 in 1980 to -188.1% in 1985 (Table
2.14-2.15). Thereafter, the system gradually returned to profitabliLty wLth the
aid of strong aggregate demand growth and financial sector policy adjustments.
Despite the fact that productive assets as a share of total assets have recovered
dlowly (64.3% in 1989), profltabilLty reache4 an average of 44.2% by 1989. 'All
categories of banks recorded profits, though those of natLonalixed banks were the
average at 16.5%. Profits of the Cr8 have also increased progresively since the
=id-1980s, reaching an average of 4S.6% of capital-and legal reserves in 1989,
and all by four of the 16 Cls exceeding the 30% level.
103. Risk Asset Manage_ent. Ron-performig assets (EPA) of commcial banks
arrears in excess of 1 year were 2.9% of th aggregate credit portfolio at the
end of 1989 (Tables 2.16-2.17)1 three banks had such arrears exceeding 10%, of
which two are nationalized and expected to be privatized in the comiag months.
The overall average has dropped from a peak average in 1985 of 19.3% and Is
comparable to the level at the beginning of the 1980s. Arrears ln 1989 exceeding
one year amounted to 45.8% of paid-Ln capital and legal reserves, though five
banks had arrears exceeding 60%; thli  La again a sharp decline from the 1985
lovel of 381.2%, though not yet similr to the 26.5% level of 1980.  slow
progres sinc* the mid-1980. Is owing partly to. a relatively    w large Credits
to firms whi¢h have not been restructured. The higher quality lending work, of
the Ces ln the 1980e was reflected ln their ability to maintain a higher quality
portfolio hence, their situation today. is substantially'botter than that of the
banks. SPA in the portfolLo averagod  .S% at the end of 1989, with only 3Cfts
having arrears whlch exceed 3%. Similarly, XPA averaged o . 2%a of paid-in ,cpital
and legal resezes, and included onry one Ce in excess of 20%.
104. Oprational - flciency.   Substantial increase  in profitability and
Capitalization of the system have not been aed by Iiaprovemnt  ln
operational. efficiency (Table 2.18).  The flnancia LntermedlAtton margins in
ColombLa are high by internatLonal standards.  The margin betwe  deposit and



-30-
non-directed lending rates averaged 10.0% in 1989, compared to margins of 5.2%
in Costa Rica, 4.5S in Chile and 3.0% in the United States. This is an important
source of high real interest rates (see below). The main factors explaining high
margin. are the elevated operating costs of financial institutions; persistent
high levels of non-performing assets, the heavy reserve and forced investment
requirements, and the low margins on directed credit. The operating costs of
-oamercial banks in 1989 were 4.2% of total assets, a level which is nearly
iat,ntical across the 19809. In contrast, CFs have increased their efficiency
over the decade, reachinq an average of 1.3% of total assets by 1989.  In
countries with well-developed financial systems, operating costs of comercial
banks are generally 2.0-2.5S  of assets.  The low interest rates on forced
investmen.a explains about half of the intermediation margins on non-directed
credit, which are set to compensate for the foregone earnings on other
assets.
(b) Rg2ix Issuma
105. The Government has pursued a gradual program of policy reform in the 1980s
to reduce distortions and encourage greater reliance on market forces in the
financial sector. The burden of forced investments and reserve requirements has
been reduced moderately, there is greater reliance on open market operations as
an instrument of monetary control, interest subsidies on directed. credit have
declined, a deposit insurance qcheme has been created, and an initial growth in
capital markets is apparent. Attention has alpo be6n given to strengthening weak
financial institutions and to improving prudential regulations, with the positive
results for solvency and liquidity of the system decribed  ove.
106. All financial iwstitutions arn subject to the regulatory framwibrk of the
superintendency of Banks in Colombia. The Superintendency is responsible inter
alia for monitoring the procedures, practices#, solvency and liquidity of all
institutions in the financial system. It exercises this responsibility mainly
via (a) it. authority to,Approve the creation, restructuring and liquidatiop of
such lnstitutions, (b) setting regulatLons and techhical norms to meet standards
of operation and accountability, and (c) itb authority to suspend operations of
an institution found to be in violation of its statutes, flnancial or operational
requirements.' t&cilities are available through the Central Bank to maintain
liquidity requirements and, where in institiiion's financial and operating
condition  s endangered, the Superintendency 'has wide latitude to intervene to
protect the interest of cre4*tors 4nd maintain its viability.
107.< - The Superintendency monitors in particular the  following  financial
indicatorss  (a) reserve requirements, (b) de~~/equity ceilings, (c) minimum net
worth requirements (defined as at least, 50 percent of paid-in capital), (d)
dIlnquent payments (up to one year) and non-performing assets !over on year),
(e) provision requirements  or non-performing assets (100 percbnt of the debt
.when baqked by personal guarantees),. (f) the diatribWtion of profits (which
require its Jprior authorization) and '(g) the finasiial accounts reviewed by the
fiscal examiners of eaph outstanding, in p&ricular of up to 10 percent of paid-
in capital and reserves in mosi cases for any single borrower.  It further
obliges instituttons making'loans in excess of Col$ ^5 miliAon each {about
US$9,400) to consult Sthe central credit r*ference ytet  in Colobia maintained
by the Colombian Banker's Associatioh before lending toi a prospective borrower.



-39-
108. In 1989, a number of important regulatory reforms were taken. Among them
were (a) a further strengthening of capitalization by imposing a stricter
leverage ratio on commercial banks (from 15X1 to 12.5X1) and a modificatLon of
indicators of capital adequacy to reflect astets weighted by risk; (b) approval
by Congress of a law permitting foreign investment in the financial sector and
the re-privatizatLon of the five banks that were nationalized over 1982-85 (two
such banks, Tequendama and Trabajadores, are expected to be privatized within the
coming six months); (c) establishment of uniform accounting system for financlal
entities; (d) definition of stricter criteria for the evaluation of portfolio
quality and requirements for increased provisions; and (e) increased interest
rates and margins, introduction of an interest capitalization scheme, and reduced
regulation of industrial directed credit managed by OR.
109. However, major structural weaknesses remain in the financial system, which
result in a shortage of long-term credit, high credit cost and inadequate market
coverage. Consequently, the Government has prepared and agreed upon with the
Bank a Financial Policy Framework which sets out a program of structural reforms
in the financial sector intended to lead to a sector characterized by less
concentrated ownership, greater competitlon, a size capable of mobilizing
domestic and external resources to finance investments in the productive sectors
and a wide range of financial instruments provided at market prices by prlvate
financial institutions, inclUding voluntary long term ctedit and capital market
instruments. Under the Framework, the Government will expand the scope for the
use of market determined interest rates within the financial systemf, phase out
the policies of directed credit and forced investments that segment financial
markets, and improve the regulatory framework in order to promote competition.
110. To promote competition and contestability, the government will allow free
entry of new financial institutions; simplify procedures governing liquidations,
mergers, and conversions; reduce and clarify thie role of the public sector in
financial intermediation; encourage greater availability of market information;
and increase monitoring and cQ*trol of noncompatitive behavior. Competition
policies will include the re-privatization of five banks that fell under
Government control as a result of the 1982-85 financial crisis.   Reserve
requirements will be reduced as far as the fiscal deficit and monetary and
external conditions permit. Forced investments will be gradually eliminated by
freezing the nominal stock at existing levels, and in the future resources to
finance directed credit will be mobilized from domestic and international capital
markets. The reform of the directed credit system will be accelerated by first
gradually increasing rediscount rates to at least DTF and increasing interest
rates to final borrowers toward market levels and, by early 1994, fully,
liberalizing final rates so as to eliminate subsidies, except in the case of
certain well-defined target groups (presently confined to low income housing and
small agricultural producers) and harmonizing terms across sectors. In remaining
cases where the most efficient way to achieve equity objectives is through
subsidized credit, these subsidies will be carefully targeted and funded from the
fiscal budget.
111. Directed Credit and Interest Rates. Since the 1940., the public sector has
been under pressure to provide- medium- and long-term credit at "reasonable'
interest rates to finance priority activities, which have included industrial and
agricultural development, urban infrastructure, and exports. Directed credit is
funded through forced investments and roserve substitution investments (ISEs),
external credit, plac mnts of BR paper in the market, or through outright



-40-
expanaLon of the monetary bha.. Jot the industrial sector, the followLag lins
are availables
(a) DR credit redLscounto - through the Pondo inanciero Industrial y
ComercLal (PFIC), the Fondo para Inversiones Privadas (PIP), and the
Fondo de Capitalisacion UmpresarLal (ICX). PIP Ls used mainly by
larger industrLal firms, whlle "FIC li deslgned for small and medLum
scale  enterprises  and  FMC  provides  financing  for  equity
partiLpatiLonsg
(b ) External credLt from the World Bank and IDB - administered by the BR
and channelled to date mainly through CPa
(c) The Instituto de Fomento Industrial (ZIPI) - offers credlt as well
as equity participation to private and parastatal enteprises. The
main source of funds for domestle credit through IFI has been the
reserves of the Social Security Institute. IPI also intermediates
BR developent credLt and PROUXPO creditp and
(d)  PROEXPO - offers export financing through 7 dLstinct lines of credit
for pre-investment studies, investment, working capital, fixed
investment, tec'inLcal asdsitance for quality control, promotion of
exports, and post-shipment financing.
112. Dirocted credit to the industrlal sector represents a significant
proportlon of all lending to thls sector.    a hare of total ctedit provided
to manufacturing by commercial banks and CF., directed credit accounted for an
average of 62% over 1984-87 (Table 2.19). PROUXPO's share of 'the total has
increased rapidly given the negatlve real interest ,rates on such credit,
accountiag for about one-half of industrLal directed credit by 19807 Whlle BR's
share was relatively stable at about 15%, the rapid growth in the FCM equity
flnancing line has compensated for the. decline ia redLscounte4_ loans of the
remaining industrial directed o"dlt. The real volume of ths,PPIC has declined
steadily since 1975 and that of the PIP has stagnated since its inception ln
1963; its volume in 1988 wa in fact onXy about one-half that of it. first year
of operation.
113. Their decline reflects poor design for the market-that they are intended
to serve.  These lines have carried inadequat4' financial margins, lengthy
procedures, substantial documentary requirements necessitating specialised staff,
and rigid conditions for their use (such ts production targets and restrictions
on finacing used equipment). Given the low margins for inter4ediaries, there
has been a strong preference to lend to le-s risky clienas. There is evidence
that industrial firms receivLng directed "credit tend to be large firms in
traditional or mature subsectors. 'This iL reinforced by an empb88is on expanding
industrial capacity rather than on increasing efficiency and competitiveness,
which is exercised through the need to dh,t>strate that an instalXed capacity
constraint exists in order to obtain credic..
114. During the  1960s  and most of the  1970s,  interestr rates  in the
institutLonalized credit markets, ere subject to administered ceLlings.  n 1980,
term deposit and lending rates wer freed. However, continulng interest, rate
ceilings on the most important types of bank deposits (aavings and current
accounts), together with the continued regulatibn of directed 6raedq, interest



-41-.
rates created a wide dispersion between regulated and free rates. The free
lending and borrowing rates have been posLtive in real team throughout the
1980s, while regulated rates have ben mostly negative (Table 2.20).  The
weighted average nominal interest rates on the FIP, FF1, and FCM lines offered
by BR, as well am 1l1 and PROEXPO credit, in relation to average rates for
commercial credit reflects an interest rate subsidy received by final borrowers
of about 13-14% per year during 1981-85. Overall, the value of subsidies as a
share of GDP on all directed credit through the country's financial system has
declined from 0.72% in 1985 to 0.54% in 1989.
115. This subsidy narrowed to about 8% during 1986-87, mainly due to a decline
in rates on commercial credit, the linking of BR development credit lines to the
variable deposit rate (DTV), and increased PROUXPO rates. since then, nearly all
of the rates for these lines (excepting PIP) have increased in relation to
commercial rates. By 1990, they were at levels equivalent to at least 85% of
commercial rates; that is, within 5 percentage points of the 43% nominal
commercial rates (Tables 2.21-2.23). On balance, these subsidized rates have'
discouraged the developmant of long-term credit and equity markets, since loans
funded from commercial and equity sources cannot compete. This has also enabled
some firms with access to directed credit to devote their own cashflow to
financial investentt instead physical plant and equipment.
116. Under the proposed Project, the remaining subsidies on BR directed
industrial credit lines (PIP and FCE) to financial intermediaries have been
eliminated (September 1990), their margins substantially increased, and maximum
rates to beneficiaries now set substantirlly In line with free market rates.
Dispersion in rates between BR and the Bank' a line has been eliminated and
subsidies on PROEXPO lines have been sut, antial reduced leaving a small margin
in order to zeach fully market rates.
11 7. Forced  lavestemts.    In  addition  to  satisfying  monetary  reserve
requirements, Colombian financial intermediaries are required to place a portion
of their liabilities in low-yielding assets as forced investment and as
substitutes for reserve requirement (I18s). The rationale for this is to induce
the availability of long-term funds in a market which does not otherwise offer
them and to provide funds on preferential term to promote "priority' activities.
Commercial banks are subject to two types of forced investment:  (a) those
established by Congress to finance agricultural activities, the public debt, and
low income housing (Inatituto de Credito Territorial, or ICT); and (b) those
established by the Junta Monetaria to finance industrial activities, housing (ICT
and BCH), and to recapitalize the financial sector. CFs are forced to invest 8%
of the funds they mobilize with CDTs in category (b) and about 1.5% in 151. In
addition, they are forced to place 80% of their equity capital in equity in the
real sector. Insurance companies are forced to invest most of their technical
reserves in low yielding bonds of the Government and ICT.
118. The burden of mandatory investments and reserves has remained relatively
stable during the last four years at 28-30% of deposits for the financial system
as a whole. The average yields on mandatory investments has increased since the
early 1980., though they remain negative in real terms and are substantially
below their opportunity cost. As of September 1989, forcod investments amounted
to 6.4% of the total assets of the financial system and 2.9% of GDP. In the case
of commercial banks, they accounted for 14.9% of credit portfolio and offered an
annualized return of 16.5%, 15 percentage points -below the implicit average



-42-
return on their overall portfolio. According to recent calculations, '1 Lf
commercial banks had been able to channel their forced investment resources to
a loan portfolio equivalent to their average overall return, profits would have
increased 76%. Alternatively, Lf such proflts were utillzed nstead to lower
interest rates, they would have been reduced by 2.2 percentage points, from a
margin at that time of 14.6% per annum to 12.4%
119. The progressive lncrease in real interest rates Ln ColombLa, the inciplent
trends toward term transformation by the market itself, and the need for agLle
financing mechanisms by the private sector embarkLig upon industrial
restructuring make it imperative that intermediaries themselves begin under well-
defined conditions to lend long-term resources instead of investing in forced
investment instruments. This would both increase the financial incentives to
lend and substantially eliminate the restrictions and classifications now
exlsting under directed credit regulations on such funds. Flrst steps have
recently been taken by the Junta Monetaria to reduce by more than 25% the volume
of forced lnvestments In the financial system.  Under the Financial Policy
Framework, the Government intends to phase out by June 30, 1991 most remaining
forced investments (some agricultural credit will be excepted) by freeaing the
existing stock of such investments at their end-1990 level. At the same time,
it will act to increase the average return of those forced investments.
(C) Ingtitutional Development
120. 8ecurities Market. The Bogota stock market was created in 1929 and, by the
mid-1960s, stocks were the principal source of  financing  for corporate
enterprises in Colombia, with ownership dLtributed among 405,000 shareholders.
The size of Colombia's exchange ranked behind the United States and Canada ln the
Western Memisphere. Since 1970, the securities market has declined drastically,
coinclding largely with the creation of the directed credit lines of BR. In
1988, the value of shares traded was only about 3% of its relatlve size in 1945,
and listed only 86 companLes (Table 2.24). It had the highest concentration of
shares of all developing countries listed in the International Finance
CorporatLon's (IFC) Emerging Markets Data Base: about 22 stocks constituted
nearly 90% of market capitalization. Of the lnstruments traded on the Bogota
Exchange in 1988, 67% were short-term fixed income securlties, followed by Us
dollar acceptances (18%), long-term bonds and certificates (12.6%), and only 2.4%
in shares.
121. Until the 1986 tax reform, tax policy biased relative costs in favor of
debt rather than equity fLnancing by firms, and biased relative returns against
equity investments by individuals. Combined with the availability of credit at
subsidized rates from the directed credit system, it was rational for firms to
choose and, indeed, resulted in highly-leveraged capital structures (Figure 2.1).
The tax reform bill of 1986 was designed inter alia to alter the capital
structure of enterprises, by inducing new sources of equity for productive
investment and reducing the high leverage which made them and the banking system
vulnerable to non-payment of debt obligations. A consolidated view of 164 major
industrial enterprises shows that equity has increased in real terms by about 27%
in 1988 over the previous year and another 9% through June 1989 (Table 2.25),
" "Una Propuesta para Bliminar las Inversiones Forzosas", Hommes and
Montenegro, Banca Y Finanzas, December 1989.



-43-
contributing to a decline in the aggregate total debt/eQuity ratios from 1.82 to
1.60 between 1987 and mld-1989.  However, short-term debt ln the capital
structure also lncreased over thli period, both as a share of total enterprlse
liablltLes (fSrom 58% to 70%) and total assets (37% to 43%).
122.  The proposed Project would contrLbute to improvLng tho oapltal structure
of lndustry by qualLfyLng a larger group of CJo than under prevlous projects (16
vs 9 fLrmo) provLdLng for debt-to-equity conversion of loans for lndustrLal
restructurlng, and by fLnancing a limited share of equity contributions by these
CFe and enterprises to Lnvestments assoclated wlth lndustrLal investments.
123.  Zavesteet Dankng. IndustrLal enterprLses, partlcularly Waso, wlll need
substantlal investment banklng support to prepare and implement restructurLng
Lnvestments.  Investment banking actlvity was neglLgLble prlor to 1987 and
primarlly the domaLn of stockbrokers. Nowever, new rgulatLons ln that year
(Decree 2041) opened this area to CFs as part of their institutLonal development.
By 1989, CFs conducted transactlons totaling an estlmated Col$45.6 billion
(US$86.1 milllon), of which 43% was underwriting of corporate bond issuse, 13%
was underwrlting of new stock, 26% was financial restructuring of private or
public fLrms with commitment of funds by the CFs, and 18% was represented for
other activities. Four CFs (CorporacLon iinancLera del Valle (CFV), Corporacion
FinancLera ColombLana (CYC), CorporacLon Financiera Na¢lonal (CuN), CorporacLon
Financiera de Caldas), represented an estLmated 80-90% of this market.
124. There is an increasing number of other newcomers ln the market--mostly
financial wboutLqu*s1, but also trust companies (iduciarLas) and two co¢mercial
banks (Internacional and ComercLo) through their trust departments.  some
boutlques have been established with the dlrect partLicpatLon of foreign banks
(Barclays and Bankers Trust), others have arms-length partnershlps or loose
agreements of collaboratlon (It4VRLINK with First Boston Co. and INCORBANK with
a Britlsh merchant bank). In addition, large international investment banks
(eg., First Boston corporation and JP Morgan) have dominated the prlvatizatLon
market, most recently for IFI's divestment of PAPELCOL and the restructurlng of
CONASTIL. The partlcipation of these Lnternational instltutions has been an
opportunity for colomblan profeseLonals to get acquainted with the practlces and
norms of the operation. However, the investment banking market' remalns nascent.
Most of the 15 private CF's have not been involved ln investment banking and ost
CFs are only deallng with the top trlple-A companles.
125. The most common investment bankLig activity, underwriting of bonds, has
grown almost overnight after a decade of lnactivity. In 1989, Col$31,750 was
secured by some 25 firm with maturitles between 15-60 months at between 35-40%
effective interest rates. The more aggressive CFs take the risk of acquirLng the
paper for future resale, for which they are well-1uLted sJnce they can fund these
operations by mobilizing market funds or using the rediscount facility at BR
(FCE)    However, financial entities have not developed specialized and
independent knowledge by sector or activity, which results in poor or sketchy
sector analysis being done for sale memoranda. In additLon, the stockbrokers and
most Ces shy away from underwriting or promoting paper of less established
medium-sized firms because they perceive them to be riskier than the paper issued
by the large corporations or multinationals. To help overcome thLs, efforts are
underway with the assistance of the IFC to introduce rating agencies which would
provLde independent evaluations of public issues of debentures and possibly
stocks.



-44-
126. Financial services are offxed by a wlde range of entities, from the
consultants and financial boutiques to the large stockbrokers and ere. The
financial boutiques, such as INV3NK or INCORBUK,  are the ost active in
handling acquisitions and mergers, specializuig in compny valuation, preparing
the sale prospectus, and placing the stock wLth the new owners. CPF also provide
such services, but they tend to be more focused upon financial restructuring
advice. CF clientele tend, however, to be 1Lmited to those enterpriese in which
they already have a financial stake rather than as a market service and profit-
making function. In addition, it has been confined mostly to the ex post crLsis
restructuring of liabilities rather than analysis of the operational Lsues
frequently underlying the absence of qcmpetitiveness of the enterprise, whlch
should be a key function of investment bankers in Colombia.
127. The absence of this service is due fundamentally to the relatively
protected and static business envlroment over many years, which did not require
building knowledge and cataloguing experiene-s ln specifLc industries,
productivity and marketing issues. It is also a function of the relatively small
size of most investment banks which cannot afford to provide this service in-
house, little effort to develop this expertise as a compl_mentary consulting
service, and few systomatic links to the work of other institutions, such as
P3DUSAPROLLO or consultants.
128. The need to develop such expertise is becoming recognised, however, in part
due to the trade reform process and the subsector studies carried out in
preparation for the proposed Project.   Some sector specialization is also
beginning to appear as a consequence of Cl's own investment strategies.  For
example, CFC is becoming specialized in agroindustry; CFV has become specialized
somewhat the tire sector and in hotels; CFN in cement, textiles and related
businesses. X1! has a good planning department that has been active in sector
analysis and is now planning to find mechanism to sell this know-how to the
market. Some investment banking work is also being undertaken by international
firms with local affiliates (Citibank, Bankers Trust, and Barclays) on an ongoing
joint basis with local firms (eq., ZNVBRLXNK and CFV with First Boston).
129* Investment bankers in Colombia have manifested an interest in complementing
their relative strength in financial engineering by developing their skills in
operational issues facing Colombiawi industry, and by increasing the marketing of
their eervices.   The proposed Project would, therefore, support technical
assistance, seminars and promotional efforts focused on participating financial
intermediaries (wher possible in collaboration with industry) in the following
areas:
(a)  techniques for the evaluation of enterprise operating performance
and strategic competitive position;
(b)   international trends and market analyses of specific ir ustries;
(c)  basic organizational, production and technology issues-influencing
competitiveness;
(d)   identification and design of export-oriented projects likely to
attract foreign investment;



-45-
(e)  the design of invtment banking products and srvices, wLth
part oular emphasLs on expanding service  to the  n market by Cey
ln order to complemnt the work now beLag done by boutiques;
(f) deslgn of new types of securltles such as domaetic debt-equlty swaps
and the development of domestLi hedges against foreign curn¢cy
risk; and
(g)   retail marketLng of investment banking instruents.
2.6  I&=  RoLme
(a) Labor Costs. ProduotivLty and Moblltv
130. The performance of the industrial labor force is a fundamental determLnant
of internatlonal competitiveness.   This section hlghlights the impact on
competitiveness and the restructurlng process of levels of remuneration, labor
productLvlty and the labor regime ln relatlon to labor moblity.
131. Remuneration. An analydsi of the relatlve trends over 1970-86 in real
total remuneration rates for Colombla's lndustrial sector suggest that the
average aggregate sector remuneration rate has Lncreased by a total of 14-38%
(depending upon the deflator used, see Table 2.26). Total remuneration hs not
grown as fast as non-wage benefits (NWB) and has not grown faster on average than
labor productivlty. The wage component of total remuneratlon showed a dealine
in real terms of 13% over thls period. In comparison with total remuneration
trends among 21 developing countries, such rates seem to follow the direction of
those ln several East Asian producers but to dLverge with other countries ln
Latin America, South AsLa and Africa, whore declines ln real labor costs are
predominant.
132. ComparLsons of absolute remuneration levels have also been made by product
group ln the five subsector studies (Table 2.27). They examined a broad range
of Lndustrial remuneration rates around the average rates ln Colombia, from those
for very labor-intensive actlvlties (clothLng and shoes) to those for highly
capital-intensive ones (steel and vehicle assembly). Their fLndngs suggest, as
expected, that average total remuneration rates are substantially lower than
those in industrial country enterprises engaged ln sLmLlar actLvLties. This i8
true even among capital-intensLve activities where, for example, unlt
remunration rates in the Us automobile ndustry and the steel industries of
Japan and Germany are about 450% of Colembian remuneration rates.
133. Far greater rlvalry exists between Colombian remuneration rates and those
in NICs and other economically developing countries. In the clothing industry,
average total remuneration in East Asian and the Caribbean countries (excepiLng
the Dominlian Republic and Haiti) tends to exceed the rates in Colombia (114-274%
of Colombian rates). In the other subsectors studied (where a more limited
number of comparators are available), Brazil tends to be noticeably more rate
competitive (30-92% of Colombian rates), Nexico wlthin a similar range (80-114%)
and East Asian countrLes at or markedly above (95-461%), depending on the product
line. Thus, the broad parity or advantage of Colombian total. remuneration rates
in relation to most NICe and other developLng country comparators tends to
provide a sense of comfort about the current impact of such rates on the
international competitLvenes of its lndustries.



-46-
134. Of course, this to a statio analysisd whloh does not antiCipate utur
trends. In some cases, as in the Case of the shoe ldustry discussed earlier ln
thls Report, lt is clear that exporters having experlenced relative lncreases ln
remuneratlon are shiftlng productlon of some product linoo to lower-wage
countrles. Thus, future rate trends among competnlg countrlis and new entrants
lnto the export marokt may still substantially lnfluence Colombia's compotitLve
posLtion over the longer run.
135. Non-Wage  Def its (WR).  Despite the modest growth slaco the 1970s in
total remuneratlon, the growlng share of MWM l a matter of slgnlflcant concern.
The Colombian labor force receives a wlde range of statutory NWs. Firms with
total assets of more than Col$200,000 are requlred by law to pay the following
allowances:
(a) Annual leave, wage primla (a Othlrteenth month"), famlly allowances,
soclal securlty (whlch includes sickneso and maternity benefLts),
oontributions to the Natlonal Vocational fraining Service (OEMA) and
Colombian Family Welfare Institute (IOU) and occupational dieease
and work accident allowances and old a%*, dlsabllity, and death
benefits; IJ 
(b) Severance payments, equal to one month's salary per year of service
to be payable when employment is terminated (including for reasons
of retirem_nt or voluntary reignation). Firms are requlred to set
up a reserve fund to cover future payments.  For entitlements
arising after 1962 (the majority of firms' obligations), such
payments are retroactives the base for the calculated payment is
the salary of the last month befqre termination (provided it had
remained constant for the last three months).   Interest (12%
annually) must be paid on the workers  balance in the fund.  In
additlon,  employees  may  make  partial  tlthdrawala  of  thelr
accumulated balancce for certain purposes (e.g., houalng); and
(c)  Compensation for unjustifled dismlisal:  these benefits include (a)
an indemnification ranglig from 45 to 615 days of salary, depending
upon the years of servlce, for dismissal without just causea and (b)
the right to be reinstated or, alternatively, to claim an extra
pension payment for employees wtth more than ten years of service
who have been dismlssed unjustly.
in addition to statutory NWBs, many firms (particularly larger firms in which the
labor force i8 unionized) pay  WBs in addit4ton to those required by labor
legislation and may cover everything from eyeglasses to school materials.
136. NWB have increased markedly in both real terms and as a proportion of total
remuneration (Tables 2 .28-2 .29). Statutory and extra-legal benefits together
rose from 42% to 119% of basic wages over 1970-86. As a proportion of total
remuneration, NWB more than doubled from 30% to 60-66% over thli period, MM
growth took the form primarily of increases in social security and other
GoverMenst programs financed by payroll taxes, the effects of Inflation on the
retroao3ivity of ceanntlase and additional extra-legal benefits negotiated in
collective 3agreements.



Productivity of Labor in
Colombia by Product Line
SHOES INDUSTRY                                                      CLOTHING INDUSTRY
"*Ws pr piece                                                                mir.es peM pife
ai _ -.                                                              so  F 
5                                                  6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0-
82.2
so                                         27.5
~1.5
0~~~~~~~~~~~1
h 11    Pra spai  US   Te   fi6      r K   nw   C0x  c imacF            US    m      T     KWo   c           CAion  COL  ESld
,       SHiTS. PAT  SKiS                       PANT,
W09 FUTURE INDUSTRY                                                         TEXTLE INMUSTRY
50-
WV   4e    SwftlFft&Ya    Cn   UA    ax COEGe  I* UA   w   M Sai Jp  O                         CL  nd   ax20



-40-.
137. A recent study of NNB (Riveros, 1989) in relation to wages shows that
Colombla's position has jumped from the lowest among six Latin American countries
in 1965 to the highest in 1985, exceeding asme of its key NIC competitors like
Mexico and Brazil  (Table 2.30).   Colombia's NMB/wage ratios were also
substantially higher than the East Asian countries of Hong Kong, Korea and
Singapore. MS ln Colombia have (a) driven increases ln real total remuneration,
(b) put pressure on the already weak capital structure of many enterprises, and
(c) lt appears, promoted large pools of teiporary labor instead of more stable,
though flexible working relatLonships with enterprises.  In the longer run
interest of the lndustrlal labor force as well as enterprises, NWB pollcy has
recently been modlfied by the  Lovernment in order inter alla to better support
industry's needs to raise low enterprise productivlty, help to gradually achleve
a lower debt/equity relatlonship in the capital structure of enterprises, and to
encourage more flexibility in the career movement of workers (see below).
138. Labor ProductLvity. 2..e subsector studies suggest that a fundamental and
immedLate obstacle to internatLonal competitlveness of the more labor-lntensive
lndustries ln Colombia is low labor productlvity (see facing page). In relatlon
to high-wage industrial countries with hlgh labor productLvlty, relatively low
remuneration levels in Colombia can often compensate for low productLvity and
yLeld cost-compatitive products. This is the case even in relation to the Bast
Asian NICe in the clothing industry, where Colombian wages are slgnifliantly
lower than their counterparts (Table 2.31).   Sowever, ln product lines wLth
similar wage ranges across countries (eq., textlles, shoes, wooden furnlture),
many countries of last Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean have achieved a
competitlve edge wlth labor manufacturing times per unlt of output which are
markedly lower than in Colombla.
139. Like remuneration rates, labor productLvlty trends are also very dynamic
(Se  previous Chapter).   Nhlle industrialized countries are lntroducLng
mlcroelectronice-based systems to reduce costs and increase responses to demand
changes, a new generation of developing countries, like China, IndLa nd
IndonesLa, is challenging the NICe. Therefore, even where lt may presently have
a productlvlty-adjusted labor rate advantage over some countries, Colombla must
continue to induce at least comparable productivity growth rates in its
industrLes over the 1onger-term to malntaLn and improve lts competitive posLtLon.
140. Labor Nobility. The influence of labor regulations on the competitiveness
of industrial enterprises goes considerably beyond remuneration and labor
productivity. It also has a distlnct impact, through the extent of the mobillty
of labor, on such issues as an enterprLse's (a) product and market strategy, (b)
economic Lsiz and organizational structure, (C) market response tlme, and (d) the
cost of capital stook (capltal productivlty (technology, maintenance and
equLpment operation)  ' utilization + duties  and  interest cout).   The
compatlbility of labor regulations with restructurLng requirements is essential
as, in the longer run, the combination should reduce employment losses which
would otherwLse result from the loss ln competitiveness in the marketplace.
141. The experience of a number of countries undertaking broad-based industrial
restructuring demonstrates that regulations need to be relatively flexible to
accommodate internatLonal competLtiveness consLderations.   In Spaln, three
decrees were adopted over 1982-84 (21, 8 and 276) to provide a framework with
lncreased fleaxbllity in labor regulations and support for labor as restruaturing



-49- -
proceeded in industries such as textiles, steel products, shipbuilding and
household appliances. It included provisions for extended financial support
under the social security system, professional retraining, and tax incentives for
capital investments which created employment in Urgent Reindustrialization Zones
(SUR). some 500,000 projects were approved for these purposes through 1989.
Framework agreements between affected industrial subsectors and labor
organizations were also established under Spanish legislation to determine and
monitor arrangements for dismissal and redeployment of workers. They focused
particularly on provisions for early retirement, severance pay, reduced work
hours, retraining and relocation ln the context of defined enterprise
restructuring plans.
142. Colombian labor regulations have been highly stable since the
constitutional changes of 1936 and, excepting one reform of the legislation in
1965, have been modified primarily to widened the coverage or form of their
application. Current legislation contains the regulation of labor contracts for
individuals (governing capacity, consent, form, duration, revision, suspension,
and termination); guarantees of the right of association and collective action;
regulations and guarantees governing grievance and other proceduresl and special
legislation governing labor rights and regulations in the public sector.
143. Labor legislation is heavily oriented toward job stability through
penalties and Government controls. Under this regime, industrial entorprises
tend to adopt a variety of measures to harmonize changes in business operations
with the interests of their employees---not replacing retiring staff, negotiating
early retirement and resignations with indemnities, and using increasingly
temporary labor and microenterprises. However, these tools are not likely to be
adequate in view of the expected breadth and depth of industrial restructuring
adjustments needed. The subsector studies and other works, including that of the
Chenery Employment Mission of 1986, indicate clearly that the present labor
regim acts as an important barrier to labor mobility, and is likely to be a
significant constraint to both the industrial restructuring process and,
ultimately, the success of the trade reform program.
144. The most binding features of current regulationa for restructuring are
summarized below:
o    emplaoye dismissal cannot be made without "just cause" (Article 40S
of the Labor Code) and without the prior consent of a labor judge.
The definition of "just cause* encompasses personnel regulations and
criminal grounds, but does not include among its standards the need
to adopt new technologies and make other adjustments in enterprise
operations to become competitive over the long-term.  Also, no
dismissals are permitted durtng the petition by workers to remain,
a procedure which usually takes 4-6 monthsl
o    collectlve dismissals must be justified according to a minimum
standard of force majeure and this action requires the prior
authorization of the Ministry of Labor and Social Scurity. Again,
this standard does not provide for steps to increase competitiveness
as a valid justificationu
o    unit closiugs also must be justified upon the basis of force majeure
or accident, and receive the prior authorizatLon of the Ministry;



-50-
o     labor contract durations are considered to be unlimited, except for
the hiring of labor to meet temporary needs for the production,
sales and transportation of goods. This can substantially limit an
enterprises ability to down-size its labor force when adjustments
to develop or maintain long-term international competitiveness are
required.
O    the transfer of employees cannot be made without just cause, or
without the prior consent of a labor judge;
o under the unait enterprise concept (unidad de egmresa), differentials
in an enterprise's wage structure and labor working conditions are
not permitted, regardless of the fact that. each affiliate or
subcontractor may have a distinct economic structure.   This
regulation impedes investing in regions with lower labor costS,
subcontracting and reducing plant size. Along with the previous
limitation, it may also limit severely the ability of an enterprise
to decontralize operations, which is a common and vital
organizational step in many competing countries.  It is also be
contrary to the promotion of increased employment in Colombia via
subcontracting with small and medium scale enterprises; and
o    obligatory r3eitegration after 10 years of service offers special
protection to workers with more than 10 years of service, who are
protected from dismissal without "just cause". This discourages
enterprises from keeping employees more than 1l) years and provides
substantial disincentives for retraining and retention.
145. The Government is quite conscious of the impediments of current iabor
regulations to achievement of its trade reform and restructuring programs.
Therefore, it submttted to Congress in September 1990 proposals to revise the
Labor Code so as to permit more flexibility in labor deployment. The following
specific adjustments (among oithers) included in the Code were adopted by Congress
in December 1990s
(a)  introduction of competitivenes restructuring, and "oodernization"
requirements among the criterla for "just cause" in cases of
employee transfer and individual and collective dismissal, and as
a basis for setting the duration of labor contracts, permitting
reductions or closing of production capacity, and adopting new
technology;
(b)  establishment of a schedule by enterprise size which reduces the
number of enterprise for which a review is require by the Ministry
of Labor and Social Security prior to collective employee transfer
dismissal, and for reduction or closing of production capacity. The
remaining reviews are intended to verify compliance with the new
definition of "just cause";
(c) suspension of the use of the "unit enterprise" definition for 10
years  to  permit  eparate  labor  contract  negotiations  with
economically distinct units of the same enterpriseg



-51-
(d)  allowance of the flexible defLnition of work hours and contract
arrangements (eg., limlted duration, part-time employment) ln
accordance with their production requirementsu
(e) elimination of obligatory reintegratLon of dismissed employees wlth
more than 10 years of service and the tpension-saction"' and
(f) elimination of the partlal retroactivity clause of the ceantla
system.
Adoptlon by Congress of these changes as a part of its reform of the Labor Code
would be a conditlon of Board presentation of the Loan.
(b) Labor AdiustMent Asistance Proqram
146. Increased labor moblity needs to be counterbalanced by labor adjustment
assistance and specific training programs. Full restructuring under favorable
policy and enterprLse support conditions in the flve subsectors studled ia
estimated roughly to result ln a net increase ln employment of some 46,000
persons, or about 1St of the 300,000 workers presently engaged in these
industries (Table 2.32). Thls lncrease is almost entirely attributable to the
clothiag industry. It is expected to be accompanled at the same time in many
other industrLes by signlficant employee movement wlthin enterprises and between
enterprises ln the same or like 'industrLes---such as within shoes and leather
enterprises, from textiles to clothing firms, and from auto assembly to bus and
truck production plants.
147. other enterprLses may experlence a net contraction in labor force---such
as in the tanning, steel and autoparts industrles. For these three industrLes,
it has been estLmated that a contraction of the order of eight thousand workers
might result. This down-siring would probably take place at a modest rate over
a flve-year restructuring period, given present expectations about the gradual
pace of the trade reform program, and would constLtute about 3% of the labor
force of the five subsectors. However, it would represent almost 30% of the
employment of the three subsectors affected and it would be most unlikely that
it could be managed via the normal attritLon process. Other industries not as
yet closely examined may be similarly affected.
148. The Government seeks to minimise the socio-economLc costs incurred during
the trade reform and lndustrial restructuring processes for all of those
associated with this transition, and to promote re-employment as rapldly as
possible in labor-absorblng growth areas of the economy. Experience elsewhere
has shown that permanent economic benefits can be gained from re._mployment
promotion when laid-off workers acquLre new skill which make them ellgible for
higher quallty jobs, and offer more stable employment and/or higher wage rates.
149. Expllict program. to facliltate redeployment have been successfully
undertaken ln diverse and dLfficult situations, such as the Swedish shLpbuilding
Lndustry, whlch reduced its employment by over 80 (some 27,000 employees), and
the Corby Works of the Britieh steel Corporation (12,000 employees laid off),
bringing local area unemployment to nearly S0% from dlrect and lndirect losses
of jobs.  Frequently, the most severely affected have proven to be older
employees, women, and blue collar workers with low ekill Levels in larger
enterprises, who have more dlfflculty ln flnding new opportunities.



-52-.
150. The design of each program Ls dependent in large part on (a) the overall
economic growth condltions of the area affected, and (b) the extent of employment
dependence on the enterprise(s) which are restructuring in relation to the ize
of the area's labor force.  In some cases,  uch as the Instituto per la
Ricostrusione Industriale (IRI) ln Italy, expliclt regional strategies are
adopted accordLng to how these two varlables interact. *
151. Such programs have been undertaken frequently by a broad coalltlon of
government, private enterprise, labor, financial and community interest groups.
They have sought to create a positlve atmosphere at an early stage of the
restructurLng process and a set of coammunity-based lnstltutions with a high
degree of local autonomy to provide advLce and resources---job centers, venture
capital firms, retraining and education agencies. Financial lncentives have beon
found to generally work best when they are provided up front, rather than over
an extended timetable whlch may risk dependence and high costs. In cases where
job losses are concentrated, clearly defined job creation strategLes have been
adopted. Smoe strategies emphasise the attractlon of new large businesses to the
area affected and SHE spinoffs, others focus more directly on the start-up of
small enterprise worksbops.
I52. Canada's Industrial Adjustment Service (IR) is an example of the
successful application of these concepts over an extended period of tlme. The
IAS has operated for over 20 years, recently concluding annually about 600-700
adjustment agreements (each agreement averages 1-2 years duration) covering a
total of 350,000-400,000 workers each year.   Nearly two-thirds of these
agreements deal with labor force layoffs or the threat of layoffs by enterprise.,
sector-wide adjustment, or community-level adjustment to restructuring by large
local industries. The IAS is used widely as it offers: (a) a proven systemic
process of assLsting a signLfLant volume of workers to find new employment
which, at the same time, tendb to improve management/labor relationas  (b) a
network of experienced private sector consultants to guide the program wlthin
each enterpriset and (c) unit costs which are lower than those the enterprise
would incur on Its own and funding of generally up to 50% of the costs of
assistance.
153. The lAB reports that, of the workers seeking s"sistance under URS layoff
agrements over the past three years, 75-82% found new positions (generally
wLthin three months) at a combined average cost to the Ia8 and private
enterprlses of les  than US$200 per person.  It is believed to reduce the
transitLon tim. between jobs and, consqyently, to cut finacial losses and
social stress at the individual, family and national levels as well as reduce
demands on public program lLke unamployment insurance.
154. The Government of Colombia has recently established a labor Adjustment
Assistance Program (LAIP) satisfactory to the Bank as part of the IRMP, in
particular to counterbalance steps anticipated in the labor regme to enable
increased mobility of workers as needed for industrial restructurLng. 'The
immediate objectives of the LP are to reduces
m2 Re-employment of Labor in the Industrial Restructuring Procesew, IZR,
October, 1989.



-53-.
o     the time, cost, and hardship experienced by workers, their famili..
and the oconomy to make the job transitions requtred by industrial
restructuring investments; and
o     the barriers to enterprise owners and their amployees who wish to
undertake restructuring Jnvvestmtnts.
155. Implementation responsibility for the LAAP will reside with Sik. The LaA
will be lmplemented by qualified public and private entities ed Its cost is
expected to be shared, on average, in equal proportions between the government
and the enterprises undertaking restructuring. Thre groups will be eliglble for
LAAP services: (i) individuals dismissd from enterprises undertaking
restructuring  and  developmnt investment  and those  closing  down,  (ii)
enterprises re-employing these lndividuals, and (Lii) communities in whlch the
unemployment effects of restructuring are particularly severe. LAP services
would be programmed in coordination with enterprises undertaking lnvestments
prior to their implementation.
156. IndiLviduals designated to be dismissed from enterprises undertaking
restructuring investments will be eligible to utilise the following LAWP servlce
from qualified agenciess
(a)   skills assessment, career and job counselling program_s
(b) job search and referral programs;
(c)  job retraining programs for basic skill requirements; and
(d)  entrepreneurshlp program  providing in particular servlces to
help prepare business plans, feasibility studLes and the like
for (i) spinoff investments to produce goods or services
formerly a part of the restructured industrial enterprise, and
(11) the establishment of other new enterprises.
157. Enterpries  re-employing displaced workers would be able to utllize
referral and retraining program to locate such individuals and would also be
eligible to receiv  reimbursents from the LAWP for associated initial on-the-
job training costs. The LAW would also finance under well-defined conditlons
(eg., where the socio-economLc impact of unemployment is over 3% of the local
work force)  cmmunity devolopment studies aimed at identifying and implementinB
steps to promote new employment and other adjustments.
158. The  D P's credit Program ccmponent would complement the LAAP (though
enterprises could participate in one or both of these progra_sas It considered
appropriate) by  financing the following employee-rexated expenditures of
enterprises undertaking restructuring investmentst
(a)   70% of job retraiaing costs for employees to increase     uctivity
in his/her existlng po"itIon or to assume ainew position to wh4ch
he/she is to be transferred tithin the enterprise;
(b)   70% of the relo6&tion csts of employee  and their ftaplies
transferred within the enterprise;f and



-54-.
(c) 70% of the severance cost associated with early retirement and
employee dismLssal (non-Bank Project resources only).
159. Further support for the LAAP would be provided by the already approved
World Bank loan of US$ 80 million equivalent to support the Fifth Small and
Medium scale Enterprise Project (SKES). It provides financing through a large
number of development  and  commercial banking  institutions  for  SHE  and
microenterprise development. Workers retiring from or dismissed by restructuring
enterprises could seek euity or loan capital under SKES to finance hardware and
software requirements to establish a' new industrial enterprise, and technical
assistance to address production, management, materials purchasing and marketing
and other problems faced by on-going nes.
160. The LAAP is designed to (i) focus Program resources on those dlrectly
affected by retrenchment and on preparations for new types of employment, (iU)
expedite worker transition to growth areas of the economy to avoid delays in
labor redeployment among declining industries, (iii) promote a willingness to
accept change and seek new job opportunities, and (iv) provide a rapid, non-
bureaucratic and decentralized institutional mechanism to supply LAAP services
to the enterprise level. The detailed policies and administration of the LARP
are currently under preparation with Trust Fund financing.   Adoption of
satisfactory detailed arrangement  for it would be a condition of first
disbursement for this component.
2.7 T chn2lM  Policy
161. The adoption of new technology will be an essential part of the
restructuring and development of many industries, as was illustrated in the
previous Chapter. The subsector studies have shown that technological renovation
is a process which is required all along the chain of manufacturing functions,
from product research and development to quality control, marketing and
management,  and that softwar  is as necessary as hardware.   The main
prerequisites for technological innovation, such as macroeconomic stability, a
relatively open external trade regime, and limlted restrictions on domestic
competition, are expected to be present in the coming years and to provide a
reasonably favorable environment for technology acquisition.
162. This environmeat needs to be complemented, however, by more explicit
foreign investment and technology transfer policies as, at least over the medium-
term, most technology requirements must be imported and as externalities often
result from the fact that innovators may be unable to capture all of the
associated rents. Also, economies of scale frequently exist under which smaller
firms may not be able to invest individually in th equipment, skills and efforts
required. And further, the financial risks (including frequently an absence of
oollateral) linked to the investigative, prototype and testing phases of
technology development may well exceed the thresholds of most financial
institutions. This section examines the key policy and institutional adjustments
recently made or to be made under the Project to support the acquisition,
adaptation and local creation of technology for industry.
(a) Foredan Direct Investment
163. In the 195034 the Colombian ,o4ernment pursued an industrial development
policy of import substitution in intermediate and capital goods largely via



-55-
public support (mainly ln steel, some basic chemicals and petroleum derlvatives)
and foreign direct investment (ID0). Over 1957-64, some WS$ 115 million in
regLstered PDX, accounting for about 20-30% of sector investment, went lnto paper
and cardboard, pharmaceuticals and other chemlcals, rubber products, metal
mechanlcal and transport aquLpment industrles.   Shese capLtal- and skill-
intensive ventures appeared at the time to have responded to the Government ' aim
to address gaps in capital formation, technology and production and management
skills for large plants. Zmployment ln those flrm with majority JDI also
increased over this period from 4 to 12% of total sector employment. "
164. The balance of payments crisis of 1966 led inter alia to the first policy
steps to contain the increasingly prominent FD1. Decre 444 of 1967 placed a 14%
ceiling on annual profit remittances as a share of investments of foreign firms
and prohibited investments in the financial sector.  A  part of the Andean
Group's efforts to coordinate industrial policieo, Decision 24 of 1970 reinforced
Decree 444 by prohibiting foreign monopoly power in key sectors, reducing maximum
foreign ownership to 49%, and eliminatLng restrictive practices between parent
and affiliate companies.
165. With the falling industrial output and international recession of the early
19808, the Government markedly revised FDT policy (Resolutions 29 and 36, and
Decree 3548 of 1983-84). This step reduced the protective element of FDI policy
and provided incentives aimed to target FD! toward national economic priorities.
in particular, it (a) increased profit remittances to 50% per year for priority
subsectors (mainly heavy industry and exports), (b) suspended obligations of 100%
IDI enterprises to form joint ventures where raw material content or exports
exceeded certain levels, (c) suspended geographical location restrictions on FDI,
and (d) expanded the possibility of reinvesting earnings.
166. Despite these regulatory changes, the focus of industrial FDI has remained
much the same since the late 195Os: highly capital and skill-intensive, with 57%
of cumulative investment in 1989 still concentrated in chemicals, paper, rubber,
plastics, electrical machinery and transport equipment. Over 1970-89, the real
value of cumulative registered PDI in industry rose very modestly, by a total of
about 13.9%, and accounted for less than 4% of gross fixed capital formation In
industry (Figure 2.2). However, FDI has played a prominent 'role in a number of
product groups and figure. among the most rapidly growing parts of Colombian
industry. Industrial FDS was dominant in 12 of 62 4-digit subsectors and, of the
85 largest industrial firm in Colombia in 1986, 36 were foreign. Over
1970-83, 11 of the 25 firms which were both the largest and fastest growing were
foreign. 14
167. The ID! regime was further liberalized in 1987 through fundamental
modifications in Decision 24 of the Andean PVct (Decision 220). Steps were taken
to (a) extend the period of transformation of FDI to majority local ownership
from 15-20 years to 30-37 year  and apply them only to firms seeking expanded
market shares; (b) eliminate share restrictions of FDI in national firm and the
7% limitation on reinvestment of prof its (C) eliminate regional restrictions on
gEuavs of industrialixation in colombia, A. Berry, 1983.
-' zEstructura Y Regulacion de la Industria Nanufacturera en Colombia", A.
Urdinola and S. Moncayo, May 1987.



-56-.
sectors, access to local credit and regional industrial sector d.vlopmsnt
program. As ia cle   from the restructurLng needs described Ln the previous
Chapter, new Vol i  requied to help increase productivity and to penetrate
export mrkets. The current D  regulatory framework La being further examined
by the new Governmt with these objectlves ln mLid and a major promotlonal
effort planned to attract prlvate sector ID1 as part of restructuring
investments.
(b) Zggnb=locv Transe meLig1
168. Technology has generally been acquired by Colombia vla the Lmportation of
capital goods and by licening products, processes and technLcal servLces for
specific problem. The Superintendency of Industry and commerce is charged with
the regulation and control of technology transfer, technical assistance
contracts, policies on technLcal standards, metrology and quality control, and
the assembly regLme. The txchage Offlce of the Central Bank io also associated
through lts administration of the national foreLgn exchange budget. The present
regime applying to the tranfer of technology and technLal assistance contracts
in Colombia origLnates wlth the adoption of the Cartagena Agreement among Andean
countrLes and, in particular, Decisions 24, 84 and 85 of 1970 on the Common
Regime on the treatment of foreign capital, trademarks, patents, license and
royalties as the basis for a subregional policy on technology and industrial
property.
169. The policLes and administration for these areas were designed to deal with
concerns about the monopolLsatLon by foreign interests of local eonomic benefits
and the effects on the balance of payments, not the absorption locally of
technology.   Thus, the crlteria to evaluate technology contracts by the
Superintendency consiated mainly of whether the proposal applied to sectors of
"strategicw national interest, Its effects on employment, use of raw materials,
integration with local busine i Lnterests, and the controlling share of capital.
Strict limitations were set to avoid the "escape* of resources tbrough payments
asociated  with  the  concept  of  the  acquisition  of  technology.    The
Superintendency wa to also judge the potential to develop products locally
wlthout such a contract, the profitability of the contract, international
practices in the area concerned, and the local market demand for products mede
using the technology proposed.
170. Payments for technlcal service contracts and royalties in industry have
generally stagnated or declined in real term over 1976-88 and are, ln fact,
small in relation to balance of payments (about $13 million in 1988, Tables 2.32-
2.33). such payments repreent less than 1% of the value added of the sector.
More importantly, even if the Superintendency Jad bean glven resources to carry
out such analyses (which was not the case), the Government now agrees that such
an entity could not possibly judge adequatoly either the appropriateness of the
particular technology for the enterprLse nor its economic utility to the country.
While Decree 220 of 1987 modifying the FDI regime for Andean Pact member
countries Lncreased the autonomy of countries in thelr treatment of imported
technology, the Superintendency's operations ln this area have not substantially
chang.
171. The most important Governmental step being taken ln the near term to build
an effectiv, technology program for the 1990. and to support the industril
restructuring process i to convert key regulations and institutional



-57-.
arrangements influencing imported technology transfer from an orientation of
centralized control toward promotion.  Thls new orLentation is a must, as
technological requirements differ signlflcantly according to product, process,
rate of change in technology, enterprise  si  and stage of developent. To this
end, the Government has already taken steps (June 1990) uAder the Project tot
(a) effectively eliminate the selection crlteria for technology
contracts revlewed by the 8uperlAtendency's Royalties Comittee, and
(b) convert the contract review procedure lnto a registration and
verLfication of contract data, and reduce contract processing timed.
Under the Project, flnancing would be made available for such things as research,
engineering, technology transfer and testing expendltures of enterprises
undertaking industrial Lnvestments.
172.  over the longer run, the capaclty of the National Councll of Standards and
Quallty must be increased in metrology and product quality standards and
reorientation of local technology instLtutLons is required.   ScLence and
technology actlvitles ln ColombLa appear to b relatively limated (about 0.1% of
GDP, compared with about 2% in other developing countries), with about 80%
concentrated in public sector institutions such as S8DA, COLCIENCIAS and the
Institute of Technological Investigation. Their links to the private sector are
weak and the focus on immediate commereial requLroments li very limited. There
are nevertholess a few examples Ln Colombia of privately supported LnstitutLons,
such as CENICAPE and CUNICAe,, which have shown very positive results.
Elsewhere, such as Ln Korea and Talwan, a subsector focus has been successful.
The Korea Institute for Science and Technology (XIST), a large public research
institute, spun off specialized Lnstitutes for shipbuLlding, marlne resources,
electroniLs, telecommunications, machinery, chemicals exergy and standards. They
have helped local firms to identify firms overseas which could supply and help
adapt technology to their needs. They were complemented by other Lnstitutions,
such as research agencies and venture capital groups.
173. A stronger nexus between the R&D divisions of enterprises, research
laboratories, and development agencies is essentLal in 'ColombLa.  For this
purpose, publLc centers need to be reorganLied in order to make them
progressively more responsive to industry and self-financing.  Consideration
should be given to increasing the representation of industry on their governing
bodies and theLr authority over work programs, and possLbly to increasing the
ownership and management of them by industry.  These steps could be hi,ghly
supportive of the emerging efforts under the Project to establih the subsector
centers mentLoned above.
2.8  nironmental Protet,
(a) Industrial Pollutlon Control'
174.  Colombia suffers from severe and worsening envirornmental deterioratLon Ln
three main areas: deforestatLon, degradation of water resources, and air
"This ection draws upon the C4olombia Environmental Issues Paper" (tellow
Cover), October 20, 1989, in addition to the subsector studies.



-50-.
pollution. Many of Colembia's waterways suffer major environmental damage from
pollution due to sewage, industrLal effluent, pesticides, or oll pLpellne leaks.
Major Lndusta.es Lnvolved include petrochemioals, pulp and paper, tannerie,
textlle finishing, steelmaklng, sugar reflalng, feedlots, slaughterhouses, dairy
processlng, and coffee benefication, among others.   The impact of some of
LidustrLes is outlined below.
175. * in the textiles I.mustiy, the          ~      ~     ,.~..
productlon of chemLcal fibers and the    |                             .
finLeshLng processes for cloth and yarn    .      |      '.
present   the    most   signlflcant   |                        ' /  
envLrormental hazards.  They involve           1)ha.. 
substantial quantities of chemicals,  i:,           ~~~" <
such  as dyes  and  disolvents   ad a nd,
water.    The  introduction  of  new   . .          
technologies  can  reduce  the  unit.V
consumption of such  flulds and of   * i
energy (eg., 10% less dyes, 75% les 
water and 65% lses  stem for dyeing
200 kg of cotton cloth, reducing costs.a
by  58%  on  these  inputs).    some                           .. .
biodegradable of pol   may be substituted c  .   /p                  t
for those cur., tatly used, recovery w h a.c                yr.n
processes may be introduced for inputs        t          ...
such as caustic soda, connectors may
be   constaructed   to   drains   for
contaminated water whIch can subsequently be treated. A number of thAes step
are already being undertaken on a regsonal basis around Xedellin and Cali.
Others which cannot benefit from joint solutions will reoqre costly inveetments
(see box).
176. In the leather ad shoe ind us t ry, tanneries are the most sglnLficant
sources of pollution in the produtiton chain. Enterprises do not control their
effluent, excepting the large firms which practice recovery of chromium, ardn
wastes are reported to be entering rivers and the vicnilty. The tehnotlogy is
available at a moderate to high coat (about US$1.0-1.25 million) to remove 90-9S%
of the contaminants. in the US, the invironmental Protection Atency has
undertaken to ensure that sulfate had chromium wastes are put through publip
treatment facLilties according to established standards. The cost to enterprises
is about US$0.08 per hide.
177c   In the steel industry, the min-mills generate dust anrd smoke pollutlon
(sulfur dioxide n ad carbon Mo4oxide, in particular) primarily in the properation
of scrap materials, the olectric furnace and rolling mills. - The integrated
facility creates additional pollutants given a high phosphorousi comtent in the
local iron ore. all the mini-mills have or are installing scrubbing equipments
such investmentsi by APDR are planned. All major semi-integrated plerits have
water treatment facLilities. Further steps are required by MPR for its iron,,
cooking, and furnace operations, which could be incorporated in its overall
modernization program.
178. in the vehicle assembly inusttry, most automobiles and commercial vehicles
in Colombia lack features to reduce air pollutlon, such as catalytic converters,
exhaust gas recirculation systems, and vapor recovery system. EmissLon testing



.59-
of existing (generally older) vehicles upon renewal of registration la also not
required. Passenger safety features, such as passive restraint systems, antl-
skid brakes, side-beam intrusion bare and impact absorbLag bumper systems, are
also lacking.
179. Modernization of the technologies used by many of these lndustrles could
substantially reduce pollution as well as lncrease efficienoy. Perhaps the most
effeotive ongoing program of industrial water pollutlon control is ln the Cauca
Valley, where the responsible regLonal corporatlon (CVC) has ost "minimum
treatment technology" standards which industries must meet if they are to get an
operating licence. complianoo has been very hlgh, although the pollutLon control
technologies mandated are fairly basic (such as settling ponds). ame US$80
million has been invested so far by industries for water pollution control in
Valle without subsidies.
180. unvironAmetal Regulations and Zuforceaent. Whlle Colombia's industrial
pollution control laws are quite comprehensive, enforcement is generally weak and
fines (even when imposed) are often les than the cost of compliance.   Colombia
has two principal environmental laws. One is the Codigo Nacion&l de los Recurso
Naturales y Protecclon al Nedio Ambiente (Law 23 of 1973, Decree-Law 2811 of
1974, and subsequent decrees, all detailed by ortega, 1986), which covers a broad
range of environmental issues, including forestry, fisheries, wlldlife, and land
and water use. The other is the Codigo Sanitario Naclonal (Law 9 of 1979 and
Decree 1594 of 1984), which addresses pollution and related pub1lc health
concerns   While these laws are generally considered comprehensive and well-
drafted, they are only infrequently implemented. To a large extent, these two
laws have not yet been translated into enforceable regulations and operatlng
procedures for the Government agencies which must enforce them.
181. Industrial pollution control, most forest and watershed management, and
conservation program such as National Parks are the responsibility of IND3)WNa,
established in 1968 as the principal national Government agency responsible for
environmental and renewable resource management. The main functions of INDIRUNa
include (a) screening and approval of all major development projects, based on
environmental impact studies submitted by the implementing ministries or
agencies, and (b) long-term environmental monitoring of development projects
after they are built.   It operates under the aegis of the Ministry of
Agriculture, even though it is supposed to supervise and coordinate the
environment-related work of all the other ministries.
182  INDERENA is a notoriously weak institution which lacks the budget, staff,
political clout, and the continuity of leadership necessary for effectively
carrying any of its numetous responsibilities. In practice, many environmental
studies are submitted after construction, has begun or are simply not done.
Despite its logal mandate, INDIRENA has been unable to modify substantially, much
leos stop, most of these projets. INDERENA collects relatively little money
from timber concessions or water use fees and has virtually no access to any
"earmarked" funds (such as the Law 56 watershed management allocations from
electric power sales). As a result, it relies very heavily on fairly minimal
appropriations from the central Government Salaries within INDERENA are low by
Government standards, staff turnover is high, and morale is poor. Supplementing
INDMRXNA ars  18 different regional development  corporations, which  are
responsible for integrated natural resougo management and environmental
protection in their geographical areas of jA4iosdiction. As a rule, the larger



-60- .
and better-financed regional corporatLons tend to have better-developed capacity
for watershed and other natural resource management. Overall, however, they are
also weak.
183. Industrlal lnvestments under the proposed Project would help to reduce
pollutlon ln many cases, as more modern Lndustrlal processes tend to be both
technlcally more effLoient and les pollutilng. In partLcular, the IROP would
provide fLiancang for (a) techaLcal assistance sought by industrial enterprlses
to ldentlfy and propoee solutions to envLronmental hazards created by thelr
operatLons, (b) Lavestments whlch would reduce hazardous emLssLons, and (c)
technLcal aseletance ln order to support an Envlronmental Pollution Control
Program in the DNP, screening and enforcement of the envlronmental aspects of
investments, and training and equLpping of operating facilitLes and trainLng of
staff. These are desecribed in more detall ln Annex 7.
(b) occunational Health and Safety
184. The Government has stated that safeguards in the work environment against
risks on the job in manufacturLng enterprlso are vital both to the well-being
of workers as well as the promotion of productivity. In March 1989, the Mlnistry
of Labor and Social Security established minimum regulations for occupational
health and safety in enterprises (Resolution 1016). They set out norms and
preventative programs to be gradually adopted in order to achieve quantifiable
reductions ln accidents, work-related health problems, abs6ntLsm, and increases
in enterprise productivity.  Investments are to be subject to cost-benefit
calculations, recognizing the need for firms to achieve and maintain adequate
returns.
185.  Each program at the enterprise -evel is to include activities in
preventative medlcine, labor medicine, industrial hygione and security. They are
to include such things as medUcal exam for new employees, health monitorlng
systems, studies on the toxiclty of raw maierLals and processing substances used
in plants, risk identifleation in the operation of machinery, inspections of the
operation and maintenance of equipment, investigation and analysis,pf accidents,
clearly marked zones of hazardous operations, em.rgeocy procedures, orientation
and training courses on health and safety issues. Pull statistical information
would be required and monitoring carried out by the Ministry." Under the Private
Sector Credit Program Component of the proposed Project, technical assistance and
hardware needed to comply with these regulations would qualify for finaicing.
3.
3.1 Orlian and Relation to the Country Lendina Strateov
186. The Government began to seriously consider industry-.iLd rsetructur#ng as
development as the aector's falterlng performance becam increasingly clear and
as it considered the prospects of fundamental trade reform. Active preparation-
of the IRDP started in mid-1988 with Bank support and the establishment of
Subeactor Working Groups consisting of representatives of Government agencies'
private industrialists and the. financlal sector. SQctor-wide and subsector
studieL  helped to determine the justifiLation for and design of the Proj4^t.
Preparation work has in a number of instances already resolted in follow-up
action for policy adjustments, institution-building, detailed market research and
,.       ! '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,-.



-61-a
preinveatment work to prwptar restructurlng oxeroles tor area  of large-scale
industry or having important demonstratlon effects.
187. The Government'  key medium-terM  development objectives are to sustain
economlc growth at about. 5 per year whiLe lnereaslng fiscal and monetary
dlicLplLne, reduce poverty and unemployment, and increase export diversification
and malntaln creditworthlness. fthe ank's country strategy call. for emphasis
on project loan with selectlve support from pollcy-based operations to help
achieve these alme. The Government's relatlvely sound macroecoomwic managemnt
alnce the mid-1980s provides a generally adequate framework In whlch to pursue
thls strategy at the sector level. The proposed Project, the recently approved
Public sector Reform toan and proposed loano to restructure Colombla's public
development bank for lare scale industrial enterprlses (IFI) and for development
export aim to support the process of adjustment by industtLil enterprises to the
increasely competitive business environment created by Colombia's trade reform
program (see Statement of Loans and Credlts to Colombia in Annex 2).
188. Further comple_entlng the proposed work in Colombia is the work of the IFC.
The IFC considers that it can play an important role partlcularly in the larger,
more complex projects where project preparation and structurLng work be combined
with financLal assistance. Thli includes the proviLsion of advisory services for
the considerable work often required to make larger investents happen in
Colombia, including privatization traAsactions, and complex XFC loan and
equity/quasL-equity investments to help complete the financing for some of the
large resource-based projects. Transactions under actiye preparation include the
constiaction and operatLon of a 24' 200,000 bpd export oil pipeline from Vasonia
to Covenas by OCSA, and a line of credit to support an lnvestment.program which
will replace obsolete equLpment, modernize some production process and Improve
quality of the COLTBJER textile company. ?- is also exploring opportunities in
tho petrochemicals and fertilixer industries.
t.1 
3.*2 Lessons frm Past Dank AsssanceM toClmbnIdut
189. Dank DPC lendlng to Colombia began in 1966 with a loan of US$25 million to
DR to onlend through flve private CFs as participating financial intermediaries
(PYIs). To date, nine UPC loans totaling US$588.5 .illion have been made to SR
and the number of participating CPs has increased to nine. All of these loans
were designed to foster the development of productive investmnts and to promote
the instLtutional growth of the PIs concerned.  This work ha6 been successful
among most of these banXs, and more recent projects have focused on sisting the
Indqstrial Credit Department of DR to progressively assume the majority of the
Bank's supervislon of subprojects. In g.neral, however, these loans were not
deigrned to bring about basic changes in policLies influencing the financial and
industrial sectors (see'PbR of November,1989 for Ln. 1S98-0O, and Ln. 1857-CO and
Annex 3).
190. An additional five Bank loans totalling $172.5 millLon have been made to
sNEs in Colombia over the past fourteen years, including a loan of US$80 million
approved in FY88. The firat four of these operntions focued prLncipally upon
generating employment and the development of Co;ombLa's public development bank    c.
specLalized in 8M$ lending, the. Corporacion FinanciEka Popular (CFP), These
projects have been successful in  stimulating growth  in  4ployment  and  in
increasing the quality of CFP's development banking services.  they have made
very little progress, however, in fostering the institutional).;self-relLance of
.  .                                                    .                .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A



-62-.
the CFP and bring about policy changes tnf luencing 8M performance (6ee PPAR No.
2645 for Ln. 1071-CO of 1979t  PCR of Aprl. 1983 for Ln. 1451-CO  PCR of Aprl
1986 for Ln. 1834-COO and Annex 3).
1,o. The experience gained in these projects has inspired more attention under
the Pifth SHE Project and the proposed Project to changes ln policy and
institutional factors, which are equally important constraints to efficient
industrial development as the lack of available credit. Careful analysia and
exhaustive discussions, partLcularly on the trado, fLnancial and labor regimes,
have been carried out. Consequently, the Project links its financing at the
enterprise level to a specific industrial policy framework and the achievement
of sector-wide adjustment measures to increase the competitiveness of the
business environment. in addition, unlike the earlier crodit lines, the Projcts
(a) emphasizes the increase of productive efficiancy as well as capacity
expansion of industry; (b) has fostered during Project preparation restructuring
initiatives by the private sector; (0) expands the range of exigible expeanditures
to be financed by the Bank's loan to meet restructuring investmnt requirements;
and (d) supports industrial subsector and restructuring service institutions to
help implement the restructuring process.
3.3   bjiective, Stratev and Beneficiaries
192. The development objective of the Project is to increase the international
competitiveness of Colombian industry. Its immediate objectives are to assist
the private sector -in:- rnovating existin  lndustrial production capacity so as
to reduce costs, building new capacity, increasing product quality and service,
and changing the production mix toward goods in which Colombia has a dynamli
comparative advantage, and phasing out production capacity which is unlikely to
produce acceptable long run returns in a competitive business environment. The
basic strategy to achieve these objectives is to adopt a set of public policy
adjustments which will increase the competitiveness of the domestic business
environment and to -enable enterprises to respond accordingly by making available
financial, technical and social instruments to help industrial enterprLses to
restructure and develop their operations.
193. The Project is expected to support some 250 investments by industrIal
enterprises over about a three-year period (CY91-93) - These are likely to be
distributed among a relatively limited number of larger investments and many
smaller investments by enterprises in light industry. These investments will aim
to. increase significantly industrial competitiveness and build clientele in
export markets through new products, reduced cost, improved product quality and
service. In the textile and clothing subsector, for example, the CG study
suggests that annual productivity increases could reach 6% and 2%, respectively,
with a substantial jump in employment in the clothing industry (47,000 workers,
see Table 3.1) and positive effects on the trade balance (V8$300 million net)
over a five-year adjustment period.  The Project would also facilitate the
redeployment of those in the industrial labor force displacee by the
restructuring -process,  promote improve health and safety standards within
enterprLses, and upgrade environmental protection.   The Government consiaers
that the Project represents a commitment to ta3e the first steps in a long-term
process of renovation and development of Colombia s industrial structure. If
successful, additional financing would be considered to help meet requirements
in succeeding years.



-63-
3.4 pDseri. tton
194. The Project would incorporate specific public policy adjustments critical
to the achievement of the IRDP. It would also includes (a) a private sector
credit program to finance invrastmente and technical assistance to Industrial
enterprises and supporting services, and (b) a public sector support program for
restructuring. An organization chart of the Project is on the following facing
page and a description of the Project is provided below.
Industrial Restructuring Policy Framework
195. -Public policies and regulatory adjustment  considered to be the most
essential for the success of the restructuring and development process (see
previous Chapter), have already been or would be made under the Project. A
matrix of adjustments under the Project is found at the end of this Chapter.
196. Trade. Under the Government's trade reform program lnitiated in February
1990, quantitative restrictions on manufacturing imports have been eliminated
(excluding those associated with health and safety). It has further announced
publicly final targets for the reforms by December 1993 the maximum tariff level
will not exceed 23%. the average import-weighted tariff will not exceed 16% and
the number of tariff categories will be reduced to no more than four. Ongoing
commitment of the Bank' a loan under the IRDP Credit Program would be conditioned
upon (i) maintenance of these three final targets, and (Li) coverage of-
industrial domestic production by quantitative restrictions not exceeding St of
value (excluding permits related to health an$ safety and national security) and
calculated in accordance with methods agreed upon with the Bank. This second
condition would not apply if, in the opinion of the Bank, any such increase above
the 5S limit is required exclusively as a temporary means to prevent or detain
a fall in the Government's international reserves caused by an extreme and
unexpected disequilibrium in its balance of payments and, further, that the
Government prepare within 120 days of the QR imposition, an action plan
satisfactory to the Bank for the substantial elimination of the QRs exempted from
the limitation and put it into effect within 180 days of the imposition.
Adjustments have already been made in the admiListration of the Plan Vallejo
drawback scheme to ensure that approval processing time does not exceed about 10
days for new applications and 2 days for changes.
197. Domestic Competition. As a condition of first disbursement to enterprises
in the respective subsectors, (a) price controls on domestic cotton production
(used in the textile and clothing industries ISIC 3211-3220) would be converted
to a price stabilization scheme, acceptable to the Bank which is closely linked
to international pricesi and (b) in the vehicle assembly industry (I8IC 3843),
the Government would adopt a deregulation program satisfactory to the Bank.
198. Financial Sector. The following steps have been taken to rationalize
interest rates and deregulate' direoted credit liness (a) eliminated remaining
interest rate subsidies on BR industrial credit lines (FIP, FFI and 1C0),
excepting for "frontier zones", for which a small differential is mandated by law
and for enterprises which are victims of narcoterrorism (subloan authorizing
closing date is April 1991 for this facility)l (b) raised the maximum lending
rates to enterprises to DTF +6 percentage pointst and (c) harmonized PIP and F7$



-64-
_Proct Organiation and Elow Chart
Cmponents       Restructuring       Private Sector         Public Sector
Policy Framework    Credit Program        Support Service
Cost (Millions)                        US$ 482                 UOS  a
sank loans                             US$ 192                 US$ 8
espnatsbilLtys IF/IR/8D AS               BR8R.
External.trade     Loans, quasi-
Domestic compet.   equity a equity       Project MitorX
Contents:      Fin' 1 sector       to incre              Program.
Labor regime       competitive
Technology         position
Project prep         Enviromental
advance              Pollution Cotrol
apl & Spn T          Labor Ad4ustment
Assistance Program
Intermediati.a/          ~Development &             consultants
lemtation:                         commercial bank
Investment bankls       81N  & private
agencies
Donefioliazis:               industrial Enterprises
Industrial subsector
entities (e. ,technology
export promotion
Displaced industrial
labor fQrce
MY      inistry of finance                      R  Central Bank
11D  - MLnistry of Eoonomic Dvlopment          TA  Toehnical Assistance
-W$ a Ministry of Labor and Social Security



-65-
regulations with the Bank's line by adopting higher free limits for investment
loan approvals and shifting the focus of second-tier management to ex post
monltoring of the performance of the PFI and auditing of the use of fund. SR ha
also reduced the maximum rediscounted portion under PIP from 75% to 70% and from
85-90% to 70% under FCM to promote increased domestic resource mobllization. Any
steps by BR having the effects of a reduction of the lending rate by SR for
industrial directed credit (other than those in the opinion of the Sank
established for specific emergency or social purposes) to less than the DTF rate
and/or reduction of the maximum possible rate to final beneficiaries of less than
DTF plus six percentage points would constitute an event warranting suspension
of loan disbursements.
199. Labor. Revisions to current labor legislation and regulations have been
approved by Congress which (a) introduce competitiveness among the "just cause
criteria for transfer and dismissal of employees, adoption of new technology, and
the reduction of closing of production capacity; (b) provide for more flexible
labor contracts according to competitiveness needs, (¢) suspend the "unit
enterprise" concept now constraining differentiation of labor costs, and (d)
reduce the time required to make decisions regarding the mobilLty of labor and
changes in enterprise organisation.
200. Technology. Measures have been taken to substantially convert, the criteria
and review process applied to technology and technical services contracts by the
Superintendency of Industry into -a passive registry system,7 and reduce thQ
processing time for applications.
Private Sector Credit Program (total cost, US$492 million)
201. Definition. The Credit Program (summarized in Annex 4) would wupport
investments by enterprises qualifying as (a) manufacturing and mLning sector
businesses, and (b) service institutions helping prepare and implement
investments by such sector businesses, including those oriented to the industrial
subsector level (eg., product design, technology and export promotion centers).
Investments would be defined as those almed at developing or sustaining the
international competitiveness of existing- or new enterprises. The Project would
finance loans by participating financial intermediaries (P115) and quasi-equity
and equity contributions by PFle, other legally established entities and
individuals to enterprises qualified under the Project. The program would also
finance an Investment Preparation Pacility to meet the preinvestment costp
incurred by enterprises of preparing sound investment proposals. Advances under
this FacliLty would be either rescheduled by the investment loan or recovered
within a period of three years from the date of the advance.
202. Xligible expenitures to be financed by the Loan would be defined
negatively so as to exclude the financing by the Bank loan of a transfer of
assets, land and severance payments, and the refinancing of existing
indebtedness. Such expenditures would be most likely to include goods and
services associated with the acquisition of traditLonal fixed assets for future
working capital (including used fixed assets, for which there is an ample
competitive market and important reductions in barriers to market entry for
smaller firms) and a broad range of other incremental expenditures commonly
required in restructuring exercises such as product research and development,
\ 



-66-.
development of new marketing and distribution networks, employee retraining and
relocation and investment banking fees.
203. Structure.  All development banks (CF), including ZVI, and commercial
banks legally constituted in Colombia would, in principle, be eligible as PFIs
of the Project (Annex 5). Interested intermediaries would be qualified as Pus
upon satisfactory review by BR and the 'Bank 'of the following eligibility
criteria 
(a)   certification by the ,8uperintendency of Blanks that it is in good
standing with respect to its requirements for overall operating
policies and practices, financial condition and reporting.  The
standards.of the superintendency are,satisfactory to the Bank for
the purposes of the proposed Project; and
(b)  the existence of a valid participation Agreement.
SR would review semi-annually a PFIs organization, staffing, credit portfolio
performance, loan appraisal and supervision procedures for lending   d equity
contributions under the Project, thereafter maintaining or adjusting accordingly
free limits applicable to subloans.
204. Bach PFI would conclude a Participation Agreement with.BR to protect the
rights of the borrower and the Bank and to enabXe obligations to be carried out
per the Loan Agreement. The Participation ltgreement would also ensure the
effective separation between BR's role and second-tier manager of credit lines
and its traditional role as a central bank. It would further specify the need
to maintain an adequate overall financial condition, employ an adequate number
of staff capable of managing the portfolio of Project resources, and ensure
proper control and provisions for arrears. 'The terms and conditions of the
credit Program would be identical for all PF1..
205. *Istitutional Development. The Project would support the cost of technical
asistance to PFil, in particular to the. seven newly qualified CFs and
participating commercial banks, in the appraisal and supervision of investment
loans.  It would also support technical assistance services, semAhars and
promotional efforts by CFs to develop and expand their investment banking
services provided for industrial restructuring. Given that lending of Project
resources is not expected to exceed 2-30 of total new loan commitments of
commercial banking institutions over the commitment period, no additional
institutional performance conditionality beyond the requirements of the
Superintendency of Banks is warranted.
Public 8qctor 8upoOrt Prooram (total cost, uS$ 8 million)
206. The Project would support under Government auspices the public sector
management requirements associated with the Project (Annex 6).  This would
include (a) support services administered under the Labor Adjustment Assistance
Program (LAAP) by qualified public and prlvate agencies to assist industrial
workers displaced by industrial restructuring (US$5 million), (b) a Project
Monitoring Program (US$1.0 milllon); and ({) technlcal assistance for a



-67-' 
Environmental Pollution Control Program (US$2.0 million). The first two programs
are intended to be in operation only for the purposes of (Project execution, while
the Environmental Program would be expected to continue thereafter. An action
plan to ensure the availability of local staff and financial resources would be
prepared by the Government by January 1993.
3.S Cogt and linana n
207. The Project's total cost is estimated at US$500 million. This takes into
account demand projections prepared under the five isdustrial subsector studies
(Table 3.1) and estimates by BR of overall industrial credit demand during CY91-
93 under the trade reform 'program, commitment, rates of past Bank industrial
credit lines to Colombia and of BR directed credit, and the influence of
deregulation  of directed  credit  and  the  broader  network  of  financial
intermediation of the Bank's loan than in the past. Of the total cost, US$200
miXlion or 40% represints the direct and indirect foreign exchange requirements.
To fina'fee the Credit Program component of the Project, industrial enterprises
would cover from internal sources at least 30t (US$148 million) of each
investment. Investment loans to these enterprises would be financed by (a) the
proposed US$192 milllon Bank loan, (b) US$49 million equivalent in parallel from
PIP and PCX directed credit lines managed by BR, and (c) US$103 million from PFis
as the non-re4iscounted portion of investment loans. The Public Sector Support
Program would be financed by the remaining US$8 million of the Banks loan.
cofinancing of the Project is currently under consideration by the Export Import
Bank of Japan.
3 6 Relendin  Terms and Conditions
208. The proposed Bank loan would be made to BR at the standard variable rate
with the guarantee of the Republic of Colombia. BR would pay the standard Bank
commltment fee, and bear the explicit risks of interest rate and foreign exchange
fluctuations when relending in Pesos; when lending ts denominated in US$
equivalents, it would bear the explicit cross-currenci risk.  The loan would be
repaid in equal principal installments over 17 years, including a five-year grace
period. Any surplus of repayments from IRDP loans made by the Project's PFIo to
BR over amounts due to the Bank by BR would be recycled to PIle per the Project's
legal agreements.
209  BR would denominate the proceeds of the Bank's loan for the Credit Program
in Pesos or US$ equivalent, according to the preferences of the enterprise. A
,maximum amount per enterprise would be set by BR at no less than US$25 million
and could be raised at its discretion. BR would rediscount 70% of a subloan
denominated in Pesos made available by a Pr! to finance an enterprise investment
and charge an interest rate to the PFI equivalent to at least DTF plus a margin
to cover administrative cost and forelgn exchang risk. If the proceeds are
denominated in US$ equivalent, BR would rediscount 100% of the US$ denominated
subloans up to a maximum of 50% of total sub-project cost and charge a rate
reflecting the Bank's interest rate plus a fee to cover the cross-currency risk
and BR's administrative costs. The Government is expected to take steps shortly
which would enable the private sector to hedge the Peso-US Dollar exchange risks
through private institutions. BR would bear the full foreign exchange risk on
Peso denominated subloans and only the cross-currency risk on US$ denominated
subloans.   Maturities of funds relent to PPls would match those set for
beneficiaries.



-68-
210. PFIs would set interest rates to clients according to the Lnvestment
characteristics, maturity, credit risk, procssing cost and competition for each
subloan up to a maximum rate of 6 percentage points above the rate from BR to the
PFI, which would equal or exceed the average free market spreads and is currently
nearly S percentage points (in effective term) above the rates charged under the
Bank's previous credit line to Colombian industrialists. The maintenance of an
interest rate ceiling recognizes the continued oligopolistic structure of local
financial markets.  The Government expects, however, that   the degree of
competition in the sector will increase as its financial sector reforms proceed,
so as to permit by 1994 the rates to clients to be freely set by the PFI. The
long-term maturities of the Bank's loan would permit PFIs to compensate higher
interest rates with longer maturities when necessary to meet cash flow
requirements. - Loan maturities and grace periods for subloans and equity
financing would be set by the PF? according to the cash flow and other
characteristics of the investment up to a maximum of 10 years of maturity and 3
years of grace. PFIs would mobilize the remaining 30% of the subloan from their
own sources on terms identical to the rediscounted portion. Financing under the
Investment Preparation Facility would be repaid or rescheduled to match the
investment loan within three years.
211. The Project would also finance up to 70% of equlty investments by a
development bank or individual in a qualifying subproject. The investor and
enterprises undertaking the subproject would, as for a subloan, be required to
mobilize the remainder as safeguards to ensure that the entrepr  neur's commitmeut
and risk-taking function are preserved. The increase in the generally low
equity base of the sector (se previous Chapter) is a fundamental requirement in
order for it to face the increasing import competition generated by the trade
reform process and the additional risk involved in the industrial restructuring
process and the export market.
212. It would be expected that the fresh resources injected from the Credit
Program would be provided frequently in conjunction with debt rescheduling and
ref inancing, debt/equity conversions and/or write-of fe of existing loans of PFIs
to help to ensure an appropriate enterprise capital structure with which to carry
out the investment. Approval of an enterprise loan would require normally at
least a 12% financial rate of return in real terms supported by a senitivity
analysis. Given that the current trade reform program should substantially
reduce the distortions in the economy, an economic rate of return would not be
required.
213. Bank loan funds for the Public Sector support Program would be channeled
through BR to the Government and repaid by the Governent on terms identical to
those between the Bank and BR.
3.7 ZisCtL amalghaMtion
(a) Administrtion and O=ersight
214. Managemet of the Project's financial resources and implementation of
financial policy adjustments would be p.rtowmed by BR as the *second-tier*
institution. This role would consist primarily of monitoring the overall
performance and repayment capacity of PFXs and auditing the use of Project funds
to ensure they are being used as intended. Specifically, it woulds



-69-
(a)   qualify and monitor the performance of PFIs according to the
establisheod qualificatLon criterial
(b)   revLew ex ante IRDP loas and equlty contributions to be made which
exceed the frse limit established for a PFS!;
(c)   review ex post, according to preset criteria, IRDP loans and equity
contributions made which are within the rediscount limits for a PM;
(d)  monitor compliance with other provisions of ParticipatLon Agreements
with PIls, particularly procurement and accounting;
(e)   allocate, disburse, repay and account for Project fundt; and
(f)  aggregate and analyxe Project implementation indicators.
BR hse an adequate organisational and staff capacity to carry out these
responsiblilties given, in particular, it. previous experience ia second-tier
operations with Bank-financed industrial credit projects.
215. The Bank's free limit for ex anto approvals by BR of IRDP loans and equity
investments would be set at UVS5 million, covering an estimated 25 % of the
Dank's loan amount. The frse limits set by BR would vary *ccording to the
experience of the P7I, which would take iato account the quality of previous
project appraisal and supervision, credit portfollo performance the institution's
financial condition, and technical skills of lts staff. BR as establhed free
limits of US$750,000 equivalent, for most experience PIls, US$500,v000 and
US$250,000 for less erend ones an  no free limit for those wLth capacity
being strgthen d   These would be monitored by DR and the Bank, and adjusted
as required under these crlteria. BR and Dank Project supervision would review
nvestments and the appraisal and supervision work of "Is.
216. Over-sight of Project implementation would be xerclisd by MED through its
own resources, the subsector Working Groups set up during Project preparation,
and the Project monitoring Program of the Minister of rconomic Development. Its
main tasks during Project implementatlon would be to (a) coordinate tine exeoution
and compliance with agreed non-financial policy and regulatory adjustment and
the public sector support servlces, and (b) prepare quarterly reports monitoring
progress of the Project, identifying bottlenecks occurring in the prepration and
implementation of investments, and recc endations for public pollcy and
institutional 'fine tunLag'. MP would be responsible for iplementation of the
Enviromental Pollution Control Program and  E  w d iplem  the LAW.
(b) Zt2n    M     A Disburka%ut
217. DR would be responsible for ensuring the use of procedures under the
Project for procurement of all goods and services aimed to obtain competitive
quality and price. Under the loan for the Private Sector Creit Program, for
contracts exceedlng U$5 mlllon equivalent, the Pe would require that
enterprises follow ?D procedures n awcordane with Dak gudlines. All I0e
would be subject to prior review by the Dank.  Local mnufacturer would be
granted a preference margin for 1C3 contracts for goods per Dank guidelins. btr
contracts costing less than US$5 millLon, proCur emnt would be done in accordace
with normal commrcial practices, which are acceptable to the Dank, requirlng



-70-
contract awards on the basis of comparison of price quotation obtained from at
least three responsible suppliers under the Guidelines in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank. The PF1 would maintain records of the methods
of procurement followed by all enterprises, sumuariting offers and awards for
each investment. The Bank would periodically review these records on a sample
basis in the course of regular Project supervision. under the Public sector
Support Program contracts for works and goods estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 would be procured under contracts awarded through local shopping,
between $S0,000 - 250,000 through local competitive bidding (requiring prior
review of the Bank of the first two contracts), and over this amount by ICB.
Consulting services would be selected in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
218. The final date for submissiod  of nRP loan proposals-to the Bank would be
December 31, 1993 and the closing date for loan disbursements would be December
31, 1996  (Annex 7).  This takes into account the average disbursement profile
for past industrial credit loans to Colombia. Bank funds would be disbursed
under the Private Sector Credit Program, on 70 % of subloans by qualifying PFIs
when denominated in Pesos and 100% of subloans denominated in US Dollars up to
a maximum of S0% of total subproject cost. Under the Public sector Support
Program, the Bank loan would be disbursed for the 100% of qualifing expendltures.
219. To facilitate Project exaoution, a Special Account would be established in
OR with an initial deposit of $17 million, representLng on average about four
months of disbursement requirements. A provision for retroactive financing- of-
US$20 million as from January 1, 1991 would be included to account.. for the growth
in credit demand under the trade reform program. BR would submit to the Bank
a monthly statement of transactions of the Special Account. Withdrawals from the
loan account would be made on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOn) for
contracts below US$5 million, with detailed documentation for each investment
maintained by the PFI for review by the Bank upon request.  As P1?. would be
likely to experience a longer period between expenditures by enterprises and
disbursement by Pill than is normal for non-industrial credit projects, the
Bank would disburse for expenditures incurred up to 180 days prior to the receipt
by BR of a disbursement request.
(c)  Aceountino. Auditinoan Pn4eFn}rtina                  
220.  PPls  would maintain records adequate to reflect their operations and
fLnancial situation, in accordance with accounting principles consistently
applied and in a form satisfactory to the Bank. They would maintain separate
Project records, including for the Speclal Account, which would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Project audit reports,
along with copies of financial statements and institutional audit information
required by Colombia's Superintendency of Banks, would be submitted within six
months after the end of the fiscal year for each P1P.  They would include
opinions inter alia as to the reliability of 503 to support claims for
disbursement and to properly reflect the expenditures eligible for financing
under the Loan Agreement.
221.  In seking a rediscount by BR of loans or equity cotributions made under
the Project, P1!. would submit (a) a&description of the enterprise and its
financial performance, lb) a thorough description and appraisal of the
investment, (c) goods and services to be fLnanced, (d) the financing plan and (e)
terms and conditions of the loan.  PIle would maintain for inspection during



-71-
Project supervision essential information on the implementation status of the
investment and the financlng package, financial performance of the enterprise,
and procurement characteristics. 3R would semi-annually obtaln and analyse
performonce data on the implementation of the Credlt Program, and the MD would
supply slmllar data on the Restructuring Pollcy and Public Sector Support
Components (Annex 8).
3.8 Pro4aek Ranefit. and Risk.
222. The proposed Project would help Colombla to reallgn lndustrlal production
capaclty with its dynamic comparatlve advantages ln an internationally
competitlve market environment. It would be expected to foster a series of
lnvestments whlch reduce product costs, improve quallty and servlce, and
establish a sustainable presence ln export market#, and improve environmental
pollutlon control.
223. However, several Project implementatlon risks are present. Reversals may
occur in the Government's trade reform program. To mitigate this rlsk, the
program has been publlcally announced, is well underway and the Project includes
safeguards whlih would tle the Bank's Loan to the malatenance of the trade
program's progress. secondly, Pils may be reluctant to flnance the hlgher credit
risks inherent ln lnvestments.  To deal wlth thls eventuallty, the Project
provides that Pile may set margins accordLng to credit rLsk up to a maximum
approximating free market rates.
224. And thlrd, the frequent complexlty of restructuring lnvestments may result
In the financing of inadequately prepared projects. To mitigate this rlsk,
subsector analyses nd restructuring strategLes were prepared during Project
preparation for five Ladustries in part as a demonstration effect for the sector
at large. An aglle pro-investment flnanclng mechanism has also been Lncluded in
the Project to finance adequate consulting and lnvestment bankng services to
anterprlse in order to prepare Lnvestments.
4. 
225. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the followings
From Rs
(a)  Project objectives (para. 192), financial policies (para. 198), and
the descrLption of the private sector credlt program (paras. 201-
205);
(b)   Project costs, the loan amount  and  financing plan, and
relending terms and conditions to financLal intermediaries (para. 207-
213)u
(c)  implementation arrangements for the Project's admlnlstratlon  and
oversight (paras. 214-216); and
(d)  procurement, disbursement,    accounts,  auditLng  and  reporting
arrangements (pares. 217-221).



-72-
Prom the _gLerm
(a)  implementation of the trade, domostlc competition, labor, ad
technology policy adjustments under the industrial Restructurlag
Policy framework (paras. 196-200), and
(b)  implementation of the Proect monitorLng Program Ln the ministry of
-2conami Developmetn-the Nuvironrental Pollution Control Support
Program in the Department of National Planning and the Labor
Adjustment Assistance Progrm (para 206).
226. Implementation of the domestic competition polLcy and LnstLtutional changes
(para. 197) would be a condLtion of flrst loan dLsbursement to borrowing
enterprless ln the respective subsectors. Agreemnt on the detailed LAAP (pare.
206) would be a conditlon of loan disbursement for this Program.
227. The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of $200
million equLvalent on the terms and conditions et out in COapters 1-3 of this
Report.



-4 3*4tz-  - -$- fl1 -   -ne  L
.;,t,'i11 I                            t               i
,.  U.



Page 1 of 6
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURINO AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Matrix of Key Project Policy and Institutional Adjustmens
I                         r  I   Recent/Present     T                                 I               I -
Policy Area £ Objective  I      Polity                       AdjustnSt              I RespoesibiIity I Action By
I         .                                      I                                  I      ,       ,             I
1. Trde  Potiy           I         . ,                            :
(a) Replace qRs with    1. qR (prior Itc nse)      Convert qta to eqidvalent        I Min. ELone.t.   |
tariffs and the       requ reents or Import    tariffs.                         I Deelopment
:. 5    e"change rato as th  I prohtbittons cover 82%             ,
.-rotection.                      pfor ptor   I      replae tRs with trriffs.                    IFehry 1990
.  | there  i8 significant  (l) Initial movement of Ion                   I  cbIeved
domestic  rodtlon.            tariff psitions tfro priori                    Sept. 19
1(111) license to tree list.
:  .   I    ;              (111) Reduce p cetdon coverso| Asbtovod
7  ,    1         r "                   ~~~~~~~~~~~Of Wes   449.                      Sept. 1990 
.   W   |             .             ~~~~~~~~~~~(Iv) Ellmnt;n    qRs excet I   bo       Ashlevod
so * ooclated *ihie  b| Nvebw i  
safeety ad Ilited wriou -                      19#o
I  I                      j .tre o          tiodite                 I                    |
I(b Iecresao   import com- Fourteen tariff rates    Reduce avor lol NlMn Financ                    I             I
petition ,*PJ reduce   ranging from OX tC-200.   dloprso " -r  tarlf  .
anti-oxport bias by                                         I .  .                              I .
reducng and ration- _ Average-tariff (tipeluding (I)Import weoitted averao taritt                 AcheMved
lizing protection.    18X surchage) ia 4SX.   I  (ncluding urchar".) redueced                     U IbSptimober  I
to 30S  and tariff rat o                                    I
categories Peduced to 10.
II                         1(i) Announc the tariff structarec I AIv                      j
I  ofPhae  s^17   urcharge, j                  I     9" 1O 
! I                                  Itbr of rtea) for thend Isod
9 | ., {-t 0t~~~~~~~~o Phas 11: 2X  ISX (t)sale-
. (                                                 5 g O ding surcharge), 4 tariff                   I            i
§                 !   ~~~~        ~~rate.          !                I            j
~- _ _ _ _                                                                   I _______ _ _    I _ __   1



Page 2 of 0
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND DVELDPWNT PROJECT
Matrix of Key Project Policy and In#titutlonal Adjustment.
Polley Area A Objective  I Rec.nt/Preesnt PolICy   j         Adjustment                 Responsibility ! Action By
~~~~~~~~~~~~'agt tal                                            1                    a ce                I ---
Law 7 surecbrge of 18X  (1) Include surcharge In final         VinFtnanIe Achieved
I                         I on CIF cost plus tariff  target tariff under traio progr,                       FAbc eryd
I  I                       and announce pPublcally           I                    Fobmoes-
j PlXtt) R due pr  ssltely                                    Achieved  |
'(lax at preseI                                       Sep. 189
(e) Feel c1tsto export.  WnPlan Vallojo application- I Revise operatlon so as to make    M tn Eeco Dov   Achledv
I    Pocilitata  po       It.- approval tie averagesl apptoval not ece  aout 19 days                     I Ju1e iO1
I                         labout 27 days             Ior new applicotiona and 2 days  1
.'t  I                      for changes                      I
.                     .  II                                                            I               '              I
. (a) 3Lor barriers to      Concordato Law  regul.-  Adopt reulatiJs/l          strtioI Superinterndey  Low rvised 
market exit          I tions permit firms ong  I to expeit corto procs                  Socldad    Decber andt
delays In restructuring    Inte rori                                                 If
j |  en;orpelso restradur.ng                       1tive  a0y'82
(b) Reduce raw natoelals I Price controls on doome-  Convert to priet stabiizatiton     inAgtriculture  i irot, lean
prices or teoxtiles  I ttc production of cotton I scheme linked closely to                           emitmenet
and clothing                                     International price              J                   o wAsecter
I~~ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ..       __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .  __ _ __ _ __ _  



Page 3 of a
I'SUSTRIAL RISTRUCflJRIN AWD DEVELOP       PROJECT
Matrlx of Key Project Polley and InstitutIonil Adjustment
Polley Area h Objective  | Recont/Presnt Polley            Adjumnt                     ResponsiblIty I Action By   i
-  (c) Produce locally auto  POsitive Iit a percenta- Adoption of a deregulation pro-    MinconDow   First loa
& c_rctFial vehicle  8go integratin  re"ui-  gram satiactory to the Bank.                               tt
parts which are of    ments for each model of                                                     to        r
-rable intern-    uto asmbd.                                                                         ri.
^tios cost quality
VWl sorviet.        !-                                                                                        I
. Flncail Sector                                   i
Rationat$lize  torest    1R rats to participating D'T applitable to all industrial   Junta beetarl   Achled
fate r I elimintinlg    financatl lntermediaries credit lines for ll CfW  a  banks,                  IStemh |
BR directed credlt sub   (F1) reap DIF-3.01% to reove   local ince*tlvee for
j                  sb- to Ind   jTf for FDi A DTf-.6S to  'otlr   e an reduce for 
setting rates to        OTf+1.SW fCE.            *frontior zones'.
fI rm a¢coedin t O.I
competitiI               e lct rts.     s
PfI to fire "tollsr omp ti xtm_eax   0 lone                            psAchl jw
f ixod *e S.OX to S.M    DTF+6 (excluding *ffrbon1r xom)                    SMpt4w9S
I or location a "X.tsry lamino 0.2 poix  for   rY yr
o Igrae  -ad maurity for the re 
.                         *teftlo~~~~~~~~~ low upg to a   r                                         . ea
f   loans capitallizng
____________  ____________I more thin 865 of stert due.
..~~~_________________ .1 _________I________ .______________________ .__________ .          ....            .        ._



Page 4 of 6
INDUSTRIAL REStTURIN  AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Matrix of Key Project Policy and Institution  .Adjustments
P Pollcy Area A Obj3ectlo I Resent/Prsent PoliCy                Adjustment              Reonsibi  ity | Action By       I
4. Labor RW_1m
(a) Lioerb,R   labor     Articlo 405 - cannot dl.- Expn  5j"st causg standard to       VllAbor       AchevedJ
mobiII ty            chhr"e or trensfr employ-  lnclude comtitivenos criteria.                   l°c_mr lW.
I                                                                                                                       I t^"  eu"   
joe. without *just, cause'.
I                   ~~~~~~UnTded do Emprose - *ppl  $wpond iuz of %nIbd&d for     llinLrbor    I *e
uniform salry sca lyA It          r     ear to permit separate labor  a
Ilabor contracts to offl-  Contract negotiations with aeon-
listed but economically   olically distinct unit of sam
I                         I distinct units of firm    ti Vs.
Unit Closin minimum       Expand standtard to include         LtLabor          *            I
Standard fore¢ 3ajeur     co    tiveonse Criteria;
or accident - MiLabor    redve  cope of Min Lobo.
I                           uo       trequired,   authorization.
Labo1 contrat duation - Expand de inition to se duration   MisLabor               * a
unlltztod oxcept for      as fneClion of fIre production
lncree  In production*   rNeuire       and eopebitlm
sales/transport of  0ods  crltralo
Collctive dismissl -    Expend setndbrd to nclude co -       MisnLabor          * *         j
MiLabor authorwiation    petitivenos criterias reduc
roeuired; minimum *tan-   scop of MmdLabor authorizaton.t
dIrd 1   forc    aeure



Page S of 8
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCIURINO AND OEVELCPIENT PROJECT
Matrix of Key Project Policy and Institutional Adjustments
Pollcy Area & Objective   Recent/Present Pot Icy              Adustmnt                 Resi olbitty  A              j
4. Labor Realme (cont'd)  I                         I
(a) Incroese labor       Employment reintegration   Eliminate rreitegration require- ;
I    mobility (cont'd)     labor judh osy ordr ri - sot.                                   M nLabor     Achieved     i
l                  ~~~~~~~turn of those dismissed                                                19901
1                   ew~~~~~aployee with more thenII
lie years of service.     I                                 I
|~~~~~~~evc Prga Iyte                                                          I                !or
j|Service Progrs 8yetem    j Eliminate partial withdrawl pro- j inabor
including partial with-   I vision.                                         I l           I
drowl of accumulated be- I
lsnces during amployent.
previou working nor"
,                 ~~~~~I                              I 
j (b) Reduce conoelo A    I No provisionD           i Establish Labor Adjustment       i  MinLabor    I Achieved
social cost of laborI                            Assistance Program (LAWP)                         february
displec _           |                                                                              1991 
IS. Tochnol  9                                                                                                                         - 'r; ao
FTctn tato teehnology  1ero  44 of 1967 soft   Effectively elitn 'te technology    MInEco1Dv    ; Achieved
acqusition, a"dpta-  10 criteria to reiew    j selection criteria, convert con-                  I June 199". 1
=6010 A & dislinaton   technolog  and technical  tra  re-w by royalties ommlIt-
ocontracts.             Ito into rIttratlo. and vor-i
fitcon               d   od
reduco antract procng time.
Loy 81 of 1988 fXmm
15 days mxim  to reiew
Icontracts.f
._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I  _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ 1 _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ . _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ . . . _ _ _ _ _   I _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __   _ _ _ _ I _ _ _ _ _



Page 8 of 8
INDUSTRIAL RESRU        AN DEVELPIET PROECT
matrix of Key Project Policy and Isstltutlo"l Adjustment
Pol Icy Are A  betivw   R.evnt/PreeWPo,cy I         Idustent                           Rsponsibi I ity  Actin By
.Envir_mtI Protection                              I                                                               I
1!nreabe" compianeo with  Lilted capacity to enfor-J Establish Pollution Control          ow            A Actieved
eul4ltn n aevromental     eo regulations under tra-  Support Programtocr  out         I               I f brury    I
11mes.                    mework environmentfl lns . conw          as.ecnt it         I               1 1991        1
I                   ~~~~~~I avestment. u
metai tnosmo%4 inderc    I n       ahFbur
Increr   o upport ot publilcL`l"ted capacity of uin - j Establish IRDO Von)terin#    I   gniEcoew v    Achieved
policy-making nd tmple-  lEcoDv tor eoctor analyeist  progrm in MIunEow9. february
men*tlot  for  adustr11   *nd outr cth.                             I                                  l1
7.                                                         I
I _ _ _ _ _     I  _ _ _ _ _   I    _ _ _ _ _ _  _     I                   -      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
_  _    _   _    _   _     1                   ^  ,__ _ _   'I  _ _ _ _ _ _  _   _        _    _  _       _    _
.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  I ._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
-N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Figure 1.1: Labor Productivity of
Colombian Textile Industry
Man Hours per 100 kg
25
20-
16-
~10 
0
'et1aey lIaly   Us   KotOa   UK   Spain  Japan  Brazil Colombia India U"xozo ToUoT
Souice: ITMP, ACi1. BC data & analysts



Figure 1.2: Capital Productivity of
Colombian Textile Industry
Spindle per hour
30
25 
20
15
l ,^ia   Turk Colombia  gt  Mexico Japan  Italy   go   Brasil  Korea  Spain Germany
Sodrco ITUF, Aoclazione CotonIeoa
llalaica, BCB 4ata & analysis



-82-
Figure 1.3: Price Trends for
Colombian Cotton in Relation
To International Levels
% Difference Colombian/int'l Price
80
60
0
-20
-40
1082    188    1984      1986     t980    1987      198      1989
Aversget FuH Period * 18%
Averages 108e-1989 * 14s
Centav0s
100..
40 -
20 - V
o I I ''I I. ' 9I a a I I   I I ' 2-1 I. I I I.1 '- I I LI I I I I I I- I I I iI '
1982     1883    1984      1046     1986     1087     1988     1989.
°  Colombia SLMU      -   International Price
Notes * 8LM * M - 2.4 conteaw
Souroes Federsolon Nacional de
Algodoneros, Conalgodorn, Cotton Outlook



-83-
Figure 1.4: Age of Spinning Equipment
in the Colombian Textille Industry
Percent of Capacity
60%  
50%9
40%-
30%-
20%-
10% 
(2         2-            -10         10-15         is6
Note, Isclods in*does abuv
So*Uwe: 306 data
Figure 15: Investment In Open Ended
Technology Over Past Five Yeczrs
pic@ntat o acquitd capacity
60%-
40%-
:20%-
0% --
(2             2-6             6-10            >10
Number at lewis b9tre 1987
ColomAbia         World
ISff tly  eio goi.lde
Tuiey.UK.Jpa. Kn . Sa-s.           5-1u1-lioS
SUN#:  ~Wur 1:Inetmn U                       pn  ne



Figure 1.6: International Comparison of Age
\i,                       of Textile Equipment (in years)
cowmua                                               UR,
. -~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~M
MEXICO                                              CANAD
,,~ ~ ~     ~    ~ ~~ ______________ SD    e
5owvs.: Manual of She Teulil Sndusl'y I Canada.
FCC ddt



-85-
Figure 1.7: Productivity of Textile
Production According to Plant
Integration Leal
KG pet hour
6
2
.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.                                +
1  1                           4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0     ~Splnin & Wavn            eaving         vh  Only
Note. Lamge 4 M.elqm Pleaft @aty



-86-:
Figure 1.8: Product Delivery Time
in the Textile Industry According to
Plant Integration Level
Delivery tlme (dcty)
140
120
100 -
60-
40-
20 
0
Weaving Oair                   Spinning aW    Wertain
' Av 1a time betvoa ogr4enwg 4a4
mceotsviq taw metuiis



-87-.
FIGURE 2.1: COLOMBIAN INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
OVERALL CAPITAL STRUCTURE, 1970-1986
Share of Total Assets (%)
100- 
90             -v 119 '
TO            I
60~ ~ ~ ~ .
40-
30-
20-
10
0'
1970   1972   1874   1976   1978   1980   1982   1984
STOebt  IIIIILTDebt       Other LUab   ED Net Worth
OVERALL NET WORTH STRUCTURE, 1970-1985
Share of Totai Net Worth (S)
100-
90-
'(ds
701
60-
60;
40
30'
20-
1970   1972   1074'  1976   1918   1980   4982   19.84
Not farn n-ge     Capt tal-Reval  tDRevakaiatlof
I     ..



-88-
FIGURE 2.2: FOREIGN DIRECT INVESTMENT
(FDO) Level & Composition
In Manufacturlng 1966-1989
W6 $US Milllon
8000_
600-
400-
200-
0-
*   6869 70 71 72 73 74 76 7  7 78 77   80 81 62 83 84 86 8a 88 89
-     3 ~Food  m Pawo  1:: Chemloa    Ca¢pita Goode -.3Other
Deflated with MUV Indlx, World Bank *80
TOTAL FOREIGN DIRECT INVESTMENT (FDOI
sector Composition, 19681988
1976 W US Millions
1600
1400-
1200-
1000-
800-
600-
400-
200-
0
e66so 0 71 MM4 7 76 77 87  O818283848686878889
_ Minin (.  Potrol)   a Manufaoturlng  IIIII Other
Deflated wIth MUV Index, World 11k 1990



-89-
TABLE 1.1 IUnufscturIgl Outpt iwO     Subetor
(1975 COI mill)
1W?     1974    low       1564    15
TOTAL                                 182.?   2.7   21.9   8M.-    488.7
Non-Durable Consumer Good              56.7   125.1   156.8   165.1   172.4
Food                                 55.1    57.1   116.6   121.1   182.0
Other food products                40.3    65.0    91.1    94.7   108.8
Bov,arswo                            5.5    14.6    21.?    22.2    24.6
Tobao.o                              S.6     4.4      8.7      4.8     4.1
Toxtiha, Clothing, Leathbi           .22.0 -.5S     :50t6    56.5    40.4
Dur*ble Consumer & Intermediate Goods   44.0    91.1   109.7   114.- 181.6
Wood Industriss A Furniture            2.9     4.2      4.4      4.2     t.2
Paper Products & Printing             0.2    14.5,    18.0    25.4    28.6
Chomt@ale A Rubber Products          10.5      7.0    44.4    40.9    54.6
P-troleum Rfinang Product.            6.5    10.4    li.8    14.0    15.5
Non-Mebal Mineral Producti            4.5      7.9    10.6    11.1    18.8
Basic MUetls                          6.2    10.5    19.1   1I.T    20.5
Capital Goods                           5.      15.0    28.6    24.7   2I.9
Machinery & Equipment                 8.7      9.6    12.8    12.t    18.7
Transport Equipment                   2.0      6.2    11.0    12.4    12.2
Other Zndustriee                         1.6     2.5      8.8      8.8     4.6
Souree  DANE, Natlonal Accounts.



-90-
coLOMBIA'
IndueWtril R etruchupIflO and Oew.leiment Prelmet 
TABUL  1.2s Monufacturln  OutP"t Growt"
2907-74        1974-79        197948         198-67
TOTAL                                 8.6X            4.1%          -0.6%           4.6e
Non-Durable Consumer Goode            S.61            4.8X           O.SX           8.8%
Food                                8.%             6.2X           1.8X           2.8%
Other foo- products               6.7%            6.4            1.2X           2.8X
coveraes                          7.61            6.8%           1.8%           8.1%
Tobacco                           6.1X          -4.91            1.2X           4.0X
Textilos, Cloth'4, Leather          7.75            2.5X          -5.7X           4.8%
Dursble Consumer A Interm Ode         10.7%           8.56           0.2%           C.9X
Wood Industrles & Furniture         6.45            0.2X          -1.0X           6.05
Paper Product* & Printing          13.2X            4.7X           6.7X           0.1X
Chmalcale S Rubber Products        12.0X            X.8'          -D.3X        - .4X
Petroleum Refining Producta         7.1%            G.=%           5.0%           8.9X
Non-Motal Minoral Products          8.6X            $.0x           1.4X           6.3%
Basic Metls                        1P,7X           4.05           -8.6x      '.   S O
Capital Goods                        18.1X            6.GX          -4.0            7.38%
Machinery A Equlpment               I.X   .         5.5X          -8.6X           6.3%
Transport Equipment                23.1X            0.$%          -4.6X           0.e%
Other Industries                      -?.Ox           4.%X           4.            T7.1%
Source: DANE, Natlonal Accounts.
Notes:   Growth rates are simple avxera" of annual growth rates.
Growth of ManuOcturing Output in 1976 Colombian Pos*.



-91-'
camu
tndustelal Resteurifhlis lad 0 I  O InSt Prolee-  ti MP
TABLE 1.8  Share of GOP bY Sector
106?   1974    1800   1984   198W
PRIMARY                                  26.6X  23.1X  22.7X  22.2X  21.4X
Agriculture, Flshing, Forostry         26.0%  23.1X  22.7X  22.2X  21.6X
SECONDARY (INDUSTRY)                     22.41  29.91  28.0%1  28.0X   0.2X
Mining                                  2.9X   l.7%    1.3%    1.7X    $.S%
Msnufacturing                          21.1X  23.SX  22.aX  21.2%   21.6
Coffee.                                3.8%1   2.SX    3.8%    3.6%    3.0X
Other                                17.38  20.71  190.1  18.2%1  1.°X
Electricity, Cas, Water                 0.7%   0.9%    1.6X   1.01   1.15
Construction                            3.7X   $.8X   3.4%   4.1X   4.0X
TERTIARY (SERVICES)                      42.5S  44.81  46.9%  46.0X  45.1%
Commerce                                9.2%   13.3S  12.7X  12.31   ll.9X
Transport, Stortb"  Co*mumn1catlons     7.3X   6.6%   9.3%   0.6X    0.1%
Financtal Establ iTAm.nta              14.1X  13.7X  14.0%  14.4X  14.3X
Community, Socal0, P'bronbl Servlces    14.2%  11.09   12.71   13.2X  12.a6
Minus Imputed Bank Services            -2.81  -2.6%  -2.7X  -2.71  -2.8X
VALUE ADDED                              07.5X  07.7%  96.8x  97.1%  06.9X
Indiroct Taxes                            2.5%   2.3%   8.41    2.0%   S.1X
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT                   10.0  106.6X  10.0%  10".Ox  100.9
Sourco: DANE, Nation'nl Accounts.
kngAgrlol Restructurlno and DO olo...t Proleet  - (IROP
TABLE 1.4 : U6nufacturlng Share of GDPs International Comparisons
Country                                Manufgcturing Share of GOP
Colombia                                18X                        18X
Korea                                   18X                        36
Indonesia                              x8                          14X
Thalland                               14X                         24X
Philippines                             260                        251
Turkey                                  16X                        28%
Mexico                                 20X                         251
Source: World Bank, World Dovotopmsnt Report 1989.



-92-
Indusrial Reete  rIl:p and 0. baset Pielot  tap
TABLE 1.5: Share of Manifa.turtil0 Output by Subeoet
1067    1074    1900     1904    1a?
TOTAL                                 10t."   160.011  1O00.6   20f.e   19f.eW
Ron-Durable Consumer Goods             0.11   S2.W    S3.4X   52.4X, 5t.91
Food                                 41.7   :4.$.     39.7X   40.4X   09.W
Other food product.                84.01   28.J    31.0W    81.0W    80.t
evergee                             $.71T    6.21    7.41    7.4       7.1$
Tobacco                             2.21    1.91    1.81    1.4%    1.2S
Textiles, Clothing, Leather          17.1X 1 1.11   18.7S   12MW    11.9W
Durable Consumor a Intermedilte Goods   38.71   38.5X   37.81X   8.2W   40.15
Wood Industries  Furniture            2.21    1.0X    1.SX    1. 4X    1.X
Paper Products  Prliting              4.7X    0.1X    0.51    6X    ?. 761
Chemicals & %ubber Product           12.41   15.0X    165.8X   1SW    10.15
Petroleum Refining Producte           4.01    4.41    3.11   4.75    5.SS
Non-Metal Minoral Products            3.4X    3.X    8.OX    S.7X    3.9S
Botc Metas                            6.21t   7.01 2.XW         5.018    8.0W
Capital Goo4                            4.3X    7.0 0X .2         0.2W   T7.7
Machinery A Equipmet                  2.9X    4.15    4.41    4. 1X      CX
Transport Equipment                   1.51     3.51    3.8X    4.1X    8.8X
Otber tndustries                        1.2      1.11    1..X     1.8x     1.4W
Source: DANE, National Accounts.



-93-.
COLOMhZ
Industeril Rruturg   *nd D leo     P          r o-
TAMLE 1., t hare ot obanufaetunrt Value Added by Sbsestor, 1i85
Internatlonal Cort ono
DMlEo    NICe     LAC     cot
MANFACTURIN  VAUE ADOED              .X"."   A.3 1O 8.IS       U9 .03
81 Food, Sevoreg. A Tobaceo          14.131  15.11   3.X   37.53
82 Textile*, Apparoe   Leather         .4A   10.63   18.OX   12.M
88 Wood S Wood Produote               8.83    8.       0.2      2.2X
44 Paper & Paper Products             6.73    4.2%     2.23    5.03
35 ChemIcal., Petroleu  A Products   15.9X    17.03   1s.11   21.81
so Non-M.tile Mineral Products        5.0     .O       8.61    6.Jlf
#7 Basic Metal Industirle             0.63    9.3%     0.81    6.23
U8  Met  Product*, Mach, Equip       80.53   28.31   15.43    7.3x
ff Other ManufacturIng                1.43    2.1X    0.1       2.31
.                   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-94-
COLMIA
TA3UE 1.?:t Distriutio Of Placts BY 81:., 1977-1908
EPUOYEES           1977    1?90   1979   1909    1961    1982    1988    1964    1985
1-9              11.4X   11.6X  12.;0   12.90   12.-3   18.7K    n.n.    n.c.    1.38
10-49             59.3X   57.9X  S.OX  568.0X  56.0X   508.1  so.7%  69.0X   69.7X
6a-99             14.1X   14.4X  14.4K  13.6K   14.2X   18.61   lS.lX   15,2X   14.45
1W9-19              7?.ex    8.4X   8.2X    6.2%    6.09    7.9X    8.8%     .83X    7.6X
299.            7.4K   7.6X    7.9K   7.68 ?    7.S 4    6.8%   24.4X   ?.6X    7.1K
Nots:    n.s.:  Tho 1988-04 Engueset  Manufectur0ra does not inelude *etabl Ishnet  wlth
fewer than 1J employee.
Souree:  Roberts (1989), Table 1.
COLMOUSS
Idusal Retrutialnles gnd OwIlqgq2a Pret- tDP-
.TALE 1.8: Distribution of Pltnts By Major Metropolitan Areas, 1977-1965
AREA          19?7    1978    1979   1980    10"1    1982    1908     1984    1986
I1  sooto          83.6x   34.2K  88.5K  32.8%  32.6X  B1.8X  82.5X   82.9X  B8.1S
2.  Ctl'1          16.6%  16.55   19.5X  10.75   19.91  11.8%   11.4K   11.9K   11.3X
3. Medell In       17.6X   18.01  17.91   19.6%   19.9%   21.2X   28.2X   22.6K   22.6K
4.  MonIlgles       1.8X    1.7%  19.1K   1.7%    1.7%    1.7T    1.tX    1.6X   1.6X
6. Sarranquil    6.9%    7.0K   7.2%    7.0K   7.2X    7.1%    7.9X   6.7K   6.65
6. Sucreasno.  -.8K    8.6X   6.2X   6.8%    6.4%.  6.1%    6.2X    5.8X   5.a%
7. PrelreI          3.4%    8.8X    8.1K   8.0%    2.9%    2.8X    2.5K    2.4X   2.8K
S. Cartagena        1.6%   10.4X   1.4K    1.B%    1.3X    1.2X    1.1%   1.6K    1.6%
9. Other           17.9X   17.0X   17.4K   10.9%   17.2X   10.7X   IS.BS  15.4K   15.4#
Source: Roberts (1989), Table 1.



COLONA
ZvmduetviaI Reetructurim asd DOtM    est Preeoet -M
TAMLE 1.o: Disterbution Of Plants By Age, l9?7-1965
AGr (YEARS)        it"    1976   1979   1900    1981    1002    1003    1904   199G
0-2             11.0%   0.61  10.1%   10.7    9.0.X   10.41   11.I5  10.711  10.1
a-5             17.2%  10.11  1S.7%   18.71  10.7%  14.4%   14.0%   18.7%   18.61
6-10             26.55  26.0%  24.7%  24.8%  23.0%  21.61  20.6%   21.4%  21.8%
11-20            20.4%  27.0%   27.9X  29.31  W0.4X   3D.4X  29.0X  20.4%   39.3%
20*            29.1.%   21.0X  21.41   21.60   22.9X  23.3%  24.4X  24.6%   25.4X
Soureo: Roberte (190), Table 1.
COLO I
Indubrir l Reetructturlnasnd Dpivloo sa Prolect - tIR0PSh
TABLE 1.10: Concentration of Productton, 106 And 1984
1903             ~~~19064
Nojln,duetrie   X  ' No.nduatdiet        X
Higshly
Concentrated                               1 18.0                19         26.4
Mfoderately
Concentrated                               28       2942          28         30.9
Moderately
Competitive                                28       81.5          22         39.$
Competitive w1                                        21.4           8          4.2
TOTAL                                        60      100.6          72       1O.0
Sources Miss* (1906). The tdtl number of four-dilt Industries refrs to'th
nuiWer analyzed In each of the two yeasc. Th. definition of the
concentratlon cat"*rles ares
Highly conontrateds           75    CCR4       " 1
Moderately concentrateds      50  < CR4       75
Moderatoly competitive:       25  < CR4       so
Competitve: s0     -CR4                       25



-96-.
TAM"E 1.11: cole*iam Export. (PFM). 1980-19B
(US$ MIllIon)
1900    1962    1.54    15s    1966    1987    1t"
tOMAL                              4206    3262       $      a28  82    0694    50662   582
Coffee                              220     115    1784    1792    2742    1688    1090
Noa-Cotffoe  ComIedtios             420      890      700    906      1955     2472   1is6
Petroleum                         10S      218      445     406      619    1841    l01
Coal                               10       14       8s     120      531      238      84J
Ntoikl                              9        0       62      65       46       76      150
Gold                              810      16      246     866      859      752      410
SW-TOTAL Coffee A Won-Coffe    2626    1911    2524    20657    6881    4106            2
Minor Export                       I668    1871    1069    1125    1868    1557    1750
Soures Banco de to Republic., Retvota
TABLE 1.12: Colombian Exports FOB), 1580-1988
of . total)
19i0    1952    1954    1986    15s"        19?7   1566
TOTAL                             1011.0. 100.0   lO1O    1.           00.0   190.0   19.0
Coffee                             51.4    46.2    47.9    45.9    41.0    28.6    8t.'
en-Coffee CoNdtltes                 9.6-  -12.1    21.6    25.8    86.7    48.7    84.6
petoltu"                          2.8      0.6    12.8    iW6        9.2    28.?    15.
Coal                              0.2      0.4      1.0      8a.8    8.0      4.6      5.7
Nickol                            0.0      0.0      1.7      1.6     0.7      1.$      2.4
Gol1d                             7.2      6.1      6.0      9.7     5.4    14.0       7.7
sus-TOTAL Coffe  Nbn-Coffee   61.2    58.2    49.7    70.8    79.6    72.5    546.
Minor ExportO                      5.6    41.0    50.8    29.7    20.4    2i.5    88.4
Source: Danee do Is Rtpublics, Reieta



-97-.
COLMtA
tInutria Rotructuri  an Dvlommet ProlecttRP
TAlE 1.13: Manufactured xsporte
(S illtilon)
1074    10o    1084   1I"?
TOTAL                                     0.9  1100.   1180.0  162.6
Non-urable Conswmr Goods                 398.0   0.4   39.4   14.6
Food Bey, To.bao                       190.40  318.    101.1   10.4
TexItile, Clothing, Lather             100.4   200.0   140.3   315.6
Durable Cotmr  In       ldat Good        272.2   37.7   708.9 024.2
lbodIndustris, A Furniture              $.0    14.0       7.7    17.9
Paper Prodat A Printlg                  14.0    71.9    7.4   123.4
Chemioslo, Rubh.., Ptro Pro            108.0   217.0   0064.8   04.0
Non-Metal Mineral Produts               26.8    71.3    34.5   C6.3
llasl MetIls                             8.0     3.0    7S.6    04.0
Capitlo Ioods                             62.0   187.9    65.7   10.
M11al, Uachtiry, tneport                52.S   18T.0    56.7   11.8
Other  dastries                           20.1    70.9    29.9    03.8
Sources DANK.
TABE 1.14: SWr of ManutUred Expore
1974    lose    19U4   1o7
TOTAL                                    196.eX  19.63  1*9.3  191.16.8
Roe-Durablo Consume Goods                 40.4!   66.3   25.03   82.aX
rood  o4, Tobao                         21.23   26.2X  '1h.A   12.43
TeAflee, Clothisn, Laatler              26.0X   24.1X   12.3S   10.X
Durable Consumr & ntrmediowt  Goode       41.33   81.0!   00.03   67.73
Wood tntrie. & Furniture                 4.03    1.23    O.0X    1.1X
Paper Prodct & Println                   2.4X    0.X    0.6x    7.TX
thlemicls, atbber, Petrol Produt        29.43   10.2X   60391   40.2X
Non-Meta Mineral P roduct                3.3    6.3OX    2.03    8.53
Seat  Metl                              1.23    6.38X    0.4X    6.23
Capital Go                                 9.61   11.53    4.71X  0.3
Metal, Mahinery, Tranepor                8.6x   11.6X    4.7X    0.33
Other bndoulset                            4.X    0.03    2.53    4.61
Sous DANE.



Znduatrlal Restructurin.s *nd Oevelegme,,t Pro bec (?DP
TABLE 1.15: Export Orientation of U.nufacturing
(X of Production Exported)
1978      1980       1994       I9t0
Total *x¢l. petroloum                       7.S        7.5        4.         6.3
Non-dur*ble consumer goodJ                 6.1      7t2         4.4        6.1
Ourablo consumer soode and               19.1       10.4       11.7       16.4
tntormed1sto .oodx
Reftnod petroloum                      82.6       31.8       62.6       99.7
Other                                    .0        7.9        6.0        8.2
capital go*d                              6.8        6.,,       2.1        4.9
Other                                     0.4       16.7        C.4        7.2
Sources Danco del a Repubilco, Revista.
TANLE 1.16: TECOOY LEVEL IN TM   TILS IOST  St EKURIS S,UE
#oft  TAlo Mille            of T4xCtoMl II*               X of
Sie of Enterpriet             with Shuttlee          Without Shuattle          PenbtrCtton
Large                                 7,7?4                      1,379,                  35x
Mediu'                                   32                        10,                   04X
small                                                              I"* 199               SIN
Sources VCA asnlysit.



-99-
A- tSLE 1.17: GROTH OF CARUSBN COUNTRIES EXPO     N TNE I1'S
Annu"l
Guosth
Country               191    1962    198         1994    19i5     198      InS?   1998*   Rat
Dominican Republic   1Q3.8   122.2   137.9   176.8   217.5   285.8   390.0   629.9             26%
HN;tI                 05.7    70.6    82.8    95.7   122.8   121.0   168.1   163.4             15s
Cost. Rtes            41.7    4E.8    84.3    79.7    99.9   141.9   189.1   249.8             29X
Hondures              17.8    22.1    20.4    22.2    25.8    82.0    41.9    81.9             29%
Jan.).,               18.8    11.1    12.9    28.0    54.8   90.7   180.7   20t.9              43X
El S lvador            9.2      0.3      8.S      7.8    19.2    10.9    23.9    3.5           21%
Quatema                0.4      5.9      4.)      9.2    12.0    19.7    41.4    99.3         128X
Sou.:  US .ri el   of C      rc
Soure*: US Dpep rtmont of Cem_erco.;
..



,,~~~~~ H I-t}'l{- 0  
,~~~~~~~~~p5                                    .   St 1g
;  X              --    I   t  I   ., .5 ftI55                  |
\   Z    I   I   oRg""S0   S             ')I  I4 
*             I   1: g W w > s W $~~~f * o        10
e.~~~~~~~~ I



CO OBIA                                          Teble 2.1
D5RiAL RESRUCTURINAmD DEYELMT PIOJECT
,j .Kar..o okIs Indi.t.r 
ACTUAL    ProfI. Esbl.t.                 PROJECTIONS
K.w lodloeter. 1/                     1966    1W?    1868    196S    low       11    1992   1io3    1864    1966
WP Oreuth                             6.65    6.4X    3.75    8.2X    8.55    S.8       3.7X    4.55    5.55    5.5
*1 Grow"                              5.55    t.65    3.5x    2.05    3-.X    8.2X    8.4%    4.45    c.ax    6.55
ay/cpits Sr.utb                       8.6      5.X    1.55        5.0    1.OX    1.1X    1.4X    2.45    8.25    8.45
Cseuu"pt.on/Cinpit Growtb RPA         1.2X    2.0X    2.0X    1.2X    0.5x   -1.5X    1.85    2.45    2.5X    8.1s
* l2481.6  2719.2  3166.7  S886.0  8706.7  8M26.8  3494.5  8294.S  1039.1  8249.4
Pubt ServteXo S (WI mliii.            85.5X   41.1%   44.85   45.55   39.1X   85.7X   32.2X   2.85X  26.25   24.05
.bbt Stwvtc.jXGS                      6.4X    7.X    86.25    91       6.85    7.85    6.55    6.55    5.85    5.1 
Or... Zom  t..hfGDP                   17.2X   17.45   21.55   19.6S   21.0X   2M.35   26.4X   28.9X   26.5X   29.SX
.mmbb. S.sInsi/t8                    19.45   29.3S   24.15   2S.1X   26.7X   29.5X   85.55   80.45   81.75   82.25
~mtb*l.ma luSsjP                      t19.2X   20.2X   20.15   21.SX   28.6%   26.15   26.59  27.75   29.65   30.2x
MarylO$ blht1..l S.,l.~ Rnt"                  39.5X   18.5X   19.9X   48.4   89.75   31.15I  23.9x   37.5    21.95
PIawe Fbeod I.etm P             6.15    6.45    LII    5.6       5.2X    S.05    6.2X    5.45    6.45    5.S2
Pubic  S/1pD                                   5.5x   4.X    8.6X,   3.2X    4.63    6.X    5.25    6.05    6.55
Privet. Phi.d Iav_)t..tISp            2.LX   16.1X   t0.6   2t0.055    9.0X   11.5S   11.58X   12.5    13.55   14.5S
Prtivte 6$/UP                                 16 .5    16.2X   1.X   17.75X ,1.5   10.45   1.2X   18.3S   16.1X
Ratlb of Pubi./Ptivato nIw.t.s.. 66.45   54.          U      ,X U.4X 565;  54.45   58.4w   52.06   43.15  89.90   89.3X
<eyffi St Rw.sw.s/UPt                 24.75   1W.75   14.6%   14.75   14.21   15.45   15.6%    15.55   16.45   16.55
Cevowrtm 5Exp.md1t.r.s/AOP            16.6X   18.9X   16.45   16.75   16.15   16.75   17.06   16.55X  16.55   1-.15-
Deci      o (-)                      -. Surplus (.)/SP  4.3X   4.25   -1.55   -2.55   -2.55   -1.3x   -1.25  -4.2%    5.5  .45
Ewp.X Growth Rut. 2/   -              43.75    7.6%   -4.45   11.5X   12.%      .X    6.85    755X   4.55    4.5S
Eup rrt./UP                           15.55X  14.6    14.12   14.55   18.45   25.5X   16.75   16.3X   16.55   16.55
Report Crowt RBte 2/                  -7.2X    5.6.a    .77   -4.55    2.5x    8.45    6.3X    6.25    7.35    7.75
Ruprtui/UP                             9.3X   29.5      . 11.2X 11.25   11.35   21.55   12.15   12.%X   13.25   13.6X
Currert AuoW tuss (Wi liii)            584    40.?  -196.86  200.?   "B.?   290.1   15.6  841.3   55.?   565.6
Cu~sm" Acceunt/UP                      1.55   .41    4."       0.25   1.5xr    615      4      5.65x   0.95  0.9X
1/ All ..ftlaaal AauMt Up rule. or at csastee prics. E£AWMI AIsift. Oft St cxurren price..
/ Repot. esof ..ods. Oksi"".. of r  t..



CoLISIA                                                                Table 2.2
ISSRA  RE8WCB11     JO IYE*F   I'RWEC1
.  AUNCE OF PAIIT
[_5 IIIIoms t gSttei.b prieS)*  
A C T U A L        Prlto. btlue                      PRO JECTIONS
196    17W-   1960    1060.   108           10t1     1m                1994    19        1906    19
A. Ixports of bOee  A WS                      S3.9  64211.0    06          7364    941   9"s         gm      108    11836    191    1nn    1811
1. Ib6rcheade (1)                             gm      254.6    5843    89#    7017  7 494  SM 28            690    9gm       ta6m8    U703 1    21887
2. 'Nom-b.tg set..                          L211.,  110.1       1010    1274    184        1420    152      1        1707     169      21       227
B. 8upr. of  *.s & Vs                         5n.0   G.        . 8m2      sal      0776    766       82       947      NU 1    116    16         1480
1. msruli)   (l) (                          8400.2  8768.6    4515    449    an           878      6361    06        768      Om      1on6   U129
2. shon tUr ear,..                          1916.4  1Oi.8    1647    160    1725    199            1ts?    2m        129      289    252    208
C. P000r0   Balc                               J138.8    0W.5.    Il    1992    1866    17           1480    141       149      154      1174      7
0.  "b Ftder tom.                            -1538.8  -1091.9   -1789   -2019   -2259   -249    -2240   -2149   -1060   -1996    -1741   -1I6
1. Fta.beR.celpto                            152.9    10.J       035      341      69      $57      074      496      440      469       o0      541
2. festr Peym                               11012   134.6    2094    23           22      V74    2614    2562    2428    248?    2241    2242
(Istereek paymms)                       11.0  1*41.         1428    15o       1       157      1i6      1496    1441    1444       149      1487
E. Mtb Cerrea Tramtors                         784.?   1*9         975    1089    190       low6 1            SM       i        1        No        1
F Carreeb A_    b ls.                          564.?.  -20.5    -144        11      666      29                841      us       s0       4a3   1 3
0,la-r CaItal Iflo                           B104.6    2.9   308.0         09       83       5S5      497      248      2m       5a3      713      013
1.  lam                                      5 $02.1    7.1      179      04        4      2        87       239      282      299 go1           322
2o0ftfcial sCawllt                               0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0        a        a        a
8. We LI Lee  (    d)                       102.5   -8.2         80       S$      in       278      116   C 5          5       2t 1     49*      407
O. 9)14ab.eme^                          270.4  123.0    2090         2234    2209    2831    1988    195         1709     208      2247    2389
b. IbpY a                               1129.9  1817.       1784    2149    2161    29          1600   1ISO      1462    11        1845    107
4. ObbLlr UIslt         )                       .    0             9        9 0                 0                O  O                     9  0
H, Toutl 0me Itms (e)                        -1296    -2.. -9.0    -88              -       -263    -210    -284       -285     -90    -a8        -822
1.   t Short-Tom capil                     -.5       -194.1              - -      -42       6      -27      -284    -285      419      41       -322
2. Capltl Fl  l-.N.tI.                           0        0                                  O        0                          o 
., Erro  NW Oisiom                           184.0    -19.5  -M4.0                                                                        0        6
S. Cha_ge In se  r_on                        -1463.7    22.1    -194    -9         -7       404      -412     -6       -60      -M       -M      4-9
1. S" Credit few go m            .                        0 9              0        0 .      0        9        0        0        6        o        0
2. 001   room   ndiasg  if                 -1468.7    22.2    -194    -M           7      -a"4    -412    -301    -98         4        -s       -549
I - = I; dcN*; t= Ac,                                              ,,
'IJ ZsIude.l M.we   jsotenFUb2t''''-



COLOBIrA                                                               Mb1 2.
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUIM  AND DEELIT PRJECT
:ALAMCE OF PAYMnS
(, millioss at current pr;~ s)
ACTUAL             Proltl. Est,mato                 PROJECTIONS
100    1067    1i96    2960    1990    10s    1     1992    1908    1904    1996    190l
J. Share of CP (ou!rr.t U
1. Roonrcosaleo                              O.94    9.01    9.        , 2.6     4.0      4.4      8.5 s     .4      3.2     9.1      2M       1.L
2. Total Itoer." P*)sute                    0.04    9.e4    0.04        4.0     4.0      4.1      3.6      3.4      8.1     2.9       i*      Be
8. Currnt, Ac, so)    1/                     9.92    9.90       .99    I 9.       2.7     0.9       .5      9.0      1.1     1.1      9.0      9.1
4. LT Csltsl tInlow (liii. 0)                0.96    0.01    9.06        1.6     0.9      1.5      1.2      9.0     9.0      1.1      1.0      1.4
S.        Creit tfru the III F4                        9.9      9.9 0..          4.9      99       *.9      9.9     9.o      9.9      .*9      *J
-morandum Ite- 
COP (al Ilion. ofo. r-rept gSm             34943.  897.   8#169     4s6.*  445044 6019.0 $2420.9 5469.9  589e.  63 .9  Mn.  ISM$
ForelIn Exchan  Roseret
1. Net  Internatlont Rese                  3477.   6455.    013.5  4i051. 47,?  N8O.?    M0.1  09.6 86.2 t42? 24.    71.
2. Not Int'l R..er.l    au                    6.o      6.4      5.0   ;I 5.9      .1      *.2      6*4      0.8     0.4      0.0      0.0      04
Exchange Rats-
Hi m. Off. X-Rte (VFS rf)                   104.8   242.0   2090. 2     ,2.8   5429   710.9 e    60.4   9.o  114.0   18.9  £484.9   01.                I
2. Ru  Off. X4e so" 1ow                     159.0    99.7   I0.?    1 1 9.1    78.7 .?  .4                  9.e7    So.*    79.9    78.        M
3. X-Rat. for CDP Co"Wrolon                 104.3.  242.6   290.,   i2.0   541.9   710.9   96.              t1.    1124.6   t273.9  1404.0  161.       °
4. Oeet,e Inftlation (CPXI S)                20.9S   24.91   26.1X  .25.X    81.MM    24.01   20.8    17.9X   15.41   16.91   15.9111  15m
11 Inl   Offichl Tradfr.-
*             .                           .                           '



-104-
I.       'uuuuuuu|l   ,1 j 
*~~~ *
X~~                   0                 I     lp||          ,j. '
§    Il    uuIt#IuI   U   iI 
E             uhUUUu         I                        *  V  
. 8~   ~    UU3R I               I    -pZ|X"X | t.i   I
1!   f l      *;!uu          *   If IJ   s|     i
j    1. 1!         X  f t             ,
.     !i}zniiii  d. ,         J ][X.,'s
0   X}3jl!  §l        F3 



-105-
Table 2.4s  Prodwttion Coverag  of QUa for MIbufactiadngs
internatimoal C.parisomfs
Country              Year           unvelghted         I Production
Avg. Tariff
Colombia              1988              30.0               83.0
Argentina             1988              27.7                 18
Brazil                1988              37.4                 41
India                 1988             118.0 a\              75 a\
Indonesia             1988              25.0 a\           34.8 b\
Madagascar            1988              46.0                  0
Mexico                1988               4.3               23.2
Morocco               1986              35.1                u.a.
Nigeria               1988              32.0
Pakistan              1988             102.0   .a.
Philippines           1988              28.0
Turkey                1988              39.0                a.
Venezuela             1987-             -94.1   -          4.0
Yugoslavia            1987              12.0               36.0 c\
a\ Percent of domestic value
b\ Figures as of December 1987. Expected to drop to 151 for inport
coverage and 30S for production coverage In 1988.
c\ Expected to fall to 31X for 1988.



-106-
Table 2.5t Frequency Distribution of Tariff Rates, 1990
(t of tariff positions)
February     March      August    September
TARIFF RATES        |  1990         1990       1990        1990
0 - 10S o              142          171   unchanged        23S
I                          since
11 - 201         I      342          401     March          391
21 - 30                  191         192                    15Z
31 - 402          1      211         151                    142
41 - 502                  4           92                     92
51 - 601                 5           0S                    0o
61 - 702                  32          0X                     01
+ 702         j   0.372         0.04X                  0.042
TOTAL          i    1001          100Z                   100Z
Sources:  LEGIS, Arancel de Aduanas, Envios #184 (February),
#185 (March), #192 (August); Decreto No. 2184 de 1990,
Ministerio de Xacienda y Credito Publico, INCOMEX.



-107-
Table 2.6s Import Weighted Average Tariffs, 1990
By Total Economy, Manufacturing Subsector,
and Manufacturing 2-Digit Subsector.
February       September
SECTOR                           I  1990            1990
I
TOTAL ECONOMY                    |      272              222
MANUFACTURING SUBSECTOR          |
Consumer Goods                   T      41Z              36?
Intermediate Goods               !      242              162
Capital Goods                    I      262              12i
MANUFACTURING 2-DIGIT SUBSECTORI
31  Food, Beverages, Tobacco    1       38S              341
32  Textiles, Leather            1      492              392
33  Wood Products                       452              362
34  Paper, Printing              I      312              252
35  Chemicals, Petroleum                252  -           162
36  Nonmetal Minerals            I      30S              292
37 Basic Metals                  1      18X              122
38  Metal Products, Machinery   j       262              18?
39  Other Manufacturing          I      361              342
TOTAL MAUFACTURING                      26C              18l
Sources: LEGIS, Arancel de Aduanas, Envios #184 (February),
#185 (March), #192 (August); Decreto No. 2184 de 1990
Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico.



-108-
Table 2.7i Reforms In the Umport Licensing ReSime
in relation to Tariff Positions
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I  Pre-Reform
LICENSING           I lebruary 1990       March 1990        August 1990      September 1990
CATEGORIES             No.       1        No.       2        No.      2        No.       2
.        ~~~~~~~I
Libre                 1998      391      2869      562      3454     671       3919     76S
I
Previs                 3092     60S      2228      432      1704     33X      1239      241
Preria-encuesta t  n.a.                 742     142        573     llX       573      1ts
Previa-libre        n.a.                796      151       541     1O0         76      1S
Previa-cupo.        n.a.                334      61        236     S        236       S1
Previa-previa   j  n.a.                 356      71        354      7X       354       72
Prohibida         I     54       1X        54      1X          0       1O        0       O0
TOTAL             I  5144    1001        5158 *  10S1 5156    1001            5158    1002
*  Seven positions are unaccounted for.
Sources: LEGIS, Arancel de Aduanas, Envios t184 (February), #185 (March),
#192 (August); Decreto No. 2184 4d 1990, Ministerio de Pacienda y Credito
Publico; Programa de Modernizacion de la Economia Colombiana. INCOMEX.
*   .                       .        .    ..........................   ..   ..   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



-109-'
. ~ ~~ ...
}   §  ,0      UU!      U!3!f UlENNll    .4
* a      a                            - -! -Xa u a
-               'l |                t;g|llX l wWeIi
a    I                    ' 1Ufh    UU! i    !U  !! 
|      |     §1,    x        I!l   



-110-*.
Table 2.9:  Plan -Vallejo Export RegiXtrations, 1980-86
(US$ million)
1jgA   X981   1982   183   .984   198S   1986
PV Exports                     595    654    633    659    712    767    920
Export Registrations          1436   1463   1210   1143   1145   1374   1747
Percentage PV                  41    45Z    522    568    62Z    562    53Z
Source:  "Colombia:  Comuercial Policy Survey'  (Report No. 7510-CO, December
15, 1989.



TABLE 2.19: FINANIAL, SECTOR INSYTITIONS
(Co I I6 billon as of De. 81, 196
Numbr In aTotal
Type of Institution                Operation        A t
Central Bank (BR)                          1        2198.2         81.0
Co n*elal Banks                           26  2729.8               89.8
Public                                   9        1781.9         24.9
Privete                                 17         997.4         14.8
Domestlc                                 9    1  696.6            11.6
Foreign                                  8         196.9          2.7
Savings and Loans (CAVY'. A 8H)           12       t122.8           14.7
Specialtzed Lend   Institutiona           6#         648.2          124L1
boveIopmeat Finance  Corporations       24          0.6 4.8
Public                                 7         867.6           5.a
Prvate                                17         280.?           4.9
Trade Finance Comnies (CFC's)           82         194.7           2.8
Inuran  ce a"nsw                          is         148.9          2.1
Investment Fund9 0                                    4.6           0.1
Mutual Fund                               48           9.5          *.1
OTAL                                     221        0961.9         100.0
Note: * Figurs as of Dov    81, 1965.
Soure:s Revilta, an#o de Is Reubllca.
.~~~~~~~ I



-112-
INDUSTR?1f RESTR1UCTWIN  AND 11VE14LOPUNT PROJECT
aTsbl  ;t*11: Solvency of Co.m.tclal Banks V/
PAID-IN CAPITAL, LEAL RESERVES a  CC$ (i Constat 1970 Co1S 1Ilons)
1069    1961    1282    196       1004    1066         6     SW      to" 1 a9n
Private Sank.             t44909  4746.1  4436.0  8906.2  80P.2  8461.1  4867.1  56081.S  ?6.7  6601.4
VI ed Banks                150.8  1045.0  1601.0  1106.1  1677.7  1260.0  176M.8   680.1  1S66.0  166".1
PubiIc aonks              4681.4  S8056.   8520.9  817.9  a862.4  f848.9  5687.9  6664.0  6600.6  5660.4
Notionalled Banks 2/     8484.S  8154.7  2647.6  2860.5  1223.1   057.1  4756.4  4066.5  5625.1  4614.4
TOTAL                14824.6  12668.5  11017.0  16010.7   9940.4  0657.$ 14960.7  1?672.9 10129.4 10614.7
NUT CAPITAL (In Constant 1907 ColI millone) 2/
166     1061    1062    1168    1904    105    106"    1007    1060   1%66
Privitt Banks             f662.5  078.2  S814.6  85007.0  9404.4  901.4 I1046.4  1805.9 18602.0 14041.0
ml ts Banks               1465.7  180.2 M724.   164 W.   1047:4  2129.2  240.0 J        888.4  2517.0  2164.4
Pubitc Banks              6680.   7221.0  6O5.0  764S.0  6676.2  6786.2  0066.  t19625.S llm.0  12286.6
Nttionalized anks 2/      4058.7  5720.4   6M52., 6612.6  8620.7 -11060.7 -?780.9 -120.6  -J811.1 -1078.4
TOTAL                22724.  24124.0  24197.2 25419.6 21040.4  6024.1  16902.1 17060.S 28S?.0 17628.1
I/ euciude seo Naclonal *nd Caja Agrerle
2/ TnclVde 98nco. Columi., Ccralco, T*qu.nda.a and Trabojad.re.
8/ Pald-in cepital . legal resrvs . EOCIA, not surplus - *unlated losse *  ftx d. - natloiallzatiat  lor.to
Sours: As.ciclon Bneria



-l 13-
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND OEvELOPb,E!T PROJECT
Lib1e  '~.11: Solvency of Cowmercial Banks 1/
P4AI-IN CAPITAL, LEGAL RESERVES A SOCEAS (in Constant 1976 CWl millions)
1980     1981     1962    1983    194       1985     to" 19I"?         1966     1309
Pr;wate Banks             S449.9  4748.1  4436.9  3J95.2  3566.2  3461.6  4967.1  6061.5  5651.7  2061.4
Via*d Banks               1156.6  1045.9   161 .0   1196.1  1077.7  1289.6  176.8  1636.1  1657.6  155.5
Public Sanks              4431.4  3866.6  3S29.9  3317.9  3082.4  3346.9  56C7.9  5954.0   6686.6   666 .4
Nationalized Banks 2/     3564.5  3154.?  2847.0   2s69.6  1223.1   867.1  4756.4  4660.5  5251.1  4614.4
TOTAL                14324.6  12603.5  11873.6  10616.7  0949.4  8695.8  16069.7  17652.9  16129.4  16964.7
NET CAPITAL (;n Constsnt 1976 Coll millions) 2/
19se     1981     1962    1983    1964      1985     1966     197      1996    1989
Pruieate Banks            9652.6  9573.2  9614.6  16397.6  9494.4  9301.4  10946.4  16805.9  13092.0  14441,6
Misxd Banks               1466.7  1609.2  1724.3  .2046.6  1947.1  2120.2  2646.0  2363.4   2617.6  25S4.4
Public Banks              6662.6   7221.686 06.6  7643.6  6576.2   673a.2  9966.6  10620.5  1177659  1231W.5
Nationalized Banks 2/     4953.?  6726.4  6e62.3  6612.0  3929.7 -11956.7  -7539.9  -6126.6  -3811.1  -1973.
TOTAL                22724.5  24124.6  24197.2  25410.6  21949.4  6204.1  10922.1  1763.6  235?3.6  27S23.l
i/ Excludes Bonco Nactonal and Cojl A9ea-ti-
2/ tncluds Sancos Colombia, Comercio, tUquendoma and Traba adores
a/ Pf;d-;n capitol * 109*1 resrvs * OCEAS * not suplgs - accumulated loe  * ta edj.   nationalization losses
Source: Asociacion Sancorie



:~~~~~~u~     ,uo-   -                                                   *jm.         -      Ie@Jn.s 
rto    *'GOP   V,"    also     V.St      ab.    $1Ul .fq 1JM9 £21"q@pqU3~~9/
*?*  9Olt92Olt06    *n             19       £1      *33       9.01    6SS1    -            `WI"-h-
rte     0,10     ,g                *:l      :;l    *B's      a'       *l9      DID                        "Ion
t's-    Als-    els-    rg-    V                      wte w  llt Olt  Olt                  5t
S's     a's      ve       rel              S's*      re      fills      g      S
Ol .   S.   ,)  .l _I a'                  a'       .l                                        _ ._
se0     3*g      ;0       re       8'       *e0    s*'       **e      9's      0'0B
VTl     L.0      Ol                          0 S'  re  0*    *-0       9-      2S0
ell     L'0      r        tr t              *lY-    i t's  Ol ee Ol   O
9-0 o    -0       *       8-0. -e e-o       oo     eso       ea        gso     aso                 ,     w0
YO 9T    IM      WU         0 Y?0 **L               t 9       l*9     Ybo      3*0                        etlIA
Ole     9*t      e-t   t S's                rT0     %It      tl'      al0      *0                       tjo
38§      Z'9l    Yb       33       *'3      6'1      Vt8    VT        6?#      V*T                  *UOJSJ
591     L.-t         9*tt  Y Olt            All      t       Wt       Olt      Z'8                        *1 I
0-8     Wt       Ol       Ol       T?       3T -      1      t* T *t           SIT tt                 a      w
Vt      SIT    8Ot        WI Ot              I      L'      W3       O*t      al VVT"@
lt'    0-t       rip I    Ole                   9*a'          le 9- Vs  e0 ds
Z-t     e-t      a's      I's      rE       .i  OZ           WVt VS   Faat
ee      9*       V-B      'I9      8'8      ;t      8-9      WTe                ,'9 Ol tios
8-S     8-9      t-L      r*w      a's     8*        e.g     9-S      *@0      0-                          UII@.
63t  88t         an       "S1        S        t      **t not  MT t     M*t   08 4t
/8  (tom Is I    n "t 9*      ut) *uld
2vt     wte      LI"      el"      el"    9r         S."     WVa    LIU        5*9                *Jlt      'I"
rT       Vt4                       ilt t    8,9    Olt,    I'g        ret      W .   .P.  
VS-     .0        Ft               a's l-t  -2               VZ9      L.0      Ol-                         SILS
8-0      V9 L0    -       Sa's     S'       f       9-0 Ss   9-80 Ae           I VS                       0Jo ls0
g-Z    9oe       ale      rt-      ee       I's      al 8-    ,t      It'      a's VTu   1w
8'0     9-0      9-0      9-0      *-0      *-0     9-0      9-0      L-0      Vt                           j
{(0-     got      It'      ip0      fp's     9-0      Ole-    I's      t*I      9*0                        *DWge8
9st     t-t      8It      9-t      O-t      a's      VI      Ole      8-0      I'                          *put
illa    t.8      9- K     LIZZ    6.11    O*Lt    - ot    S-6t    8-t2    LI-Z                     ltS0L-E
I's     3St      Z.9      S.0      at       e-e     *,e      Ole      AL-      9-t                        I1I*A
'C.    -r        Llt      9-t      9-t      Ole      S-1    0-0       Olt      $Is                  eueopeW*"as
O-t     all      tt       Ole      IL-0     Ole     Olt      t-t      Z-t      IR't                    'P"Ma4uS
Olt     9-0      4*0      ti       8-0      4-0      8-t     8-t      8*lt     8-t                      e J"eJd
t-2     t3       T.9      AL'      9t       Lt        *       I-t     09       S.t                    *%@ P!at
Alt     *la      L-Z      VI$      Olt T-t          t-t    ZV         *lZ      O-t                        *P
t'S     Rt    O66         I's      I's      8Z      Alt      rS66e 8- 36* 6  36 U:N
elr     I's      tlt      Ole      ale    '. 8-8             ItI8t    elfp    9'*                     0901qpe0
el&     f-t      8.e      t'll     rt        -t     Alt      0-t      T's      98*t*P
"0S     68t       8$t  t   M8t    gu$t    M8t        MBT    gat    toOt    080t
/a (suoLIIIW asn u*Ot 4OW0 ui ) sYDoo I 51Yan3Ud Whl  WJYltd*o 1t-OVd
/1 OquSe 3 .uolaA   jo £VAI lS                                              ' 
-tIT-.T-
/t wived %1Ivow*3A&G aN W4DVIWUM8V"    YL
A3wm  pmw1w(; (N



-115-.-
OUSTRL RITUCTIV' AND DA     ENaPUT PRoJa
Table S.&Ss  Solvety of Co.oSclai Bafsen B vo.l_pat ubnlk
DOfMTz5PTY RATIO 1/
1966    1o61    182    198J   1964    166    to"86    1637   1956    1698
Privae. Banks             3.5      0.8     6.9    9.3   10.2    10.?    0.4        9.0     6.8    8.#
MIxed Sanks               16.6    16.8     9.0    ao.o   1609    11.6    9.4    1.6   tO.l   30.2
Public Banks             3o.0    10.?    18.1   14.0    16.8    1.2    16.6    10.6    16         12.2
NationalIzed Bank* 2/     12.2    11.2     9.9    11.2    20.5   -4.2    15.2    19.1    16.3  t16.8
TOTAL                  19.l    16.8    16.8    11.8    18.6   42.S    16.0    11.2   1O.5   16.7
OKBT:EWJIT RATIO
Cold..                    4.1      6.1     6.2     5.1    0.0      6.2    7.2      9.6    16.5    9.8
Colombian*                6.7     8.0    16.7      9.7    7.6      7.6     9.1     7.2     7.6    0.1
Nacional                  5.1      5.O     7.1     *.6     8.?    9.0      6.8     5.1     6.5    5.8
Nort"                     9.1      8.4     6.4     8.1     6.6     .9    10.?      8.6     9.6    a.5
Occidente                 7.8    12.4      7.6    26.0     9.6   It.6    28.6   tS.J   30.4   11.9
Piogeso                  14.1      4.8     4.2     5.2     8.2     5.8     O.0    19.4    11.8   11.4
Santeder                  7.0     6.7      5.7     0.4    0.6      6.9    7.0    16.7    9.7   10.1
Surarlcena                7.0      3.8    10.6   10.0      8.?     6.7     7.8     7.9     6.2    7.6
Val le                    7.4      0.6     7.0     7.5    8.0    0.6       7.7     6.6    6.7    0.7
813-TOTAL               0.9     7.?     7.e     6.1     5.0    7.6      0.2     7.8     7.5    ?.4
Ands                      10.0    18.1    18.9   12.4    18.0   16.1   11.5    14.6   Il.?   11.2
Soyaco                     1.4     1.8     1.2    2.4      4.4     5.0    4.0      4.2     4.6    5.4
Indutlnael.ra             6.2     6.9      6.6    16.6     9.4     9.4     0.6     9.4     0.1    7.8
Cottf.                        0.6  6.9     7.?     7.4   119.7    0.0    .S8    11.8       5.5   10.8
Orants                    0.1      9.1     9.0    18.2  -86.7  -16.6   -9.8   -6.0  424.6  212.6
Tolma                    6.8      6.6     0.6     7.1     6.6     7.9     9.2    10.7    16.7    9.6
Vnlon                     8.5      4.0     4.9    7.4      3.0     0 8.2   9.8    11.6    11.2   12.0
$U-TOtAL                7.6     6.6     6.1   1t.8    21.6    20.5    85.0 6    6.2   14.6   13.5
TOTAL                   4.9    7.6      7.6     0.5     9.6     9.6    9.4      6.5     $.1    7.9
I/ Exclude Sanc  Neelonl and C Ja A4rla
2/ Itclude Stco Colombl, Cmeecic, Toquenda. and Trabejedore
Sources Aecciclon Bari*,



-116-.
TASLE 2.14a  ProfitabilIty of Ccarcial Sankn, lss6-1909
NET PROPFTS/PAID-IN CAPITAL . LEAL RESERNES
1980 1941  1262 190s  1294   1905 low1 16 ?  19*6  4129
Private Bonki          32.2  1.3  26.7 2.6  26.   10.0 42.3 *6.9 07.5 07.0
Milxed Bnko            24*.0 24.9 22.0 14.4 14.5  27.1 25.9  6.1 'S.9 34.5
PubiC Banks            26.1 27.9 -16.0  -4.5 -4.0  -4.2  17.3  14.2 22.2 46.1
Nationalized lanks     27.8 26.8 20.3  16.6 -38.2 -2065. -77.6 -43.0 -13.3  16.5
TOrAL             29.3 29.0  14.1  14.0  5.6 -136.1 -7.4  6.1 22.0 44.2
NET PROfMTS/TOTAL AVERA  ASSETS
18"  1901 1922  1to3 1924  19M- 1%26  12   1    1909
Private Banks           2.3  1.6  1.4  .1   1.6   6.3  1.2  1.0  2.3   2.
Mlxed Dank.             1.9  1.5  1.0  1.6 4.I           1.0  '1.7  1.6  1.0  2.0
Publia Sauk,            1.7  1.6 -4.?  4.2  4.1   4.1   0.7  6.6  6.6  1.5
Nationalized Sankt      1.0  1.   1.2  6.7 .4.7  -2.1  -4.4  -2.9  -1.6  1.0
TOTAL              2.0  1.   0.7  0.0  0.2  -6.0  4.3   0.3  1.0  1.9
TARS 2.5s  Poltabillety of Devlopmot Dank,, 121-1909
NE PROF/PAZO-I1 CAPITAL *   AL  ES
12    10612 an0  10s4  126  low  1927 19  1is"
World Bank qua Ifi CF. (9) 29.6 2.6  11.6  11.0  15.7  18.1  33.0  45.4  40.4
Other CFO C7)                20.9  14.6  0.1 -5.9  -3.1 -11.2 -16.4  44.2 31.2
TOTAL                   24.1 21.0  9.1 -29.0 -4.2  0.7  23.1 4.2 40.0
NET PROFTS/TOTAL AVERAGE ASSETS
1961 11262 1263 1264  1GW  1GW  126? 1W"   1G
World Dank  ualified CF (9)  2.9  1.8  1.0  0.9   1.2  1.2  2.1   2.6  2.4
0thr CF. (7)                  2.4  1.   6.6 -4.4   -4.$  -1.3 -1.5  21.  ' 1.9
TOam.                    2.7  1.6  6.9 4.3    6.2  9.0  1.6  2.$  2.3



-111-~
TAML 2.10. Rlisk Mebg_      of Comrob&l loolks, lo9-11   1/
NO-PERFCIRN10 AU8/TOTAL PORTFOLIO (M) 4/
iou  10"  ioU  son    164 mwo laI i1
Privet. Bank*               1.4  1.5  8.1  4.6   0.4   6.6  6.5  4.6  $.5  1.7
Mined San1k                1.9  1.6  1.7  4.1  6.:   0.4  6.4  4.1  4.6  1.6
Publ Is sank               5.4  5.0 10.1 10.9  16.4  15.1 11.6  9.1  7.8  8.1
Natlonal lud Ranks 2/      8.4  4.0  0.4  0.6  81.8  40.6  56.1 42.1 11.4  8.7
TOTAL                  8.2  6.4  0.2  7.8  16.1  10.$ 16.1 12.8  6.6  21.
I E_-PtFORD4OAST8PASO-4 CAPITAL * LWTL 110R   M 4/
a8 i981 19in 92 ion i4   inII     1011      1656 109 M
Privet. -ank               10.6 15.4 #1.6 56.9 196.7 125.4 146.1 112.2  6.-5 16.6
mixed Sanks                14.6 10.1 11.5 41.6  6.6  74.9 65.7 40.6 44.6 17.0
Publac Sek                49.0 50.8 11.6 65.1 161.1 191.1 1.1 5.$ 181.6 o6.9
NstIenaised Seeks S/       21.9 42.1 7.   0.4 696.9126.7601.21 15    0.0 -5.4 -
TOTAL                 26.5 8W.11 81.21 1    m6.6  1.9 8.1 1.$ 177.0 ft.# 45.6
TABE 1.17t  Risk Manag        ofev ODev.lopnetA Sanke, 19661086
NON-!ROMm 66 ASET/"TOA POtNFoLI  M1 I/
trId anok 46eIftled CAv ()  9.6  1.6  8.- 8.2   5.4  -.4  4.4  2.6  .1.S  9.6
OO. CFO (7)               I.?  1.1  2.2  5.6  14.4  12.9 29.1  7.8  1.6  6.4
TOTAL                -.6  1.2  *.1  8.7   T.8   0.9  5.5  6.5  1.1  0.6
A8ETS/PAID-MN CAPITAL e LEAL, I I
iwo 1651  11"s Iou ia  o  Iu  iou  i     1i"  too
worlm Ibk 4us#ifS  CF. (9)  8.6 10.4 28.6 15.2  40.6  t.$' 4.7 81.1 16.6 11.9
Otr CF. (7                  9..   6.6  4.7  4.0 - 8.8   2.1 7.1 74.6 14.7  0.8
TOTAL                  4.4  9.7 19.0 20.0  8.9  67.9 55.  41.5 11.5 I9.1
I/         S      aclon
1/ enWee past &o, peyoset. sitbia and.esoselmg e sear
8/  a.tgads1  6zo.e Colablo. C_rlt, Toulnds. Sd Tra"bJder..
4/ Snclcde petd  pe)met. ens"eds on. Yt--.



-118-
TAILE 2.18s  Oppertional Eff slinvy of Co_erclal Bankn and Dev-lopment 9anks
OPERATIONAL EXPENDITURES/TOTAL ASSETS (U)
18   19m 1  1982  1983  1984  1985  1MS  I097  1090  1989
Private Banks                  8.9  8.8   4.6  4.8   4.6  4.8   4.2   4.1   4.0   4.8
Mlxed Banks                    6.0   4.0  5.0   4.5   4.5   8.9  4.1   4.4  4.4   4.4
Pubitc Banks                   5.2   4.9  4.9   4.7   6.1   4.0   4.8   4.6  4.8  4.2
Nationall,ed Banks             8.5  3.5   8.0   8.6   8.2   4.2   8.7   8.7   8.4   4.0
TOTAL                     4.3  4.1   4.5   4.8  4.4  4.5   4.8   4.2  4.2   4.2
OPERATIONAL EXPENDITURES/TOTAL ASSETS MI
1981  1982  1098  1984  1989  1980  1087  1099  199
WorId Dank qualifIed CF  (9)   1.4   1.6   1.0   1.8   1.7   1.5   1.8   1.2   1.2
Other CFO (7)                  1.7   2.0   2.9  2.8   2.1   2.1   1.8   1.9   1.9
TOTAL                     1.4   1.0   1.7   1.9   1.7   1.5   1.8   1.8   1.8



-119-
COLOMBIA INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2.19. Directed Credit to Industry, 1983-1988
1983    1984    1985      1986     1987    1988
IN REAL TERMS (1970 Col $ millions)
----------_------------------------
Total Directed Credit                n.a.     3290    2704    3605       3439    3013
BR Directed Credit                  862      914      698      882      931      846
FFI                               472      502      368      290      255      237
PIP                               334      180       89      271      281      264
FCE                                56      233      240      321      394      345
Proexpo Investment Credit           673     1001     1280    1800      1226      884
BR External Lines                   334      288      151      521      440      324
IFI Credit                           n.a.      809      337      371      842      959
AS I OF TOTAL MANUFACTURING CREDIT
----------------------------------
Total Manufacturing Credit          100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Directed Credit                      n.a-.    57.0    49.2    61.3    80.9
BR Directed Credit                 15.5    20.7    17.0    15i5    14.6
FFI                               6.4      8.7      6.7      4.9      4.0
PIP                               8.4      7.9      6.0      5.1      4.4
FCE                               0.8      4.0      4.4      5.5      6.2
Proexpo Investment Credit           9.1    17.3    23.3    30.6    48.0
BR External Lines                   4.5      5.0      2.7      8.9      5.1
IFI Credit                           n.a.     14.0    ,6.1       6.3    13.2
Sources: Banco de la Republica, IFI, IBRD estimates, and Villate (1988).



-120-
VULt 2.1   mNTIRsM T PATtS ON DIRECTb AND N4"IRECT  CROMT, 10014-U
(3/yw')
1961    1061    101I    19.4    105    10n         10W7
DiPote Ci.t
PIP                         9.,     ".8    10.3       9. 20 .3        ".8    So.$
FF                        21.0    17.0    26.0    26.6        6.0    1.0     7.0
CR                         26.      19.0    21.?   21.7    29.9
BR Extenal Lln.e           26.4    26.4    26.4    1.6    12.6    29.0    29.2
VI                         24.0    26.0    20.       86      2.0    26.0    26.0
PROEXPO                    20.0    20.0    20.0    19.0    20.6    28.0    23.
Commrciul CsWlt             3.4    80.2    S0.0    30.0    30.0    83.4    38.7
W-d. Avg. Interest Subsidy    0.0    14.5    13.1    18.1    18.0    18.4        6.7
Notes 19.7 Is oetlmst4d.
Sources VIlto (198").



Tabl 2.21 - Colombia: Developent Creit laterot Rttes
Annuel Effoctive Tenrm
1967 I/ 198 1/ 1969 1/ 199 /2  19SW S/         1990 9/ Tvnche 2TrMne 3
1. Borrowing Ret - DvF                       81.0    88.8   38.6    83.0    84.7                 83.8    g3.i    33.8
2. Ladlng Rate - Comercial                   41.1    42.6    48.1    43.1    44.0                43.4    43.4    43.4
8. Fondo de Capitalization Epresariel - FCE
Corp. Financieras and Comorcial Senks
8.1 Stocks - Open Stocks Corporations     38.8    36.0    85.6    88.0    40.8                43.4    48.4    48.4
8.2 Stocks - Other Partnrships             84.5    86.7      0.5    8.0    40.6               48.4    48.4    48.4
8.8 Stocks - Limited Liability Companies    85.2    87.5    87.2    88.0    40.6              43.4    43.4    48.4
8.4 Bowd coaw.rtibl.s lat Stocks           8.7      99,0    88.7    40.8    42.8              43.      48.4    48.4
4. Fonod Flinncior. Industriel - FFI
Corp. Flnancieras and Coesritel Books
4.1 Small ond 11dlum Ffirm
- Large Cities                           84.6   s8.7    86.5    86.0    40.6                41.1    41.1    41.1
- Ret of the co"try                      82-.    84.5    84.8    86.5    89.1               41.1    41.1    41.1
- Border cities                          29.6    81.7    81.5    88.6    86.8               41.1    41.1    41.1
4.2 Capital Goods Line                     U4.5    86.7    86.6    86.0    40.8               41.1    41.1    41.1
S. Foedo de Inversions PrIvades - FIP
Corp. Finencieras end Co_relelol Senk.
5.1 Firns wlth *saetst CoLs 78a  ULL
-Lars Cities                             85.9    88.2    8s*0    as.0    40.6               48.4    48.4    43.4
- Rest of the ouotry                     8S.2    87.5    87.2    86.6    88.1               48.4    48.4    48.4
-Border cittes                           82.8     4.S    84.8    88.6    86.8               48.4    48.4    43.4
5.2 Firms with assets) COLsn1 780 tLL
- Large Cities                          87.4    89.7    89.5    #6.6    4.6                 43.4    48.4    48.4                   F'
- Ret of the country                     87.4    89.7    89.5    86.8    89.1               48.4    48.4    48.4
- Se0der citis                           85.9    88.2    86.0    88.6    88.8               48.4    48.4    48.4
0. OR Exter*ol Lin"e fre IlAS
4.1 Large fire loans to COLS (DTF+8) 8/    88.9    89.2    88.9    88.0    89.1               49.4    48.4    43.4
6.2 LArge Firm loans tn USt (Libor42.S) 8   87.9    41.7    44.8    44.8    47.0
0.8 SE loans in COLS 4/                   $1.4    87.4    U9.4    89.1    42.2                42.2    42.2    42.2
7. PRI"EXO E/
7.1 Export Finencing                      81.0    U8.8    88.6    U8.4    84.?                88.8    Sa.e    as..
7.2 Post-2h$zppmt credit 6/               81.6    88.6    88.6   $8.6    84.7                 88.6    J8.6    88.6
7,8 Fixed Ievestent end Capital Inv.
- Suell firms                           19.2    19.2    19.2    19.2    28.7                28.8    82.7    89.1
- lodlum firms 7/                       28.9    28.9    28.9    28.9    29.1                28.2    84.?    88.1
-  ap f I no 7                         $81.6    U8.6    a8.6    8.       8.1              "8.6    86.7    89.1
1/ fondo-fR.soluctone J.V. 24 end 25/67.
21 Fondoe-fResouclon J.M. 56/89.
8/ OFC9 (2477-C"O
4/ 26.6 to 9/87 A DTF*2 over 10/87-9/89 for S11£4 (2464-C); DTF+6 for SUES (802>-CO)
6/ Resoluclonoe 11, 12, 18 un 14/87 (Junt Otaoctive de POE), *nd Rteolucion 61/90.
A/ Loems> 1 ear for conswmr goods. Loan > 5 yers for cepital goods DTf+2.
7/ Resoleclon SI/99  only 6S  of In_vsteet vale  ift the other 5o is
tfinaed with IS-R  Line.
S/ Janury 1990, Fondoo-Reoslwcon J.ll. 56/8". FCE, F en FIP Rates
quoted for lons of 4 years maturity with I year of grace.
9/ From July 1690



Table 2.22 - Colombia: Developsnt Credit Interest Rates
Annual Effective Ter"m, in rolstlos to Commercial Lending Rates (M). 
298? 1/ 1S88 2/ 1969 I/ 1989 /2  1996/ 8980 /  Trnch 2Teracb. a
1. Borroling Rate - OTFV                       76.9s   79.8X  t7.81    6.80X    78.9X ..9                    n.s     77n9
2. Loding Rat. - Commercial                   100 .0   198.0   100.hx   19O.6X  196O.O X            00..    am.. O    O.e
8. Fond. de Capitalization Eapresrial - fCE
Corp. Financlers. and-Commercial Banks
8.1 Stocks - Open Stocks Corporations       82.2    04.53 6    88.1    0 .23   06.9X            1908.     Mo    am.
8.2 Stocks - Oter Partersips                680X   08.21   84.73   68.23   ee.sx                aoo..   1in..   am..
8.8 Stocks  Limited iability Companies      0s.8x   se-ox   88.3x   8.2x         8.8x 31e.e   t00.0   10**
8.4 Bonds couwrtibls into Stocks           69.x1   91.56    69.6X   908.3    94.1               w0.0   am.6   I6.g0
4. Fondo Flmmacro Irndtrial - FFI
Corp. Financiera  ad Coercial Banks
4.1 SmaI and eodlum Firm
- Larg Citie                              68.03   66.2I   64.7X   68.2x    66.03               947    904?      94.7
-  esft of tie country                    70.X    81.01   79.011   84.7       6.653            94.7    94.7    94.7
- Borde cltie                             71.86    74.4X    78.1    76.6a   76.1x              94.7    94.7    94.7
4.2 Capital Goods Lie                       8893 .11   . 2    0 4.73   86.23   88.S1             94.7    94.7    94.7
6. Fordo de Iervolons Privada - FVI
Corp. Finaniers. and Coemsrcil slsks
6.1 Firm  with assole( COL76                         6 78W  1111
- Largs Cities                            83   s.x    ss.2x    99.25   00.sx                  10.4      .9       .0
Rst of tim coutry  _                    6 s6.x   ss.ox 8   6.3    04.7x   s6.6x             1a.8   28.0   W.e
- Border cils                             768.113   81.83   70.83   78.6X   76.91             16.6    Ulf.    1.6
6.2 Firms with assets> COL8n 780 J.ILL
- tLar  Cities                            91.06    0.23   91.83   88.2X   08.19               1m.   34 10      a la..
- Rest of the country                     91.63    98.23   91.0X   *4.75   S.6X              1g*    aM..0   am..
-  erder citties                          87.21   69.71   08.23   78.        76.9X 1M.6   186.8   198.6
6. i External Ltnes from INS
6.1 Larg firm lose  In COL (074.8) 61       67.83   89.73   861.2X   08.03   68.0X              lat.    198.9 ' w.e
8.2 Larg, fito tloan in 138 (Llbe.2.S8/   010.03   97.2   102.18   152.6S  1MO.81
6.8 SW  loan  In CMll 4/                    70.43.  M7.6X    I9.13   06.13   916.0               97.2    97.2    9t.2
7  RIXP                                      716.03   79.05    78.      76.8    76.03             77.      77.      77.
t.1 Rapet Financing                          B9       9B         o      .#t 7.a           
7.2 P wd   ppeoct creit 6/                  7.O    79.2X 1 7.0    70.ttX   76.13                 7t7.79   77.9    n
7.J Fixed Invstnbint and Capital Inl.
S"ll firm                                46.73   45.1   44.63   44.531   53.91X              U8      76.8    9111
- Mediu  f Iims 7/                        56.2%   56.13   56.83    W3.5u    8.13              66.6     66.6    9.8.
- Large Ires 7/                           76.83   79.21   7.O    788         7.6X               7.4    94.0    6.6
1/ Podo-Rsoluele J. 24 ad 2/6J7.
2/ Fondo.eoluclon J.l. S6/0.-
8/ DFC9 (24"7-C
4/ 26.1 o   tt 07  DTF.2 ewr 1017-9/69 for S6E4 (2464-CO)P DIV  for SIES (S0-,O)
6/ Rwlseti   11, 12, I1 ad 14/67 (Junta 0Wrtclo   d PO       ), aN   Rsolveluon ff"
S/ Loses) 1  r  for consumer goodn. Loas > 5 yers for capital goods OTF2 0
7/ Restulcion Stlgot oly SO of Investment value It the Oetr SIX to
financed with ID-  Lees.
6/ Jnuary 190, Fondes4Resoeluciean J.. 5S/9. FCE. M  and FUP Rates
quoted for lonse of 4 yar. sburity. wlth I yer of gr9,.
0/ From July 100          -



-123-
TABLE 2.23t Value of Interest Rate Subsidies in Directed Credit
(Col$ Millions)
1985     1988     1987      1988     1989
BR Rediscount Lines of Credit
FFAP 11                                12056    11114    14398    16950    23728
Bonos de Prenda 2/                        703      684      602      1075      280
FIP 3/                                    521      372      366       417      603
FFI 41                                    861      618      506       664     1017
FCE S/                                    741      971      478       400      371
Multilateral 61                             0      496      1204      619      432
Cooperatives                              494      471      146       264      411
PROEXPO 71                                 9003     9081.    6661    10003    12352
FPDU 81                                    1876     1650     1080      1222     2071
Commercial Banks a/
Banco Ganadero                             96      557      774       987      840
Banco Cafetero                           1911    .2590     5204      9368     9235
Banco Popular                             428      399      451       737      739
Caja Agraria                                0        0        0         0        0
Financial Corporations al
Instituto de Fomento Tndustrial           864      891     2486      3749        0
Corporacion Financiera Popular             24       34       86       106      130
Housing al
Banco Central Hipotecario 9/             7089     5902     7631    11806    13359
Instituto de Credito TerrLtorial       12714    12891    14772    17794    20903
TOTAL SUBSIDY                             49380    48722    56845    76359    86470
Total Subsidy/GDP                          1.OZ     0.7S      0.6?     0.7?     0.62
a/ The value of the implicit subsidy is calculated as the interest rate
differential multiplied by the volume of lending. More precisely, value
.25 * interest subsidy (t-1) * outstanding credit (t-1) + .5 * avg. interest
subsidy (t-1,t) * avg. credit (t-l,t) 4 .25 * interest subsidy (t) * outstanding
credit tt)
1/ Fondo Financiero Agropecuario
2/ Warrants
31  Fondo de Inversiones Privadas
4/ Fondo Financiero Industrial
S/ Fondo de Capacitacion Empresarial
6/ BIRF CO-1857-2477
7/ Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones
8/ Fondo Financiero de Desarrollo Urbano
91 .1989 data for June
Sources iL Hommes, 'Colombia: Forced Investments and Directed Credit: Costs and
Subsidies.* Consultants report for The Vorld Bank, May 1990



-124-
TruLE 2.*24 SECURITfES MARKETNS INDCAlORS, 1064-1066
1064    1i66    1i66       106      ins
NUMER OF LISTD COPANtES
Bol a de Bogota                                 la      192       n        96       so
MAKET CAPITALIZATION
Cot 6 Million                                66,U17  71,630  180,012  329,112 364,744
US 2 Million                                    762      416      622    1,255    1,145
TRADING VALUE 1I
Col 1 MilIton                                 4,?M2   4,204   9,S21   19,624  16,70M
US S Million                                     47       so       49       of        a
Turnover Ratio                                  6.5      6.9      5.8      5.9       4.9
LOCAL INEX
Bogtac Geonerl Index (19?06    153)           215.9   226.6   463.3    861.3    672.1
Change In ladex (s)                           -16.4   , 4.9    164.6    61.7        2.4
EMERGMNG MARKETS DATA BASE
Mumb.r of Stock In EMB S* lD                     24       24       24       22        22
EMOB Share ot Market Cap (3)                   62.6     72.2     63.4    94.8      86.0
EMDO P/E Ratto                                  6.3      3.1      6.3     11.6      $a
ENDS P/BV Ratio                                 0.7      0.6      1.4      1.0       1.0
ENDB Dividont Yield (X)                        n.e.     10.1    - 6.4      4.9      6.9
EMDS Totel Returna Index (Do  64 a 16)       1id.3    66.0   227.3   460.4   $36.4
Change In EDOB Index (S)                       n.a.    -11.3    156.6    30.4    -12.2
Notesa 1/ ITnclude. tho value traded at the Boln In Medellin.
n.n. a not available.
Sources EmorgingStock Markot Handbook, 1909, end Emerging Markot. Dota Base.



-125-*
~00SAveSTZM.UMISTCIUZN PM KavELOP34  PIOJEC?
TA     C 2.15 A LOEA    PVIANCAL OWUCTU   OF 16 COLORUZN DffERO r
(91W7 - Jua." 1ISM
June
1017             1988              IWO
(tn billosn ot Col *)
Valorization                           268               4W               877
Tout Ass,                             516                1
Liabilities
Short-r                                o68            '  4               127
Total Liabilities                      O9t              1280             14U0
Equ7I                                  88                81               91
Total Liabilit.S. & Equity            5101              1180             2316
Total Lisbilltlee/Eqa.ity            183.65            14O.1O           168.11
Short-torn debt/Total Li7b litios    57.611             66.X1           7?.4S
Short-tern debt/Total AsseJt           7.1#             89.0x            48.4S
Long-tore debt/Total Assets           27.4X             29.4              16.21
Equity/Total Aset.                    85.5              46.12            88.451
Annual GrowOb In Equity                                 25.711            9.41
Souno: sSuporlnteOdencia de Sociededee.



TABLE 2.26 s EAML REtUNERTION IN NA1W?ACTURIRG, 1970-1986
1970     1975     1980      1981     1982     1983      1984     1985      1986
Using CDP Deflators
Skilled Workers                      116.2      95.5    100.0    111.3    113.9    120.4    117.3    114.9    102.?
Umskilled Workers                     93.7      84.9    100.0    110.5    117.6    123.6    126.1    125.9    111.8
Total                                 97.3      88.1    100.0    111.4    117.2    123.9    124.3    124.3    111.0
Using GDP Deflator Without Coffee:
Skilled Workers                      113.8      96.1    100.0    103.5    107.2    112.2    112.2    112.S    109.8
Unskilled Workers                     91.7      85.4    100.0    102.8    110.7    115.3    120.6    123.2    119.5
Total                                 95.3      68.6    100.0    103.6    110.3    115.5    118.9    121.7    118.7
Using CPI?
Skilled Workers                      102.2      89.0    100.0    104.4    109.1    115.3    121.0    118-9    120.4
Unskilled Workers                     90.1      81.4    100.0    101.9    110.7    116.2    128.3    126.4    128.2
Total                                 90.4      83.5    100.0    103.5    111.2    117.4    127.2    126.5    128.6
Sources R$iroz (1988).



-127-
I BSt E!               St  ;a
46~~~~~~~~~~~~.
I                    U,
-  -- - -- -    - -----
i-  - -  -- .           -    -              -
34~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
|~~~                    3 B       3S3il,l |    8!  { 
I              ---------------   --1 I
l  | i  I  § 0X".0^44]  Xsl X j2X];ti | g~~



-128-
TALE 2.261  STAIUTMY NON-WA  SBEFITS
(As X of sIarles)
(A. 1.1 _a   I.)
16o    1657    1s06      19?    16        1Ww
Annual LUwa                                             5.*      5.0     5.0      t.0      6.0      6.0
Wa. P,.riln (Prima de S.r,leit)                          0.8      6.8     6.8      8.8      6.6      6.8
Beneftst f em Payroll Tax"e                              4.5      9.5    u0.S     15.8    13.6    21.6
Illnns (non-work related) A Materatty                 4.5      4.5     4.6      4.6      4.6      4.6
Work-Re,lted KIln'sIn                                                            u.s      1.8      1.8
DOsabilty, Old Age, Dath                                                        8.6      4.5      4.6
Fat ly AlIowanco                                                4.6     4.0      490      4.J      4.0
SENA                                                            i.e      2.6     2.0      2.0      2.0
ztC8                                                                                      9.#      2.8
Family MedIecne 
Subtotal                                                17.6   .22.6    28.6.   9.6    82.1    88.4
Spearatlon Pyment. (Ce.stIa)   I Sneret                  9.0      9.0    12.5    12.5    28.8    2.8
TOTAL                                                    6.6    82.8    86.8    41.1    55.4    s6.?
Sourco:  sgar (1065) andbal ye (1066).
TIL 2.29  WAE AN NON1-G PAYMENTS TO LAWR, 1076-10
197S    1075    166    1061    1062    1068    1064    2065    100
Salaries/Total Rein.rato
Skilled Worke,r             76.7    06.1    59.?    56.8    55.7 ?      U.4      5.8       .1     54.2
Unskillod Workers           09.6    65.61    68.7    80.0      W.7    56.8    66.8    66.0    54.9
No0-Wag. B.neto/S.lrI
Ski lIed Workers            0.41    S.58    6.67    0.72    0.6         0.1     0.61     6.64  109.86
Unskilld Worker.            0.48    G.=2    1.0-   0.67    6.76    9.78    S.70    0.82  119.U
Total                       0.42    0.52    0.66    0.609       .78    O."      6.6      0.*8   116.70
Sovrce: Wool ee (1066). --



YAKSE 280: NOWAE COSTS
Imetr.ti.aa  C..pciou.
, .
1905                   1970                   1976                   190                    16
LATIN AMEICA        (1)         (2)         (1)        (2)         (1)        (2)         (1)        (2)         (1)         (2)
Argentina        0.8        (V.M4)       0.38         =)6                 (0S.         0.48       (0.61)      0.46       (0.04)
Brazil           0.84       (0.0.8400)                          0. 0.1 0.84  (0.5  (.9  0.86      (08*)       086         0.42)
Colombia         0.81       (6.10)      0.4        (0.2         0.52      (0.49        0.62      (0.e0)       0.62       (0.09)
Chi t            0.U         .          0.48        0.4         0.61      (0.42)       0.20       (9.2)       0.25        0.(S
lbxio.           0.8.7                        0..5              0.7*      (0a71)       0.41       (0.57       0.45       (0.
POr              0.24         .8         0.24       0.          0.24      (0.8)        0.26       (0.26)       0.86      (0.28)
AFRICA                                                            91         07)91
KICy             n..-  0.18                        (0.)         0.18      (0.70.1.18              (0.2)       0.18       (0-8)
M.ro.            n.e.                   0.14        0.04        0.19       0.92        0.19       (0-.)        0.19      (0-79)
Malami           n.e.                   0.14        1.91        0.14       0.66        0.1        (0.64)      0.13       (0.45)
Nigeria          0.09       (.81        0.10       (.           0.1        0.14)       0.          .16)       0.10       (0.25)
teazania         0.10       (.          0.10       (0.^         0.10       0.6         0.12       r0.56)      0.12       (0.44)
Zambi2 0.9                                .9                    0.09      (.84)        0.9        (0-8)       0.09       (0.7
Zimbabwe         0.15       (6.78)      0.15       (0.09)       0.15      (0.0         0.18       (0.98)      0.19        0.2
soon ASIA
Idia             0.22       (5.96)      0.22        1.06        0.24       1.24        0.28       (1.1)       0.26       (1-08)
PakIsta          0.15       (.S          0.15      (0.66)       0.15     t(.41)        0.16        .8)        0.16        0.42)
Sri Lanha        0.25       (0.71)      0.25       (0.02)       0.25      (0.U5)       0.21       (0.84)      O.u8       (0.88)
EAUTASIA
Hoa Soma         0 .11      (0.06)      0.11       (0.0         0.1        0.1         0.20       (0.10)      0.20       (0-.0
1ey..            0.20       (6.24)       0.20      (0.25)       0.20      (0.20)       0.20       (0.21)      0.20       (0.21)
Singapore        0.1        (0.1        0.14       (0.09)        .28      (.14)        0.29       (0.1        0.85       (0.1)
-EU
Orlos*. 0f.58)                           0.50      (0.49        0.55       0.54        0.55       (0.66)      0.65       (0.60a
Portugal         0.10       (0.21)      0.21       (0.24)       0.24     (r.40)        0.26      (0.87        o.80       (0.85)
0.78 0.                 .   0.      78)       0.86       (0.76)
0.70       0.0         0740.
Fran"..                                                   _    0.8O        0.74 070i 0.7)                     0.         (0.7)
0.S0                   0.49                   0.75       0.
0.50       05)         0.40      (0.87)       0.40       0.:67
0.45        .6)        0.62        .7         0.67       0.6
UIet.4d Kie"n-                                                  0.28      (.)          0.8         .61)       0.88       (.a)
0.82      (0.48        0.85      (0.44)       0.87       (0.44)
Cauune                                                          0.28       r.a3       0:26        083)        0.26       a
0.14       0.16          16        .1)         .17
Notes  Ibr oor ss  as a  portlon   tlbot earni,ngs. 6letW. brackQtS,  2ho ratio formed by th. Yer 441iValent
menetary Vlalu of N_on-Was-Cot of laor and t.ho borly per c*ptIa nscom.
Soupe.: Itiver  (1999).



COLU DIOBIAL U IPJCIURIN6 DEVELORVENT PROJECT
TALE 2.1   AVOA  P        TT-A         TED  TAL lRElURATN RATES tN THE CLOTHI DOOT
CSUJL 1E1I'S f"I    CASUAL 101'S PATS          SI                PL IHIRT        FASOIEN   'S PANTS    ASC 11EN1S PAnTS
L16or        Ws    Pig.           We    Pl.           We9   PIt"          Ws      Plec         Ws    Pige           We    Pit"
Cot        Tie.     Cost       Time      Cost       Time     Cot         TIeS     Cost       Tim      eot         Tim      cost
-  115O  (VImn.)  Inde (V(Min) .S (V,)   Ind"                         (011.)   Index        (min.)   Index      (Ind.)     d
CoI.bl.             0.77        21.0      in u59               29o        87.5     toS 13.0             1          $559     IN         22.6      in
haled Stot"         7.55         7.0 t.              17.0     #2           7.4     106
Hw Kog              2.11         16.0    in          $54      tit         10.0    U11
Kom                 2.17         15.0      91        86.0     lo          19.0      70
Tatwan              1.71         16.0     136        86.0     i2          18.0    19                                                                  o
C.*taRlOs           1.SC                                                                                           16.0      95         20.I    1is
El Ss;vdor          0.03                                                                                           40.0      s          25.0      93
O*teue.             0.93                                                                       0.2 96 a
SoUTo0s Bston Comstis arosp, 1#9.



-131-
.COLOMBIA INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE 2.32s ESTIMATED LABOR FORCE CHANGES AFTER RESTRUCTURING
(in thousands of employees)
Restructuring
Currently         (year 5)         Net Change
AGROINDUSTRY
Fruits & Vegetables              10                  15                +5
Milk                              S5                                    0
Cocoa                             5                   5                 0
Furniture                         7                   8+1
TEXTILES & CLOTHING
Textiles                         46                  48                22
Clothing                        147                 191               +44  '2
LEATHER & SHOES
Tanning                            5                  3                -2
Leather Goods                      8                10                 +2
Shoes and other                   41                  49              + 8
IRON & STEEL
APDR                              5                   4                -i
Semi-integrated                  12                  12 1
VEHICLES & PARTS
Vehicle Assembly                  5                   5                 0
Parts                            15                  10                -S
TOTAL                   311                  365               +46
Notess
/Is Based upon rough estimates contained in subsector studies for IRDP
preparation.
12s Based upon most favorable scenario for restructuring policy
environment & support - low production input and final goods trade
protection (0-102 and 15-302 respectively), elimination of impott
surcharge (Law 75), institutional & infrastructural support for
exporting, labor policy cuanges to permit greater mobility, and
adequate technical aid "software" support for enterprises.



Tabte 2.33
IWSUTIAL RESTRUCUMIN  AMS DIVELOPNW  PROECT (I6DP)
TECEICAL  itVICE CONTRC PAYW1TS 4V ECOMIC ACTIVITY
(Touands of USSI
Sceter                                19?6   1977   l9XS    979    l9"o 1975    1979   190    1  19     4    19      196    198    19
Arwel.twre, %mtrye  a nmy             1496   1356      141    450    563    189    235    1529   3136   457           678   O591   1072
InsrilJlC            n               2S38   3480             3258   S099   5069   S30S   476   6243   43                6   527   5516
Feod,  evbes * Tdeo                 403     32?    401       612   lS     7S1    638   5s7        36S    246    S94    516    614
Textles, Clotbir & Leaher            37       48      42      70     103    569    65S      629      126     67    223      14?    244
Woods Predits                          4       S     228    284       47    141    284    33?        187    253    228    868       119
Papr Pro s89                                 443    467    938    973   1478    18s0    1456    1050   1628   1740   2149   2144
Che als SPetrol. DerivatIvs   Si?    739              78     74t   1S66   1064   1025    764    2960    923    157    SU6   1O55
Nl       lflin rls                    97    316      242     105    283    240       15's  452    536    300    610    755           69
"Sic btals                           390    1422     159     189    681    450    309    338    574    1188    219          102  - 1S4
Met Practs, MSchiry                  187    174      171    35m      289    379    389    323        437    217    185    1S3    1117
Other Nmfwturing tIndustries           8       6       2       2       0      0       0       0       0       11      0       1       0
Truponrti   & Comictation             3484    1243    10S1     9n    3850   4984   8470  30959  50054  39123  51877 I       S8   40936
Otber                                 8731    6821    3469   6989   117S   24f29  29094  43192  65004  93217  91881  75811  61374
Total                                11269  10301    6459   10156   16474  29201   34399  4806    71247  98050  95837  81068  6890
Soarce: Uanco delt RlP WIca



_t         I Xt  3 FiI 
j       I           £  "|oS    
o' XXo      I.lw         
_   45 i    4|NO!   
o  §  t*    ugui.,o.oa   # 
.~    I    



-134-
COLOMBIA INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3 1s Estimated Enterprise and Subsector Restructuring Investment
For Subsectors Studied During Project Preparation
(in millions of SUS equivalent)
Total             Total
Sector                                         1991-93           1991-95
1) Agroindustry 11
Fruits & Vegetables                            66.3              66.3
Dairy                                          28.7               28.7
Cocoa                                           2.9                2.9
Wood Furniture                                 25.0               25.0
Sub-total                                   122.9              122.9
2) Textiles & Clothing
Textiles (hardware)                           142.5              236.5
Clothing (hardware)                            31.0               97.5
Textiles & Clothing (Eat. software)             2.3                6.4
Textiles & Clothing (SS software)              15.1               42.7
Sub-total                                   190.9             383.1
3) Leather & Shoes
Slaughterhousos                                14.4              24.0
Tanning                                        21.6               36.0
Shoes                                          25.8             - 43.0
Leather goods                                   7.2               12.0
Sub-total                                    69.0              115.0
4) Iroan & Steel                                  60.0              100.0
5) Vehicle Assembly & Parts
Vehicles                                       40.0               60.0
Parts                                          36.0              66.0
Sub-total                                    76.0              126.0
Total Estimated
Restructuring Investments         -              518.8              847.0
Not"sI
1 Complementary agricultural investments for aSgroindustrial
restructuring are estimated at $US 126.



-135-
IMP ANNEXES



-136 *-
fl*Dten a~of a=   I
Zadustrlal Subsector Studtes
1)   8chmatlc DescrLptLon of Main outputs and AudLenoe
2)   Agwoindstry
3)   ?sxti4le  and Clothin
4)   Leather an  Shoes
5)   Stoel
6)   Vehcles Assembly and Parts



-137--
AM= 1
Industria  Subeestor StudieL
Schematic DescrLgt&on of &lal Outiutg and Audiees
Study Output                               Uain Audience
.thdsty Financier GCov't Polic
& TA flrm
; A. International Competitiveness Diagnostic
1. Comparative product cost, design, quality,  X           SS
delivery & service
2. Raw materials - quality and price                            Trade, price
3. Labor cost                                   xxZ               -Labor
o     wages. and non-wage, benefits
o     skills & training
a     operator productivity
o     redundancy
4. Capital cost                                 Xra
o     import tariffs                                            Trade
o     interest rates                                          Fin. Sector
o     energy costs
o     capacity utilization
o     equipment productivity (age,
technology design, maintenance)                          Technology
S. Organization & management                    xx*        XZx
S. Quality control, marketing & dist*n          mX                 Standards
7. Public support systems - tranportation,.    xx                Infras'ture
coumunications, import-export admin.,etc          .           Evironment
B 3. Product and Market Prospects i
1. International markets                        xXX         XZZ
o     size and growth trends
o     product differentiation
o     competing countries
2. Comparative adantages                        XXX         XXX
I C. Indicative Subsector Restructuring Strategy |
1. Product and market mix                       xXX         xxx
2. Enterprise operation4a restructuring -       xxx         xxx
changes in organization, technology.
labor force, export orientation, etc.
3. Enterprise financial 'restructuring          XX          XXX
4. Enterprise investments - hardware/software  xxx         sxx
5. Subsector level investments - tecbnology,   xxx          xX
training, export promotion, etc.
6. Public policy and institutional adjustments                        XX
7. Socic-economic benefits                                           Zxx



-130-
AX L
Page 1 of 41
TeAMaftstr1:y WM""40
1.          Two product groups in the agroindustry sector were initially selected
by the Ministry of Econosic Development for intensive study and analyslss fruits
and vegetables, fluid milk and mllk products. other agroindustry activities that
are suitable for restructuring analysis include aquaculture, seat processing, and
the packaging industrles.
5. 8tructure and Performance
2.          The processing industry is principally comprised of small and medium-
size firms engaged in diverse product lines.  The larger-size firms are
concentrated in a more limited product range including primarily tomato sauce,
juices of various kinds, and soups. A recent survey ldentified ome 54 principal
F&V prccessors including a core group of about 25 well-established companies.
However, five processors shared 93 percent of the total value of production
during 1981-86, a high concentration in this subqroup.
3.          On the basis of a representative sample survey by DANE, the F&V
processing group showed a negative growth rate of -9.7 percent over the 1980-86
period. In 1980, the FY&V group (ISIC group 3113) represented 2.0S percent of the
value added of the food manufacturing sector (major group 311-312) but this share
had declined to 0.49 percent in 1986. I nvestments in plant and equipment in 1986
were also reported to be at the same level as in 1980. Since 1986, however, new
processing operations have come into existence in the fields of fruit juices,
pulp and concentrates for the export market. Characteristically, the industrial
plants are concentrated in or near to the principal urban aras.  The survey
places 22 processors in Bogota and Cundinamarca, 3 in Manizales, 2 in Pereira,
12 in Medellin, 10 in Cali-Valle, 4 in Barranquilla and 1 in Bucaramanga.
Proximity to market, available infrastructure, acceptable living conditions for
workers and management -- all have a role ln plant site selectior.
4.          A characteristic of the industry, also derived from the sample
survey, is the low level of backward integration to farm production. Only two
of the 24 firms surveyed participated directly in primary production of farm raw
materials. Generally speaking, only the largest lovcessors in a limited number
of products, e.g., tomato, peas, young corn, e*.rcise special dealings with
growers including contract purchases at pre-established prices, working capital
advances, technical assistance and post-harvest crop collection. It may be
mentioned that certain crops (e.g., industrial variety tomatoes) demand a specLal
relationship between grower and processor.   The crop would not be grown
otherwise, since no viable alternative market exists.                      1
5.  L       For comparison purposes, processed foods may be divided between
traditional products, their form and packaging, and more recent emerging products



-139-
Page 2 of 41
and processing technology.   In the first gxoup -- tomato sauce, pickles,
asparagus, peas, beans, pineapple, peaches, jams and marmlades, preserved or
dried and packaged in cans, bottles, jars, plastic - production reacbhd 20,000
tons in 1986 valued at 5,170 million pesos almost the same level of production
as 1980. However, more than 70 percent of production was dominated by three
products -- tomato sauce (38%), marmalade (225%) and peas (10.8%). On the other
hand, non-traditional export-oriented products including dried tropical fruits,
frozen fruit pulp, fruit juices and concentrates reached a production level of
17,700 tons in 1986 valued at 1,800 million pesos. The rate of growth over the
1980-86 period was an impressive 21 percent.
Dar
6.         The dairy industry is defined as the production of crude or raw-milk,
pasteurized milk, milk powder or powdered milk, and milk products such as cheee,
butter, yogurt and ice cream. In real terms, the value of production grew an
average 3.7 percent in the' period 1971-1986 although with sharp priods of
decline and growth influenced to a large degree by changes in GOC price policies
and regulations. Price controls over liquid iLlk also stimulated the rapid
growth of sub-products, particularly cheese.   In 1988, pasteurized ailk
represented 39.9 percent of liquid milk usage, sub-products 37.9 percent, crude
milk 15.3 percent and powdered mllk 6.9 percent. 'n 1980, Colombia imported 5 8
percent of their dairy requir _ nts. Zn 1988, c ficial imports were nil.
7.       - According to a 1986 DAS survey, there were 97 registerd dairy
producers in the country, or 8.5 percent of all registered companies in the food
industry, based on 10 employees or more. Direct mployment exceeded 8,000
persons.  Net profits of the industry declined considerably during the early
19808 due in part to higher financial costs and taxes. A recent sampling
indicates, however, strong interest in new investments tn equipment, processing
machinery, and transport.
8.         Crude milk production increased an average 6.1 percent during the
1980-88 period, far exceeding population growth rate of 2.2 percent.  This
impressive growth is attributed to a combination of factors:   (a) the
transformation of the cattle herd from predominant beef cattle to dual purpose
animals ("double proposito') -- for beef and dairy production, (b) advances .n
genetic breeding, (c) improved pastures, (d) more widespread use of feed
concentrates, (e) improved collection and storage of raw milk.
9.         With the exception of several multinational-owned powdered milk
establishments, the dairy industry is preddminantly coiombian-owned. Installed
capacity for paateurized milk is about five million liters daily based on one
shift operations, but utilized capacity is estimated at about 55 percent overall
but higher during the heavy far production seaeons. Approximately 50 percent of
pasteurization capacity is located int eh Bogota region. Mine companies share
38 percent of national capacity including the largest who has 10 percent of total
installed capacity.
10.        Powdered milk production is concentrated in even fewer hands. tour
companies make up 78 percent of installed capacity in the country. Although
installed capacity is substantially underutilized during most of the year, it is



-140.
Page 3 of 41
still generally insuffioient to hanle and process the large surplus available
during the heavy mil producng seaons.
11.        During the 1980-89 period, consumption pf pasteurLsed mik showed an
impresslve aerage annual rate of growth of 12.5 percent. Milk products grw by
5.2 percent but crude milk and industrLalized milk fell 3.4 and 4.7 p       t
respectively. Per caplta fluid .llk consumption is estimated at 57.5 liters/year
which is the highest in Latin America.
C. !n-tenationa  Coemetitvens. - Weaknesse, and straths
Fruits and Vjaetables
12.        Colombia enjoys the advantage of a variety of micro-climatic
conditions which has allowed the cultivation of about 34 types of vegetables and
29 different fruits -  with few exceptions, all are orieated to the domestic'
market. The potential for carving a niche in foreign madkets has given rise to
an intensive program, led by PROXmPO in conjundtion with PBCAI3 and SCA, to
enhance the development of selected fruits using modern cultivation practices,
technology and inputs. By 1988, the program had encompassed 14 fruLt types on
8,200 hectares or 25 percent of the total fruit planted area in the country.
13.        A major impediment to development of fresh frult exports is the
presence of the Mediterranean fruit fly in the country, and the banning of,
imports into Florida (major transhipment area). Consequently, Colombia has
focused their attention on the IMC market which now absorbs about 70 percent of
the country's fresh fruit exports. On the other hand, geographic diatance alon
would seem to militate against any substantial exports of freh vegetables to.
turope. The US appears the natural market for winter vegetables and high value
crops such as broccoli and asparagus.
14.        adoptive research of different varieties of vegetables and trals of
post-harvest treatment appear to be lacking. Dissemination of information to the
agricultural community has been limited.  On the public 'sector side, this
responsibility has rested almost entirely with Ica.
15.        Processors identify limited raw materials Supply and erratic qualLty
as major problems confronting the industry since the procesesng industry is
competing with the fresh market.   AA extension of the PROXPO/FZDXCAU*
diversification program to the processing industry would sem t logical step to
stimulate the development of selected crops and products. Post-harvest losses
for some crops such as mango and avocado appear exceptionally high at 30 porcent
and 26 percent respectively.
16.        Custome duties of 25 percent or more on imported machinery and
equipment are factors in investment plans for modernization of factories.  tn
addition, investors must contend with an 18 percent surtax oni the CIF value of
imports and a sales tax of 10 percent calculated on the CIXr value plus the
custome duties and surtax.



-141-
Page 4 of 41
17. *The ag  of qulpment in the processing plants surveyed  varied
considerably fro  5 to over 20 years old,,  he aemL-automatiLa  technology
utilized la a reflectLon of the average medium-scale nature of factory
operations.  Only one factory, prodecng froen french fied potatoes, wm
observed to be equipped to process 1Qr products (indLvidual qulck frozen).
18.,       Two instLtutLons Ln the country offer technical assistane to the
processng inLdustry. The Instltuto de Investlgaclones TeconlogLeas (2IT) Ls
reported to operate pllot plants for JuLce concentrate, frozen frult and drled
foods.  IIT has also undertaken feasibility studles and laboratory sample
analyses. The InstLtuto Colomblano de Alimentos (ICTA) alo operated pilot
plants for juices, jams, preserved frults and vegetables. Unfortunately, the
servLes of these instltutions are underutliLsed and this is attributed to the
fact that their serviess are not wldely known and/or the institutions lack the
confldence of the prooessing Lndustry.
19.        IXT has been particularly hard hLt by an exodus of experienced food
technologists. Technology transfer, therefore, would sem to be a major gap ln
the development of the proceseing industry although the large processing
companies are sound enough flnancially, to mount their own research and
developmnt (R&D) program.
20.        TransportatLon is a principal area of concern for export-orLented
busLnesses.   For perlhables, this means the availablILty of suffLcient
refrigerated containers,during the harvest seasons. Ocean freLght rates appear
relatively hlgh (rates to 8urope are lower than to U8. last Coast ports), and
exporters universally complain that 'bureaucratic" management of port facilities
by. the GOC entity 'COLPU3RT0" has resulted in higher shipment and handling costs
as well as delays in port.   Shipments by air from  Bogota to Europe are
constrained by the limited flights and space available. In thls regard, fresh
fruLts must compete with cut-flowers whL.h pay a 70 percent higher air freight
rate. Lastly, the country lacks a container port torminal and heavy lift
equLpmnt for on-loading of container cargo on ocean-goLng contaLner vesels.
21.        The dairy lndustry ln Colombia, as in most developing countrles, is
dometLc-oriented.  Seldom are sufficient surpluses generated to foru the
foundation for an export lndustry.  The dairy product most heavily traded
lnteraationally is milk powder. World commorce in 1980 represented 60 percent
of world production.   For Colombia, the sole product with any chance of
generating a level of export earnings is also milk powder. Local prices however,
are eatrmated to exceed international prlces by about 23 percent.
.22.       The gaps in international competitiveness are both internal and
external. The competitive position of .the lndustry, from the intirn4A side,
reflects the stream of activlties starting froc cattle productlon u- Ito GO¢
polLeLos affectLag farm production and industrial processing.  It would be
foolish, however, to  cite  basic  or long-term  shortcoings as gape to
international competltiveneas.  8Liply stated, Col1mbla doe not enjoy any
inherent comparative advantage ln dairy products. Externally, as long as the SEC



-142.
Page 5 of 41
and the V.8. continue to subsidize dalry exports Lncluding subsidLLd credit,
there seems little opportunitLes for Colombia ln the world mrket.
D. Domestic and Internationmal Marke Propat
Fruits and Vectable
23.         There has been a declded lncrease ln demand for fresh fruits,
vegetables and juLces in the NBC and the U.S. ainee 1980. On a lower scale, the
market in Japan also has shown subotantLal gains. Changing consumer tastes,
increased health and dLetary concerns, growaing consumptLon of foods outeLde the
home have contributed to the growLng demand for fresh frult and vegetable
products.
24.         The ESC market, the largest saigle market in the world for fresh
fruit  and vegetables, presents  speclal problem   for ColombLa.    Strong
protectionist measures, internal subsLdLes, the Lome convention, Spain's entry
into the EEC, tridltlonal suppliers in the Sahara and Middle East rim,
comparative disadvantages ln transportation -- all mliltate against the
development of a dynamic trade to the EEC ln traditLonal fresh fruits and
vegetables. Righ value tropical fruits would have a better chance, either by
fast ocean transportation or air freLght - already evident in the present
direction of trade -- as pointed out, 70 percent of ColombLa's frult exports go
to Europe.
25.         in Japan, Colombla is competing with Paciflc rlm countries for
tropical fruits (Philippine exports of plneapple and bananas to Japan in 1987
exceeded US$73 mllion) and vegetables (over USS70 mllion in 1987 from Northt and
South Xorea and China) at well as the U.S., Brazil, Mexico and other countries
for juices and vegetables.
26.         The US "winter vegetable" market would seem to offer the best
opportunity for ColombLa in the fresh vegetable trade. Although the US is free
of protectlonlst measures, Colombia must reach out to higher and sustainable
standards of quality, and improve and develop the linkages in the agribusiness
chaln -- selectlon of seed varieties, adoptlve research, cultivation practices
and technology, post harvest treatment, storage, transportatlon to port, ocean
transportatLon and U.S. marketing. An important element in thls trade would be
the development of close ties wlth U.S. importers/marketers, many of whom are
active and providing technical assistance to growers ln competina
Caribbean/Mexico/Central Amerlcan countries. The presence of the Mediterranean
frult fly La also a detrLment to expand trade from Colombla to the U.S. for frssh
fruits and further investigation of thls Lisue seems in order.
27.         on the processed aide, Colombia's best opportunities Ile in frozen
fruits and vegetables and in juLce concentrates.  In the U.8., frozen vegetable
consumptlon has contlnued to rtie ln contrast to the decline ln canned
vegetables. on the U.S. import sLde, frozen broccoll and frozen cauliflower
dominate the lit, but much is attributed to U.S. multinational investment
operations. The j-.ice trade has shown dynamlc growth over recent years including
non-traditional troplcal frults such as papaya, mango, guava and passion fruit.



-143--
AarroLndstMy
Page 6 of 41
Advances in aSeptic packaging technology will facilitate rising international
trade in juices.
28.         In Colombia'  domestic market, fresh fruits and vegetables represent
a small portion of the family food basket. while per capita consumption of freah
frults has lncreased about 5.8% over the 1980-88 period, there has been a slight
decline in fresh vegetable consumption. The fluctuations in consumption patterns
may be indLcatlve of seasonal shortages and higher prices.
Da i
29.         The Colombia dairy lndustry, as expected, La focused on the domestic
market. Of 62 firms lnterviewed, only two has actually exported Ln the past.
The dairy ladustry ln Colcmbla, as in most developLng countrLes in the tropical
and sub-tropical zones, has negligible export potential. The sole exception in
Colombia is powdered milk. Although the local product is preooently uncompetitive
with international prLces, a relaxation of CCC prlce regulatLons might facillitate
utilization of surplus crude milk during the heavy production seaon into the
productLon of milk powder, for export to neighboring net importer countries.
Another alternative put forward is the channeling of lower priced surplu crude
mLlk into production of UHT package milk.
U. * Idicativ  kestructurlngad DeveloMaLet Sateav
Wruts and Veaptable.
30.         Export-oriented n&V products, both fresh and processed, are at an
LneLpient stage of development. Many weaknegses in the food production and
marketing chaLn are evident, and point to the need for various actions In order
to substantLally improve the efficiency, competitiveness, export and domestic
potential of the 1x group of products.  The proposed restructuring strategy
encompasses four principal comp_onns as described belows
I.    Ao1matuan  rQiaetXiga
a)    Increase the cultivation of selected otops for both the fresh market
overseas and the local procassing industryl
b)    Restructure and strengthen ICA as a R&D institution;
e)    WacLlitate technology tranfer and technLcal assistance to this
subsector from both internal and foreign sources;
d)    Provide bank lines of cr"eit, wlth flexible terms, taking into
consideration the gestation periods and risks of non-traditional
crops;
e)    Upgrade phytosanitary control capabilities includLng a program to
eradicate the Nediterranean fruit fly;



-144-
Agtn
Page 7 of 41
f)    Establish an "Information CsAter", which will have acecs to the
results and information derived from the work undertaken by various
instltutLons and organlzations of both a technological and marketing
nature, and disseminate such information to the food and
agricultural community;              I
g)   Establish nurseries for selectod seedlings Ln key production zoese.
XI.   InfraatructurA
a)   Cargo space on airlinee servLag the E8C and Japan are limited. An
action plan is required to assure the availabillty of sufficient
flights and/or space to accommodate projected increased exports of
perishable products.
b)   Availability of refrigerated containers must keep pace with rising
production and export of perishable products. The Lssu of bank
loan financing to established local manufacturers requIres further
investigation;
c)   Additional cold storage warehouse space will be required in the
coming years, particularly in the Atlantic ports and princlpal
airports. Private sector ownership should be an objective.
d)   The restructuring plan includes the financing of a contaLner
terminal in Cartagena. At presentt Colombia lacks a port contaiper
tereinal and adequate heavy lift equipment.   ln general, the
country's port operations are bureaucratLcally managed and
inefficient which adversely afftas the country's export potential
and private sector perception of investment opportunities.
e)    The construction ad equipping of five collection center/packing
houses for freoh fruits and vegetables in the Bogota, CIli,
Medellin, Pereira and Santa Marta areas ha been necmmended.
Feasibility  studles,  Lncluding  the' issues  of ownership  nd
managent, seem a logical next step.
2I1. zndustrial A2ct
a)   Establish a credit line to finacm  on the enterprise lVeOl neW
equipment for modern food processing and packaging facilities, e.g ,
aseptic bulk packaging and freesing eqipment for frosen foods, as
well as new equipment to replace obsolescent food processing
equipment in exLeting factories.
b)   Establish a unifom qality gradig system.
c)   Revise and lower current custom  duties on imports of capial
equipment as a necessary step to modernise the food processaing
industry.



-145-
Page 8 of 41
4)    Schedule the gradual reduction of present custome duties on Imported
processed foods as a means of stimulating the restructuring and
modernisation of the local domestic-oriented procesasng industry.
IV.  *tltuona l * -RsJgmeL
a)   A key element ln the total restructuring plan concerns the
strengthening of existing instLtutions - ICR on the R&D production
leveli IZ and ICTA on the processing R&D leveli PROEXPO to carry
out foreign trade promotion and provide timely and significant
services to interested organixations, producers, traders and
exporters in Colombia.
Tentative estimatedinvestment costs
Es veak_
Farm production credit                              5.2
I= fruit culture'                                  30.0
Plant protection -
eradication program                               4.2
Information center                                  2.0
Cold storage warehouse                              4.0
Collection e nters -
packing house                                     4.0
Credit-replace obsolescent
factory equipment                                 2.0
Credit-install modern
proceseinglpackaging line                        30.0
PAD processed food,y
TOTAL                                           11.4
DaLuy
31.        The general objectives of the restructuring plan are to maiatain the
growth in the production of fresh milk, raise pr-capita consuwption of dairy
products, improve the productivity of the dairy processing industry, develop the
mlk powder industry, and improve the quality of dalry products. The principal
rograms envisaged to accomplish these objectives are summarized below.
I In addition to above, the consultants preparing the study have included
two large items US$30 mlllion for construction of refrigerated containors and
US$15.8 million for a container terminal In Cartagena.



-146-.
Page 9 of 41
I.    XncXease the nroductivitv of the dairy herd
a)    The plan envisages the introduction2 and development of varLous
breeds of cattle of proven high productivity, including artificial
insemination and embryo transplant.
b)    Intensive grow-out system. including improved pastures,  forage
production integrated with on-farm silo storage.
c)    Strengthen programs for the eradication of hoof and mouth dlsease.
d)    Develop new favorable production areas that would include the
inAtallation of fully-equipped milk collection centers in key
locations.
e)    Provide investment credit on flexible and long-term basis.
f)    Eliminate customs duties on imports of agricultural machinery and
other inputs required for the cattle productLon program.   The
program is tentatively estimated to cost US$66 million covering
machinery/equipment, fences goods and activities related to improved
pastures, animal husbandry and reproduction. Again, a strengthened
ICA is signalled as the institution responsible for the tasks
required for technology transfer, control of animal health and R&D
activities.
II. Raise the comyetitiveness of the nrocessnau lndustry
a)   Devise  a program  to  raise the  competitiveness of the milk
pasteurization industry in the Bogota plain. The cost of this
program is estimated at US$65 million including a -credit line of
US$4 million for enterprises in the modernization of their plants,
a new UHT plant, and technical asLsitance and training.
b)    Devise a program to establish grade standards for pasteurized milk
and products such as cheese. -
c)    Devise a program to develop the small and medium-scale industries
engaged in manufacture of milk products, such eA cheese and yoghurt.
The cost of this pro4ram is estimated at US$l.5 million over a five
year period including training in processing technology, product
handling, quallty control and administratLon.
d)   Devise a program that would foster the expansion of existing
powdered milk processors or encourage the establishment of new
facilities in various regions of the country, particularly in
regions free of the hoof and mouth disease.
2 Colombia has been involved ln dual-purpose productlon and cross-breeding
for many years. See World Bank publication, "Livestock Development in Latin
America' by Lovell S. Jarvls, Page 65, "Dual Purpose Production*.



-147-
aarolndustrv
Page 10 of 41
e)    The issue of official price regulation for fluid milk impacts on
development plans to raise production and per-capita consumption, as
well as revitalizing the processing industry and strengthening
quality standards and enforcement efforts.   initially,  it is
proposed that two grades (or three) of pasteurized milk be
sanctioned under official quality specifications, and that price
control over raw milk and pasteurized milk is subsequently removed.
f)    programs directed at raising domestic consumption of dairy products
will in turn strengthen the competitiveness of the local processing
industries. Particularly, GOC efforts should be directed towards
low income regions. of the country as well as "school lunch"
programs.    A  consumption  target  of  168  liters  per  capita,
nationwide, has been recommended.
Tentative Estimated Project Costs
(5 year period)
USSAmillion
Dairy herd improvement-credit line                   66.0
Study of pasteurization operation on
enterprise level in Bogota plain                    .16
Technical assistance & training re
pasteurization plants in Bogota plain               2.0
Modernization of pasteurization
industry credit line                                4.0
Possible UHT facility-credit                         2.25
Pre-feasibility study to determine
appropriate sites for new powdered
milk plants                                          .1
Credit to finance construction of
possible new milk powder plants
Technical assistance and training
program to assist the development
of small/medium scale industry
engaged in the manufacture of
milk products                                       1,5
TOTAL                                          US$76.01
The above summary purposefully has omitted the sam of US$200 million
stipulated by the consultants towards the eradication of the hoof
and mouth disease.



-148-
Page 11 of 41
Industrial Rextueurin  aad Dmvelomet Prieo
Textile and  ClUt   Rube"
A. Int2uftagn
1.         The textile industry is Colombias leadLng manufacturlng sub-sector
providing job opportunities to about 75,000 workforce, and accounting for about
10.5% of the gross industrial production.   Various other key indicators,
expreased as a percentage of the total manufacturing sector, are given below3
share of textile industry   -
India2g                    as -% of manufactugino sector
(i)  persons eployed                         7.45
(ii)  basLe wage and salaries                13.95
(iLL)  gross produetion                       10.50
(iv)  aggregate production value             11.45
(v)  onergy consumed                        13.50
2.         The textile industry of Colombia has expanded steadily since WWIr to
reach an installed capacity of 940,000 spindles, 11,400 rotors, and 10,471 looms
capable of producing about 92,000 tons of yarn and 4S mllion meters of cloth
per annum respectively. The lidusty. has also expanded to encompas synthetic
fiber manufacturing, woolen   and worsted fabric meaufacturing, dying and
finishing, knitting, and garment manufacturing.
3.         Nearly 80% of these establishmnts are located in and around the
three major cities of Colombia: Medellin, Dogota, and Cali.  More generally,
cotton and blended fiber-based plants are concentrated in ebdellin, wool-based
plants in Cali, and the synthetic fiber-based plants in Bogota. ln terms of
amployment share, ledellin empioy about S1% of the textile industry labor,
Bogota 21%, Cali 7%, and the re t of Colombia about 20%.
- cturw and Perfgan
4.         Ther are over 500 textile plants in Colombia, alost entirely in
the prlvate sector..  Yarn zziLno is Gone In 32 spinning plants, and 48
integrated plants.  Cloth rnufact4rina is  accomplished In 81 plants (33
weaving, and 48 integrated). 3 chin. dvina. ad fngshi   is undertaken in
about 50 plants. 9enWALg is the largest sub-sector in terms of number of
enterprises (about 5,000), and employment (100,000).  There are 3 plants for
manufacturinLg a..tJtI.   lno/f ilAg"gS polyester, nylon and acetate.



-149-
Page 12 of 41
S.         The textile sector is cheacterLse  by a handful of large-aLsed
itegrated plants, and a very laqgo nber of smal-sle  plants. for xaaple,
nearly 6S% of the total installed splndles are ocentrated in 11 plants, each
ln excess of 40,000 spindles. The other 35% of the spindles ie shared by the
rmaLning 70 plants. Lkews, o   80 of te weaving capacity is Listalled ln
12 plants, each in excess of 500 loam.  The remaining 20% of the weaving
capacity Ls divlded betwen 69 small, mostly one-operation, plants. Many of the
small spiLnnag plants have les than 10,000 spLndles, and weaving plants l"e
than 100 Io0m. In the area of fabric dyeing, printing, end fLnishag, expting
for the capa¢lty installed in the integrated plants, the sub-setor le largly
fragmented. Despite lts size, the garment sub-sector, wLth S,OOO plants and an
average employmnt of 20 person pwr plantf ie highly fragmented.
6.         Colombia is a major producer of raw cotton, which glves the textile
industry a greater orlentatlin towards cotton textile maufacturing, altbough ln
the recent years the consumption of synthetLc flbere ha steadily increased --n
keeping with the international trend - due to the increasing consume preference
for synthetLc/blended fabrics. lriber consumption pattern of the Colombian textile
sector, for 1986, Le sumaarized below.
Annal consumptioAn         76         55            4
(,000 tonnes)
-    of total consumption   55      39           3
7.         Although the production of raw cotton ln Colombi ha -fluctuated
widely in the past (1976: 142,000 tons; 1982i 52,000 tons), It has of late
stabilized at around 130,000 tons, and due to surplus productiLo, can export
about 60,000 tons per year. Colombia hs also productin capo lty in plow for
polyester, nylon and cellulosic fibers. But there b no productLon capabliLties
for acrylie fibers. The following table summarizes the production, anid lports
of varieties of man-made/synthetLc fibers for 1988.



-150-
A= I
Page 13 of 41
TAi 2
D=STC  ODUCIOI AND !O   OF VAR=ZRTIE  OF 1t
( ,000 tons)
poit    _Nrlon    alulaois ACiLt  Ng"
Fiber Filament
Production     12.0    22.0      8.0      2.0        --       --
Imports         3.S     0.3      -        3.0        10.0    3.0
8.           Beten 1980-8S, the Colombian textile sector went through a
dWressed phase due to a sharp decline in cotton production and coneqent
Lncrease of cotton prices and ultimately the manufacturing costs. Furthermore,
due to the inability of the sector to diversify Lts product- base to meet the
changing consWur preferences, and the price competition from the illegal
Imports, a large number of plants closed down. The following table reflects the
decline of textile operations during the early '80.
ZNU4 3
TEXTILE SECmOR O2MRAMIMNS DURING EARLY 1"8Om
Operatiag Plants (no.)         494     500      426      421
Employment (no.)            75,374  71,891   52,722   51,000
Production
Cotton Yarn (motot) .           82      70       39       51
Cotton Cloth (a.mtrs)          3S7     309      205      271
9.         Because of dwindling profits, tight liquidity position, and most
importantly the rigid labor legislations that discouraged labor retrenchment and
made labor rationalisation-cost prohibitlve, the plant rehabilitation efforts
were  sLgnificantly  reduced.    The  following  table  reflects  the  tardy
rehabilitation efforts during 1976-85.



-151-
Page 24 of 41
TA 4
RNMIaELTATION UIVR'S IN -UXI~LU SECTOR URMN  1976-8I
installed        of whlch
Capacity       Rehabilitated      % capacity
1985 and     igrbd g 197§6-S§   PwhakJS±t  d
figinnLna
spindles (no.)           950,000           95,200              10.0
Rotors  (no.)             11,400            11,400 a/          100.0
Overall Spinning Rehabilitation                                 14.S
Weaving
Shuttlelooms (no.)        13,380              201               1.5
Shuttleless looms          1,540            1,S40 a/          100.0
Overall weaving rehabilitation                                  11.7
a/ All installed during this period.
igircet  ITMF, Switzerland.
10.        In the last three years, the operation of the industry has
significantly improved with the improve _nt in raw cotton output (in 1987/88,
it was 134,000 tons). As a result of easy access to cotton -- the most used raw
material for the industry -- the yarn production reached a new hlgh in the decade
at 90,000 tons in 1987 -- an increase of 33% over the previous year, and the
cloth production at 42S million meters registering an increase of 44%.   The
rehabilitation efforts were revived in the more efficient plants.
11.        As mentioned in para 9, the rehabilitation efforts ln the Colombian
sector in the past had been deficient. As a result, the industry has remained
largely unupdated. Attachment 1 reflects the industry-wide age-profile of the
textile machinery. In f1inln  and weaving, nearly 60% of the equipment is over
20 year old. In particular, the preparatory equipment are relatively older and
low productive. But for 11,400 open-end rotors in spinning, and 201 shuttleles
loam in weaving, the remaining equipment could be termed as conventional. In
weaving, there is a overwhelmingly high concentration of conventional, out-dated,
and narrow- width shuttle Iomw. The following table compares the percentage of
shuttle looms in a few selected countries.



-152-
AXML
Page 1S of 41
ZLI"
kiaLL  MUW   irnA  -UL   finia U.S.A
shuttle
Looms       86       83      68    so       40    29       21
(% of total)
12*        fabric blemhL. dine. and gntna subsector In also equLpp
with conventional, narrow-width, and energy inefficient equipment. as a reult,
_lke La the spinning and weaving, the machine ad labor productivity levels are
low. IZX uS a ai    no subector is characterised by plants which are too
smll La siae to beneft frm scales of operation. The garment making plants,
with a few exceptions  are less mchazied and, thefore, highly labor
intensive. J g     lants have a high prerentage of conventiona equipment.  Zn
partlcular, the   ratory   ipmt  are advanced in age.                   the
"woolen top" making plants are sub-scale ia tem of else, and hence not cost
effective.
C.  D Mk9LPLLUM
13.        Doepite  ts proximity to U.8.A/Canada, and a relatively low wage
structure, Colombia is not a big exporter of textiles and garments. In the
pre"nt state, Colombia is not price-competitive due to the following major
roesns, (L) dometic price  of cotton being higher than the international
ptLces of equivalent-qulity cotton, (L) low machine and labor productivity,
(iLL) quality-related problems due to high concentration of advanced-aged
equLpment, (iv) high level of duties/taxes on imported equipment and esseatLal
inputs, nd (v) high cost of capital. The following table cempares the average
Colombia cost of maufacture for cotton yarn and grey cloth, with a fw selected
textlle exporting countries (se Attachnt 2 for detailed cost break-down).
(US$ per Kg.)
(i)  Cotto  Tarn.  2.5     2.1       2.2       .7     2.5      2.9
(ii)  ory cloth    3.7      4.1       4.6     5.7      5.7      S.9



-153-
Pag 16 of 41
14.         In contrast, garment sanufacturSag subseator sems to be having
competitiveness with the South 3ast-Asian countrles-major players in tho garmnt
exporting field-on account of rolativoly lower wages. But Colombia has a stiff
competition with the Caribbean countrles, where labor wages are still lower.
Table 7 compares the average garmenting cost ln Colombia wlth some of the garment
exporting countries.
(US$ Per piece)
DoM.Reg. C. Rica HN&W ¢Q   Tata   SoooX Coloxbda
(i) sport shirt      0.26      0.39     0.60   0.59       0.70      0.58
(il) Men's trouser    0.65      1.00     1.22    1.38      1.59      1.18
15.       The existing cotton pricing and marketing policy in Colombia is
irrational. The domestic prSce of raw cotton is, lsmost always, higher than the
international price of equivalent cotton. since cotton is the most used raw
material for the Colombian textile industry, and lt accounts for nearly 50% of
yarn and 3S% of fabric cost, the price of raw cotton is a major detetminant of
the export competitiveness of the industry. The Governeant s cotton prLcing
policy needs to be reviewed. Furthermore, the present cotton grading mechanism
is deficient. The price of cotton, particularly the short-stapled, need to be
determined in line with quality and grade. It appears that Colombian textlle
industry has a competitive edge in exporting coar_s-count yarns provided the
price of raw material is right.
16.         The existing labor laws have made it difficult for the textile
industry to rationalize its labor force and adapt new technologLes.
Consequently, the industry is carrying about 20% excess labor than required for
its operations. It is particularly hard for the older, large-sized enterprwies
to rationalize labor. Any restructuring effort for the industry must include iA
the agenda a thorough review of the labor legislation, and wage structure.
17.         The  Colombian  textile  industry  'i  characterized  by  heavier
concentration of installed capacity in a few plants, and a fragmented capacity
in a large number of uneconomic-sized plants. The typical exampl is the
knitting and garmntin  subsector. Despite being competitive, it is unable to
show a better export performance due to its inability to accept large export



-154-
AN=B 
Page 17 of 41
orders, gLven a highly fragmented and dLiorganized setup. It appears that there
is a case for expansion/merger of uneconomic-sized plants to benefit from the
scales of operation. on the other hand, a few of the lntegrated plants are too
expanded ln iLso to be capable of being managed efficiently.
18.        A very significant portion of the spinning, weaving, and fabric
finlihing capacity is run-down, low productive, and qualLty ineffLcLent. The
preparatory equlpment ln spLnning and weaving need to be updated. All the ring
frames beyond 15 year age, need to be replaced with updated equLpment.   The
lndustry is carryLng too many lneffclient, narrow-width weaving looms. There is
a need to replace these with the wide-width, state-of-the-art shuttleless looms.
simultaneously, cone winding should be updated with yarn splLers. Finishing
plants are, by and large, discontinuous, batch-type, and inefficient In term of
consumption of dyes/chemicals. These plants need to be updated with continuous
bleaching, and dyeing (thermosol). With rehabLlitation the sector could become
cost effectlve, and develop export competitiveness.
19.        Given the steady increase in polyester flber/filament consumption,
this reasonably efficlent subsector could be expanded. On the other hand, the
nylon manufacturing capacity in the country seems to have exceeded the potential
demand.
20.        Export marketing management for the sector in place, is deficient.
Most enterprises, due to their siLes and the costs involved, can not afford an
independent export marketing set up, and hence do not have access to information
on international market trends. Creation of an effective centralized marketing
setup, to aasiLt the entire sector in export marketing efforts, with one-time
governmental support is necessary. The running cost of the set-up could be met
through contrLbutions from the industry.
21.        Absence of a centralLsed Research and QualLty-control set-up for the
size of the industry, as in Colombia, is a major surprLe. This explains the low
concern for quality in a large number of smaller plants, which cannot afford an
independent quality control and maintenance set-ups.
Indicative Develogment and Restructuring Strateav
troduct 1Market strateav
22. North America and Western Europe would be the priority markets for
Colombian textile and garment exports. The U.S. is a key market for both 807
exports and exports based on Colombian fabrics. For 807 exports labor rates in
the Caribbean are more competitive than those ln Colombia. In the short term,
exports based on Colombian fabrics would be almost 100% cotton basd. With more
effectlve use of Plan Vallejo, partleularly for polyester fiber imports, cotton
and synthetic blends and wool and synthetic blends could also be exported. Wool
based exports would most likely require the importation of wool tops at low or
zero duty rate, as opposed to the prosent importation of dirty wool, currently
processed Into tops.   It would also require expansion of wool processing
capabilLty in spinning, weaving and finishLng.



-155-
Pag 18 of 41
23.  zurope la attractive both for textiles and apparl.  Market potentlal,
especially for garments, is under utlized. It would be important to target hlgh
volume Lmport channels and to establish distrLbutLon capability Ln Zurope's
hlghly fragmented market structure.
24.   Pacto Andino countries offer very limited outlets and growth prospects for
the immediate future. Central American and Caribbean Ixports (especLilly to the
Netherlands Antilles and Panama) at high unltary prLies represets OatypLcal
exports" worth several mllions USS annually.
25.  Low export penetratlon ratLos at present (10.2%  in garments. 5S  ln
knltwear, 10 In fabrLcs and 4% ln yards) and the absence of quotas, should allow
Colombia's exports to grow by 15-20% per year over the next five years, assuming
the industry is prepared to modernLie under the prssure of the announced trade
reform.
Prelimina=WOtck fgr the industry:  1990-1925
26.  The base assumptlon ls that the industry will  restructure under the
pressure of the announced trade lLberalization. Under present prlces, domestLe
consumption should increase 3-4% per year, accelerating to 4.5-5% per annum, if
lLberalization generates import hence price competitLon. Production should
lncrease 3-S per year and mployment in the textile segment should drop
slightly, if modernlzatLon occurs. Smployment in the garment area bould
Lncrease by 24,000 or so workers.  major increaes  in textile processing
productlvity can be expected, but only minor ones Ln the garment area.
Structureof Mg Indust_e
27.  The large textile plants are excessively vertLcally integrated at prsent
and as such are unable to utilize their capacity ln areas such as fLniahing.
New investments should favor more effLcLent un-integrated plants. The industry
would benefit from a reduction Ln concentration, specLfically in the textlle
segments, as well as a reduction ln labor coats through the modification or
elimination of labor laws that currently promote labor rigidity. The constraints
to structural change are particularly pervasive ln the labor agreements of the
three large textile groups.
Key Measures to Improve ComietitLveneas
28.  Cottos: Liberalize trade in cotton by, eliminating import-export permits,
reducing duties to 0-5% and also eliminating the surcharge under Ley 75  Ensure
that MLnistry of Agriculture sanitary permLts are not used as a trade barrier.
Presumably these changes would be embodied in the governments trade
liberalization program. Other problem such as cotton sorting and grading would
get resolved through the market once freere trade In cotton was allowed.
29.  Aerrliessa  Its consumption has increased substantially over the last few
years, particularly as polyester is non-competLtlve.   However, Colombian
producers pay a substantLal premium for this product as it is secured under Pacto



Page 19 of 41
Andino from a Sayer plant in Peru. Also, problems wlth transport infrastructure
ln Peru prevents regular and timely sblpments fom  thls facility.   Trafe
protectlon on acrylic flber should be reduced so that downstream segmnts of tho
Colombian textile ladustry are not unduly penalisxd. 
30.  fclgngrs There are two major projects under way in Colombia to expand
polyester staple fLver, one by Zaka to produce 20,000 tons nnually and anothex
by Coltejer/POC via a modernization program that will yi ld pproxi.mt*ly 8,000
tons addLtLonal capacity. The two projects will trlple the productive capaclty
in the country and bring production to 230% of existLng consumption. Assumlng
polyester prices dlp ln response, this should provlde the industry wlth a,
competitive source of staple fiber for spinning, knitting and weaving processes.
Thli would also require an expansion in finishing capacity. There is llkely to
be resistance from the industry toward liberalization, however, thLi will be
lmportant to ensure that domestic prices are brought into line with world market
prices.
31.  I   ...E.4saogatk  One polymerization line most likely needs to be motbballed
due to low domestic demand and limited prospects for exports.   However,
extrusion/spianing capacity needs to be modernLied to achieve quality and cost
improvements.
32.  ProeMss Ilfodriaations   The key areas for process modernization and
Lnvestment are, inter alla, the followlng: spinning preparation, open-ended
spinning, shuttleless looms with standard width, small batch finishing equipment.
gradual modernliation of knitting capacity, and export capacity in wool spisnnag,
weavLg ana flnishiag.  The majority of equipment is 15 years or older in
virtually all process segmnts of the industry, therefore, modernization of
capacity is essential for competitiveness.
33.  M1he 5rade Likeralisation ProorasM  will need to provide fors   the
limlination of permiscs and permisos previa for textile and finished goodst the
import of textile machinery and spare parts at low duty rateso the import of wool
tops.at equivalent rates to greasy or dirty wooll the elimination of dutles or
low duties on dyes and other finishing chemicals.
34.  The Duty Draw aak System: tn Addition, the application of Plan Vallejo
and Plan Vallejo Junior should be made more flexible and more timely, to allow
for the fashion and seasonal aspects of the textile lndustry. Lags of over 30
days for approval should be reduced to 5 days maximum, through improvement in
the system and reduction in the nauuber of approvals required. Repettitive importt
of the same items should come under umbrella approvals.
3S.  Labor &olk:  Labor policy rigidities such as blgh indemnifLcation for
redundancies, no redundancy after 10 years, retractLvity of partlal withdrawal
of cessantias, high premLums for fourth shlft, etc. has been a factor ln
preventing modernLzation and the adoption of new technologles.- Modification of
labor practices would be particularly beneficial to the textile industry.



-157_
pag 20 of 41
36.  Tho major enviromental oncern is the flnishing lndustty. ?he promes of
dyeaig and treating fabtoL is nhrwntly pollutinLg de to mu  off of the dye and
chemLcal ladden processing water into thc soll and eventually thelr penetration
into underground aquif s,, stream  and rivers, unless associated pollutLon
controls are in place. As most of the industry la looated ln Colcwblas three
urban centers (edellin, CalL and Bogota), the projoct will support a detailed
evaluation of anvironmental problem in the fLnLsi  segment of the industry and
recammend necessary corrective invetent, ncludLng moving major offenders out
of urban areas.



'-150- .
Page 21 of 41
ao
kA 4% of toka1L
M^s
Loes than                                   Above
a. ED.nJD
Blow-room                28              5            11             56
Carding                  21              5            19             55
Drawing                  34              3            23             40
Simplex                  10              -            22             68
Ring frames               11            30            10   -49
winding                    -            10            16             74
Warping                    6            16            18             60
sizing                    7              8            15             70
Knotting                 22             23            28             27
Weaving                    3            17            18             62



-159-.
T L&s
Page 22 of 41
atM9bhm nt 
T15XT SUCTOR STUDY
MauatulM C3ost QgoLsDar
(US$ per Kg.)
A. Xsx
gguakzxgua                     Lkgz         Isawn       gm            oa
South Korea         0.20         0.30        0.18        0.07         0.75
Draill              0.50         0.20        0.10        0.05         0.85
india               0.56        0.15         0.40        0.09         1.20
Z4xico              0.60         0.38        0.10        0.12         1.20
Turkey              0.80         0.29        0.18        0.06         1.33
Colombia            0.70         0.21        0.36        0.06         1.33
Spain               0.47         0.73        0.16        0.05         1.41
U.S.A.              0.31         1.05        0.11        0.05         1.52
west Germany        0.30         1.20        0.15        0.07         1.72
Japan               0.33         2.10        0.40        0.07         2.90
D. Cloth
India               2.5         0.8          0.2         0.2          3.7
South Xorea         2.0          1.1         0.1         0.9          4.1
Brasil              2.1          2.0          .1         0.4           .6
Spain               2.8          1.0         0.1         1.0          4.9
Turkey              2.8          2.2         0.2         0.5          5.7
exzico              1.6          1.6         0.1         0.4          5.7
ColombLa            2.8          2.2         0.1         0.7          5.9
Went Germany        2.9          1.2         0.1         2.1          6.3
U.S.A.              3.0          2.0         0.1         1.9          7.0
JaEan               4.2          2.0         0.2         3.6         10.0



-160-
Leather & Shoe
Page 23 of 41
Leather andShs 10bsectR
A. It 2Lg=_ and
1.         The leather and shoe Lndustry in Colombia is very modest in miss,
representing under 5S of total value added of the manufacturLng setor La 1988.
It is compoed of five distinct semntes  loughtorhous (moe thAn 1000,
generallyy-small units blonging to municipal gov), marketin  agents
(about 100, which collect, store, tranprt md finan   hidos/finished leather
to/from the tanng idustry), tanneries, (over 540, of which 4 have about 43%
of the market), and manufacturers of shoe and leatbhr goods (largely luggage,
handbags, and work gloves). The shoe industry is fragmented Into about 2,650
shoe producer firms, of which some 2453 (93%) are microenterprLses. output is
heavily concentrated, however, with 12 establisbmnts accounting  for 61% of
subsector sales. In the leather Industry, 7 firm (8% of the total) produce 63%
of the output. Production is also concentrate gelly in Colombia's four
major urban areas, whe  77% of the output for leather and S9% for shoes is
located.
2.         Production of the subsector tends to be drLven maly by chan  in
demographic conditions and per capita consmption. xt was substantially affected
by the recessionary years of the 1980e, though it has recovered steadily sine
1984 with growth of about 5t per year.  Still, production in 1988 rere     d
no more than about 60% of instaled capcity. The mrket is primarily supplied
by local producers, though contraband imports of shoes are estimated to be 18%
of apparent dostic consumption. Casual street shuo  and sport shoes tend to
account for most of the market (38% and 27%,respectively),  followed by sandals
and work shoes. Competition within the domestic market appears strong, though
more than half of the shoes being purchased are throgh retail outlets which ar
vertically  tegratd with their producer.
3.         With local market growth potential not likely to substantially
surpass demgraphic trends, the export market i  an important alternative now
being examined by many local producers. Subsetor exports represented about 6%
of total shoe sales in 1988 (Ipriarily leather work shoe), plus another 15%
indirectly through local sale  to foreign tourists.  Bxport quadrupled over
1985-88, reilching US$137 million in that year and exceeding Colombials overall
industrlal export trend. about one-half went to the US market while another 42%
went to other developLng countries (particularly Venesuela, Panama, 2cuador, the
Dominican Republic and Singpore.) Colombials main competitors in these markets
are from Brafl, Argentlna, Taiwan and Mexico.
4.         Raw materials aocount for betwee 52-66% of the total cost of shoe
And leather goods products, followed by labor costs of 16-18.5%. In 1988, The
sbsector mploye directly about 53,000 peron  (about 12%- of all industrial
mployment), of which the sho  industry accounts for about 39,000 pero   and
leather goods some 7,200. Lbout one-third wee employed b y large sale fLr=,
one-third by   arontri,nd the remainder Ln smal and meum scale
enterprises.  Production is labor-intensive, reqLrin  more that double the



-161-
N        1
Leather & Shoe.
Page 24 of 41
number of workers in terms of the value of production (2.7 and 4.6
workers/million pesos in 1984 vs. 1.7 industry-wide). Umployment levels appear
to be highly flexible (levels in the leather industry fell twice as rapidly in
the early 19806 as the industry average), due largely to its substantial use of
relatively temporary labor, subcontracting and satellite production to increase
efficiency..
B. InternatJ9lonal tUtMvepffs
5.         The leather and shoe industry  in -Vlombia has two inherent
competitive advantages bearing on price and service - its proximLty to the large
export markets of North America and generally competitive prices of domestic
hides (US$0.65 /ft2 in Colombia vs. US$0.82 in Brazil for raw hides). The
industry has also developed substantial installed capacity and experience in its
domstic market. However, several important factors have inhibited the growth
of major segments of the industrys
(a)  the very limited access to high quality raw mateialas (mainly
hides);
(b)   the  relatively  demanding  requiremenw,  for  capital-intenive
processes and chemical technology of tanneries;
(a)  limited incentives for growth in a saturated domestic market and the
impact of contraband; and
(d)  the demanding standards in external market for hlgh quality, style,
and its rapid turnover, which requlre relatively sophisticated
production technologies and materials.
The following paragraphs highlight thes and other factors which influence the
international competitiveness of the industry.
6.          Domestic Rr MaterilX  amn the Buoolv            Thstem   The basic leather
reaching manufacturers in the industry, while lower than comparable international
prices, generally is  of poor quality.   Print, the most abundant Colombian
livestock is the Sebu which, while well-suited to tropical climates, has an
anatomy and skin quality which does not produce high quality leather.  in
addition, parasites and animal activities tend to leave abundant visible scars
on finished leather. Hides ar further damaged by livestock handling practices
by rancher and slaughterhouses, including from barbed wire fencing, branding on
the best sections of the skLn, ivpooper herding and trucking, inefficient
skinning causing a loss of usable area, and slow treatment of skins which cause
deterioration in leather quality.
7.         Whle much of the intermedLation of raw hides and fLnished leather
operates in a competitive evionment, it is fragmented and froequntly a  low
process. Colobla Is cattle herds are spread relatively widety across the country
and are linked with a very inadequate transport network. This results in a
decentralized network of slaughterhouses and complicated supply of skins to
tanneries. Intermediation is further complicated by the geographical dispersion
of producers of leather goods and shoes, which requLre a wide range of supplies



-162-
AM 1
Page 25 of 41
according to enterprise sixe and its needs for color and finish of leather. The
small lot size in such a system also tends to increase unit costs.
8.         !port.d_ Production Inguta and the Trade ReaLme.  imports of other
production inputs, such as equipAent and spare parts, requires 4-5 month from
arrival at the ports in Colombla and demands the malntenanoe of high inventories
by local enterprises.  Up to half of this tLme Ls accounted for by import
procedures of Incomex, customs and banks. The Colombian Merchant Marine, a
transportation monopoly, provides inopportune schedules and constitutes the
highest sea transportation cost in the area. Combined with tariffs of up to 50%,
thLs import regime disadvantages the cost and quality of producta ln thli
subsector, particularly for an industry in which style trends require rapid
responses by producers to remain competitive.  in additLon, the incentives
provided by CERTS and Plan Vallejo are, according to the industry, both unstable
and strongly miLtlgated by the combined costs of high importer input inventories,
delays in Government trade institutions, and bankLng operations. Accordingly,
a 12% CURT is estimated to have a net value of 5-8%.
9.         JanneieL2.  The processing cost of Colombian tanneries is high
(US$0.83) in relation to comparator countries such as Brazil (US$0.71), and
Taiwan (US$0.59). Without restructuring, they cannot compete with ssmi-finished
imported loather. The large tanneries produce acceptable quality leather from
Cenerally poor skins. The amaller tanneriles lack the equipment and technology
do so, resulting frequently in mediocre quality leather. all operate profitably,
however, glven the relatively low cost of raw hides. In general, servLce time
of the tanneries is slow glven poor management and operations. for exports of
leather and shoes, this problem is compounded by slow transport modes and
substantial Government bureaucracy.
10.        $hoe an  Leather gods  rodutction.   Production technology is
frequently outdated and has a sigaficant negatlve lnfluence on product cost and
qualLty. Overall productivlty in relating to the optimum for the installed
capacity of the leather and shoe industry is relatively low and is largely a
consequence of:
(a)  an excessive number of product lines which reduce the beneflts
gaLned from economLes of scale and newer technologies, and slow
delivery and servLea capacity;
(b)  inadeqate industrial engineering, partLcularly to optimize plant
layout, manage materials, and qualLty controll
(c)  unrellable and costly supply of certain key chemlials, such as
sulfuric, caustic soda and bicarbonate, whlch are presently produced
by a Government monopoly lndustry and subject to interruptions in
supply due largely to problems in labor relationst and
(d)  inadequate working conditions, personnel manage mt and on-the-job
training of mlddle-lvel managers and machine operators. The work
of SURA in this area is observed to not be well suited to thes
specialized trainlng requLred.



-163-
X 1
eather & Shoes
Page 26 of 41
11.        Tn addition, the shoe industry's absence of competLtLveness stems
mainly from a laok of development of desLgn, shoo siLe and quality standards, and
underutilization of installed capacLty. Enterprises further lack a focusd
orientation toward partloular market niches, detracting from economies of scale.
While the cost of various shoe lines (work boots, sport, women's street shoes)
in Colombia are favorable in relation to comparable lines manufactured ln the USA
or Taiwan, they do not now meet those from producers in Brazil nor are likely to
from emerging "next generation" producers in other developing countries.
12.        Among leather goods, the Lndustry has grown rapidly and has a
reasonably good reputatlon ln the primary export market, the USA, as offering a
level of quality and prlce in between suppllers from Europe and the Far East.
Delivery times are Liadequate, however, owing apparently to the public transport
system. In additLon, operational efficiency suffers from an excesslve number of
product lines, productlon bottlenecks, inadequate incentive systems for machine
operators, a lack of operating standards and use of relatlvely inexpensLve
machinery which is easLly justified by cost savings. BasLc market knowledge and
marketing technlques need to be improved and deslgns better adapted to export
markets. For example, leather colors need to be better segmented between
external and internal markets, and fasteners and zippers need to be better
adapted to external market styles.
C. M t Po
13.        The long-term trend in global productlon of shoes continues to be
increasingly export-oriented, with its location continuing to shift toward
economically developing countries. They accounted for 67% of total production
in 1976 and 77% in 1986. At the oam time, now sources of produetion within that
group of countries appear, as in China, Indonesia and Thailand, as labor costs
rise in countries like Taiwan and Korea. In addition, the product mix is also
shifting more toward sport shoes.
14.        one enterprise in Colombia li a major producer of medium-priced work
shoes and of chlldren's shoes for the export market, showlng strength in prlce
competitLvenes though only slightly better than average ln quality and delivery.
otherwlse, most manufacturers of other types of shoes operate in a protected
domestLc market, from whlch is derlved a substantial share of its inefficiencLes.
Recent lntervlews with US shoe importers and dLstrLbutors suggest that most are
elther unfamlilar wlth Colomblan products or have had generally unsatLifactory
experLences. They convey the impression that, ln general, Colombian producers
are generally Lndifferent toward the export market and lack aggresslve interest
ln lt.   CombinLag prlce, quality and dellvery factors, Colombia falls
signLficantly behind competing countries of Italy, Talwan, Portugal, Chlna, Spain
and BrazLl.
15.        With the possible exceptlon of leather goods, there is very limited
local knowledge of the nature, requiroments and trends of the export market.
This is in part a result of a lack of effective mechanLsms to identify desLrable
contacts in thli market.  Sven ln the domatlc market, no reliable o' -Ja bas
exists upon which to base marketLag strategLes, leaving enterprises-to more
hazardous estimatlons, assumptlons and limited contacts wlth consuerws.



-164-.
Asther S Shoeo
Page 27 of 41
D. 1ndicativ  Restruaturing Mg  evlouent Plan
16.        With a concerted restructuring effort, Colombia's shoo an  leather
goods industry could successfully compete ln the Increasingly competitive
domestic market which will result from trade reform and in external markets. The
international market offers the greater growth potentlal and both shoe and
leather goods producers seek to increase their orientation toward it. The shoe
industry La likely to be most competitive internationally in street shoes of
casual styles and with a high leather content, particularly those shoes and boots
with leather soles. Restructuring is considered to be critical in the areas
discused below.
17.        The quality of domestic bldes should be improved, inter alia with the
development of a classification system to grade quality and reflect dlfferentials
in their prices. A price differential of 12-15% should be adequate to stimulate
the development and provision of higher quality hides. in parallel, tannerie
neod to increase their orientation toward the higher quality and service
standards for fLniheOd leather demnded by the export market.   Capacity
utilization must be raisd from its currently low 43% by paying more attention
to materials management (better skinning practices can yield up to 70% of the
hide usable rather than the present 40%), improving the availability of imported
inputs, upgrading equipmeAt in order to improve leather quality and reduce
processing time, upgrading chemical technology, and better control recycling of
damaged hides. Greater specialization in types of leather rather that the
present production of a great variety by each firm, would also permit larger
production runs and better penetration of specific market segments. Investments
to reduce environmental pollution and financial restructuring to reduce fLnancial
coats are also needed.
I8.        At the enterprise level, greater product specialization is essential
to take advantage of economies of scale and newer te*hnologie. Industrial
engineering advisory ervices are ne4ede to increase plant efficlency and
training of the work force. Some consolidation of installed capacity among
tanneries is likely to be n"cssary and may also be required in the hoe industry
if growth rates do not take up existing slack capacity. At the subsector level,
the industry could benefit from the development of a computer assisted design
(CAD) center for shoe deign and to better track export market trends. Close
attention neede to be paid to the size, segmeatatLon, competitLon and overall
trends in such markets, as well as distribution channels and packaging. Such
centers could also house the development of standards for sizes and product
quality, as well as be associated with training, technology and extension servicoe
centers to enterprises in the country.
19.        Thes steps should be accompanied by access under the trade system
to imported hides which would be required in the shorter run to meet production
needs, lower tariffs for prtduction inputs as well as progressiv reductions of
final goods protection, and to dedliated facilities for fashion-sensitive exports
in airport facilities.   It is estimated that, within the coming five years, a
successful restructuring program ensompassig all of these easOures could
increase real value added by over one-quarter its 1988 level, increase its export
orientation from about e-quarter to one-half of total production and generate
about 8,000 new direct jobs.



-165-
iage 28 of 41
The StelSu       r
A.   _ru_ture and  efom of the Induntr
Lt, crodugerx
1.       All the ColombLan steel producers are in the private setor.  The
dometic steel industry cosists of four dLstint groups:
(i)      one itegrated steelworks, M     (stee  making capacity
380,000 tpy),
(iL)     five small to mdium electric arc furnace (m  par&. 1.03
bellow) (RAY) based steelworks      lmaking capity of
100,000 to 150,000 tpy),
(iLi)         three producers of ooated products (tin plate and
galvanlied sheets wLth action of about 65,000 tons and
40,000 ton  respectivly), base  on Imported cold
rolled cols and,
(iv)     a large number of mallor rollingm sllls bsd  on domestic
and/or  poted s       ots.
2.       Two of the larger    lor          located ia the Doyaoa area, and one
each in sogota, Call, MedelLin and near Cartagena.
3.       of the five larger ZAP sarap basd steelworke, four (3iDN0A,
SIDULPA, SWNMUNA and S8IDWMIAS) belong to the group OI0   whlch also hs a
25% share in 5I4U&.             t  ther  is  s  specialization betwn the
steelworks though they primarily continue to serve regoal markets. s8lPA is
the only producer of special steel ia Colobia.
4.       The sLngle igated steolworr   Pa del Rio (aM), Produes
the widest range of stoel products in Colombia consisting mainly on no-flat but
also  se flat products, e.g. hot rolled sheet.  mong no-bare and sections,
it also produces blllets for sale to rerlers. AM obtains all lts iron ore
from its own mine as well as part of lts cokig coal, the rest being purchased
frm other local soures.
S.       Ther are about 70 million tons of prove  reserves of IOn ore with
a We content of about 40-45%, which is about 75 yeas of exploitation at the
preset yearly output of raw steel. The cokig coal proven reserve  ar mach
maller wlth about 12.5 mllion tons or about 30 yers of operation at the
present level of production. Although the' qualty of the ion ore and cokLig
coal is poor by international standardsp,  m   ha  succeeded in using thm
efficiently.



-166-.
Xli  1
8tm
Page 29 of 41
6.        Of the total scrap conwiumption of 0.45 million tons, 0.2 milllion tons
are from local sources and the rest is imported. Domestic scrap is reportedly
of relatively poor quality. Scrap is collected on a regional basis and sold by
a large number of tradors. Xmported scrap is of two typeas that obtalned from
ships which are demolished and direct scrap imports. The industry has formed as
an association called SIPSA for Imports of scrap. SIPSA handleso about 80% of the
imported scrap, the rest being purchas4d directly by the steelworks. SIPSA also
negotiates with the local scrap dealers on behalf of the steelworks. Scrap
consumption is expected to increase in Colombia with the expected increase in
production frqm the existing steel producers and frcom the rnew steelworks
(SXDZCARIXB near Cartagena).
xqghnolaggl
7         The technology used by the integrated producer APDR is relatively
inefficient. The blast furnace and basic oxygen furnaces are of relatively small
sixe as compared to modern standards, the casting process depends upon the
relatively inefficient ingot casting/blooming slabbing mill process, and flat
products rolling capacities are smaller than in efficient world practice By
world standards, APDR is oparating under several disadvantages, with relatively
few offsetting advantages.  The raw materials are of relatively low grade
requiring complex mLning and preliminary treatment processes, though close
proximity limits the need for extensive transport; these raw material do produce
a good grade of pig iron. This material is poorly transformed using the ingot
casting-primary and secondary rolling technologies, which lmpose a penalty ln
material yields, energy consumption oad labor utilization. And finally, the age
of existing equipment make production to current world quality levels extremely
difficult.
S.        The technology used by the mini-steel plants (S smi-integrated) Li
progressively updated by continuous investments mainly ia the areas of steel
making and continuous casting, to implement well established Lndustry technology.
Performance-                                         
9.        Capacity utilization in APDR in 1988 was about 90% in terms of
steelmakLig and 43% for the rolling mills. Zn the AP scrap-based semi-
integrated steelworks, capacity utilization was about 6S.61 for the steelmakng
and 60% for the rolling mills. The ratio liquid steel/finished products is about
1. 14 and the energy consmption in the UP is about 550 RWht of liquid steel
which compare with 1.I and 450 respectively with the efficient producers ln
developing countries. The productivity varies between 170 and 210 tons per
manyoar as compared with 600 in efficient steelworks in developed countries.
10.        PinancaLl performance of the companLies i  Ln line with the average
financial results in the rest of the world with a ratio of gross margin/sales of
about 13% as compared to 8 to 15% in the other countries.
D. *  ece of I_&=Al camnetitivens



-167-
Page 30 of 41
11.       Comparisons of production cosUt for Colombian integrated and UP scrap
based larger steel producors with relevant coprable internatLal steel
producers are glven in tables below.  Table 1 sets out the cmprLson of some
basic parameters; Table 2, comparisons of APDR with other comparabl       rated
producers of non-flat productsl Table 3 comparisons of Colombian mini-mills with
other  AP scrap based produceres and Table 4 omqparisons of ColombLan selliog
prices and costs with international price.
la I ICLareson of soum basic Parameter
Colombia      UOa        Japan      Venesuela      Mexico
Iron ore (US$/t)         14         21         48           7              20
CokLng coal (US$/t)   21-66         55        181           -              28
scrap (us$/t)
domestic              so        105        I1o           -             100
imported             200         -         135           -            105
Blectricity (cents/kwh) 2.1        4.5       19.9          0.3            1.9
Labor costs (US$/man h) 3.9       25.0       19.0          4.0            6.0
Productivity
(man-hours/t)      15.1/       3.5 1/     3.0 1/      12.S 2/       10 1/
1/ semi-integrated
2/ based on one company
12.       As seen, Colombia has ame advantage in labor costs.   Though
productivity is low compared to efficient international producers (USA, Japan)#
the low wage ratea more than offset the lower productivity. Though Colomblan
iron ore costs are low on a per tonn basise, the quality is relatively inferior
and together with the small size of the integrated steelwork* facilities, the
advantage is lost.   Blectricity costs are comparable to other developing
countries (Venezuela is an exception) and lover than developed countries.
Locally purchased scrap is nominally at the international cost level (though
probably higher cost if adjusted for quality differences) while Imported scrap
cost is more than twice the comparable international cost due to tariff and
transportation costs. Prices of coal are lower than in other countrLes and it
is an advantage which could be considered in the future development of the
industry.



-168-
Page 31 of 41
13.      Colombian  tmaking costs have  en  compred with comparable
tacilities,  low bth integated  nd VW  scrap basd steel producer, the
relevant            have to be the efficient non-flat producrs, which ar the
prinipal domestic stel products Ln Colombia.  SW hs ben chom  as a
repmeentatlve product ad the comiparative ituation i expected to be the sam
for the other main non-flat producte (wire rods wnd sectLons).
aL&J ComWparisoS of Integrated on-hlat fteel Productlon Costs
(98$/tonn of bar)
Colombia    NsxLio      Slibabw
materials a Services         175         87          83
nrgy                          87         52          63
labor                                               .Z
ProductLon Csh Costo         342        201         204
Depreciation a Interest      5        155          53
-                       a
Total Costs                347        356         257
1/ includes only depreciation
14.      As seen from above Table 2  Colcobia's production cash costs  re
substantially higher then those in  sexico and Ximbabwe for similar prooase.
This reflects poore quality raw materLals, high unit pries and more inefficLent
consumiLon enabld by ColombLa's older facilLtLes and procees. Howevr, an
analysis of the production costs at the different steps of production hows that
Colombian pig iron cet is similar to the average producers abroad. The big
difference Ln transformation costs (pig Lron to liquLd steel and liquLd steel to
raw steel) are mainly due to the procese  used by ColombLan and the poor
condiLtLon of the faclities.
15.        As see from Table 3, Colombian scrap based no-flat steel produers
also have hlghr cash productlon costs than acopable efficient faciliLtes in
USA and Bra lI. The cost of scrap input is -higher in Colombia due to unit prices
of imported scrap (tariffs and transport costs) and the yields slightly lower.
The cost of other materials and servLces i  hlgher in ColombLa because of
imported component  (refractories, spare parts, ferro allows, etc.) and larger
administration and other costs. The cost of labor is lower, but does not offst
the above higher oost. Enery cost, in spLto of lowor electricity costs, is
hihor than all the other comrator.  The latter may be due to obsolete
equipment In the rolling mill area and slightly highr specific energy
consumption in the electric furnace and ladl metallurgy.



-169-
Page 32 of 41
sUIJU Camparibm  of scrap-based  0 steelvorks (mlni-mills)
production costs (VS$/tonn of bars)
Cclombla         UsK         Japn        BraLll
Scrap            148.4             130          145          13S
Other materials
& services      88.4              50           50           47
neroy             73.9              S0           68           22
Labor              34.7            -A5135,_
Production Cash
costs          345.4             270          313          232
Depreciation &
interest         7.6 1/           25           35           40
-
TOTAL COSTS      353.0             295          348           272
1/   Includes depreciation only.
16.        When compared with bordtr prices,most of the Colombian costs (without
financial interest) are at the s_am level as the border prlces as shown on the
table 4 below. Taking into account that Colombia imports steel in relatively
small lots, import costs tend to be higher, hence, supporting the case for
continued domestic steel production. Thie should be supported further it, as
expected, improv emts materialize on production costs through appropriate
investments.



-170-
Page 33 of 41
TablkJ4i CmariLson of Colombian costs and prices wLth
lnternational prices
(US/tonne)
B.l lets     gaes     vire rod         Profile     Plate
COLCMBIAt
product ion costs
(w/a interest)    IlM.A32nf
selling prLces     350        515        530             5150        580
FOB                260         305        330             340         400
CII' border                   A3132
CI? + taxe         380         460        490             500         550
C*   Domestic and InternIaLonal market uronacts
17.        Steel consumption in Colombia has grown from 802,450 tons ia 1980 to
1,032j,022 tons in 1987, or at an average growth rate of 4.5% per year. in Spite
of this relatively high growth rate, Colombian per capita steel consumption (3S.S
kg in 1987) remains mowng the lwovet in the larger rAO countries (average LAC
countries is 6493 kg) and comparable with other developing countries with lower
per capita incomes (e.g. Indonesia, Philppines, Thailand). The apparent steel
consumption supply balance is shown in the table below.



-171.'
Page 34 0f 41
pLq 5. Demand-Supply balanco for tel products in Colombla
8 share
Non-Flat   Flat   Others  Total  Non-Flat  Flat Others Total
1980l
Apparent 
Consumption  353.6   314.9   134.5   803*0   44.0   39.2  16.8  100.0
Domestli
supply       289.2    68.2    41.7   399.0   72.5   17.1  10.4  100.0
Imports       82.7   246.7    92.8   422.2   19.6   58.4  22.0  100.0
% imports
to Apparont
consumption   23.4    78.3    69.0    52.6
Apparent
Consumption   498.8   401.4    136.8  1,035.0   47.9  38.8   13.3 100.0
Domestic
Supply        450.9   117.2     68.9     637.0  70.8  18.4   10.8  100.0
Imports        51.6    286.1   67.9      405.6  12.7  70.5   16.8  100.0
% Imports
to Apparent                                          -- --- -
consumption    10.4    71.2   49.6        39.2
18.        The total apparent steel consumptlon ln 1987 was composed of about
496.800 tons of non flat products, 401,400 tons of flat products and the rest
or 136,8000tons of special steel and tubes. The bulk of non-flat consumption
(rebars), mainly in the construction ladustry, grow at a rate of 9.9% per year
between 1980 and 1987, following the same progres. as the construction industry.
The flat products consumption grew at a rate of 3.8% per year during the same
period. In general, the consumption by type of products for carbon steel, grew
at a rate of 5.6% per year between 1980 and 1987, for the non-flat products, 3.8%
for the flat products, 3% for the tubes and was stable for the special steel
products.
19.        Of the total steel consumption of about 1,035,000 tons, damnstic
production supplies about 60.8% or 629.400 tons, while imports supply 39.2% or



-172-
Alm"
Page 35 of 41
405*600 tons.  Domtic production lo mainly concentrated ln non-flat products
(450.900 tons) whore lt share ln total consumption ba been inoreasing from 82a
Ln 1980 to 91% ln 1987 with imports accounting for only 9% maLnly ln lagger
dlameter rebars and larger sections.  In contrast, doestic flat products
production ls only around 117,200 tons with a decreasing share of imports (786
between 1980 and 1987).
C. Indicative Reetruaturina and DRvelam  ent strataap
20.         As een above, colombia is argioaly-comp.titv with current -iport
price levels. However, there are potentlal imprements whieh, if implemented
successfully, would decrease the costs of production and improve the degree of
competitiveness. Som of the factors which could improve the competitiveness are
related to trade policy and particularly tariffs and taxes on major inputs such
as scrap, refractoriees, spare parts, etc. aong the factors controlled by the
enterprises,  improvements  would  be  implemented  in  reducing  coste  of
administration and overhead, etc. whlch are about twlce as high as those of
efficient producers. FLnally, ln the area of production facLlities, there is
potential reduction in energy consumption, material yields and quality. Those
reductions could be obtained through better operating practices, mana-geet and
InVvestmits- in    :aLatio1*/replaco=mt- of exist:ig faf lities.



-173-
-lt3~n-
Vzehle Au-ml  *n at
Pag 36 of 41
COLONSIA
lm?Vmmi n    flWx  AMD            Ztc
A. BMglMl
Asgtmbly Policg XCavork
1.   The auto industry in Colombia was deeloped through an approach conslstet
with those of a number of other developing countries durLng the 1960s and 1970m.
The objective -was to use the induttry as -a drLver of new .echnological
development for other important industries-metal mechanlc, steel, electronico,
etc., and as a source of emloyment. It was anticipated that, in time, domestic
suppllers of autoparts would develop to add local added value to the fLl
assembly process as well as necessary spare and replacement parts.
2.   The development of the domestic industry was based on agrements with
tranonatlonal auto producers to establish assembly operations in the country
bmsed on the importation of knock down kits (C0Da) under favorable tariff rates,
while the importation of completely bullt up unlts (CSUs) was largely excluded
through a combination of liconsing, quantltative restrictions (Oft) and high
tariff barriers.. The autoparts producrs were also protected by. high t-trff
barriers, domestic content or "must buy" lists, and exclusion of assemblers and
foreign autoparts producers from the autoparts subsector.  GVesrne nt policy
further spelled out the rules of the game in tetm of the number of different
lines and models that could be produced by the assemblers, foreign exchange and
other budgetary targets, training requirements for auto parts producers, and
reporting and audit requirements to assure that the asemblers conformed to the
rules of the game. These rules were spelled out in specLfLe legislation and
regulations governing the industry or in negotiated contracts between the
government and the Lndustry. This was the typical entry level approach of
countries such as Argentina, Bratil, Mexlco, Malaysia and Colombia.
3.   with some exceptions, the  utomotive industries in thes  countries have
remained domestically focused, witb minor exports of assembled vehicles or
autoparts. They have neither surmounted inegficLencies by world standards nor
produced the technology development or employment origiaally envisaged.
Autoparts producers, generally under license from foreign firms most often
produce low to moderate technology parts. With protective barriers there bas
been little incentive to modernise and upgrade thelr productlon technologically.
in short these domestically focuse industries remained largely unlinked to the
world auto industry.
UmeraLna Trepds in the World Auto Induutr¶.
4.   In the 1980's, there has been dramatic change in the auto industry, largely
brought about by the emerging dominance of the Japanese producers, who represent.
40% of the LDC market, with a pervasive presence, for examplo, in the ASNAW.
(ee Takie 1). Their presence is also felt in Latin AmerLca, where Nlsan Mas
recently announced as $1 billlion investment expansoi in Mexico and Bonda has
announced an investment in a motorcycle plant there. Moreover, in Colombia,
XMad is one of the three major assemblers. Japanese producers have brought nsw



-174-
la Asmb  ad Pa
Page 37 of 41
quality standards to the industry, now production methods an  new systems for
inventory control and distrLbutLon. The latter, the *just-in-tim* system
pioneered by Toyota, will have a signiticnut effect on LUC autopart producers
seeking to export to the industrialized countrLes. In addition, the Japonmee
producers have compressed the time required to introduce new models.
5.   The changes in the industry brought about by the Japanese producers is
forcing other producers to adopt similar approaches which at the extreme will
leave the asembler as super design" shops, with incroeaed responsibility for
design  and technological development passed  down to  a select  1lst of
tranenational autopart producers such as Bosch. This implies a hierarchlcal
order of autoparts suppliers, with most WC producers as a second tier supplier
to one of these first-tier transnationals (TNCs. )M
6.   There will be significant opportunities for autopart firms in developing
countries only to the extent that they build their *software, capablities,
through applied research and development, development of product design and
innovation and utilizatLon of modern manufacturing methods, such as total quallty
control. This implies that restructuring efforts in the autopart lndustry in
WDCs will need to focus on managerial capabilltiso.
7.   At the same time, there are real market opportunities for LDC autopart
producers in the lses rigorous aftermarket industry, particularly ln the US.
This will require, however, that these producers establish distribution,
warehousing and direct sales service capability within thelr target market. For
most LDC producers, this will require cooperative marketing efforts in order to
defray fixed overhead costs and to provide a broad range of parts to interested
customers. Taiwan, for example, exported approximately $400 million to the U.S.
after parts market in 1987.1
8.   Another trend is the increasing potential for regionalization of the auto
industry. Japanese producers within the ASMU, for example, are ncreasingly
seeking rationalixation of parts production throughout the region in what is
being termed "the brand-to-brand complementation scheme".1
3J/   Sabel C. Kern H., Herrigel C., Collaborative Manufacturing - Mew Suppller
Relationcship  in the Automobile Industry and the RedAbinition of the
Industrial Corporation, IMVP, MIT, 1989  Lamuing, R. Future Best practices
in the International Automotive Components Industry, 13WP, MIT, 1989.
3./   0oBz Allen & Hamiltone Restructuring Study for the Mex4can Autoparts
Industry, 1987.
aJ    Far 3astern Economic Review, -Japanese Car Makers Forge ASE3N Components
Links, 1s reb. 1990.



-175-
MunL
Page 38 of 41
Strateales of Successful DevelMolna Countries
9.   In the 1980s, with the debt crisis, the emergence of outward-looking
development philosophies in some of the NICe and the increasing sophistication
of their industrial capability, there has emerged a strong differentiation of
strategies and performance between developing countries with respect to their
auto industry. For example, due to macro-economio instability and a secular
decline in industrial growth and performance, the auto industry in Argentina has
also decline despite its early development in that country. A number of TNCs
have chosen to leave the Argentine market and its exports have decline from
approximately lS,000 units a year in 1974 to almost nothing in 1988.Y
10.  However, a number of success stories have also merged.  After suffering
through a dramatic decline in domestic demand as a result of its debt crisis in
1982, Mexico's auto industry is on the point of take off. Through a series of
regulatory decrees (1983, 1984 and 1990), the Government of Mexico has focused
the industry towards exports and has turned the balance of payments in the sector
from a deficit in excess of $2 billion in 1981 to a surplus in excess of US$1.5
billion in 1988. Exports of assembled vehicles have risn from 18,000 units in
1980 to 173,000 units in 1988, as the big three auto producers in the U.S. use
Maxico as a base from which they export to the U.S. Mexico ha benefltted from
over US$l billion of direct foreign investment (DFI) in the sector from 1986-
1988, and the projects on hand at present are in excss of US$2 billion for the
next few years. The lndustry has a world class engine capacity (exports of over
US$1 billion a year through vehicles assembled in the country), a large
aualadom or in bond segment along the U.S. border, and an autoparts industry
which is now restructurLng to keep pace. Recent legislation (1989), has further
liberalixed the sector to encourage high technology direct foreign institution
in the autoparts industry, lower domestic content requirements, and allow auto
producers to import fully assembled cars (CBUs) in line with their foreign
exchange performance. This 'guided liberalixation' has recived the endorement
of the industry in the form of the large scale investment programs underway.
11. The Korean industry has pursued quite a different strategy in an effort to
be less reliant on TECs. There are three producers in Korea - Hyundai, Daewoo
and Zia. Uyundai and Kla have minority participations from TWO producrs,
Mitsubishi and lord-Mazda, respectively. Daewoo in 50% owned by General  otors.
Bach of thes  enterpries exports.  Hyundai is the notable success story
producing 647,000 units in 1988, of which 407,715 units were exported and its car
production has been a strong streamline to the domestic autparts induutry. Since
1974, the industry has moved from 30% domestic content to over 97% at present.
Hyundai has acquired technology through licensing rather than through joint
venture. It has pursued a strategy of licensing from diversified sources, so as
not to be dependent on one major licensor.  over the period 1962-1982, it
negotiated 57 licensing agreements, with sources of technology from 9 different
countries. It is also agressively supporting research and development and new
product and design innovations.  Hyundai has pursued an independent path in
SI   Womack, J. Opus Cited.



-176-.
axum
VLCle Asemb1ly and Parts
Page 39 of 41
direct competition with the major producers, while Daewoo has operated under
General Motors' corporate umbrella-L
12. In a variation on this theme, the Malaysian auto industry ln the last
decade has moved from a base of 11 assemblers importing kito, to just a few
independent assemblers ln an effort to roach economic scale of production. Th
assemblers' market share has been absorbed by a natLonal champion, the Proton
saga, developed through a joLit venture wlth the state owne company RIdCO and
MitsubishL.  The Proton is a middle class car produced, at present, for the
domestic market with productLon ln 1989 of approximately 7S,000 units, or 63% of
the market. Autoparts productlon in Malaysia li beLng supported by uslng the
Ptoton as a base. Proton itself is producing a number of critical parts, as well
as body stamping..
B. Structure and Performanc of  olmbLan Vehicle Industry
13.  The vehicle iadustry conslsts ofs three assemblers -- 80FlA, Coluotores
and cc& - all of whom are prlvately held since sale ln 1989 by the Instltuto de
Fomento Industrial (IIP) of lts Government held shares in SOFASA to Renault.
:bch of these assmblers is owned in part by and affiliated with a major
international producer of otor vehiclels SOFA8 wlth Renault, Colmotoe  wlth
General Motors and cCA wLth Mazda. These a"semblers produce a defLned and
limited range of vehlcles, vans, trucks and buses based on CEDe. The production
of all types of vehLcles in 1988 wa approximately 60,000 unlts, down from a high
in 1982 of approximately 75,000 units. Imports account for about 10% of sales.
The scale of productLon li well below mlnimum world standax4o. Nevertheless,
internatLonal consultants analyxing the efflciency of the assembly iadustry in
ColombLa characterLze lt as potentlally competitive verwus import of fully
assembled vehLcles. Thls is because of the freight advantages in shippLng CmDe,
The relatLvely low added value Ln assembly, and the low domestLi content of
nationally produced auto parts is low. Cnly SOfIA has integrated major vehLcle
components such as the motor and drive train.  There is negllgible export
potential percelved at present in assmbled vehLeles, though possibLilties apear
better in qpecialty vehliles such as campers, heavy trucks and buses. Due
productlon would depend on the Government and the major citLes adopting a
comprehensive transportation strategy to replace the agLng fleet of publicly
owned buses and a national tariff policy to allow them to compete wlth a number
of privately owned fleets that have emerged on an ad hoc basLs.
14.  The industry also conaLits of autoparts producers, generating approximately
US$515 million ln total sales in 1988, in the following market segmentes
original equipment 268, after parts (replacement) market 41b, tires for the
aftermarket 26%, tires for assembled vehicles 2%, exports 2%. The industry is
dominated by four major lndustrlal groups that service the assemblers. These
Al   Malaysia Industrial Raster Plan, 1986-1995, Transport andf  quipment
Industry, Vol. sX, Part 9, August 1985.



-177-'
Vehicle AsineiAbl and Pr
Page 40 of 41
groups  have  generally  license  or  technical  support  arranents  wlth
international autoparts producers. There are a large number of small producer.
which servlee the replacement parts market. The Colomblan industry produces a
great  number  of  replacements  parts,  whlch  are  generally  considered
technologically obsolescent, Ln order to service the relatively old fleet of
exLsting vehcles. Exports of parts are mLnimal, with tlres predomnant, and are
shlpped mostly to other Latin Amerlcan countrles. The industry's competitLvenss
li limited to relatlvely low technology parts where high labor content prevails,
and item are less prlce and delivery time sensLtive. Thie is due to Colombla's
small domestic market, its distance from major production centers of the world,
lts technologLcal lag versus producers ln advanced industrLalized countrLes and
ln developing countrLes, such as MexLio, Brazil, TaLwan, and Korea, and the
worldwide tendency of major producers to limlt the number of vendors they
utliLze.
15. in terms of overall economlc impact, the auto lndustry *mploys soe 16,000
workers in 163 dlfferent enterprLses (including those wlth 10 or more workers),
or 3.6% of total industrial employment as of 1986. The balance of payments in
the sector ha consLstently been negatlve and in 1988 ln excess of $500 mllion.
The level of Livestment in the lndustry and the demand for credit have declined
since 1981-1982, representlng 2% and 1% of total lndustry sector respectively as
of 1986-1987. however, vehicle production and sales have bee treated by the
Government as a luxury Ltem and as such the industry ha been highly taxed.
Taxes on productlon represent 10% of total sales taxes, and 12% of total cuutom
revenues, ranking second and fLrst ln their respective importance by category of
revenue. Cars are generally sold to the top 10% of the country with respect to
ncome distribution and demand is seen as relatively inelastic to price.
16. In accord with the assembly polliy framework descrLbed above the Government
has sought to develop the industry through a combination of negotiated agremente
or contracts, hlgh levels of trade protection and access to preferential credits.
The present regulatory environment includes trade protectlon, lLceninag permits,
domestLc content requirements and a positive 1Lst of domestically supplied parts
that have to be procured by local assemblers  regulatLons governing the type of
vehicles to be produed and the number of models by producrs and price controls.
17.  Recently, the G      mnt has moved to liberalLse and to Lncrease the
flexibliLty of its auto lndustry program by making agreement wlth assemblers
more uniform and flexible reducing prLoe controls (price ocontrol are in effect
for tlres used for heavy vehicles); selling the State's participation ln the
industry; reducLng regulatlon on direct forelgn lnvestment  restructurlng
tarlffs and import regulatlonst and reduction of subsidzled Latereat on loans to
the industry.
18.  0owever, the regulatory environment sill controls the industry in a highly
iaterventionist manner as follows:
T rade lI  0ion of Vehicle Assemblers and Camnns is provided
via prior lilcensng requrements for imports (licencias previas) that are
not generally granted automatically. Imports of assembled vehilels have
generally been limited vehLele categories not produced in the country.
Tariffs are high as well as d"pered, ranging from 200% on autos, 10f0 on
pickups or light trucks, and 21% on heavy trucks. The tariff structur



-170-
Vehicle Asembl *n4 Part.
Page 41 of 41
for component parts Ls LnconsiLtent and frequently lnputs have tariffs
much higher than the autoparts.
-    nomestLc Conten PteMents are regulatud via negotiations between
the Government and the assemblers on a positive list of parts to be
produced dometlcally versus those parts to be imported an CKD. This
process is based on known parts production in the country and as such
favors a few major incumbents  The domestic content (Lncluding imported
material, taxes and freight for domestLially produced parts) ranges
nominally from 30-50% on cars and 20-50 on buses and trucks. However,
taking into account the import content of these parts, the effectlve
domestic content is well below 30%. Thls is relatively low compared to
other developlng countries such as Korea, Brazil and Mexico.
-      geKortE are assisted by a duty drawback scheme, Plan Vallejo an well
as  export  financing  from  a  government  agency,  PROUXPO.   Bxport
requirements for the assemblers are stipulated in their agreements with
the Government. Although modest to date, these requirements have not been
complied with.
-     Subsector Creis are provided through WI, and constituted in 1988
13% of the lndustry's credits under a special fund set aside for the
autoparts industry based on a tax on CRDs. These lines have generally
been at preferential credLt rates, although VI ' s terms have hardened and
PROIXPO has followed suLt ln the course of 1989.
- dOther Reaulations under agreements between the Government and the
assemblers stipulate techaLcal assLstance be provLded by the assemblers to
the parts industry, and the creation of a center for standards and quality
control.
C. Indicative Reutructurlno and Develogment gtrateaw
19.  The restructuring strategy for the auto lndustry is expected to aim
primarily at niohe markets where Colombian assemblers can potentLally be
oompetitlve -- vans, campers, specialty vehicles, heavy trucks, and buses. This
assumes that the Government will develop a coherent transportation strategy and
tariff structure to increase domestic demand for the modernlzation of the bus
fleet to improve urban transportation.
20.  In the autoparts subsector, the only substantlal export opportunlties open
to Colombian producers at present are in the after market industry. However,
thli will depend ont (L) a commitment to restructure and improve technology; (ii)
an ability to export on a cooperatlve basisj and (iLL) the establishment of
distribution channls and warehousing facliltles ln key export markets.
21.   the Government recognLes that trade refora and deregulatLon supported by
financlal assLstance are key means to lntroduce competLtlve presure for the
iadustry to restructure.   Bubseotor specLflc adjustments which would be a
condltlon of first dlibursement of the Bank's loan would would be the elimination
of domestic content requirements by reductton of the "posLtlve list" over a
3-year period.



-179-.
ARMEK 2
Pige iof 2
STATEENT OF SAW LOAN  AND IDA CREDITS IN COLOMBA (as of DOecmb.r 31, lo0)
Amount (loe
Loan or                                                  cancellatton*)
Credit      Fiscal                                        ----            Undis-
Number      Year       Borrower          Purpose        Bank      ICA    bursed
104 Loans and one IDOA Creodtt fulty disbursed */      4,236.04   28.40
1053        1961 EPM            Plays* Power          89.90                6.43
2174        1982 Colombia       Int Rural DOvt SU     63.ea               A2.80
2393        1968 ICA            Agric Rot e   Ext     63.49                4.81
2349        1984 Carbocol       Coal Exploration       7.09                1.46
2449        1964 EPM            Rio Orande Multiputp 184.59               80.52
2453        19*4 Fedecafs       A  Diverslficatilon    59.0o               6.59
2479        1985 EMC            Cucuta Water/Sew      16.U0                9.84
2477       1965 B. de a Rep.  DFC IX                  99.99                5.82
2512        1986 EAA9           Bogota Water IV      129.90               47.67
2611        1966 Colombia       PUblic HeaIth         24.94               11.39
2834        19s" E1E8           Bogota Dist 2U       169.31              193.27
2635       1966 Colpuerto.      Port Rehab            42.89               23.68
2837       1988 EPM/B'quilla   Barranq'la Water       24.00                8.25
264        16s6 HN UT           Irrigation XX        114.90               73.64
2668       1986 Caveclnale.    Rural Transport        82.90           .   3.78
2s29       1987 FondO Vlal      2nd Ntl Hwy Sector   186.89               37.U9
2689 (S)   1988 ColombIa        Power Sector Aj      800.00               75.99
2959       1986 CoJa Agroaei   Caja Agrari.           16.90               11.75
2961       1988 8CH             VS a Waste Sector    159.00              134.96
3119       1989 Colombta        Ed Sector            199.90               99.02
8926       1989 B. de It Rep.  Sth So Med Entp       s6.99                69."9
3118       1990 Colombla        Sm-Scalo.Jrpri        76.20               76.20
3157       1990 Fondo Vial    Rural Rds Sector It   58.99                 62.01
6209       1s0s  Colombia       Comm Child Care & Nu  24.90               22.68
3265       1991 Colombia        Rural Dev Invest      75.9W              7n.9
3276 (S)   1991 Colombia        PublIe Sector Reform 394.09              34.59
2,442.61    9.00  1,367.35
TOTAL                              6,678.9   23.48
Of which repaid                 2,894.29    9.99
Total hold by Bank A IDA           4,264.89    14.48
Amount *1ld                          50.9
Of which repaid                    509
Total undisbureed                                     1,557.35
,. . ~  ~       ~      r-r



-180-.
AN 2
Smm w IBSM S
U ofmw  a, 190
tin Kilans USS
31   *0by    SItuSIm
Find vow  Fial mr                                                                -M$f-                   eV  tPua-    unug.
Apo        C.ittit                   *uqw                    psTV  of m =       LON   =TV  TOTAL   PC    ps   Partcipants 
-               -                                                                -   -            -------
1959       195          aw Lmona fit Canole. MLt.        PbrfowO                   L5             0.S
19*05      1M0,3   U     In oamit aw  Os                 Fuod & Faid fo    tq      1J9    U.0    L20
191        Ihl          a v Eams C4 lh LA.               I1  Cm                    07O             .1D
19*1/46     19*1i43     at bwrosic?n                     Om Futw                   OA    OA       0.17
Ihl1        £b1         at floctivadacturm  LL.           lsetrlcal Ediapt         L.5S           0.59
1M         192          at Cmo Flowc Cutan               h lamtFum                46.    2.02    8*Q
J942I3135  19bbbvO5        Cwrp Fiac Wadal               I"lqmt Fiuc               o.O   L04    L         0.05
14/i71    19t               Cosmia ColuA*a    Tautfls & fPlw                      24.4    0.15   21.&3  259
a*lobO    4a6     l       de ejndsL. La
19*47      19MM         v Cp FmnKc do  ldas              fwl n  FItfio                    0.9t    0.81
19*4ubg    19           a FusE dhush,                     t  & roinfel                   1M      1.2
Iteb       IVb          a Awava "Wam             *         wuasn                   3M             1.4v
1l         I*bti        at In ftwwa, S                   Liwst                     1.a    eA      1.3
1%71*74  *9*7/E007l4Eu  be Went LA.I                     Iwhils & Fibs            3.31           *0.97   2 1 11              11.-
196517i   15MU719
1*9        1909          Vc. flsslHt.Zs  I Tots          Twig.                            0        0u01
M19*93      9Mi         u Cto FWI    ad WU 1W*q t FPc                                     0.45    0.45
19W945     1WSIIS       a' Cv  ti VIw c    Y1  ar hwulq t fbuo Ra                   .00   044     6.43
1970       19       v       HP  llr d u F IV it l5113    lns                       04   0Li   d.34
1970077    1970?        AiFro *wlusin                    ruso                      0.    0L24    1.04
193iS      1975         v    p a mmo    I vawia          NNWy & Capttal Notrt             04.    04.
1974       1974         v 0aSbtos oma                    Cuut &  du     tat        1.5S           1.59
174        197          a Comm    1 C         1ta        Cout &  *us t I5s    3                   3.i
1976       191e         a, Miner Lasmi         laniag0 isAiUtas OM                 0.00           6.0 01
193349      19774          Prustwa  La latsArconumn   talitan                      30    20 3e            1.032
of ls &asmtos  de Ia l       al  tramadou
CosaitA mIuc. LL.
lilliw ~     ~        W Cd   tlco                 coI;
19374h      1917t6      as bdoicIr                       Cnt                       I.49   2.24    2.1
*15  181 t5  srUb           usn  l   ia                       PM  LiM               14.02   Lb    14.l      .Sv   L31
1J         1to             Fr4aftm  Cslaos M.    do     "                          1.00   0.      1.3   072
13m2   19114              hPut m                         h swse                   121  3b  MMl L21 L3
1Ji        198u           C4rws dd Cabs                  WM                       14.73          14.    11.45
13         19M4            C( tn ubeCwo                  cam                      214    LOM    7.43   2.4    0.37
115        191             _u       so  S .EVl.          uv                               3.O0     5OO   4.13                 4.1
19          96             PoAc          ortvam de Is 1.    cmacas                 La0   143    7.11   LI                     U.0
1          17        Pltra           a 4.131 .01 Caral on i  thr        als               0.0     0.04
19t9        191           tCspwac      Fam dl   VMb  CB    howlapat flum           LOG   4.79    f.31  .JS                    213
1990       1991            Olam&ta teCJ.ilaLL            Oum   Psnh ,stcals       70.00          70.00  30  15.0             MO.0
tD Ia alsq * camtut                                                  3O23S 142O   L.24           7452
Lami CallaU t, uuats.
trAuts VA UlS                                  129    h2    13.2
; otal 1* satauits as. bid by IC                      14.      1t.91  142h
total imlaie  acdo"" PWtacspatPW o9.,                             4.09   3.532
aV  lnvwtats iicc Oam bkn MLy cmanlled, turntnt. rattan of*4 %dold ri a              V  aid.



-131-.-
Page 1 Of :3
RUMUzereo Uder Easnt men  Edina= to ClainIdsr
1.         Dank DFC lending to Colembla began in 1966 through five prlvate Cl'.
To date nine such loans totaling US$582.5 million have been Wafe to DR, and thu
nxmber of participating Cls has increasd  to nine under the Deelopment BankinI
Project in 1984 (the ninth such operation) . In thes operations, the Bank deal t
primarily with the largest established  er which focuse  mainy on long term
credit operations. The nature of C operations ad their lack of an extesive
branch network limited the "asistance they could provide to smaller firm endi,
beginng in 1975, the Dank began a seies of four loans totalling  S92.: 5
isllLon to Corporacion Financiera Popula  (CFP), a Government omn   DIC, fC3r
leding to small- and mdium-scale enterprim. A fifth loan (US$80 mllion) fir
es and the informl sector vla CUP, private Cl's olammeril bsu and N0s, was
approved. in 1989.
2.         In its DWC lending, the  ank responded to an apparent lack of lowg-
term resources for industrial sector 4eelopmnt, and supported the development
of a group of private sector financial institutions to  t                u h
resources efficiently. Buak loas also supported intitutloMal strengthening of
the BR to allow it to gradually takb over responsibility for sbprojeat revisar.
In its lending opeations, the Dank focused an  rnstitutiolns
improving the delivery of long term  redit, and increag interest rates to
levels positive in rea term. Untll the Deelopmt DasLin  Vrjeft in 194*
whe variable maket-bae  Interest rates wer introduced, interest rates on
subloans wer fixed. Although usually positive i real trms when the subloi,
was mado, the onlelding rates could be negative in rea term  ovr the life of
the subloa if inflation increased.
3.         The objective  of Dank DMC loa   to Colombia have bee   onsistent
across industrial sectors and the focus hs ben balanced between, the objectives
of strengthening financial nts and the final usrs. Th Bank requiredl
CiM to fous oan projects wLth good economie and financial rates of return, expot:
potential, ad those supportig industrial decentralisation.  WIth generall7
careful monitoring, these project objectives were largely achieved. Undr the
DEC 7 and 8 Projects, int ert rate subsidies were reduced, crdit regulatiosi
were simplified and Cls given increased.autonomy of operation. Nowever, they dhd
not have specific, linkages with the balc polciso affecting the financUal mad
manufacturing sectors. in the case of the financial sector, ther was only a
marglnal link reqlring lending interest rates co pose nad lo    to be
maintained at pouLtive levels, including a spead of at least two  erctage.
points for the DOCs (rof PCR for Lns 1598-C  and 1857-O of Novmbr 13, 1989) .
4.         Only with the 1984 Developmnt sunkig Project did the Dank beC(Ae
involved in brooder finanial sector isue.  The -loa  was fully comitted An
1989 and              are expectod to be completed shortly.  A tota  of !LS0
enterpises  benfitted  from  the  loan  tbrogh  243  operations.  ase'
beneficiaries received syndicated loans livolvlng two or more fSinaieas.  he
Annex tables show the dLitribution of the loan by .i. of subloan and by *isa of
operations. The most active financial ias wee Cp del Valle (1a6*),



-182-
Page 2 of 3
Cvolombiana (18%) and Norte (16%). About one-half of loan proceeds were used in
dollar denominated subloans and the other halt in peso-denominated subloans, with
an upper size limit of US$500,000 equivalent. Only 1.4% of the loan reources
were used in technological development and environmental control subloans and in
investments, due primarily to the inadequacies of the policy environment under
external trade protection and non-enforcement of existing enviroamental laws.
is.         In general, procedures carried out in relation to appraisal and
s.upervision of subprotects, disbursement and prcurement, and auditing and
reporting procedures have been very diligent and have corresponded to the
requirements of the loan, and SR has been diligent in their application and
supervision. The CFs appraisal and supervision procedure have been thorough and
ot: good quality, and the respect the professional quality of BR  staff. However,
ac.ording to thos procedurs, SR is expected to teview every subproject
s,ftnitted by the finLacieras and, as an average, it takes a minimum of S0 to 60
daiys to approve subloans. Untll now the only automatic rediscount procedure has
been for subloans under the Pondo rinantieros, with an upper limit of 0*1$2.0
mUlLon (USS 5,000). In August 1989, the Junta MonetarLa, in recognLtion of the
nced for a ohange, raised the limit to colS20 million (US$65,000), a substantial
butt still insufficient improvemt. Although Loan 2477-CO had also established
a free-limit of U8$250,000 equivalent, all oubprojects under the free-limlt were
appraLsed by SR on an ex-post basLi. Since partiaLpating DiFc did not want to
take any rLaks, they forced their clents to wait for disburs_emnts until the
subprojecte had been approved by BR. Xn practice, therefore, free limits wwv0
not fully applied.  Under the proposed Project, a frei-limit of US$750,*0 
egpivalent would be established for the most capable CFB and examination of
subroject loans under this limit strictly lSmted to factual verification of
quaalifying criteria. This should reprosent a consLderable improveent over past
practic".
6.         The CFs have also complained that, whle BR's evaluatLons are sound,
there is not only a long delay but also that much of the time is wasted in formal
thanges and in modifications of the terms of subloans. These changes, in fact,
x?epresent the collision of two conflicting criteria with respect to subloans. On
the one hand, the financieras would like to provide the best possible terms in
order to ensure repayments and protect their client's business  BR would like to
fi*rce repayment as early as possLble and to verify that expendltures follow the
tAtme agreed in the subloan applications. In fact, many of the cancellations in
suibloans can be traced back to changes of supplers and/or to minor adjustments
in, the characteristics of the equlpmnt. The adoption of higher free-limits and
use of computational softwae for subproject review, which would sped up the
procedures and allow more time spent in substance and less ln form.
tT.   t -.---~-n the ares of subproject supervisLon, BR has concentrsted it
efforts and done a good job ln the verLficatlon of xpenditures.  Whereas the
J. uportance of such verification should not be underestimated, more active
supervision is needed under the proposed Project to aesment of the performance
of the financial intermediaries themslves. SR should rely more on the DFe for
thea verification of expendltures and for an active relation with their clients,
and  should concentrate ln the enforcement and reviewing of the reporting
obligation of those DFCe on Project performance indicators.



-183-
Page 3 of 3
8.          Whereas the fLiancieras have had a good performance, improving their
flnnclal health and portfolio along the executlon of the project (see Annmx S)#
the competLtion among CFs and ln the financLal system as a whole needs to be
Lncreased. In practice, the CF market is controlled by five flnancLiras, or
groups of related fLnacleras, as follow s del VYll- (group of entr preneur from
Casl- 15% of system'. capital), Naclonal and Suramwrtoana (group of entrepreneur
from Medellln- 16%), Caldas, Oriente y OccLdent. (coffee growers -24%),
ColombLana (Banco Bogota group-11%), and worts (group Santodksug-7%) . The five
groups account for 75% of the capltal of all CfP, and thre have bee  no now
entrants in many years. The recent success of most of the remaining seven eCt
ln meetLag the ellgibliLty requlrements under Docree 2041 of 1987 (son as past
Bank eligibilLty criteria) sl an Important step to increase the competitiveness
of the market.   However, the broader polLcy   easoures  nviaged  in the
Governmentts financial sector strategy (m Chapter 2) r main the mor.
fundamental means of increasing competitiveness over the longor run.
N



L     We Was                       4     Mum  M                                                   l          p            -0mU    6
2. ol4 O>| Pertd          _O-  "0o  ow J  f-i*
4. mrlges.                                                           aupital-             Sl_g _. t taptwSe.               baas. ofl dmg..
(a) Sws"*I*t,                         , .                                pee  t              sgatoo. ,                  lb dw
(XF* X,3,2 f .                          *b v.                                             $_ad                          lb 'abe              lb 4AeS
b  Il9.11a. Of mt...~~~~.                       rqsC.esteam of 4 s                lb drnadde
0) SCala.  ba US..                   ~~~~~~~~~sw.                      Sw.                               lb l                 lb
(4) Nisla ~1tg  ISof lteal sme"s                 U  *01bt *mea tirn ats.e           of ftbS aamm"                 lb -hm               lb 4
,, ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ b --d to laua.   Ib'frin 
6.bam   ra  O         at #1    Sd.    feoa 
-ua  I                                                                              Sfwn.L=A                          lb iabmng.           lb sWtag.
9Fta-*ow*tutQ oft ba
e. Creidt 1* "*                                         * Tl b                                                             N *1                 l
OaarN loo sailsiag CapItAl.    I                                   "a.t   4uPItsi.1



esn     PIP  -                        - am  W       N    Mr _L               - O   IP             -     ft 
10. T.m t to                                                                                                                            . Imt  rate -  ltecat am. -  per on" sa  m  A      sad SW  * . I We
-         Sto 0,AlV   SW ,                                                          . 
Mr  8.5 (Aw f          ,          (b)    .F                           .               w ,, pteD.
am t  .5 {fCvh -                          =  dI  -OgZr S,   x' 
an) w ^ 1.105 (w                                
Xi  QIP    a galo 4t$me)             OF for WM.    & t   OL
- f.0   fus  ec                            m 
.  C  e)  P*.0 (  ilaw               s   = Ina
nordsom.           I"             VS reismt.1  "1cdlegmm.                                                  lb *ina.".            lb tag..
U. T     1                 I        rte-                     It      ra   - h_tes rt. fee te                                               a _               Sa "
bt"                     Che <.) U    4.0 (feA*w           Per BAA - UP- *    4.0 fe           s th am iest bomb, NWd
lea.    pm                           .Itd.e)                 UP. I a *    ¶-r cltm or                    Co. afit risk
rIMp                  (b) 0   10 (fec                   Ibr SC - W                              .,
-ses)                 (t) UPo 4.0 Cf..                  Pec PU I                             mr          taf          to
UP *.S. MI ecmWeblbte                 am dsslrs"'.!d a"
- UP. 4.0 fw st                    ae
htrll_                              aert telbt       tems tettp W                                          lb sm..               l _tW-_.
Nautau. 10 ,m (Spum    iI5jms                                       at.o ,mm C
easiet                _aw ?Iasi 8 N m    V.a.)
_da   m .



-~~~~~~~~E
SCIYD  pip          -aSt Fn E                                       w  S   g    W  L'            RIP                     DmD  FFE
(    t) *o ef Rfotor"  M ASMt 1* mad                    FM IR ltd V                           a*t R R* l  IN 1% s.d                                 b d_ose
wmsitAirty smlipole.
)F    Ua ,to          We  toM     Om.0                        : VD to                                 .0                      l _.                  b _.
s  Fit lB,tie Mt va .mfilt  fft ,elloo   1v                                  um .w ffMUDfl F
CI=C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I. CS WIt'
A                             aCWI  Am.                          CloCw A
*iX ~ ~  ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ a&                                           S^             W i_
c~~~~i|  Fri 
So) I.f.emI..  Net alicebl   IbbmIIcablSum Um. l                                        d           A    the VA. As Is Oe NWP S
sot Pe"ar                                                                               *lmmaalpaAsro  f l~-Im,nins fo     a lb a  11m             st t     rk
-L 5!                                                                               T  -h  t <_ ii  t  IIR  pi afero  tot  IftA
or "we aim~~~~ WI. il                             *vwvs. Seim  Am
#r                                    lb pr~~~~~~~~~~o~dSsiea ab Istutra
,w*o| a"offat sty
-  btmti                f~ta. afe dm pi;nt                                                frttope   fe  tt
It mir Ali .ic  tor iop le eV
a)t awb.
asomfttCOMW.  N"  me"          A toW  Sm             A* t V t
Ci)      torn
14. twsieio              lb po_lq                          lb psi 1ne                             W t umdu od s.d                lb_                   lb gim
ill;        - at M                                               o .
o MAt GmtedWm AmmIQme Ables   -'eab        mpo      at:1    alt lat o
:WI=ed   Ltot                 rdk   a.



-107%                                 AN=  I
Industrial Restructurina and Devlggegt 
partlioiatLna Financial !ntom.dn rie.
Introduction
1.   Colombia's banking system includes 26 comnercial banks, 9 savings and loan
associations (Corporaciones de Ahorro y vivienda-CAVIs) and a central mortgage
bank (Banco Central Hipotecarlo-BCH), 24 development banks (Corporaciones
Financieras--Cls), nearly 30 trade finance companies (Companias de LinancLamiLnto
Comercial--CFCe), and the Central Bank (Banco de la Republica- BR), which plays
a signLficant role in credit markets ln addLtion to lts functlons as monetary
authority. In addition the financlal sector includes about 70 inLurance
companies, several mutual funds and three stock exchanges (at Bogota, Call and
medellin. The commercial banks have a large branch network with more than 1900
dLstrLbuted throughout Colombia. What appears to be a relatively well-developed
and dLversified financlal sector, presents some structural defLeLencies and hlgh
degrees of concentratlon that have prevented a more actlve particlpatlon in the
financing of the productive sectors. CommercLal banks represent the dominant
segment, accounting for nearly two-thLrds of the financial sector assets and 60%
of total credit, excluding houesng mortgages. Among them the public banks account
for 58% of banking assets and five of those public banks, ineluding Banco de
Colombia which was nationalized after the crisis of 1982-1983, account for 53%
of total banking assets. Foreign participation is relatively minor in the banking
sector and the 8 bans with foreign participation account for only 8% of banking
assets. Among the private banks the four largest (Bogota Oe¢idente, Bancoquia and
Industrial Colomblano), account for 25% of total banking assets and for 62% of
all the assets in the 16 private and foreign banks.
2.   All financlal institutions are subject to the regulatory framework of the
Superintendency of Banks (Superintendencia Bancaria). The Superintendency is
responsible, inter alia, for monitoring the procedures, practices, solvency and
liquidity of all such institutLons. It exercisee this responsibility mainly vLat
(a) its authorlty to approve the creation , restructuring and liquidation of
flnancial institutions; (b) setting regulations and technical norms to meet
standards of operation and accountability, and (c) its authority to suspend
operations of an institution found to be ln violation of its statutes, financial
or operational requirements. Facilities are available through the BR to maintain
liquidity requirements and, where an Lnstitution's financial and operating
condition is endangered, the Superintendency has wide latitude to intervene to
protect the interests of creditors and maintain its viability.
3.   In recent years, i'nd partially as a result of Bank projects, the
superintendency has undergoBie a process of strengthening and of reinforcement of
its procedures. Three major steps ln such reinforcement ares Decree 2041, from
1987, which regulates the,existence and operation of Corporaciones Financieras;
Resolution 3600, form 1988, which established a unified accounting standard for
all institutLons in the financial sector, and Resolution 2053, from early 1989,
which established procedures and criteria for evaluation and classification of
portfolio. The enforcement of these procedures, added to the strengthning of the
SB, both in personnel and equipment, is beginning to give a real meaning to its
regulatory role and has certalnly been instrumental in the improvement



-180-
Pag 2 of 5
experienced by the banknag system in 1967-1989. The recant regulations provide
for a close monitoring ina debt/equity ceillngs, minimum equLty requiremente,
provisions in non-performing assets according to qualLty of portfolio, limits on
distribution of profits, auditing procedures, etc. It also places limitations on
loans to related parties and the amounts of total loans outstanding to any sin&,4e
borrower. The use of a unique set of accounting standards would, certainly,
facilitate monitoring not only of individual instLtutions but of the ilnancial
sectox as a whole.
4.   For the proposed project all participating financial intermediaries (Pus)
would be required to be in good standing with the Superintendency of Banks. in
addition they would be reguired to ensure satisfactory organization and staffing
-for loan appraisal and supervision. After satisfying the eligibility criteria,
the PFis would be allowed substantial free-_liits of subproject approval. The
emphasis c' the second-tier mechantsm controls would concentrate in the overall
procedures, in the ex-post impact of the subloans and in the solvency of PFI.
The following sections highlight any additional eligibility requirements for
their participation..
Private Develoment Bank8 (CFs).
5.   Colombia has 24 develcpment banks (Corporaciones Financieras), which were
established between 1959 and 1975, to provide medium and long term credit and
equity financing to private productive enterprises, principally in the industrial
sector. Out of these 24 CMs, 6 are public ', and account for 50% of total
assets. Of the remaining 18, nine -have been beneficaries of Bank Group
financing. They I account for 78% of the private C's assets and for 39% of the
systems' assets. Bank DFC lending to Colombla, vi- Banco de la Republica, began
in 1966 and, to date, nine loans totalling US$582.5 million have been
intermediated by nine CFs. Th -;have bad a good record of performance in terms
of loan appraisals and supervision capabilities.
6.   Recent Financial Performance.   These nine CFs have in recent years
performed reasonably well. After consistent efforts, siAce 198S, toward financial
recovery in the wake of the international recession of the early 1980s, they have'
posted two successive years of healthy growth, in 1987 -1988.-They have sound
overall capital structures, with an average debt-to-equity ratio, in December
1988, of 7.4*1 (see table 2.33). They are all in cfxmpliance with eligibility
criteria set up by the Bank for Loan 2477-00 (Ninti DFC Loan) which are more
stringent than those of the SBs minimum equity of ColS500 -million, debt-to-
equity ratio under 10 l, and a specialization ratio  long anQ medium term credit
over short-term credit) over 55% ---these criterial were subsequently adopted
under Decree 2041 of 1987.  Their profIts in 1989 amounted to 2.7% of total
assets, down slightly from 2.5, in 1988, and their administrative expenses have
been low, particularly in comparison with the rest of Colombia's financial
system, averaging 1.38% of total assets over the period 1985-1989. The average
indebtnesse for the group is 7.4 times equity.
'They include: Cofiagro, IFI, Popplar, Transporte, Turismo and Electrica.
$ Valle, suramerLcana, Progz.so, Caldas, Colombiansa, Santander, Oc¢idente,
Nacional y Norte.



-109-
Page 3 of 5
7.    Increase ln profits is mainly due to a substantial        ln the COW
portfolio, with non-prforming assets (arres over on. year, accounts of
doubtful recovery with personal guarant"e  or real guaantees) falling ln
absolute term and in relation to total portfolio from 5.4% in 1985, to 2.5% ln
1987, and to 1.3% in 1988. Zven CP Colombiana, whlch until Decoombr 1987 hd a
significant share (7%) of non-prforming assets, gave a big step forward in 1988,
by reducing them to 4%. In te  of quality of portfolio the -mproVQmnt for the
nine CPF, as a result of a higher provisions imposed by the 8*, is frm 2. l  Lan
1987 to 1.3% ln 1988. Evyn Cr Colombiana, whlch until December 1987 ha4 a
significant share (7%) of non-performing assats, made a big step forward in 1988,
by reducing them to 4%. In terms of quallty of portfolio the iprovement for the
nine CF., As a result of higher provisions imposed by the 8, is from 2.58 ln
1987 to .3* % in 1988. For CY Colombiana the imle from 9.6% ln 1987 to
5.5% in 1988. CF Occident. also registered an important improvement as its non-
performing assets, which were reduced by 60% or form 2.8% of portfolio, in 1987,
to 1.9% in 1988. Three participating CF. (Valle 0.4%, suramericana 0.5% and
Progreso 0.04%) showed an outstanding performance with a quality of portfollo of
0.1%.
8.    CF Reform Program. While MC were intended as primarily long-term lenders
and principal usera of BR rediscounts, the inflationary environment and high
liquidity preferences of savers has made mobilisation of medium and lont term
domestic resources extremely difficult. In 1975, CFs were given autbority to
issue short term deposits (CDTs) to finance the working capital needs of
productive enterprises. In practice, this provided an incentive to turn toward
the short term end of the market. In the early 1980. short-tem credit by CFs
(with maturities of up to 3 years according to the SD definition existing before
1987) represented nearly 70% of total credit, After 1987, the 8B changed the
definition of short-term to include only maturities of up to one year, but also
established an specialization requisite of at least SO% of loans with maturities
in excess of one year. Today, maturities in excess of one year account for nearly
80%  of CFs' credit. For participating CFO, uslig  Banks  funds, a  5S
specialization ratio was already established in 1985, as one of the eligibility
criteria.
9.   In October 1987, through Decre  2041/87, the Government adopted a Reform
Program for the CT system. The program was consistent with earlier
recoumendatiomns by the 3ank, aimed at ,reasserting the original role of Cds as
longer-term financiers and equity Investors. It was designed to increase their
solvency, through forced capitalization and through more stringent accounting of
liabilities, and their profitability via the diversiflcation of it. markets and
financial services. The Reform authorizes CPU to finance leasing companies, to
develope such services as factoring, underwriting, and enterprise restructuring-
advisory services.
10.  The 1987 Reform established the following three standards whicb all CP1
must meet, according to a graduz-l schedule, between 1988-90s
(a)   specialization ratio - at leapt 50 percent of a CF's operations
involving its own and BR rediscount funds must carry maturities in
excess of one yearu



-190-
Page 4 of 5
(b)   mini.mum capltaliLatlon of existing Cps of  ol$ 700 million (US$ 1.9
million) by December 1989, and Col05,000 mllilon (US$2.6 mllion) ln
December 1990. Col$ 1,000 mllion for any new CT establlshoed after
October 1987, and
(c)   a maximum debt to equlty ratio of 101 Lnstead of the prevloue 5s:1.
Nearly all of the prlvate C01 now meet these standards and are expected to be
eligible as PFIs for the Project.
11. In addition to financial crLteria, and in vLew of the speclallzed type of
financing to be provided uw&der the restructurlng projec&t, eligible PFis would
have to demonstrate a satLsfactory organLzation and staffing, a capablilty to
prepare, or help prepare, *workout strategies", and a capability to handle
appraisal and supervision procedures. CFs dieplay generally good experlence in
appraLsal and surpervision work and have some participation  on workouts to
assist  ome of their problem. clients.  Their experlence with a systematic
approach to workouts, financial engineerLng and investment banking is rather
limLted but practical. Their staffing is of good professLonal callber combinlng
solid trainLng with ample exposure to business practlcae. Wlth the help of some
initial and specialized training and the assistance of project-speclflc
consultants, all of the CF0 are antLiLpated to be able to provide good cuality
development banking services for the Project.
Commercial Banks.
12.   The 26 commerclal banks ln Colombia accounted for nearly two-thirds of the
financial sector assets. Public banks, including anceo 4d Colombia account for
S8% of banking assets. Their large network qo branch offices facilitates their
access to low cost demand, saving and time deposLts. As these represent about
70% of thelr sources of funds, about two-thirds of their loans are also short-
term (maturities of less than one year). These institutions have suffered from
a variety of distortions in the financial sector - ln partlcular, the forced
lnvestment and directed credit system, dlfferentlal interest rate po)4cies
whlch have negatively influenced efficiency, profitability and capital stiucture.
13.   These underlying problems were clearly exposed by the recession of the
early 19805, when banks had to confronts (a) the major repayment problems
incurred by their borrowers, which were hit by the combination of high real
interest rates and stagnating demand for their products    and (b) a high
portfolio concentration in a limlted number of firm  and the covoequences of
relaxed credit standards which had been applied to related clients.   The
resulting financial crisls led to a prolonged deterioration ln the system, which
did not show signs of reversal until 1985, and forced Government interventLon in
several major banks (Colombia, Istado, Comercio, Teguendama and Trabajadores) in
an effort to protect depositors and the functioning of the banklng system.
14.   The profitability as a share of paid capital and legal reserves fell
steadlly from 29.0W in 1981 to negative levels in 198c& (-188.1%) and 1986
(-7.4%). Non-performing assets in relation to paid capital and legal reserves
rose from 35.3% to 381.2%. Net capltal (paid capital plus legal reserves loes
non performing assets net of provisions/paLd capital and reserves) fell over this
period from 82.S to -35.2 percent. By the end of 1986, loans in arrears exceedint



-191-
MM  5
Page 5 of S
one year represented 16.2% of the system's portfolio. The overall figures,
however, are severely affected by Banco de Colombia, the largest private bank in
Colombia before its nationalization in 1984. Excluding anco de Colombia, profits
in private banks aad in foreign banks, went also through a low in 1984-1985 but
were never negative.
15.   Since 198S, the banking system started a sustalned recovery. Net capital
and total arrears as a share of total portfolio have returned to their 1982 level
56.8 percent and 6.3 percent, respectLvely, by the end of 1988. Debt-to-equity
ratios varies substantially between the dlfferent types of banks (3.5X1 for the
nationalized banks to nearly 16s1 for two offLcial banks--Popular and Ganadero).
Recent dLsposLtions from the Superintendency (Resol. 21/1989) have reduced the
mandatory ratio from 15:1 to 12.5:1, effective July 1989. Twenty two out of 26
banks regiLtered profits in 1988 and in the first half of 1989. Profltability in
prlvate local and forelgn banks is now at very satisfactory levels-having reached
67% and 34.5%, respectlvely, in June 1989. Nevertheless, in spite of a
significant reduction (from 8.5% of assets in 1987 to 4.9% in 1988), arrears are
still important. It Is expected that the new regulations on portfolio evaluation
by the SB will induce further and more permanent improve  nts in the portfolio
qualLty of comercial banks. Total adeinistrAtive expenses are still very high at
4.8% of total assets for the total banking system. They show little variation
between the different groups of banks. In an oligopolistic market, inefficiencies
are passed-over to the clients tJtrough the charging of very high spreads (7-9%,
in real term). The large reserve requirements and forced investments, have
obscured the issue of efficiency.
16. Recent Government measures to increase capitalization of banks, as well as
announcement of reprivatisation of natLonalixed banks and of measures to
facilitate foreign investment I- the financial sector, are expected to increas.O
compaetition and efflciency. Under the increasing strength of the Superintendency
of Banks in its regulatory functions, the growth of competition should not be at
the expense of solvency and profltabi-lity of the banking institutions.
17.  Five camuercial banks have expreasd an interest in partici*Ating as
financial intermediaries in the proposed ProjectO. Commercial banks are already
important creditors to industry, can expand subotantially the ability of CMe t
finance the volume of restructuring investments expected to take place under the
trade reform program, and wish in many cases to do so as part of their own
institutional development. The eligibilLty criteria for their participatLon
would be as stringent as in the case of CFa. PartLLpating banks would be
requlred to be in full compliance with operating standard set firth by the SB,
and to demonstrate satisfactory organization and staffing to prepare or help
prepare restructuring loans. While few banks have had substantial experience in
long-term lending, they are prepared to undergo the necesary traLning and
reorganization neoded to tackle long-term project lending. While the financLal
status of participating banks would be certifled by the Superintendency of Banks,
BR (the second-tier institutLon) would verify the technical capabilties of PFTs.
*  Bogota, Cafetero, Colombfas Comercial Antioqueno and Occidente



-192-
Page 1 of 7
Industrial Restructuring and Development Project
Public Sector Sunuort For Restructuring
3nvxronmental Pollution Control Proarum (US$2 million administered by DNP).
1.          Colombia in experiencing severe environmental deterioration, whioh
is among others, caused by a lack of pollution control planning and enforcement.
Many of its waterways are contaminated by sewage, industrial effluent, pesticides
and oil leaks. A&ctual levels of contamination are in all likelihood far higher
than those officially reported, given that common pollutants from chemical and
petrochmical industries are not taken into account by present asssament
proceduress for instance, synthetic organics are not even monitored and there
are no regulations related to hazardous wastes.   other major pollution.
nerating lndustries aro those of the steel, textiles, pulp and paper tanneries
and food processing sectors.
2           Governmental pollution control activities are weak, and for everal
years old industrial emission standards have not been enforced. In the past,
there seems to have been an absence of political support for coping with long
standing industrial resistance and inertia in the area- of pollution control.
Nevertheless,, ome progress was achieved on the legislative side, especially with
reard to water protection, for which the legislation now in place provides sound
instruments and policies.
3.          There is an absnce of operational procedures and actions within
governmental agencies which are needed to give--real meaning to the pollution
control prmits required for new investmnts. There i also little follow up of
requisLtes and periodical renewal to assure compliance. There is no control on
hazardous waste, and air quality management is also ineffective.
Institutional Agnea
4.          Shortcoming  in management, as well as som  unresolved inter-
institutional issues, also slow down the operationalization of enforcement
measures. Several agencies operate in pollution control matters:
(a)   the central agency for environmental protection, the Instituto
Nacional de lo Recursos Naturales y del Mbdio Rmbients - INDXRMNM,
a weak institution which lacks the budget, staff, political clout,
and the continuity of leadership necessary for offectively carrying
out its numerous responsibilities; INDBREMA has only 5 pollution
oontrol engineers, out of more than 2,000 employeess



-193-
EnviggalMeal roa
Page 2 of 7
(b) the Department for Environmental sanitation, a Ministry of Health
Unit, which is supposed to control air pollution and to establish
standards to protect human healthj its activities in the pollution
control area have been very limited and seem to be decreasing; and
(c)  regional authorites.
5.         RegLonal Autonomous Corporations have been created frQm 1954 to 1983.
In Colombia, as well as Bollvia, their powers rapldly increased in the last
decade, a movement that is likely to contlnue, constituting local authorities
with state governments characteristies. The first one, Corporacion Autonomsa
Regional del Cauca -CVC- was inspired in the Tennessee Valley Authority - TVA.
step by step, as externalities began to threaten economic development and public
health, a new institutional framework to cope with environmental management has
been drafted. Regional authorities quietly took on pollution control activities,
leading to the 1989 proposal of a major sectorial restructuring law empowering
them to act under the supervision of a new federal agency. A 1989 study propoed
a compreenslve reorganization of environmental agencies and thair functions,
which was to include the creation of the Autonomous Department for Renewable
Natural Resources and Environment (DAPEAR).
6.         However, recent  elect$ons  and  consequent  changes  of  higher
governmental officers have further delayed a decdison on this proposed law, which
Ln September was in it. 5th revision. If this proposed law were to be enacted,
the whole restructuring of the sector would realistically take several years to
becom operationalI once empowered to implement environmental protection policies
under the coordination of the DARIAR, most regional authorities would need to
build up their capabiliti e, which presently do not exist in most cases.
7.   Dgg0zaM"iaLgn.   8ven without the enactment of the proposed law,
decentralizatLon seems irreversible. Some corporations are legally empowered to
act on environmental protection; others have dlfferent levels and kLids of
responsibilities through specific agreements with INDtRhN. To date, only 2 out
of 18 regional authorities have some significant work on pollution controls
Corporacion Autonoma Regional del Cauca, CVC and Corporacion Autonoma Regional
de las cuencas de los Rios Bogota, Ubate y Suares (CAR). And even these lack
personnel, training and equlpment to cope with a substantial part of pollution
control requirements, from planning to monitoring, from extent (different
sources) to quallty (different pollutants).  Both of them concentrate their
efforts on organlc loads.  Traditioral sanitary concepts and technoloies
(extended aeration, activated sludge) have been adopted, even though such
substances/compounds are not removed through, pretreatment systems. Therefore,
standards for several among the more dangerous pollutants included An local
regulatLons have never been enforced for lack of training and laboratories.
Measures to be sunnorted under the anvironmental ogmnonsn
S.         The following measurer would be suppo*ted under the Bank Loan for the
Industrial Restructuring ad -4velqopment Project, taking into accou I- the
possible outcome of the penzing inetitutional changes and the re9ulrements to



-194-
A= 6 fs
RazlSopmental Progara
Page 3 of 7
strengthen local capabilities related to Environmental Assessments (EAs) and
pollution controls
(a)  an Environmental Pollution Control Program will be established under
the supervision of the Division for Environmental Policy (DIP), of
the National Planning Department (DNP) unit. This unit is legally
entitled to "orient, promote and implement, in coordination with
related agenciLs and institutions, the formulation and execution of
policies, plans, programs and projects of environmental management
and conservation..." (Decree 2.410/89);
(b)  funds for hiring consultants to analyze RJU and pollution control
projects considering both local regulation and World Dank (WS) (OD
4.00) will be assigned to Fondo Nacional de Proypetos para el
Desarrollo (FONADE) to field personnel of a request by the DIP;
(c)   financLal, technical and operational support will be granted to (i)
intensive training, (ii) build up a permit system, and   (iii)
review/start-up a billing system of charges on waste water, and;
(d)   financial support will be provided to enable CAh's laboratory (or
any reference one) to make determinations on organic toxies through
the acquisition of a gas chromatograph and to start up its
biological tests (bio-essays).
TheDPM-
9.         The DiP's DmP will have the principal respnsibility for screening
environmental aspects of industrial and other investments in order to assure
compliane, with local regulations- and WS 00 4.00.
10.        The DEP will utilize the services of specialists in pollution control
inter alia for air, water and hazardous waste, toxicology, urban planning,
professional background related to industrial setting, administration, and field
inspection, with adequate support staff.
11.         Investment  proposalB  must  describe  the  investment'"s  main
characteristics, as well an the criteria and pollution control measures adopted
to assure compliance with local standards and WS OD 4.00 statemnts.  Such
approvals will detail as required conditionalitice -and timetables to achieve
these standards.  DIP approvals will be mandatory in order to. undertake the
investment, as is now the case under the law.
12.        DIP's duties will also includes (a) maintenance of complete records
and files of each investment rolovant to environmental pollution control; (b)
follow up of conditionalities and timetables related to poLlution control system
and requirements .(through field visits and administrative procedures)t (c)
supervision of the implementation of all environmental ubcouponents under IRDP;
(d) design and implementation of a program  to enhance pollution control
acttLvties of the (new) environmental resourceas management system, and (s)
preparing and forwarding inter alia to the Bank on the Unlits' 'activities,



-195-
ammNX 6 la)
Znvironmental Proaram
Page 4 of 7
conclusions, on environmental assessments of investments and compliance by
investors.
13.        Records and files of each subproject shall include; (a) description
of present and new installations/activities (characteristics and quantitieo of
raw material, products, by-products, air and water emissions, solid/hazardous
waste, engineering projects for pollution control and related schedules, etc);
(b) monitoring plan and data; (a) detailed technical opinion (issued by DEP staff
or consultants), on adequacy of pollution control projects to comply with local
standards and the World Bank Guidelines and (d) periodic reports of field
inspections.
Fundina Mechanisms
14.        Required specialist inputs in pollution control engineering include
air, water and hazardous waste, as well as familiarity with different industrial
processes (process technologies, in-plant controls, waste reduction, classes of
pollutants) and environmental settings (ecotoxicology, monitoring, dispersion).
since industrial sectors to be supported are not yet defined, specialists may be
required to participate in the analyses of pollution control projects and SE.
Istimates of the amount of these funds have been based on (a) averago time needed
to analyze pollution control projects, and (b) number of expected enterprises to
be supported under tho IRDP. The total amount of this funds will be US$300,000,
an estimate based on 100 consultants/month considering 100 out. of 250 sub-
projects to be supported and an average of 1 consultant/month to assess al
aspects of a sub-project: air, water, hazardous waste. These funds will not b
available to 2re2are iollution control gojects of IAs, which must ba under the
responsibility of enterprises, in order to internalize costs and also because
they will bear the ultimate responsibility for its implementation.
Uaina Bnviromental ProtectionQ-
15.         Intensive training will be provided through  DIP to regional
corporation staff in the following areas (with its main focus on industrial
sourcea):s ,-                             
(a)   air pollution - primary pollutants:  emission standards, control
technologles, health protection standards, monitoring routines and
continuous monitoring systems, basic climatology for setting and
dispersion modelling;
(b)  water pollution - toxic and persistent pollutant-s  emission (global
and seotorial) water bodies .tandards; control technologies; design
and operation of treatment facilities; field inspection and
lndustrial monitorLng routines; water bodies monitoring planning and
execution;.
(a) hazardous waste - classification, inventory, transportation,
proceonsin  (neutralizatio    incineration) 'and final disposition;
design, operatLon and monitoring of protected landfills;



-196-
Page l of 7
(d) risk analysis - fundamentals of environmental risk assessmentg and
(e)   bio-essays - evaluation of acute and chronic toxicity through bilo-
essays; development and enforcement of standards.
16.         TraLnLng in this areas will be provided by national and international
consultants, to update local staffs wLth new developments Ln each are.
Consultants will be requLred to: (a) help DEP initial activities, working on
specific sub-project appraisals, and (b) report to the Bank on CUJC and CAR
capablities and requisltes to improv, them. The total financial support to the
training program is estimated to be US$2S8,500, considering 12 month of forelgn
consultants (US$S8,000/mnth), air flight fares (UB$12,500), hotel ad meals
(US$130,OOO), and admLnistrative support/techaLcal papers (US$20,000),
17.         To make the existirt .eormit system functional and more expl*cit is
fundamental, but a quLte sUap&o task if international experience L  made
available under the Project. The system will be designed withLn a, period of 3
months and implementation will -start Immediately after the necessary internal
regulation is enacted.  Basic features of the permit system -will ensur, thats,
(a)) no expansion or nw  industrtal plant will be authorized wherever,emissions
may result ln vlolations of environmaental standards; (b) lack of compliance with
criteria, standards or schedules will' reult in automatic daily fine equ$valent
to toxic load and/ox O.S to }.% of the value of required pollution control
systems, and (c1 no administrative otponements for compliance wll.bs edmLtted
wlthout penalties. The total cost of this task will be US$90,000, knq;,uding
senior professinal  in chemical engineering, law, system  and management to
conceive, start up mad run the system fo$ the fiLst 3 months.
18$         The National Code for Natural Renewable Recources and Unviroamental-
Protectlon, enacted by Decree 2.811/74, established that all kinds of economic
uses of renewable natural resources may be subject to 9harges/taxes ln order to
assure their protection and -conservatLon '(Art. 18), and that water use for
economic purposes (...) will be subject to charge/taxes to fund the following
activitles related to their prot.ction and conservatLon, auiong others: (1)
lnvestigation and inentory of national water resources; (li) planning of their
usesa  (Uii) projects for comon benefit; (iv) protection and develoment of
watershed, an  (v) all direct oosts of-each use.  Based on these prmisso,
SNP*M, CVC and CAR have ben trying to bill NretrLbutlve ch"Vet* with very
restricted successa, even when the composition and strueture of these chares
(taas retributivas) have been detailed by Decree 1.594/84 (Art. 1434/144).
.~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~, Do. S./4 (At  14414)
19.         Systematic enforcement of this regulation would surely result in high
benefits. Basic values for charges can be, increased gradually wAth periodic
reviews based on social and economic requirements for water quality protection.
At prsent, blling water uses' Li  only constrained-- by rivalry and l"k of
&4nagement initiativo. of course, financial resource  from these chages must
be earmarked in order to assure effectiveness and transparency. The qost of this



-197- .
Page 6 of 7
item  wll be US$102,000, including senior local consultants in chemlcal
engineering, economies,  anag_mnt systeM, law specalist and  upport staft.
Thelr task will Lnclude a review of procedures a   start up of the billing
system.
Labor&tory CagabUit it s
20.         Enhancing laboratorial capabilities e unadoubtedly fundamental to all
pollution control related activities, from monitorLng and evaluating specific
projects to billing water use charges. At present, CVC has one fully equipped
laboratory, but CAR'e requires a ga chromatographer and support to start up blo-
essays (basic installations being already ln place). The total cost of thls
laboratorLal enhancement will be USS254,000, ineluding I gas chromatographer and
spare parts (US$O,000),* Lnstallation  and equippnt to start up bio-essays
(US$96,000) and 3 professionals to operatq both of them during 3 year
(USS108,000)0.
The estimated cost-for these components $s as follows



* -198-
ANM    6 (a)
Environmental Progtram
Page 7 of 7
!ninastia Restrueturina end Devlcnmnt Proje
Public Sector Augtgot for Rostructuriag
Zutlmated Staff ia  -and Cost Tabli
Compoorat/luctiou          tezaon.s      Time         nit Cost      Total Cost
No.        Mo..          USS              S
EnvJromental poli.itLon
Cntrol Unit                                                       2,014,900
Care Unit Spc.ialists                                               810,000
ir pollution                I              18.;      9,000
Water pollution             1          is8          9,000
Eazardous wastes            1          18 is         9,000
-Toxicology                 1 8                     9,000
trban planing               1          18            9,000
Support staff              4                              ,,     162,000
ST Pollution Specialists               100   .        3,000         300,000
Training Program
Trainers                   12         3.2            8.000        96,000
iSaterLals /"'                                               . .   20,00Q
Tra'rel S subsistence       .-                                   142,S00
Permit System                           ,                            90,000  ?
Chemical engineer         1             3            9,000
Legal specialist  .       3             4           -9,000
Systems spectalLst        1             3            9,000
Support staff  .          2                                         l.  .  ,    18,000
Water tiLllng System   .                                            102,000
Chemical eng,Xeer         1        e    3            9,000
'Economist                ,              2             9; 000
systems specialist        I             3            9,000
Legal specLalLit          1             3            9,000
Support staff             3                                       20,400
Laboratories -                                . .
Equipment                                              '6,00
Technicians               3          36            3,000         108,Q00



-199-
ANNZX 6 fbl
Prciegt Mansa92Menuane  Unit
Page I of 2
IndustrLal Restructuring *od Developaent Project
Public Siect;or SUuot= For, Retkucturina
Proiect _onLtrXin9 Protram (US$1 million adminiatered by MED)
1.          The trade reform and industrial restructuring programs formulated
over the past two years reflect the most explicit, concerted effort by Colombia
to define and redirect its industrial policy since the adoption of the import
substitution strategy of the 19504 The MLnistry of Economic Development (ZGD)
has played an important role in this process and must continue to do so through
daily administration and coordination to oversee their implementation. Although
the MED was recently reorganized to undertake this function, its human and
budgetary resources have changed little. Under the Public sector support for.
Restructuring Component of the Project, provisions would be made to implement a
Project Monitoring Program (P8P) within MED to (a) regularli monitor the
performance of enterprises receiving Project resources and of- industry overall
to the trade reform and modernization process, (b) maintain regular conoultations
-With producer associations and provide advisory services to enterprises primarily
to identify fine tuning measures to reduce bottlenecks to the supply rOsponse,
and (c) maintain coordination with other Governmental entities to encourage
further changes in policies as needed to  achieve internationrW competitiveness.
2.          The Performance Analysis Division of the PMP would establish a
monitoring system and regular analyses of basic performance trends and reactions
to policy adjustments of the industrial sector and major aubsectors. The data
collected by existing statistical services (eq., DANM1   INCOMEX),  covering
employment and wages, value added, raw materials utilized,->4ports and exports,
credit approved, etc., as well as other leading Indicators wlll be the main
sources of information for this purpose. To monitor the restructuring investment
process, a special survey of enterprises and financial institutions will be
developed to track the character of such investments and the enterprises
undertaking them, the evolution of technology employed, t'he resulting
productivity and competitiveness changes, and their overall performance. The
reporting system will also include periodically international indicators of
productivity and international competitiveness of major industrial product lines
in comparator countries purchased from appropriate scurces.
3.          A significant share of the proposed Project was developed through the
collaboration of the public and private sectors in Subsector Working, Groups.
They were particularly helpful in overseeing work to identify the influence of
public policies on enterprise competitiveness and in defining -the broad
requirements for restructuring. Both the MED and industry wish to continue the
close consultation developed under this structure.   Thus, the process of
preparing subsector studies used for Project preparation will be replioated for
other subsectors during Project implementation and used as a forum to discuss
restructuring issues of concern to both sides.  To Support this process, the
Restructuring Division of the PMP would -provide advisory services under this
frameiork to industries aimed to identify major bottlenecks and propose solutions
-   -          .  I,~~~~~



-200.
Pag 2 ot 2
to taciltate tor both the private ad public sectors the restructuring san
deVelopMent process.
4.         The Ban loa would Iinae, the altial consultlag services snseary
to design and mount the infooation system as wel as the sevices of thre
Protfesionals durin the lon com tt pnld to be situated ln the induy
Departmne of HBO to prepae lmotoring analyes  and support tho work of the
Subeetor VorkLin Groups nd coordination with othe pubUo authorities.
iftnetv&M             2Am         gal eat    oaSl QS
110.     ffO.            3$8         V38$
£unnoet   anit
cxoordinator              1         36          2,700        97.200
sure Anaysts              4        144            545        76,480
Sure  suboatancts         4         36        *  350         122600
financial Analysts        2         72            54S        39,220
sT. FinancLal Analyst     1         1s          3,500        63,000
Industrial Analysts      10         79          3,S00       276,500
international Competl-
tivenes
Sures and Analy"s                                           324,000
contingency                                                 100.000
20!SL                                           1,000,000
C,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



-201-
awas
muimm
(US$ MllUWon)
Bznk Fiscal Year                          Disburseats   ¢      umul tiv,
and uourter                              La .AsXrALr      Dlkursaent
FY92
September 30, 1991
December 31, 1991                   1.0
March 31, 1992                      2.0
June 30, 1992                       3.0                   6.0
FY93
September 30, 1992                  8.0
December 31, 1992                   10.0
March 31, 1993                      13.0
June 30, 1993                     .15.0                  50.0
FY94
September 30, 1993          .5.0
December 31, 1993                  18.0
March 31, 1994                     18.0
June 30, 1994 2A                   19.0                 -=*.0
FY95 
September 30, 1994                 15.0
D*cember 31, 194                   12.0
March 31, 199S                      4.0
June 30, 1995                       5.0                 158.0
FY96
September 30, 1998                  6.0
December 31, 1995                   6.0
March 31, 1"6                        5.0
June 30, 1996                        5.0                180.0.
FY97
September 30, 1996                   5.0
December 31, 1996                   3.0
March 31, 1990                      2.0
June 30, 1997                       2.0                 192.0
FY98
September 30, 1997                  4.0
December 31, 1997 #                 4.0                 200.0
m     Bsed on average disburemAent profiles under the previouv   industri&1
credit buns to Cobombia.
U     End date for submisslon  f subloans.
j/   Closing Date



-202-
ANEX 
Page I of 2
Iadustrlal Restructurie and Develoment Prgect
Semi-Annual Beport of Kea Indicators for Progect Imolementation
(Outline of contents) t
A. Industrial Restructurina Policy Framework
1.    Processing time for applications for Plan Vallejo (Ministry of
Economic Development, or NED), and technology and technical services
contracts (NED).
2.    Industrial production coverage of QRs (NED).
3.    Number of rates, average and maximum tariffs (including Law 75
surcharge) by industrial subsector (Ministry of Finance).
4.    Integration requirement (percentage) of locally supplied parts in
passenger and commercial vehicles assembled in Colombia (NED).
B. Credit Prooram (BR)
1.    Number and name of Project participating financial intermediaries
(PFI), and volume of enterprise loan/equity rediscounts by BR for each.
2.    Number and characteristics of each investment financed by each PFI -
new or existing enterprise, business activity, asset and employee size,
location, local or export market orientation.
3.    Financing plan of investment - share of resources from enterprise,
PIi, PIP, FCE and World Bank;
4.   Use of World Bank subloan proceeds - fixed investment, working
capital, construction, intangibles and technical assistance.
5.    Subloan characteristics - interest rates, grace and maturity.
6.    Average subloan processing time (from PVT to BR rediscount and to
World Bank as required).
s Agency to prepare analysis for each indicator is noted in parenthesis.



-203-
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
7. As part of the Project Completion Report required within 6 months after
final disbursement, an evaluation by BR in c6llaboration with PFrs of the
impact of enterprise investments via a sample of not less than 10% of
total subloan and equity participations financed under the Project. This
analysis would address inter alia (a) sales and profitability trends since
subloan/equity approval (including the recalculation of the investment's
FRR), (b) changes in enterprise competitiveness (reduced product costs,
improved quality and service) and the restructuring measures to achieve
them, (c) employment creation and wage rate trends, and (d) changes in
domestic/export market orientation.
C. Public Sector Supnort for Restructurino
1. Labor Adjustment Assistance Program - (a) volume, location and profile
of groups receiving assistance (individuals dismissed, enterprises re-
employing dismissed individuals, community development); (b) number and
type of organizations administering assistance; (c) number, type and cost
of services provided (skill assessment and job counselling, job search and
referral, entrepreneurship programs, job retraining); and (d) time period
unemployed of individuals dismissed and profile of new job found (SENA).
2. Environmental Pollution Control Program - number, area, and summary of
conclusions of screening of environmental aspects of industrial
investments; actions taken and compliance by private enterprises to reduce
industrial pollution; and level and nature of training of Regional
Corporation staff (DNP);
3. Project Monitoring Program - prepare reports detailing the number,
position, activities and outputs of staff to (a) monitor the performance
of  the  industrial   sector  toward  increasing  its   international
competitiveness; (b) assist producers, inter alia through subsectors
working Groups, to achieve smooth implementation of. the rRDP; and (c) to
identify bottlenecks occurring in the preparation and implementation of
enterprise investments, and recommendations for public policy and
institutional fine tuning (NED).



-204- .
ANNEX, 9
Zadustrial Restructuring and Develoent Prolect
2'cuments Available in the Proiect File
1.   Programa de Reestructuracion y Desarrollo de la Agroindustria Colombiana.
INFOTEC, 1989.
2.    Programa de Reestructuracion del Sector Textil y Confeccion.  BCG# 1989.
3.    Un Programa de Recoversion y Desarrollo Sectorial para la Industrial
Colombiana de la Curtiembre, el Calsado y las Manufacturas de Cuero. Kurt
Salmon Associates, Inc., 1989.
4.   Reestructuracion del Sector Siderurgico Colombiano. Sema Group, 1989.
S.    Programa de Reestructuracion para el Sector Automotriz.   Booz-Allen &
Hamilton Inc., 1989.
6.    Regimen Laboral Colombiano quo Conlleva Limitaciones al Facil Manejo de la
Mano de Obra en la Emprosa. Guillermo Lopez Guerra, 1989.
7.   The Receivership Process in Colombia.  lsak Athyas, 1989.
8.    A Brief Survey of Investment Banking in Colombia.  Rudolf Homes, 1990.
9.   Labor Adjustment Assistance Program, Stage I: Programme Identification.
INDEVO, 1989.
10.  Los Programas de Salud Ocupacional. -Xinisterio de Trabajo y Seguridad
Social, 1989.



IBRD 18370R
I rz
,r=RtesS                                                           P    E           Ji
-- InternvHonol ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bois  tAZ.
.   n                -~~                      74   /                                 _'\ X\
.       -,, -.,,* .mA-N 9
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i dmok ." VW..oww                                                        t o  9n
. m
VENEUEL



