Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3321 CO
(Industrial Restructuring and Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 22, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3321 CO
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 22, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the Guarantor) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA (the Borrower), having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
the Loan Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in various currencies 
equivalent to two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000), on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to 
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan and to undertake 
such other obligations as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower and to undertake all the
other obligations set forth herein;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in 
the Loan Agreement (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally 
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and 
other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, 
and the punctual performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set 
forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is 
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be 
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the 
Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the 
Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet 
such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor shall carry out, through the Executing Agencies, 
Part B of the Project, in conjunction with the Participating Industrial Enterprises, 
with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the
carrying out of Part B of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction to paragraph (a) above, the Guarantor 
shall cause SENA, for purposes of the execution of Part B (1) of the Project, to enter 
into Labor Assistance
Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Participating Industrial Enterprises 
for the transferring of the proceeds of the Loan required for the execution of Part B 
(1) of the Project in
accordance with the Labor Adjustment Program, such agreements to include the terms and 
conditions set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Guarantor shall enter into contractual arrangements, satisfactory to 
the Bank, with each of SENA, FONADE and CORNARE (each of such contractual arrangements 
hereinafter called Part B Contractual Arrangements), for purposes of making available 
to each of the respective Executing Entities the proceeds of the Loan to be made 
available to the Guarantor by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 
(b) of the Loan Agreement and allocated for the execution of Part B (1), Parts B (2) 
(a) through (d), and Part B (2) (e) of the Project, respectively, and to stipulate 
thereunder the specific activities to be carried out (i) by SENA in
respect of Part B (1) of the Project, including causing SENA to enter, on behalf of 
the Guarantor, into the Labor Assistance Agreements provided for under paragraph (b) 
of this Section, (ii) by FONADE in respect of Parts B (2) (a) through (d) of the 
Page  3
Project, and (iii) by CONARE in respect of Part B (2) (e) of the Project, including 
causing CORNARE to enter if so required, on behalf of the
Guarantor, into additional arrangements with other Regional Development Corporations 
that may be involved in the carrying out of Part B (2) (e) of the Project, so as to 
stipulate under such
additional arrangements the specific activities to be carried out by each of such 
Corporations;
(d)
The Guarantor shall exercise its right under each Labor Assistance 
Agreement and Part B Contractual Arrangements in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Guarantor, the Borrower and the Bank, and to accomplish the purposes 
of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate waive or fail to enforce any of said agreements or 
Arrangements, as the case may be, any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall: (a) maintain the PCSU and the PMSU with 
staffing, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) provide or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, all the funds, facilities, staff and 
resources required by the PCSU and the PMSU to carry out their functions and 
responsibilities in an efficient and timely manner.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall carry out Part B (2) (b) of the Project in 
accordance with a program satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods 
and consultants' services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan 
Agreement.
(b)
In order to assist the Guarantor in the carrying out of Part B of the 
Project, the Guarantor shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and 
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency", published by the Bank in August 
1981.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Contractual Arrangements. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Contractual Arrangements or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.06. Without limitation or restriction to Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, the Guarantor shall submit to the Bank semiannual reports, in such detail 
as the Bank shall reasonably request, containing an analysis of performance 
indicators, of such content as the Bank shall request, on the implementation of Part B 
of the Project and the Guarantor's policy framework in its industrial sector.
Section 3.07. The Guarantor, through the Executing Entities, shall carry out, or 
cause to be carried out, the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 
9.07 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, 
plans and schedules, records and reports, respectively) in respect of Part B of the 
Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Guarantor shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part B of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Guarantor responsible for carrying out Part B of the 
Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Guarantor shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
Page  4
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures under Part B of the Project with respect to which 
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Guarantor shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditures submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro de Hacienda y Credito Publico of the Guarantor is 
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Palacio de los Ministerios
Bogota, Colombia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINHACIENDA
44473
MHACCO
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
Page  5
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Luis Fernando Ramirez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Rainer B. Steckhan
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Terms and Conditions of the
Labor Assistance Agreements
A.
Terms and Conditions of the Labor Assistance Agreements
 
1.
Each Participating Industrial Enterprise shall declare its commitment to the 
objectives of Part B (1) of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall
carry out such Part of the Project assigned to it with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, managerial and labor 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for said Part of the Project.
2.
Procurement of goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to 
be financed out partly of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions 
of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
3.
Each Participating Industrial Enterprise shall carry out the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Part of the 
Project carried out by such Participating Industrial Enterprise.
4.
(a)
Each Participating Industrial Enterprise shall, at the request of the 
Bank or of the Guarantor, exchange views with the Bank or the Guarantor, as the case 
may be, with regard to progress of the Part of the Project carried out by such 
Participating Industrial Enterprise, the performance of its obligations under the 
relevant Labor Assistance Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan.
(b)
Each Participating Industrial Enterprise shall promptly inform the Bank 
and the Guarantor of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the 
progress of the Part of the Project carried out by it, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by such Participating Industrial Enterprises 
of their obligations under the relevant Labor Assistance Agreement.
5.
Each Participating Industrial Enterprise shall maintain records and accounts 
Page  6
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting 
practices its operations
and financial condition and separate records and accounts to record all resources and 
expenditures in respect to the Part of the Project assigned to it.
6.
Each Participating Industrial Enterprise shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (5) above 
for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish through the Guarantor to the Bank as soon as available, 
but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year: (A) certified 
copies of such records and accounts and of 
their financial statements for such 
year, both as so audited; and (B) 
the report of such audit by said auditors of 
such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish through the Guarantor to the Bank such other information 
concerning 
said records, accounts and financial statements as well as 
the audit thereof, 
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
7.
The right of any Participating Industrial Enterprise to the use of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be suspended or terminated by the Executing Entity upon failure by 
such Participating Industrial Enterprise to perform its obligations under the 
respective Labor Assistance Agreement.
