Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6740-HO
TECHNICAL ANNEX
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
PUBLIC SECTOR MODERNIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT (PSMTAC)
JANUARY 19, 1996
Public Sector Modernization and Private Sector Development Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Lempira (L)
US$1 = L 9.9 (November 1995)
SDR I = US$1.50374 (October 31, 1995)
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
LIST OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CCP           Comisi6n Consultiva de Privatizaci6n (Consultative Commission for Privatization)
CIRHE         Comisi6n Interinstitucional para los Recursos Humanos del Poder Ejecutivo
(Interinstitutional Comm. for Human Resources in the Executive Branch of Gov't
CPME          Comisi6n Presidencial de Modernizaci6n del Estado (Presidential Commission for the
Modernization of the State)
DGP           Direcci6n General de Presupuesto (Budget Directorate or Budget Office)
DGID          Direcci6n General de Instituciones Descentralizadas (Decentralized Institutions Directorate
of SHCP)
DGSC          Direcci6n General de Servicio Civil (Civil Service Directorate)
EDUCREDITO Instituto de Cr&dito Educativo (Education Credit Institute)
ENP           Empresa Nacional Portuaria (National Ports Enterprise)
FHIS          Fondo Hondurenio de Inversi6n Social (Honduran Social Investment Fund)
GOH           Government of Honduras
HONDUTEL  Empresa Hondurefia de Telecomunicaciones (Honduran Telecommunications Enterprise)
IDA           International Developmenit Association
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
IHCAFE        Instituto Hondurefio del Cafe (Honduran Coffee Institute)
IHSS          Instituto Hondureno de Seguridad Social (Honduran Social Security Institute)
INFOP         Instituto Nacional de Formaci6n Profesional (National Institute of Professional Formation)
JNBS          Junta Nacional de Bienestar Social (National Board for Social Welfare)
MIF           IDB's Multilateral Investment Fund
NFPS          Non-Financial Public Sector
PANI          Patronato Nacional de la Infancia (National Children's Organization)
PCU           Project Coordinating Unit
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
PSMP          Public Sector Modernization Program
PSMSAC        Public Sector Modernization Structural Adjustment Credit
PSMTAC        Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Credit
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SECOPT        Secretaria de Comunicaciones, Obras Publicas v Transportes (Secretariat of
Communications, Public Works, and Transport)
SEP           Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica (Public Education Secretariat)
SHCP          Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Puiblico (Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit)
SRN           Secretaria de Recursos Naturales (Secretariat of Natural Resources)
SSP           Secretaria de Salud Publica (Secretariat of Public Health)



TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTION  A: PROJECT  DESCRIPTION ...................................................................                           1
BACKGROUND ...................................................................1
ONGOING  PUBLIC  SECTOR  REFORM   ..............................................................2
PROJECT  OBJECTIVES ...................................................................4
PROJECT  DESCRIPTION  ......................                           .............................................4
Private Sector Participation in Public Services Component ..........                             ..............4
Administrative Reform  ...........................                 ........................................7
Institutional Restructuring Component ............................................7
Honduran Social Security Institute and Social Security System
Component ...................................................................8
Reform  of Public Management ..................................................................    10
Human Resource Management Component ..................................... 10
Integrated   Financial   Management   and   Investment
Programming Component ...................................................... 12
Public Procurement Component ........................................................ 13
Project Coordination ..................................................................                    14
PROJECT  COST  AND  FINANCING ..................................................................     15
SECTION B: PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION ................... 17
PROJECT  ORGANIZATION ..................................................................                             17
TRAINING  PLAN  .................................................................. 18
PROCUREMENT ..................................................................                                       19
DISBURSEMENTS ..................................................................                                     19
AUDITS .................................................................. 20
MONITORING  AND  SUPERVISION  PLAN  ....................................... .................. 20
ANNEX  A: LETTER  OF DEVELOPMENT  POLICY ................................................................... A-1
ANNEX  B: MATRIX  OF KEY  PROJECT  ACTIVITIES ............................................................. B-1
ANNEX  C: ESTIMATED  COST AND  FINANCING  PLAN ......................................................... C-1
ANNEX D: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS .............................. D-1
ANNEX  E: TRAINING  PLAN  ........................................................................                             E-1
This report and the accompanying Memorandum of the President are based on the findings of preparation, preappraisal, and
appraisal missions that visited Honduras from mid-1993 to July 1995. Main contributors to the reports and participants in
these mrissions were Antonio Martin del Campo (Task Manager), M6nica Fidel, Arianna Legovini (Consultant), LA2PS; Eloy
Vidal, IENTI; Raimundo Arroio, Carlos Benito, Felipe Cardenas, and Vicente L6pez-Trueba, Consultants. Other contributors
to the project were Ian Bannon, Daniel Cotlear, Nicolette Bowyer (LA2CO); Robert Taylor (PSD); Luis Luzuriaga,
Guillermo RuAn (LA21N); Anna Sant'Anna (LA2HR), Silvia Castro (LA2NR); and Alfredo Sarmiento (RUTA Social). Peer
reviewers are Richard Newfarmer, EA2E, and Robert Ayres, LATEA. Robert M. Lacey and Edilberto Segura are the
Division Chief and Director, respectively, for this operation. The last preparation and the preappraisal and appraisal missions
were undertaken jointly with the IDB. IDB participants were Sandra Henderson (Project Team Leader, Preappraisal), Juana
Salazar (Project Team Leader, Appraisal), Beatriz Uribe, Roberto Badia, Esperanza Lasagabaster, Adolfo Rufatt, Hugo
Villarroel, Ladislao Brachowicz, Cristina Price, Federico Alvarez, and Margarita Nufiez. Managers for the IDB operation are
Jorge Sapoznikow, Division Chief, and Miguel Martinez, Regional Department Manager.






HONDURAS
PUBLIC SECTOR MODERNIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
(PSMTAC)
TECHNICAL ANNEX
SECTION A: PROJECT DESCRIPTION
BACKGROUND
1.    The proposed Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Credit (PSMTAC) is an
accompanying project to the proposed Public Sector Modernization Structural Adjustment Credit
(PSMSAC) that is being processed in parallel. These projects are designed to help the Govern-
ment implement its Public Sector Modernization Program (PSMP) which will: (a) improve public
services through greater private sector participation; (b) curtail expenditures through administra-
tive reform, including the restructuring of public administration and public employment; and (c)
improve public management to enhance efficiency, transparency, and accountability.
2.    The public sector is constituted by the Non-Financial and Financial Public Sector. The
Non-Financial Public Sector (NFPS) encompasses: (a) the Central Government, which includes
14 Secretariats, Centralized Services, the Legislative and Judicial Powers, the Electoral Body, and
the Office of the Attorney General; (b) the rest of General Government, which includes 51 public
institutes, 11 autonomous entities, five auxiliary organisms of the Legislative Power, one auxiliary
organism of the Judicial System, and the local Government with 292 Municipalities; and (c) the
entrepreneurial public sector with 10 Public Enterprises. The FPS, in turn, is made up of seven
financial organizations.
3.    As a result of this extended institutional structure, 1993 public expenditures (28.6% of
GDP for central government and 35.8% for NFPS) are far above the average for both low- and
middle-income countries. Current operating expenses (wages and salaries, social security
contributions, and goods and services) account for one third of NFPS spending, with public-
sector employment alone amounting to 8.2% of GDP. On top of that, Honduras has one of the
largest investment programs in the region (14.6% of GDP).
4.    Honduras' fiscal revenues compare favorably to other countries in the region, but its
public spending does not. At 28.6% for central government and 35.8% for NFPS, public
expenditures are far above the average for both low- and middle-income countries (1993).
Current operating expenses (wages and salaries, social security contributions, and goods and
services) account for one-third of NFPS spending, with public-sector employment alone
amounting to 8.2% of GDP. On top of that, Honduras has one of the largest public investment
programs in the region (14.6% of GDP).



2
5.    Central government accounts for 62.3% of the consolidated NFPS total expenditures (or
22.7% of GDP) and the four biggest public enterprises for another 14.5% (or 5.3% of GDP) .
Spending by local government, social security and other institutions (rest of the general govern-
ment) account for the remainder (8.4% of GDP). In terms of capital spending, central government
still accounts for almost half
6.    In addition to the mere size of public expenditures, the complex and overextended
structure of the public sector is ill-equipped to respond to the needs and priorities of the country.
A series of distortions exists both in the definition of responsibilities and the size of the State, as
well as in the quantity and composition of staff that are needed to carry them out. Many of the
activities that the Government gradually undertook are now obsolete, better served by the private
sector, or are now centralized and can be more efficiently carried out by the regional offices
and/or the local governments. Moreover, the public sector faces serious organizational problems
including lack of functional coordination between public entities and overlapping of activities, and
very large administrative costs relative to program costs. The latter is due to the high level of
bureaucratization and organization disarray. The problem is compounded by a lack of expenditure
control resulting from poor public management. In addition, the legal system has been unable to
cope with the growth of government in an organized manner. Legal instruments have been added
incrementally without a consistent conceptual framework for organizing the public sector.
7.    In the Executive branch, there are about 122,000 permanent posts (at January 1994). Of
these, 35,000 are under the Civil Service and neighboring regimes, 35,000 are in-post teachers,
25,000 are in the Decentralized Institutions, 7,000 are in the Municipalities, and around 20,000
are military and administrative staff of the Secretariat of Defense. Of the 102,000 non-military
positions in 1994, 88,000 (or 86%) are in the general government (non-entrepreneurial), which
means that too much employment is attached to general government activities.
8.    The public sector is overstaffed, particularly at the lower end of the salary scale. Moreo-
ver, the wage bill represents a heavy fiscal burden - NFPS wages and salaries represent 8.2% of
GDP. This compares unfavorably with other LAC countries (El Salvador, 6.4%; Nicaragua,
6.6%; Venezuela, 4.8%; Mexico, 7.4%; and Dominican Republic, 3%. Only Panama and Costa
Rica have higher ratios than Honduras (10.5% and 8.6%, respectively). At the same time, wages
are low and falling in real terms, particularly for higher grade staff, and this has hampered the
Government's ability to attract and retain top-notch personnel. Incentive structures are inadequate
and human resource management is weak.
ONGOING PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM
9.    Under the Government's PSMP, being supported by the PSMSAC and accompanying
PSMTAC, the State will be limited to those functions that are proper of the public sector,
eliminating obsolete and redundant functions and removing from the responsibility of the State
those that can be better served by other agents. This will be accompanied by staff reduction,
improvement in its composition, and selective decompression of salaries. The general aim of the
program is to develop an efficient public sector, balanced in its finances, responsive to the needs



3
of society for quality services, in an environment conducive to private sector development and
growth.
10.   The Government has made significant progress throughout 1994 and 1995 in implement-
ing its PSMP, complementing it with measures on the revenue side. The Executive Secretariat of
the Presidential Commission for the Modernization of the State (CPME) was created in 1992 with
the legal authority to design, coordinate, and monitor the execution of the reform. The PSMP has
the support of both the executive (approval of the Council of Ministers), and legislative branches:
Congress passed the "Law of Restructuring of Public Sector Revenue Mechanisms and Expendi-
ture Reduction" on October 28, 1994. The Law authorizes several measures to curtail expendi-
tures and increase tax revenues.
11.   The Government also established the Consultative Commission for Privatization, and
publicly announced its intention to open telecommunications to the private sector. The new
Framework Law for the Telecommunications Sector including the amendments to the Hondutel
Organic Law was approved by Congress on October 31, 1995. In civil aviation, the Government
has presented to Congress the draft of the Civil Aviation Law and the Law for the Honduran
Enterprise of Airports and Air Navigation Services, which would create an appropriate regulatory
framework, decentralize enterprise airport management, and substantially increase private sector
participation in airport management. In energy, the Congress approved the new Law of the
Electricity Subsector in November 1994, which has led to the opening of the power sector to
private sector participation and financing, particularly in the area of generation.
12.   On administrative reform, the Government has presented to Congress the new General
Law of Public Administration, which establishes the new structure and composition of the central
and decentralized administrations, develops the bases for further administrative reform, and
establishes standards of transparency and accountability for public management. Moreover, under
the supervision of the CPME, institutional restructuring plans have been developed for all the
central government Secretariats covered under the PSMP and a number of Secretariats have
begun implementing them. As a result, major departments have been eliminated from the
Secretariats of Finance, Communications, Public Works & Transport, Natural Resources, and
Government & Justice, as reflected in the 1995 budget. Plans have been approved for restructur-
ing some decentralized institutions and implementation has begun.
13.   The Congress has also authorized key actions for the establishment of a decentralized
system of procurement, including the elimination of the Central Procurement Office's operations,
the transfer of responsibility to each public entity, and the approval of a plan to simplify procure-
ment procedures. In addition, plans are being prepared for the establishment of a comprehensive
system for human resource management and integrated systems of financial management and
investment programming.
14.   On the revenue side, a number of important actions have been taken including the
derogation of the Temporary Import Regime, the establishment of a 1% asset tax, the expansion
of the sales tax base, the valuation, for tax purpose, of ali imports at market exchange rate, and an



4
increase in gasoline prices and electricity rates. Tax measures are estimated to have increased
revenues in 1995 by 0.6% of GDP. The Government has also eliminated coffee, cement and flour
subsidies and reduced the subsidy on petroleum, for an equivalent 1.6% of GDP.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
15.   The design of the PSMP is based on a profound rethinking of the role of the State in the
economy, which should result in increased private sector participation in the provision of public
goods and services. The objectives of the proposed PSMTAC are to provide (a) policy formula-
tion support that the Government needs to design reforms under its PSMP, (b) implementation
support to develop the means and information necessary for the reform process and to comply
with the conditions and action plans under the PSMSAC, and to modernize human resource
management, financial management and public procurement systems, and (c) institutional
strengthening support to the entities that will be beneficiaries of these management systems. A
PPF advance of US$0.7 million (P842-HO) has been supporting start-up activities of the
proposed PSMTAC.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
16.   The PSMTAC will provide the informational, analytical and legal bases for the reform
program supported by PSMSAC, as well as assistance to strengthen the Government's capacity to
implement both the adjustment program and the longer term public sector modernization strategy.
The main tools of the project are: (a) development of strategies to enhance the institutional and
organizational framework; (b) design of laws, regulations, methods and procedures; (c) design
and implementation of macro management systems; and (d) training of technical staff in the
regulatory, institutional and operational aspects of the reform. The areas to be covered under the
PSMTAC are: Private Sector Participation in Public Services, Administrative Reform, and
Reform of Public Management.
Private Sector Participation in Public Services Component (Estimated US$3.8 million,
23.5% of project costs)'
17.   Issues. A small number of public enterprises in the utilities and infrastructure sectors
account for a large proportion of public debt and investment, operate as monopolies, are
inefficient and overstaffed, and are insufficiently capitalized to respond to demand. Increased
private sector participation will increase fiscal revenues, reduce public investment requirements,
decrease external debt, and induce larger new investment (private).
18.   The Government's Reform Program. The Government's privatization plan is based on a
modem concept of the State that increases private sector share and participation in the economy,
and replaces state monopolies with regulated competitive environments. In telecommunications,
consultants financed under the PPF assisted the work of the Privatization Consultative Commis-
' Figures in parentheses represent the estimated base cost of the component, including IDA and IDB- financed assistance, and
Government contribution.



5
sion (CCP) in preparing the strategy for increasing private sector participation, competition and
efficiency in telecommunications. Key to the strategy is the development of an appropriate
institutional framework that separates the functions of policy, regulation, and operation - now
concentrated in the state telecommunication company (Hondutel). The Secretariat of Communi-
cations, Public Works and Transport (SECOPT) will be responsible for policy in the sector. The
legislation needed to implement this strategy was already approved by Congress-a condition for
PSMSAC Board presentation-on October 30, 1995. In addition, in order to attract private
investment, the Government will rebalance tariffs, through a substantial increase in the price of
local services to make up for lower international rates.
19.   It is expected that in the next six months the regulatory entity will be fully operational so
that, by the end of 1996, both the relevant regulations, and tariff regime will have been approved,
the final bidding documents for basic phone services issued. By the end of 1997, management of
basic phone services will have been transferred to one or more private operators through a long-
term concession. All other telecommunication services should be open to competition from the
start.
20.   In civil aviation, the Government has presented to Congress the Civil Aviation Law and
the Law for the Honduran Enterprise of Airports and Air Navigation Services - a condition for
PSMSAC Board presentation. These laws incorporate the Government's strategy for restructur-
ing the civil aviation sector, which entails decentralizing the General Directorate of Civil Aviation
(DGAC) from SECOPT, creating an autonomous regulatory entity, establishing a public
autonomous enterprise to operate the airports and air navigation services, and substantially
increasing private sector participation in airport operations.
21. As a measure to expedite the concessions of airport services, Congress approved on December 19,
1995 the Ley de Concesi6n para la Explotaci6n de los Servicios Aeroportuarios (Concession Law for
the Exploitation of Airport Services) which authorizes the Executive Branch, through SECOPT, to
extend concession contracts to manage, administer, and commercially develop the national airports. It
is expected that contracting of services for the airports of San Pedro Sula and Roatan will start early
next year, in compliance with second tranche conditions. Approval of the Civil Aviation Law and the
Law for the Honduran Enterprise of Airport and Air Navigation Services, and the establishment of the
regulatory entity and the enterprise, would provide a more integrated framework for the sector.
22.   Proposed Assistance under the PSMTAC. The Private Sector Participation in Public
Services Component will provide assistance in three sectors: telecommunications and civil
aviation, as supported under the PSMSAC, and ports. In telecommunications, the PSMTAC will
assist the Government in developing private sector participation in that sector. In civil aviation,
the PSMTAC will continue the work initiated under the Transport Rehabilitation Project (Cr.
2458-HDS) in restructuring the civil aviation sector. And in ports, although the sector does not
form part of the policy reforms of the PSMSAC, the PSMTAC will provide assistance in response
to the Government's interest in increasing private sector participation in ports operations.



6
23.   Increasing Private Sector Participation in Telecommunications. The PSMTAC will
finance consulting services to help the Government develop private sector participation in the
telecommunications sector. Specifically, the PSMTAC will finance: (a) marketing the transaction;
(b) designing investment and quality of service obligations by new operator, (c) inventory and
valuation of assets/liabilities, (d) audit and restatement of financials in the US Internationally
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles; (e) financial projections of the new Corporation(s); (f)
preparation of the preliminary financial value of the new company(ies); (g) preparation and
negotiation of legal documents of the transaction; and (h) international bidding process. The final
bidding documents will be issued before PSMSAC second tranche release.
24.   Restructuring of the civil aviation sector.2 The PSMTAC will finance consulting services
and training to (a) help prepare rules and regulations of the Civil Aviation Law and the Law for
the Honduran Enterprise of Airports and Air Navigation Services; (b) assist in (i) the creation of
an autonomous normative regulatory entity, (ii) the creation of a public enterprise to manage
airports and operate auxiliary air navigation services, and (iii) the extension of concessions to
private operators for operating airport services; (c) prepare norms for selection and recruitment of
sectoral staff, and (d) develop and carry out a training program for technical and administrative
staff. GOH will extend a management concession for one airport or concession several airport
services in major national airports by PSMSAC second tranche release.
25.   Increasing of private sector participation in ports operations. The PSMTAC will finance
consulting services to (a) prepare a study that will evaluate different options for increasing private
sector participation in ports operations and its impact on ENP, the publicly-owned ports entity;
(b) help develop policies and define the participation of private operators in Puerto Cortes and
other ports, (c) help define the institutional role of the ENP (d) provide advice on restructuring
ENP, and (e) develop mechanisms for the participation of private operators.
26.   In addition, the IDB  will provide complementary technical assistance through its
Multilateral Investment Fund (MIF), to (a) establish new regulatory frameworks for the sectors,
(b) strengthen the regulation capabilities of autonomous/independent entities, and (c) strengthen
the regulation functions of a multisectoral entity. Specifically on telecommunications, MIF will
finance technical assistance to develop the legal framework and regulations, and establishment of
an independent and financially autonomous regulatory entity, CONATEL.
27.   Institutional Arrangements. The Executive Secretary of the CCP will serve as the head
of the Technical/Coordination Unit for the Private Sector Participation in Public Services
Component. The CCP will be responsible for coordinating consultants, who will work closely
with the CCP and the management and institutional counterparts of the three sectors. The bidding
and contracting for this component will be the responsibility of SHCP. The Project Coordinating
Unit (PCU), which will report to the CPME, will oversee contract completion and track
2     If Congress does not approve the Civil Aviation Law and the Law for the Honduran Enterprise of Airport and Air
Navigation Services (see para. 21), then this sub-component will need to be reformulated.



7
disbursements in coordination with the CCP. The PSMTAC will finance a long-term administra-
tive coordinator as well as office technology equipment.
Administrative Reform
28.   The area of Administrative Reform will cover two components: (a) Institutional Restruc-
turing Component, and (b) Honduran Social Security Institute and Social Security System
Component.
Institutional Restructuring Component (Estimated US$2.1 million, 13.2% of project
costs)
29.   Issues. The institutional structure of the Honduran public sector is characterized by a
multitude of entities with sometimes unclear and sometimes obsolete or duplicated mandates. This
engenders functional fragmentation, inefficiency, and a high fiscal burden.
30.   The Government's Reform  Program. The Government's program is based on a
redefinition of the role of the State where the State focuses on the formulation of policy and
provides an appropriate setting for the private sector provision of goods and services. Institutional
restructuring plans for targeted entities provide the mechanism for rationalizing the size of
Government, streamlining its activities, and improving efficiency in the delivery of public goods
and services.
31.   Under the supervision of CPME, institutional restructuring plans have been developed for
all the central government Secretariats covered under the PSMP with assistance from PPF-
financed consultants, and a number of Secretariats have begun implementing them. As a result,
major departments have been eliminated from the Secretariats of Finance, Communications,
Public Works & Transport, Natural Resources, and Government & Justice, as reflected in the
1995 budget. Plans have been approved for restructuring some decentralized institutions and
implementation has begun. Moreover, consultants financed under the PPF helped the Government
draft a new General Law of Public Administration, presented to Congress in October 1995 as a
condition for PSMSAC Board presentation.
32.   The implementation of institutional restructuring plans has resulted in a reduction of
permanent employment - over 3,500 posts in the Central and Decentralized Administrations -
and in other personnel expenditures. The Law of Restructuring requires some additional/broader
measures: freezing vacant posts during 1994 and 1995; about 5,300 permanent employment cuts
within 18 months from the date of Congressional approval; cancellation of the budget entry for
emergency and substitute staff, a hiring freeze on contracted staff financed with national funds;
and elimination of salary supplements paid to staff for performing extra-ordinary duties. These
measures include all decentralized institutions.
33.   Proposed Assistance under the PSMTAC. The objectives of the Institutional Restruc-
turing Component are to (a) support the preparation and implementation of institutional
restructuring plans in priority/selected entities as stated in the Administrative Reform of the



8
Government's PSMP supported by the PSMSAC; (b) strengthen selected entities' capacity to
design and implement policy; and (c) develop an adequate and consistent legal framework.
34.   Formulation of rationalization strategies for additional targeted entities. The PSMTAC
will finance consulting services to help the Government formulate institutional restructuring plans
in additional entities, including the Education Credit Institute (EDUCREDITO), National Institute
of Professional Formation (INFOP), Honduran Coffee Institute (IHCAFE), and Honduran Social
Investment Fund (FHIS).
35.   Implementation support of rationalization efforts. The PSMTAC will finance consulting
services, equipment and training to assist the entities implement their reforms; particular emphasis
will be given to the Secretariats of Education, Health, Communication, Public Works and
Transport, Natural Resources, and the Central Secretariats of economics and finance, and to the
National Board for Social Welfare/National Children's Organization (JNBS/PANI), according to
the action plans prepared by the Government for the PSMSAC.
36.   Strengthening of the technical capacity of the entities to design and implement priority
programs. The PSMTAC will finance consulting services to help the entities design standard
procedures and identify priority areas, and provide specialized training to selected staff. In
addition, the IDB will finance technical assistance for strengthening environment units in selected
Central Secretariats and Decentralized Institutions.
37.   Development of a consistent legal framework. The PSMTAC will finance consulting
services to update existing legal instrument or develop new ones, as needed.
38.   Institutional Arrangements. The PCU will be responsible for coordinating consultants,
who will work closely with the institutional counterparts and heads of sector, and regularly
discuss progress with the PCU. Each entity under the program will commit to developing an
institutional restructuring plan with the help of the consultants, and present it to the PCU for
approval. The PCU will ascertain that the plan responds to the objectives of the program and will
seek IDA/IDB advise before agreeing to its implementation. Each head of entity will be responsi-
ble for the timely implementation of the agreed plan.
Honduran Social Security Institute and Social Security System Component (Estimated
US$1.1 million, 6.6% of project costs)
39.   Issues. The Honduran social security system is characterized by inadequate funding which
is imperiling the solvency of the system; an heterogeneous and extended institutional framework
providing remarkably different levels of benefits to their affiliates; questionable financial practices;
poor performance; and limited coverage. The Social Security Institute (IHSS), the main institution
in the sector, is particularly affected by the low contributions to both its health and its pension
fund. Historically, this has led IHSS to rely on both funds to finance its health program, severely
affecting its ability to provide acceptable pensions to its affiliates. Coupled with IHSS' inadequate
cost and inventory accounting methods, a flawed procurement system, low technical capacity, and



9
high cost of health services provision, the financial problems have escalated to the point of
insolvency.
40.   The financial and managerial reform of IHSS will address the impending issue of financial
insolvency of the Institute as a first step in the reform of the social security system. The role of the
technical assistance is to help the Government design specific actions to mend short-term
problems as to allow sufficient time to implement a longer-term strategy for the sector. To ensure
consistency of these initial actions with an overall strategy, the technical assistance will provide
support for developing such a sector strategy in conjunction with the reform of IHSS, as well as
for establishing the links with the reform in the health sector.
41.   The Government's Reform Program. With assistance from local consultants financed
under the PPF, the Government has undertaken the determination of the actuarial basis for the
pension and health funds, and the basis for implementing the financial and managerial reform of
the IHSS. The design of the systems for budget, affiliation and collection, and identification and
monitoring of beneficiaries of the IHSS is underway.
42.   Proposed Assistance under the PSMTAC. The objectives of the Social Security
Institute and Social Security System Component are to: (a) support the preparation and imple-
mentation of the administrative and financial reform of IHSS; and (b) develop a strategy for social
security system reform.
43.   Strengthening of the Administration and Improvement of the Finances of IHSS. The
PSMTAC will finance consulting services, equipment and training to (a) update the Institute's
accounts of contributors and affiliates, (b) develop and implement a computerized system for
programming and budgeting, accounting, collections and payments, medical inventories, current
accounts of contributors and affiliates, and medical statistics, and (c) train IHSS' administrators
and technical staff.
44.   Development of a Social Security System Strategy. The PSMTAC will finance consulting
services to (a) carry out a diagnostic review of the pensions system and the provision of health
services, (b) prepare a cost analysis of the current system and possible future social security
schemes, and (c) prepare strategies for (i) reform of pensions and health systems, and (ii) develop
a system of professional risk insurance.
45.   Institutional Arrangements. The PCU will be responsible for coordinating consultants,
who will in turn coordinate with the Board of Directors of IHSS and work closely with IHSS'
management and key personnel. In the case of the reform of the social security system, the
consultants will work also with the other institutions in the sector and the CCP.



10
Reform of Public Management
Human Resource Management Component (Estimated US$2.5 million, 15.4% of
project costs)
46.   Reform  of Public Management will cover three components: (a) Human Resource
Management Component, (b) Integrated Financial Management and Investment Programming
Component, and (c) Public Procurement Component.
47.   Issues. The public sector is overstaffed, particularly at the lower end of the salary scale.
At the same time, wages are low and falling in real terms, particularly for higher grade staff, and
this has hampered the Government's ability to attract and retain top-notch personnel. Incentive
structures are inadequate and human resource management is weak. The classification and
grading of jobs do not take adequate account of skills and responsibility. Job evaluations, career
development, and training programs are non-existent. Given the lack of adequate incentives and
monitoring, and the politicization of hiring, morale among workers is low, and performance poor.
Moreover, as a result of inadequate control, absenteeism is high and some staff have no official
functions. Separate employment and salary regimes with preferential treatment have proliferated
without a normative framework, which hinders consistency in human resource management.
48.   The Government's Reform Program. To address these deficiencies, the Government's
strategy, being supported by the PSMSAC, includes employment reform and salary structure
rationalization in the civil service and decentralized institutions (teachers and medical doctors are
currently excluded from the rationalization), and a comprehensive human resource management
program across all public sector employment regimes and effective control mechanisms.
49.   With assistance from local consultants financed under the PPF, the Government has been
preparing institutional restructuring plans that identified employment reduction targets based on
institutional restructuring and employment rationalization (para. 34). The PPF is also financing the
development of a human resource management information system for the civil service. Moreo-
ver, PPF-financed consultants assisted the Government in carrying out diagnostic work of the civil
service and teachers' regimes, and in formulating recommendations for improvements at the
normative, institutional and operational levels.
50.   Proposed Assistance under the PSMTAC. The objectives of the Human Resource
Management Component are to improve information mechanisms to support human resource
management and control in an integrated manner, and develop the technical basis for pay reform
and improve employment and salary regimes at the normative, institutional and operational levels.
Moreover, the PSMTAC will support sector-specific technical assistance requirements of the
Secretariats of Education and Health.
51.   Development of information mechanisms to support human resource management and
control in an integrated manner. The PSMTAC will finance consulting services, equipment and



11
training to (a) systematically monitor the payrolls of all public sector employment and salary
regimes of the Executive, (b) carry out, and establish a permanent system for, employment
censuses and payroll audits, (c) complete the implementation of a comprehensive human resource
management and payroll system, linked to the budget, which will encompass the civil service,
neighboring regimes including medical doctors, and all decentralized institutions,3 and extend the
system to all Secretariats and at least four decentralized institutions, and (d) extend the integrated
human resource management and payroll systems to all Secretariats and at least four decentralized
institutions.
52.   Development of the technical basis for pay reform, and improve the employment and
salary regimes at the normative, institutional and operational levels. The PSMTAC will finance
consulting services and training to (a) develop a strategy for improving the civil service regime at
the normative, institutional and operational levels, including recommendations for the normative
structure of neighboring regimes; (b) develop a new post classification and grading system, salary
structure and incentives plan, including (i) design of a salary policy, (ii) organizational study, (iii)
reclassification of posts, and (iv) development of a new salary structure; (c) develop a modem
human resource policy, including recruitment policies and selection criteria; (d) help amend the
civil service law, as necessary; and (e) strengthen the capabilities in human resource management
of the Civil Service Directorate (DGSC) and the central Secretariats. This assistance will support
the Government's action plan on reform of employment in the civil service regime of the central
Government and the Decentralized Institutions
53.   Strengthening of the Secretariat of Education's capacity to assess teacher post require-
ments. The PSMTAC will finance consulting services to assist SEP to strengthen its capacity to
assess teacher post requirements.
54.   Strengthening of the Secretariat of Health's capacity to evaluate human resources. The
PSMTAC will finance consulting services to assist the Secretariat of Health (SSP) to evaluate
human resource supply, training, development, deployment and performance in the health sector.
55.   Over the longer term, the Government plans to develop a system of career development
streams and offer comprehensive training programs as incentives to minimize staff turnover and
improve performance. For this purpose, IDA and IDB will seek financing from donors in the next
Consultative Group meeting, being considered by the Government.
56.   Institutional Arrangements. The PCU will be responsible for coordinating consultants,
who will work closely with key staff of the normative bodies in charge of managing and/or
monitoring human resources (DGSC) for the civil service regime, SHCP(DGID) for the decentral-
ized institutions, SEP for the teachers' regime, and SHCP(DGP) for the public sector in general.4
All consultants will regularly discuss progress with the PCU and with key personnel of normative
bodies. Because particularly the DGSC lacks the adequate technical capabilities needed to
3     The system for the Secretariat of Education will be financed under the Basic Education Project (Cr. 2694-HO)
4 The DGSC also has responsibility for the administration of the medical doctors' regime.



12
effectively drive and coordinate the reform process, the assistance to that agency will focus
initially on providing it the guiding tools necessary to develop the various technical assistance
activities (human resource management systems, post classification, salary administration, etc.).
Specific institutional strengthening technical assistance inputs will be provided to build the
agency's capabilities to disseminate norms and procedures to the beneficiary entities.
Integrated Financial Management and Investment Programming Component
(estimated US$4.9 million, 30.2% of project costs)
57.   Issues. Financial management and investment programming are characterized by: (a) over-
centralization, particularly of the budget function; (b) an inadequate institutional framework; (c)
lack of an integrated financial management and investment programming information system; (d)
lack of underlying investment strategy and project evaluation capability; and (e) poor expenditure
monitoring and control.
58.   The Government's Reform  Program. This component, being supported by the
PSMSAC, seeks to reduce the overcentralization of public financial management, particularly of
budgetary allocation and execution, create an adequate institutional framework for modem
financial management and investment programming, and establish an integrated financial
management and investment programming information system. The role of the technical assistance
is to support the analysis and design of a modem framework, share the expertise gained in similar
reforms in other Latin American countries, and develop the technical and human resources that
will ensure efficiency and sustainability of the system. With PPF financing, the Government is
designing an integrated financial management system that will allow decentralized expenditure
execution, provide unified and timely information, and facilitate control.
59.   Proposed Assistance under the PSMTAC. The objectives of the Integrated Financial
Management and Investment Programming Component are: (a) establishing a participatory
mechanism for setting priorities and ensuring fiscal consistency; (b) decentralizing financial
management, particularly budget administration, and improving accountability; (c) introducing
incentives and performance evaluation systems to improve the effectiveness of public expendi-
tures, particularly for investments; (d) developing key financial management functions (such as
accounting and treasury), and redefining the budget function to ensure appropriate formulation,
execution and evaluation of the budget; and (e) designing and implementing a modern, integrated
financial management and investment programming information system, which will help rational-
ize the public investment program.
60.   Development and implementation of an integrated financial management system. The
PSMTAC will finance systems development, hardware and software to develop and implement an
integrated financial management system that will include accounting, treasury, budget and public
debt, and will be linked with human resource administration and payroll.



13
61.   Development and implementation of an investment programming system. The PSMTfAC
will finance systems development, hardware and software to continue to develop and implement
an investment programming system, building on assistance already provided by IDB and UNDP.
62.   Design and development of modem methods and procedures to support fundamental
financial management functions. The PSMTAC will finance consulting services to design and
develop modem methods and procedures to support fundamental financial management functions
including: developing performance indicators to strengthen budget programming and evaluation;
attuning and further developing budgeting, accounting, treasury and public debt management;
strengthening the offices in charge of investment programming, monitoring and evaluation, and
ensuring consistency with the functions of the main authority on public finance; establishing
standard criteria of project evaluation and selection; and adopting a prioritization scheme
consistent with the overall program of reform.
63.   Development of a strategy to enhance/reorder the institutional setting and organizational
framework of financial management and investment programming. The PSMTAC will finance
consulting services to help establish mechanisms to set priorities and guide public expenditure
programming; decentralization of expenditure execution to operative units; establishment of
mechanisms for integrating public investment information to facilitate programming and monitor-
ing; and implementation of measures to ensure intertemporal consistency of the public investment
program with the overall fiscal program.
64.   Training. The PSMTAC will provide training of technical staff to develop or strengthen
the financial management units in each public entity and the investment programming units within
dependencies and entities responsible for the bulk of public investment.
65.   Institutional Arrangements. The PCU will be responsible for coordinating consultants,
who will work closely with the institutional counterparts in relevant implementing agencies.
Consultants will regularly discuss progress with the PCU. Initially, the reform will focus on the
Secretariat of Finance which will then participate in the coordination of efforts to extend the
system to other public entities. While the training plan will cover mainly operational issues, it may
be used as a forum to share important institutional and procedural aspects such as the develop-
ment of budget performance indicators and budget design.
Public Procurement Component (estimated US$0.5 miHion, 2.9% of project costs)
66.  Issues. Excessive centralization in procuring, distributing, and controlling public supplies
has made the system inefficient and ineffective. The inadequate legal framework and cumbersome
procedural setting has discouraged competition, encouraged discrimination against economic
agents, and limited the authority to executing units in purchasing supplies.
67.   The Government's Reform  Program. With the assistance from local consultants
financed under the PPF, the Government has designed and approved the implementation of a
decentralized system of public procurement. The Law of Restructuring stripped the Central



14
Procurement Office of all operative functions and transformed it into a small normative unit.
Responsibility for procurement was transferred to the executing entities. Preparation of amend-
ments to the Public Procurement Law to provide a sound basis for the institutional changes are
being financed through the PPF.
68.   Proposed Assistance under the PSMTAC. The objectives of the Modernization of
Public Procurement Component are to support the development of a modem decentralized system
of public procurement. This requires: (a) reforming the legal framework, (b) developing transpar-
ent administrative procedures to ensure equitable treatment of bidders and efficient procurement
of goods and services, and (c) helping implementing procurement units within each entity
strengthen their technical capacity.
69.   Reform of the legal framework. The PSMTAC will finance consulting services to help
develop clear and transparent administrative procedures and establish methodologies needed to
carry out an adequate register, organization and control of the operations within the new legal
framework.
70.   Development of norms for the selection of technical staff. The PSMTAC will finance
consulting services to help develop norms for selecting technical staff of the procurement units.
71.  Institutional strengthening of procurement unit& The PSMTAC will provide training to
technical staff of centralized and decentralized entities responsible for procurement and bid
evaluation, as well as seminars on the legal-institutional framework and its incidence on operative
procedures.
72.   Equipment. The PSMTAC will finance a computer network to link the procurement units
of four Secretariats with SHCP.
73.   Institutional Arrangements. The PCU will be responsible for coordinating consultants,
who will work closely with the institutional counterparts in relevant executing agencies. Consult-
ants will regularly discuss progress with the PCU. The training plan will focus on operative
aspects but it will be used as a feedback mechanism to test and share the gains from normative
simplification and procedural streamlining and extend them to each procurement unit.
Project Coordination (estimated US$1.3 million, 8.2% of project costs)
74.   This component will support a PCU attached to the Executive Secretariat of the CPME.
The PCU will be responsible for supporting execution and monitoring progress under the project
and for supporting the carrying out of the Government activities associated with the incremental
operating costs of the PSMTAC. The PCU will be headed by a National Director (the Minister of
the Presidency and Secretary of the CPME), and will be staffed with a Project Coordinator and
five professionals. The PCU also will have a budget to finance short-term consultants, training and
office technology equipment. Moreover, the PSMTAC will finance an information and consensus-
building campaign, which will include consulting services, seminars and workshops, publications,
and office technology equipment.



15
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
75.    Estimated project costs by component (total costs including IDA/IDB and Government
financing of $16.7 million) are as follows: Private Sector Participation in Public Services
Component, $3.8 million; Administrative Reform (Institutional Restructuring Component, $2.1
million and Social Security Institute and Social Security System  Component, $1.1 million),
Reform of Public Management (Human Resource Management Component, $2.5 million,
Integrated Financial Management and Investment Programming Component, $4.9 million, and
Public Procurement Component, $0.5 million); Project Coordination, $1.3 million; and contin-
gencies US$0.4 million.
76.    These cost estimates are based on the experience gained during the PPF implementation
which funded national and international consultants, equipment and limited training. The
experience has demonstrated the effectiveness and cost efficiency of using a team of national
consultants supported by selected international consultants. This arrangement has also led to a
valuable transfer of knowledge and skills to local professionals.
77.    In deciding on the financing of the PSMTAC, IDA  and the IDB  will follow  basic
guidelines based on (a) simplicity, and (b) the experience that either Bank has in the different
areas. Wherever possible, either Bank will finance the externally-funded portion of a component
in its entirety. The estimated financing arrangements of the PSMTAC are summarized in the table.
Estimated Project Cost and Financing
(USS million)
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....................-.-.:.    -  ....   ............   ..   ........
Private Sector Participation in Public Services Component  2.30  1.10  0.40    3.80
Administrative Reform:
Institutional Restructuring Component                    0.26   1.49  0.40    2.15
Social Security Institute and Social Security System Component    0.91   0.00  0.15    1.06
Reform of Public Management:
Human Resource Management Component                      0.93   1.26  0.32    2.51
IFM and Investment Programming Component                 3.91  0.41   0.57    4.89
Public Procurement Component                             0.37  0.05  0.05    0.47
Project Coordination                                     0.69  0.48  0.16    1.33
Total Base Costs                                         9.37  4.79  2.05   16.21
Contingencies                                           0.23  0.16  0.00    0.39
IDB loan inspection and supervision a/                        0.05           0.05
Total Project Costs                                     9.60  5.00  2.05   16.65
a/ Inspection and supervision fee charged by the IDB on its loans.



Public Sector Modernization Program                           PRESIDENTIAL COMMISSION                               COUNCIL OF MMISTERS
Project Management                                            FOR THE MODERNIZATION OF                                       AND
Organization Chart                                                     THE STATE                                     ECONOMIC CABINET
EXECUTIVE SECRETARIAT OF
THE PRESIDENTIAL                              TECHNICAL SECRETARIAT OF
COMMISSION FOR THE          ............ ..............   THE ECONOMIC CABINET
MODERNIZATION OF THE STATE
|PROJECT COORDINATING UNITNING                                                       -----------
Human Resource        Integrated Financial                                          Private Sector
Institutional           IHSS and Social        Management Control        Management and             Procurement                  Participation in Public
Restructuring            Security System         Unit Responsible:          Investment             Unit Responsible:                    Services
Unit Responsible:        Unit Responsible:       DGSC(SP) and SHPC          Programming             CPME and SHCP                     Unit Responsible:
CPME                 CPME and PCC                                     Unit Responsible:                                           SHCP and PCC
SEP                                                             ,; Telecoms: .
S                                   AllCConsultants and   S                                           Civil        Ports:
IHSS'   ~Social   H      D C/PPublic Sector                            NraieInvestment Bank   COAviation:                              EN?
IHCA.FE      ~~Boardo      Security   C    JAll Seceaiats, JNBE        Entities          UnitISHCP              for Intermational           SCP
ISECOPT                 IHSBiMd                                                                                                             PTnaECOPT
nagement        ~~      ~~P Decentralized InsbtitPuli                                     Board of Directors                   ii
JNBS/~                                                                                                          HONDUTEL         TC             Av:
PAN                                                                                                                               E         I     tion.
I Seetariat 
|   er Public Sector Entitiesi| c                                           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _E_F_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _L_._._._ _t_r__is



-1  17
SECTION B: PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
78.   The Borrower will be the Republic of Honduras. Overall project coordination of the
PSMTAC will be the responsibility of the Executive Secretariat of the Presidential Commission
for the Modernization of the State (CPME), in association with the Council of Ministers (headed
by the President of the Republic) and the Technical Secretariat of the Economic Cabinet. The
CPME has been building a track record by successfully managing activities under the PPF and no
other entity in Honduras has this type of experience implementing technical assistance. To
strengthen its capacity, the Executive Secretariat of the CPME will receive assistance under the
PSMTAC. The day-to-day management of the project will be the responsibility of a National
Director who will head the PCU. The PCU will depend directly from the Executive Secretariat of
the CPME and will be supported by a small staff, including a Project Coordinator, an account-
ing/financial administrator, a procurement officer, three technical staff, and a network of
technical/coordination units for each of the project components. These specialized techni-
cal/coordination units will be headed by a coordinator reporting to the National Director and
assisted with short-term technical assistance. In the case of privatization, the Executive Secretary
of the Consultative Commission on Privatization will serve as the head of the Techni-
cal/Coordination Unit for the Private Sector Participation in Public Services Component; the
bidding and contracting for this component will be the responsibility of SCHP.
79.   The Executive Secretariat of the CPME (supported by the PCU) and the Secretariat of
Finance and Public Credit (SHCP), supported by the CCP, will be responsible for contracting of
consultants, as well as for the acquisition of equipment. The Executive Secretariat of the CPME
could, however, delegate these responsibilities to the implementing entities. All actions related to
the execution of the Private Sector Participation in Public Services Component under the
responsibility of SHCP will be transmitted to IDA through the CPME.
80.   Each beneficiary entity will select candidates for consulting services, designate a project
manager who will serve as the counterpart for the monitoring and coordination of the reform,
actively participate in the design of the reform, and be ultimately responsible for its implementa-
tion. This will ensure that the entities develop ownership of the reform and gain sufficient
autonomy and experience in the process of design and implementation. The project manager will
be the counterpart for supervision purposes. However, as the number of public entities benefiting
from the project wili be large, the final responsibility for ensuring that activities are carried out
properly will lie with the project manager in the head of each sector, who will coordinate the
activities of the dependent entities. The IDB Field Office in Tegucigalpa will play a substantive
role in supporting and monitoring the implementation of the PSMTAC. One short-term interna-
tional consultant to help monitor the program will be hired under the project.
81.  In those cases where normative entities are charged with the responsibility for implement-
ing the macro-systems, those entities will be responsible for the implementation of the systems in



18
each beneficiary entity. and ensure that activities are executed in accordance with the overall plan.
This will be the case for the DGSC and SHCP that are charged with the responsibility for
implementing the human resource management reforms for the civil service regime in all
Secretariats and JNBS; and for the economics and finance Secretariats that are responsible for
implementing the integrated financial management and investment programming in all public
sector entities. These normative entities will receive assistance from short-term international
consultants.
82.   To ensure that the activities financed under the project remain consistent with the
objectives and priorities of the Government's Public Sector Modernization Program, a Project
Implementation Review would be conducted on a semi-annual basis to update the program of
assistance. The purpose of these reviews would be to secure adaptability and continued relevance
of the proposed PSMTAC to the goals of the overall program. During each review, IDA/IDB,
with the Executive Secretariat of the CPME and the relevant executing agencies, would assess the
status of project implementation, evaluate workplans, and agree on needed modifications to the
original program.
83.   Assistance through the PPF has already been instrumental at establishing a momentum for
the reform, and initiating implementation in the areas covered by the PSMSAC and PSMTAC.
The Executive Secretariat of the CPME has been the core of the institutional network and has
developed effective linkages and workable institutional arrangements with all the counterparts
involved in the reform. This process has also slowly affected a cultural change among managers of
public entities, and an increasingly positive attitude toward the reform. The cultural change has
been stimulated by the prospect of benefits to follow rationalization efforts such as the possibility
for greater financial independence for the institutions, salary decompression for selected
professional staff, and training and equipment.
TRAINIG PLAN
84.   A Training Unit, in charge of developing and implementing a training program for the
modernization of the public sector, will be set up in the PCU. The training program will consist of
(a) different modules in the areas of human resource management, financial management and
investment programming, public procurement, and internal control, (b) on-the-job training, and
(c) a specialized curriculum program in a local university for computer staff The outputs of the
various consultancies will provide the basis for the development of the training modules. For
example, the output of the consultancy in charge of assisting in the design of modern methods and
procedures to support fundamental financial management functions will serve as the basis for the
development of a training module on modern methods and procedures in financial management
functions. As another example, the output of the consultancy in charge of assisting in the
development of adequate personnel policies and administration will provide the basis for the
development of a training module on modern personnel policies and administration. It is envisaged
that the training modules will be introduced to key staff in all Secretariats (around 50 persons per
Secretariat) and that these key staff will in turn become trainers within their work units for a



19
multiplier effect. The Government will designate an installation to serve as the training center,
which will be equipped with computers, software, and audiovisual equipment.
85.   The training plan will include: (a) a summary of the previous year training program, (b)
proposed changes to training courses, (c) title and budget for each course, (d) name of consult-
ants or firms responsible for training, (e) location of the course, (f) estimated number of partici-
pants, and (g) procurement status.
86.   Each coordinator will be responsible for maintaining the following information: (a) an
executive summary, (b) title and location of course, (c) name of consultant or firm, (d) budget, (e)
list of participants and their affiliation, and (f) a copy of the evaluation form completed by the
executing agency.
PROCUREMENT
87.   IDA's Procurement Guidelines (January 1995) will govern the procurement of all IDA-
financed goods under the project. Contracts for goods (computer equipment and software)
exceeding US$50,000 and totaling about US$2.0 million will be procured through limited
international bidding (LIB) among qualified suppliers with established maintenance and services
facilities in Honduras. For LIB procedures, standard bidding documents acceptable to IDA will be
used. Contracts for goods equal to or below US$50,000 will be procured through international
shopping procedures, up to an aggregate of US$900,000. Other equipment will be procured
through national competitive bidding (NCB) in packages of US$25,000 or more, up to an
aggregate of US$300,000. When estimated to cost less than US$25,000 per package, and up to
an aggregate amount equivalent of US$300,000, equipment will be procured under national
shopping procedures with quotations from at least three eligible suppliers. All LIB procurement of
goods above US$50,000 equivalent, and the first two contracts under NCB procedures, will be
subject to prior review by IDA. This review process would result in a prior review of approxi-
mately 80% of all IDA-financed contracts for goods.
88.   IDA's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981) will govern all IDA-financed consultancies under the
project. Terms of reference for all studies and contracts for services financed by IDA will be
subject to IDA approval. Prior review of all consultant contracts with individuals will be required
for contracts exceeding US$25,000 and for all consultant contracts with firms exceeding
US$50,000. These thresholds will allow for all prior review of approximately 70% of the total
value of Bank-financed consultants contracts. Contracts below the respective prior review
threshold, except for assignments that IDA considers to be of critical nature, will require only
prior review of terms of reference and post-review. Agreement was reached on the use of IDA's
standard form of contract for time-based complex consultant assignments. A summary procure-
ment table is provided in Annex D.



20
DISBURSEMENTS
89.   The proposed credit will be disbursed over a four-year period, with a completion date of
December 31, 1999. The project closing date will be June 30, 2000. Disbursements would be
made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) for contracts valued below US$50,000.
For every contract equal to or above this amount, disbursements would be fully documented. For
disbursements made through SOEs, detailed documentation providing evidence of expenditures
would be retained by the PCU in Tegucigalpa, and made available for the required audit and also
for supervision by IDA. A special account in U.S. Dollars with an authorized allocation of
$700,000 would be established in the Central Bank of Honduras to facilitate Government's
execution of the project. The first advance to the special account, however, will be limited to
$350,000 to avoid overfunding or having an inactive account during the first few months of the
project. The special account would be replenished on a monthly basis.
AUDITS
90.   The PCU will maintain records and accounts of all transactions related to the PSMTAC.
The Government would hire independent auditing services satisfactory to IDA to prepare annual
audits at the end of each Honduran fiscal year, starting January 1996. The audit reports would
include separate opinions on the use of SOEs and the special account. The PCU would submit the
audit reports to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
MONITORING AND SUPERVISION PLAN
91.  IDA will supervise the implementation of the PSMTAC in parallel with the PSMSAC
supervision missions, and at other times as needed or requested by the Government, with a total
annual PSMTAC-related supervision input of approximately 12 staff weeks. In addition,
responsibilities for supervision will be shared with the IDB with special support from the Resident
Office in Tegucigalpa, Honduras. During negotiations, agreements will be obtained on arrange-
ments for annual and mid-term reviews. Although the success of the adjustment program will not
be determined solely on the success of the PSMTAC, adequate technical assistance delivery
should, to a large extent, contribute to the success of the PSMSAC.



ANNEX A
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY'
1.    The purpose of this letter is to provide an overview of the efforts that our Government
is making in developing and implementing a consistent program of macroeconomic stabiliza-
tion and public sector modernization; and request the assistance of the World Bank Group
through the Public Sector Modernization Structural Adjustment Credit (PSMSAC) and the
related Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Credit (PSMTAC) which will both
be cofinanced by the IDB.
2.    The Public Sector Modernization Program was designed by the Government to rede-
fine the role of the State as to increase private sector participation in the provision of public
goods and services, while limiting the public sector to policy-making and regulatory functions,
reducing its size and improving its efficiency. It focuses on three areas: (a) private sector par-
ticipation in public services; (b) administrative reform, and (c) reform of public management.
Many of the activities under this wider program of reform are being complemented by several
sectoral projects among which IDA/IDB's AGSAC, ESAC, the proposed water and sanitation
structural and technical assistance projects, IDA's Transport Rehabilitation Project, and IDB's
project on taxation. Our Government is also making substantive progress in implementing the
macroeconomic program agreed with the IMF under the Extended Structural Adjustment Fa-
cility (ESAF), which appropriately complements the efforts on the expenditure side with im-
portant revenue measures, and with a consistent monetary policy.
Macroeconomic Program
3.    The Government intends to achieve export-oriented economic growth of at least 4.5%
a year during 1995-97. To meet this objective the Government has been increasing national
savings, largely by reducing its fiscal deficit, and decreased public investment.
4.    Under the second annual arrangement of the ESAF agreement with the IMF, approved
on January 30, 1995, and in accordance with the Policy Framework Paper 1994-97, fiscal con-
solidation is the main element of the Government plan. The fiscal deficit was reduced from
10.7 percent of GDP in 1993 to 7.5 percent in 1994, and is on target for a further reduction to
4 percent in 1995 and 1.5 percent by 1997. Beyond 1995, fiscal improvement will rely on ex-
penditure rationalization, through the modernization of the public sector and privatization of
public services.
5.    The objective of monetary policy is to strengthen the net foreign asset position of the
Central Bank, as a means to control credit, and lower inflation to around 5 percent by 1997. In
1995, the targets were: a $185 million increase in foreign net reserves, and an inflation rate of
12 percent down from 30 percent in 1994. The Government has been able, thus far, to funda-
mentally meet the fiscal and monetary targets agreed with the IMF, and will continue making
the necessary efforts to keep the plan on its course.
6.    Nevertheless, as you know, our country is confronting a debt burden which has become
a critical problem hampering the sustainability of the economic growth and social welfare.
' This is a translation of the official letter signed by the representatives of GOH on January 4, 1996.
A_LDP.DOC
1/16/96



A-2
During 1994, the total external debt was US$4.2 billion (or 128% of GDP), and the debt serv-
ice to goods and services exports ratio was 34 percent. The multilateral institutions such as
IBRD, IDB and CABEI hold 58 percent of this external debt. The Government will continue
seeking agreements with the Paris Club and Latin American creditors as well as pursue other
initiatives conducive to reducing the debt burden.
Private Sector Participation in Public Services
7.    Public Services have generated high fiscal expenditure and external debt service. The
objective of the reform is to promote efficiency in public services by increasing private sector
participation. Efforts are being made in the sectors of: telecommunications, civil aviation, and
electric power. Privatization will increase fiscal revenues, reduce public investment require-
ments, decrease the public debt and debt servicing requirements, and induce private invest-
ment.
Telecommunications
8.    The Government has developed a strategy for increasing private sector participation,
competition and efficiency in telecommunications. Key to the strategy is the development of an
appropriate institutional framework that separates the functions of policy, regulation, and op-
eration -- now concentrated in the state telecommunication company (Hondutel). The Secretar-
iat of Communications, Public Works and Transport will be responsible for the policy-making
in the sector.
9.    A regulatory entity will be established as an autonomous public institution with the
power to extend licenses and concessions. This entity would issue and enforce regulations
pertaining to the regulatory framework; design and enforce an appropriate competition and
tariff regime, and promote private investment and market competition.
10.   The new Telecommunications Framework Law approved by Congress on October 30,
1995, allows Hondutel to engage in joint ventures with private or foreign investors and to open
competition within the sector while retaining its exclusivity to operate basic telephonic voice
services for a limited time period. A transparent bidding procedure would confer to a pre-
qualified strategic investor(s) the control of management and operation of the newly estab-
lished enterprise(s). The enterprise(s) would gain from increased capitalization and qualified
management. The private operator will have to invest in the modernization and expansion of
the services, resulting in a substantial participation in the company. On the other hand, the
Government will benefit by rationalizing public investment and reducing its future debt service.
At the end of the exclusivity period, a competition regime will ensure entry in the sector. Ac-
cording to the Law, all other telecommunication services will be open to competition.
11.   During the next year, the regulatory entity will be fully operational, regulations issued,
a tariff regime approved, and the final bidding documents for basic phone services issued. In
the following year, management and control of the enterprises in charge of basic phone serv-
ices will be operated by private investors.



A-3
Civil Aviation
12.   The Govermnent has presented to Congress the Civil Aviation Law and the Law for the
Honduran Enterprise of Airports and Air Navigation Services, which incorporate its strategy
for restructuring the civil aviation sector. The strategy entails eliminating the General Direc-
torate of Civil Aviation (DGAC) from the Secretariat of Communications, Public Works and
Transport, creating a regulatory entity, establishing a public enterprise to operate the airports
and air navigation services, and substantially increasing private sector participation in airport
operations. The enterprise will have the option of extending concessions for the operation of a
whole airport, or manage directly the services of air navigation, transit, weather and informna-
tion, communications, and airport administration, and extend concessions to the private sector
for commercial activities such as administration of terminals, commercial space, and land.
13.   During the next year, the normative entity and the enterprise will be in operation, and some
concessions will be extended to the private sector which could include at least one major airport or
several commercial operations across important airports. In the following year, further progress
would be made in the process of extending concessions which again could include management
of a whole airport or other commercial operations.
Electric Power
14.   The energy sector reform started in 1991 with the support of IDA's ESAC and IDB's
energy project. The Government has concluded that a significant improvement in sector effi-
ciency can only come through private sector participation. In November 1994, the Congress
approved the Framework Law of the Electricity Subsector. The Law separates the functions of
policy, regulation, and operation, and authorizes private sector participation in generation and
distribution of electric power. Progress has been made in opening electric power generation to
the private sector.
15.   The Law also requires that distribution be separated and transferred to the private sec-
tor. To this end, the IDB has financed consultants to assist the state-owned utility, ENEE, in
preparing tender documents to implement the requirements of the Law. This will entail a
definition of the number of distribution companies and their corresponding geographic areas of
operation, which will be, subsequently, tendered and transferred to the private sector.
Administrative Reform
16.   The Administrative Reform concentrates on essential functions of the public sector,
rationalizing its organization and some activities, and strengthening the capacity for delivery of
core services. The public labor force is being reduced to improve its composition, pay structure
and motivation. The reform takes two lines of action: institutional restructuring, and rationali-
zation of employment and salary regimes in the civil service and decentralized institutions.



A-4
Institutional Restructuring
17.   Institutional restructuring will redefine the role of Government and improve its effec-
tiveness and efficiency by: rationalizing its size, restructuring its organization, and establishing
an adequate legal framework with the new General Law of Public Administration which was
recently submitted to the National Congress. Rationalization and restructuring will be achieved
by: (a) eliminating obsolete activities and entities; (b) merging or recentralizing those that are
duplicated; (c) transferring to the private sector those that can be better performed by it; (d)
contracting out those th?t can be more cost effectively carried out by other agents; and (e) de-
centralizing some to the regional offices or local authorities.
18.   The Government is in the process of implementing its reform in the sectoral Secretari-
ats--education, health and social services, infrastructure and communications, and natural re-
sources--and in the core Secretariats responsible for economic management and finance, as
well as in some decentralized institutes. All of these sectors have high potential for fiscal sav-
ings and elimination of serious structural problems.
19.   This component will be implemented in accordance to the Action Plans for Institutional
Restructuring of the: (a) Secretariat of Public Education, (b) Secretariat of Public Health, (c)
Social Services Sector, (d) Secretariat of Communications, Public Works and Transport, (e)
Secretariat of Natural Resources, and (f) Economics and Finance Sector, being attached.
R3form of Employment & Salaries in the Civil Service and Decentralized Institutions
20.   Employment and salary regimes rationalization. The objectives of the reform in this
area are: (a) downsizing to eliminate redundant staff and increase the ratio of professional!
technical to support staff, (b) improving pay and grading structures of the Civil Service, par-
ticularly of senior level management and key positions, and developing a transparent pay
structure for all civil servants; (c) establishing effective mechanisms for enforcing and monitor-
ing controls of pay, employment levels and structures of the whole public sector; and (d) de-
veloping a strategy to integrate the different employment regimes of the public sector with an
aim to develop a comprehensive personnel policy. Staff performance will also be improved by
creating long-term incentives through the introduction of career development streams and a
new performance evaluation process.
21.   Progress has been made in implementing the reform. As a result of implementing insti-
tutional restructuring plans and the Law of Restructuring (October 1994) in both the central
and decentralized administration, approximately 3,000 positions have been eliminated since
January 1994. The Law of Restructuring developed important measures for rationalizing per-
sonnel expenditures, freezing vacant posts, reducing 10 percent of public employment
(excluding teachers and medical staff); eliminating expenditures for substitute and emergency
staff, and freezing contracts paid with internal financing. In addition, posts audits and censuses
are being carried out in selective areas.



A-5
22.   This component will be implemented according to the Action Plan for Employment and
Salary Reform in the Civil Service, Neighboring Regimes and Decentralized Institutions, at-
tached.
Reform of Public Management
23.   Reform of public management focuses on: (a) public sector human resource manage-
ment and effective control mechanisms; and (b) financial management and investment pro-
gramming. In addition, reforms are being undertaken in the area of public procurement.
24.   Development of a Comprehensive Public Sector Human Resource Management and
Effective Control Mechanisms. The objective of the reform is to improve integrally the infor-
mation systems that support public sector human resource management and control in a com-
prehensive fashion. The Government has been developing and implementing a human resource
and payroll database for the Civil Service and other Central Government regimes, which will be
extended to the rest of the public sector; and carrying out a census and audit of posts in health,
activity which will be continued in other sectors, particularly in education. The Government
has also conformed, within the Presidential Commission for the Modernization of the State, a
Interministerial Commission for Employment and Salary Policy which will monitor and control
employment indicators. This component will be implemented according to the Action Plan for
Control and Integration of Human Resource Management in the Public Sector. (attached)
25.   Integrated Financial Management and Investment Programming. The main objective in
this area is improve the allocation and use of Central Government financial resources by mod-
ernizing the systems for planning, execution, control and evaluation of expenditures. The em-
phasis of the approach is the development of modern integrated systems of financial manage-
ment and investment programming, within a new institutional and normative framework that
will afford a greater degree of autonomy and accountability to public entities in budget plan-
ning and execution, and establish performance evaluation mechanisms.
26.   This component will be implemented according to the Action Plan for the Moderniza-
tion of Financial Management and Investment Programming. (attached)
27.   Modernizing Public Procurement. The principal objectives are creating a decentralized
system of procurement, enhancing competition, strengthening procurement units in each public
entity, and simplifying and making transparent the procurement procedures and administrative
norms. To this end, the Government has eliminated the Central Procurement Office as an op-
erative unit, and procurement and contracting are being made the responsibility of operational
units of each agency.
28.   The Government wishes to acknowledge the World Bank efforts in the development of
the reform program, and request its continued financial and technical support to ensure the
successful implementation of this program.






Anex B
Page 1 of 9
Honduras
Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Credit (PSMTAC)
Matrix of Key Project Activities
Institutional
Main Government                        Project Component                            Expected               Arrangements       Timing
Objectives                              Activities                             Output/hnpact         and Responsibilities   Targets      Linkae to PSMSAC
L PRIVATE SECTOR PARTICIPATION IN PUBLIC SERVICES COMPONENT (Estimated Base Cost: USS 3.80 miio
Telecommunications. Pre-   Financed with the PPF                                Outpud/Im&d Sector strategy  SHCP (Consultative   Feb. 95- PSMSAC Board Prsentrfion
pare the technical and legal   Consulting services to assist the Privatization Consultative defined. Regulatory framework  Commission for Pri-   Oct. 95  Approval by Congress of the
basis for increasing private    Commission in preparing strategy for increasing private    prepared. The Framework Law   vatization (CCP))  Framework Law for the Tele-
sector participation and com-  sector participation and competition in the telecommuni-  for the Telecommunications                         communications Sector including
petition in the telecommuni-  cations sector and the drafting of the Framework Law for   Sector approved by Congress on                    the amendments to the Hondutel
cations sector.            the Telecommunications Sector, including the amendments October 30, 1995.                                        Organic Law.
to the Organic Law of HONDUTEL. (Intl & local consult-
ants)
Implementation support under the TAC                Outputlmpact: Consistent de-  SHCP(CCP)            Jan. 96  PSMSAC Second Tranche
Consulting firm for assistance to develop private sector    velopment of private sector par-           Dec. 96  Issue and put into effect the regula-
participation in the telecommunications sector, including   ticipation in the telecommunica-                    tions of the Framework Law for the
(a) marketing of the transaction; (b) design of investment  tions sector. Transfer of the                       Telecommunications Sector. Assign
and quality of service obligations by new operator, (c)  management and control of basic                        a budget for and establish operations
inventory and valuation of assets/liabilities, (d) audit and   phone services operations to the                 of the regulatory agency (Conatel).
restatement of financials in USGAAP; (e) financial pro-    private sector. Gradual intro-                       Issue final biddins documents to
jections of the new Corporation(s); (f) preparation of the   duction of competition.                            enterpiise(s) Hondutel established
preliminary financial value of the new company(ies); (g)                                                        according to the Law to operate
preparation and negotiation of legal documents of the                                                           basic telephone services (locaL long-
transaction; and (h) International bidding process.                                                             distance and international) with
coverage of the South-Center and
Assembly of a technical group to manage Sector reform                                                           North-West regions including the
and privatization of HONDUTEL- local and international                                                          cities of Tegucigalpa and San Pedro
individual consultants.                                                                                         Sula.
PSMSAC Thkrd Trnche
The enterprise(s) established by
(Note: Other activities in telecommunications will be fi-                                                       Hondutel tl opal badic telephone
nanced under IDB's MIF/FOMIN.)                                                                                  international) in the South-Center
and North-West regions including in
the cities of Tegucigalpa and San
Pedro Sula are managed and con-
trolled by investors (other than the
Government) and are substantially
I_owned by these investors.
TACMAT.DOC



Annex B
Page 2 of 9
Institutional
Main Government                       Project Component                            Expected               Arrangements      Timing
Objectives                             Activities                             Output/Impact         and Responsibilities   Targets      Linkage to PSMSAC
Civil Aviation. Continue the  Implementation suppert under the TAC            Output/Impact: Implemented   (SHCP(CCP),          June 96- PSMSAC Boerd Presentation
support initiated under the    Assistance to (a) prepare rules and regulations of the Civil actions of reform of the civil    SECOPT,  June 99  Present to Congress the Civil
Transport Rehab. Project in   Aviation Law and the Law for the Honduran Enterprise of  aviation sector.     public enterprise to          Aviation Law and the Law for the
restructuring the Civil Avia-  Airports and Air Navigation Services; (b) create an autono-                  be created                    Honduran Enterprise of Airports
tion sector                mous normative regulatory entity, (c) create a public en-                                                      and Air Navigation Services
terprise to manage airports and operate auxiliary air navi-                                                    PSMSAC Stend Trcle
gation services; (d) extend concessions to private operators                                                   Enter imto a concession contract
for operating airport services; (e) develop nonns for selec-                                                  for the management and operation
tion and recruitment of staff; and (f) develop a training                                                     of at least one of the airports with
program for technical and administrative staff.                                                               regular international traffic; or
This will include consulting services and training. (e)                                                       enter into at least one concession
contract to operate some of the
(*) In December 1995, Congress approved the Ley de Con-                                                       Airport Services in at least two of
cesi6n para la Explotaci6n de los Servicios Aeroportuarios                                                    the airports with regular interna-
(Concession Law for the Exploitation of Airport Services)                                                     tional traffic.
which authorizes the Executive Branch, (the President)                                                        PSMSAC Thgird Tranche
through SECOPT, to extend concession contracts to man-                                                         Enter in to a concession contract
age, administer, develop and commercially develop the                                                          for the management and operation
airports of Honduras. If Congress does not approve the                                                        of one of the airports with regular
Civil Aviation Law and the Law for the Honduran Enter-                                                        international traffic; or enter at
prise of Airport and Air Navigation Services, then this sub-                                                   least one concession contract to
component will need to be reformulated.                                                                       operate some of the Airport
Services in at least two of the
airports with regular international
traffic. This in addition to what
was already accomplished for the
second tranche.
PortsL Increase private sector Implementation support under the TAC            Output/Impact Privatization    SHCP(CCP),        June 96-
participation in ports opera-   Assistance to (a) prepare a study that will evaluate differ-  process of the sector initiated.   SECOPT  June 98
tions                      ent options of increasing private sector participation in
ports operations and its impact on ENP; (b) develop poli-
cies and define the participation of private operators in
Puerto Cortes and other ports, (c) define the institutional
role of the ENP (d) provide advice on restructuring ENP,
and (e) develop mechanisms for the participation of private
operators.
Component coordination.    Implementation suppoet under the TAC                Outputimpact: A well man-    SHCP(CCP)           Mar. 96-
Coordinate and support the    Technical coordinator and national and international con-  aged and properly implemented           Dec. 99
implementation of the compo- sultants to provide support with the technical management component
nent.                      and coordination of the component. Includes office tech-
nology equipment.
TACMAT.DOC



Annex B
Page 3 of 9
Institutional
Main Government                       Project Component                           Expected              Arrangements       Timing
Objectives       |                     Activities                            Output/lnpact        and Responsibilities   Targets      Linkage to PSMSAC
2. ADMINISTRA TIJVE REFORM                                                                                                                                           |
2.A  INSTITUTIONAL RESTRUCTURING COMPONENT (Estimated Base Cost: USS 2.14 miUion)
Prepare and implement insti-  Financed with the PPF                           Output: Recommended actions  CPME, SHCP,         April 94 - PSMSAC Boord Presentation
tutional restructuring plans in  Consulting services to help the Govermment prepare insti-  for restructuring the organiza-   DGSC(SP), SEC,  Sept. 95  Emanate Presidential Decree to
priority/selected entities stated tutional restructuring plans, including employment reduc-  tional network of Secretariats   SECPLAN, SEP,  establish the legal basis for the
in the Administrative Reform  tion targets, for implementation of the Administrative Re-  and transferring some functions  SSP, SECOPT, SRN,  reform including the approval of
of the Govermnent's PSMP.   form program                                     of some decentralized institu-   SGJ, STPS, SRE,            institutional restructuring plans for
tions to the private sector. Rec- JNBS/ PANI               priority entities (Secretariats of
ommended actions for the inter-                            Education, Health, Cornmunica-
nal restructuring and rationali-                           tions & Transport, and Natural
zation of targeted entities, with                          Resources, JNBS/PANI and Eco-
specific targets for employment                            nornics and Finance Secr's). Re-
reduction and estimation of                                structuring plans will be reflected
savings that each measure would                            in the proosed budget for 1996.
generate.                                                  hnplement the institutional re-
structuring action plans in ac-
Impact: Defined actions, with                              cordance with the benchmarks
specific targets as technical                              established in such plans. Com-
basis for the Administrative                               ply with the measures for ra-
Reform.                                                    tionalization of public employ-
ment and salary structure in
accordance with the benchmarks
established in the Action Plan
for the Reform of Employment
in the Civil Service Regime of
the Central Government and the
Decentralized Institutions.
Develop an adequate and   Financed with the PPF                              Output/Ilmpact: Legal estab-    CPME              July 94-  PSMSAC Board Presentation
consistent legal framework for Consulting services to assist in formulating a draft new    lishment of the structure and        July-95   Present to Congress the new
the public sector.        Public Administration Law.                         composition of the Central and                              General Law of Public Admini-
Decentralized Administrations.                             stration.
Legal basis for the Administra-
tive Reform, including mecha-
risms for the elimination, trans-
fer, and privatization of entities,
and establishment of standards
of transparency and account-
ability for public management,
especially for financial and hu-
man resources.
TACMAT.DOC



Annex B
Page 4 of 9
Institutional
Main Government                       Project Component                          Expected              Arrangements      Timing
Objectives                            Activities                            Output/lmpact        and Responsibilities   Targets     Linkage to PSMSAC
Implement rationalization  Impementation support wuder the TAC              Output/Impact: Successfully    CPME, SHCP,       Mar. 96-  PSMSAC Second & Third
efforts at the entity level, and  Assist the Government to: (a) fonnulate institutional re-   implemented and adequately    DGSC(SP), SEC,  Dec. 99   Trmche
strengthen selected entities'  structuring plans in additional targeted entities; (b) im-    monitored reform at the micro-  SEP, SSP, SECOPT,  Implement the institutional re-
capacity to improve policy    plement the institutional restructuring reforms in prionty  institutional level  SRN, Instituto del      structuring action plans in ac-
design and implementation    entities; (c) strengthen the technical capacity of the entities             Nino y la Familia,            cordance with the benchmarks
to design and implement priority programs; in addition, the                   IHCAFE, IHRM,                 established in such plans. Corn-
IDB will finance assistance to strengthen enviromnental                       FHIS, INFOP,                  ply with the measures for ra-
units in selected Central Secretariats and Decentralized                      EDUCREDITO                    tionalization of public employ-
Institutions; and (d) update other legal instruments as                                                     ment and salary structure in
necessary. This would include consulting services, training                                                  accordance with the benchmarks
and equipment.                                                                                               established in the Action Plan
for the Reform of Employment
in the Civil Service Regime of
the Central Government and the
Decentralized Institutions.
Coordinate and support the   Impementaton suppot under the TAC              Outputoimpact: A well man-   CPME                Mar. 96-
implementation of the compo- Consultant services to provide expertise in support of the  aged and properly implemented        Dec. 99
nent                      technical management and coordination of the component. component
ZR HONDURAN SOCLAL SECURITY INSTITUTE (IHSS) & SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM COMPONENT (Estim ated Ruse Cost: USS 1. 07 million)
Prepare the basis for, and  Financed with the PPF                           Output: Recommended in-      SHCP, IHSS, STPS    Apr. 94 -
implement administrative and Consulting services to prepare an actuarial-financial study  creases in the salary ceilings and  Sept. 95
financial improvements of    with recommended actions to increase the salary ceilings   prepared guidelines for future
IHSS                      to social security contributions. Consulting services for the annual adjustments. Computer-
design of a computerized system of registered users of    ized system designed.
IHSS, and a program to improve financial and administra-  Impact: Fundamental element
tive management of the Institute.                 of reforming IHSS' fmancial
operations in place.
ImpLementation support wder the TAC               Ouut: Implementation of     IHSS, STPS, SHCP    Mar. 96 -
Assistance in (a) development and implementation of a    computerized system of regis-             Mar. 99
computerized system for IHSS in areas of programming    tered users of HiSS and program
and budgeting, accounting, collections and payments, in-  to improve financial and admin-
ventories, current accounts of beneficiaries and contribu-  istrative management of the
tors, and management, (b) updating ISS' accounts and    Institute, and trained staff to
affiliate registry, and (c) training administrators and tech-  operate it.
nical staff of IHSS. This activity would include systems    Impact: Improved fmancial and
development, computer hardware, software packages, and  administrative management of
training.                                         IHSS.
TACMAT.DOC



Annex B
Page S of 9
f                                                                                    in~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hstitutional II
Main Government                        Project Component                           Expected               Arrangements      Timing
|        Objectives                              Activities                            Output/Impact         and Responsibilities   Targets      Linkage to PSMSAC
Develop a social security sys- Impkementation support under the TAC            OutputlImpad: Well designed                       Mar. 97 -
tem strategy               Consulting services to help (a) carry out a diagnostic re-   strategy for separating financial        Mar. 99
view of the pensions system and the provision of health    management of the healthcare
services, (b) prepare a cost analysis of the current system   reserve fund from the pension
and possible future social security schemes, and (c) pre-   reserve fund.
pare strategies for (i) reform of pensions and health sys-
tems, and (ii) develop a system of professional risk insur-
ance.
Coordinate and support the    Implementation support under the TAC             OutputImpact: A well man-
implementation of the compo- Consultant services to provide expertise in support of the   aged and properly implemented
nent                      technical management and coordination of the component. component
3. REFORM OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT
3. L HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT COMPONENT (Estimated Base Cost: USS 2 50 milion)
Develop the technical capacity Financed with the PPF:                          Outt: Implementation of inte- Interinstitutional  June 95-  PSMSAC Board Preseatdion
of the central govenunent to   Design, development and implementation of an integrated  grated human resource manage- Technical Comnmis-    Feb. 96   Agree on an action plan for the
monitor and control human    human resource management system for the civil service   ment systems for the public  sion for Employment     development of a comprehensive
resource levels, composition,  and neighboring regimes. This will include computer  sector.                 and Salary Policy              public sector human resource
pay, and appointments in all  hardware, systems development, software packages and    Impact: Adequate human re-   (ITCESP), CPME,         management and effective con-
Secretariats and Decentralized training.                                      source management and ex-     SHCP(DGP),                    trol mechanisms. Implement the
Ingtitutions.              Impkmentation support under the TAC                penditure control in an integral  DGSC(SP),                  Action Plan for Human Re-
Assistance to: (a) systematically monitor the payrolls of all fashion.          SHCP(DGID), all                 sources Management Control in
public sector employment and salary regimes of the Ex-                          Secretariats and 4              accordance with the benchmarks
ecutive, (b) carry out, and establish a permanent system                        decentralized institu-          establshed in such plan.
for, employment censuses and payroll audits, (c) complete                       tions to be deter-
the implementation of an integrated human resource man-                         mmed                            PSMSAC Scond& Z*id
agemnent system for the civil service and neighboring re-                                                       TrFxcU e
gimes and implement the linking of the system with pay-                                                        Implement the Action Plan for
roll and the budget, (d) develop and implement an inte-                                                        Human Resources Management
grated human resource management system for the rest of                                                         Control in accordance with the
the employment and salary regimes of the executive, and                                                        benchmarks established in such
(e) extend the integrated human resource management and                                                        plan.
payroll systems to all Secretariats and at least four decen-
tralized institutions.This includes consulting services,
computer hardware, systerns development, software pack-
ages and training.
TACMAT.DOC



Annex B
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _P a geP a 6 6 oo f 9
I                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~institutional
Main Governiment                        Project Component                              Expected                Arrangemnents      Timing
Objectives                               Activities                              Output/Impact          and Respnsibilities    Targets        Linkage to PSMSAC
Develop the technical basis    Financed with the PPF                              Output: (a) clear lines of     DGSC(SP),             July 94-  PSMSAC Board Presentation
for pay reform, and improve   Diagnostic review of the civil service regime at the nor-    authority and responsibility in   SHCP(DGP)  Dec. 95   Rationalization of public em-
the employment and salary    mative, institutional and operational levels.        human resource management                                      ployment and salary structures
regimes at the normative,                                                         established, (b) adequate legal                                 evaluated on the basis of the
institutional and operational   Implementation support under the TAC: Assistance in   instruments needed to carry out                  Mar. 96-  benchmarks established in the
levels                      (a) developing a strategy for improving the civil service    that authority in place, (c) posts            Dec. 99   action plan for the Reform of
regime at the normative, institutional and operational lev-  reclassified, particularly those                        Employment & Salaries in the
els, including recommendations for the normative structure that are key to the functioning of                        Civil Service Regime and De-
of neighboring regimes; (b) developing a new post classifi- the public sector, (d) reformed                          centralized Institutions.
cation and grading system, salary structure and incentives  pay of senior management staff                           PSMSAC
and those occupying key posi-Seod ThrTane
plan, including (i) design of a salary policy, (ii) organiza-  tiose occalymtey  in                                  Sccond & Third Tranche
tional study, (iii) reclassification of posts, and (iv) devel-  tlons, (e) technical crnteria in                     Rationalization of public em-
opment of a new salary structure, (c) developing a modemr   place for recruitment, evalua-                           ployment evaluated on the basis
human resource policy, including recruitment policies and  tion, dismissals, and (f) streng-                         of the benchmarks established in
selection criteria; (d) amending the civil service law, as    thened personnel management.                          the action plan.
necessary; and (e) strengthening the institutional capacity
of DGSC and the Secretariats in human resource manage-  Impactn Accountable personnel
ment.This includes consulting services and training.  management. Increased quality
of staff.
Strengthen the Secretariat of  Financed with the PPF                              Output/Impact: Improved effi-  SHCP(DGP), SEP        April 95-
Education's capacity to assess Diagnostic work of the teachers regime at the normative,   ciency in teacher employment.                Nov. 95
teacher post requirements    institutional and operational levels.
Implementation support under the TAC                                                                      June 96-
Assistance to SEP to develop the Secretariat's capacity to                                                 Feb. 97
assess teacher post requirements.
Strengthen the Secretariat of  Implementation support under the TAC               OutputlImpact: Knowledge of                          Sept. 96-
Health's capacity to evaluate  Assistance to SSP to evaluate human resource supply,  (a) adequacy and appropriate-                     Apr. 97
human resources             training, development, deployment and performance in the  ness of training, (b) extent of
health sector.                                        supervision and accountability at
all levels, and (c) areas where
improved incentives and better
oversight could strengthen hu-
man resource performance.
TACMAT.DOC



Annex B
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _P age     7     of   9
Institutional
Main Government                       Project Component                          Expected              Arrangements      Timing
Objectives                            Activities                            Output/Impact        and Responsibilities   Targets     Linkage to PSMSAC
Coordinate and support the   Implementation support under the TAC           Outpuitnmpad: A well man-   Interinstitutional Tech-i Mar. 96-
implementation of the compo- International and local consultants to provide expertise in  aged and properly implemented  nical Comnission for    Dec. 99
nent                      support of the technical management and coordination of  component             Employment and Sal-
the component.                                                                ary Policy, DGSC
(SP), SHCP (DGP),
SHCP (DGID), CPME
3.R INTEGRATED FINANCLIL MANAGEMENTAND INVESTMENTPROGRAMMING COMPONENT (Etinated Bae Cost: USS 4.89 millien)
Develop a modern system of  Financed with the PPF                           Outpu/Impact: Designed sys-  SHCP(SsACP)         Mar. 95-  PSMSAC Board Prsentation
public financial management  Consulting services to design an integrated financial man- tem aimed at allowing decentral-      Dec. 99  Agree on the action plan for the
and investment programming  agement and investment programming system.      ized expenditure execution,                                Modenization of Finanrial Man-
provide unified and timely in-                            agement and Investnent Pro-
formation, and facilitate control.                        gramniing. Design intgrated sys-
tans of financial mangag0t and
inveshnent pagmming.
Implementation support wider the TAC              OWtwnmpmct: Effective and   SHCP(SsACP)          Mar. 96-  PSMSACSecond& Third
Financial management:                             updated execution, monitoring,                   Dec. 99   Trancke
Assistance to (a) develop and implement an integrated  and control of public sector fi-                     Implement the Action Plan for
financial management system (accounting, treasury, budget nancial management and in-                        the Modernization of Financial
and public debt), linked with human resource administra-  vestment programming. Ac-                         Management and Investment
tion and payroll, (b) design and develop modern methods  countability for financial man-                     Programming in accordance with
and procedures to support fundamental financial manage-  agement and investment pro-                        the benchmarks established in
ment functions, (c) develop a strategy to enhance/reorder   gramming.                                       such plan.
the institutional setting and organizational framework of
financial management, and (d) train technical staff to de-
velop or strengthen the financial management units in each
public entity. This will include consulting services, com-
puter hardware, systems development, software packages
and training.
Assistance to (a) continue to support the development of
the investment programming system, (b) develop a strategy
to enhance/reorder the institutional setting and organiza-
tional framework of investment progranuning, (c) train
technical staff to strengthen the investment programming
units within dependencies and entities responsible for the
bulk of public investment. This will include consulting
services, computer hardware, systems development, soft-
ware packages and training.
TACMAT.DOC



Annex B
Page 8 of 9
Institutional
Main Government                       Project Component                          Expected              Arrangements      Timing
Objectives                            Activities                            Output/Impact        and Responsibilities   Targets     Linkage to PSMSAC
Coordinate and support the   Implementaton support under the TAC            Output/lImpact: A well man-                      Mar. 96-
implementation of the compo- International and local consultants to provide expertise in  aged and properly implemented       Dec. 99
nent                      support of the technical management and coordination of  component
the component.
3. C MODERNIZATION OF PUBLIC PROCUREMENT COMPONENT (Estimated Base Cost: USS 0.47 milion)                                   ______
Establish a modern decentral- Financed with the PPF                         Ouut: Design system that will SHCP (SsACP)       Apr. 94 -
ized system of public pro-    Consulting services to (a) design a modern system of pub-  allow decentralization of deci-      Jul. 94
curement, and strengthen the  lic procurement, and (b) assist in the preparation of  sion-making processes and pro-
entities responsible for pro-   amendments to the new Public Procurement Law.  mote competition. Prepared
curement and bid evaluation.                                                amendments to the Law for re-
fonning the current procurement
system and symplifying adminis-
trative procedural norms in
awarding government contracts.
Impact: Transparency in public
procurement through decentrali-
zation of the public procurement
function and promotion of com-
petition.
Implementation support under the TAC              Output: Trained staff in tech-   SHCP (SsACP)    Mar. 96-
Assistance to (a) develop clear and transparent adminis-   niques related to bidding and           June 98
trative procedures and establish the methodologies needed promoting competition among
to carry out an adequate register, organization and control  suppliers, contractors and con-
of the operations within the new legal framework, (b) de-  sultants. Coordination mecha-
velop norms for the selection of technical staff, train them  nisrsa and communication sys-
on operational procedures and strengthen the centralized   tems developed and imple-
and decentralized entities responsible for procurement and mented.
bid evaluation, (c) develop and implement coordination
mechanisms and communication systems among units    Impact: Adequate and trans-
responsible for procurement and bid evaluations, and (d)   parent procurement and bid
carry out seminars on the legal-institutional framework and evaluation practices. Account-
its incidence on operative procedures.            ability in public procurement.
This activity includes consultants, training and equipment.
TACMAT.DOC



Page 9 of 9
Main Goverinmt                        Project Component                          Expeced               Afngements        T-  g                t 
Coordinate and support the   Implmenado ssport wder the TAC                 Ou4na4mpact A well man-   SHCP (SsACP)           Mar. 96-
implementation of the compo- International consultant to provide support with the techni- aged and properly implemented       Dec. 99
nent                      cal management and coordination of the component.  component.
TAXADMINISTRATION (to befinanced by IDB under its own technical cooperation loan)
Proposed TAC has only financed the PPF activities
Lay the ground for the direc-  Financed with the PPF                        Output: Proposed revisions to   SHCP             Apr. 94-
tion of the reform of tax ad-   Consulting services to (a) help prepare a revised Tax  the draft Tax Code and proposed (SsACP)SEE/ADP  Dec. 94
ministration.             Code, and (b) formulate recommendations for the optimal  actions to develop the Tax
rationalization scheme for export incentives, specifying the Authority's capacity to monitor
control responsibilities of the SEC and SHCP (Customs).  compliance.
Impact: Adequate technical and
legal basis for improved tax
administration and compliance.
PROJECT COORDINATION (Eidmated Base Cost: USS 133 miion
Coordinate and support the    Financed with the PPF                         Outpu&/Imact: A well man-   CPME                  Jun. 94-
implementation of the     Consulting services and equipment in support of the ad-   aged and properly implemented             Feb.96
PSM6AC/TAC                ministration and execution of the PPF. This includes con-  PSMSAC/TAC.
sulting services and office technology equipment.
Impkementation support under the TAC              Outputmpact: Same as above. CPME                 Mar. 96-
Establishment of an adequately staffed Project Coordinat-                                          Dec. 99
ing UnitThis includes technical coordinator, local and
international consultants, training, and office technology
equipment.
Information and consensus-building campaign. This activ-
ity includes consulting services, seminars and workshops,
publications and equipment.
Note: The costs shown are total project base costs. They do not include contingencies.
TACMAT.DOC






Annex C
HONDURAS
PUBLIC SECTOR MODERNIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
(US$thousand)
Foreign         Local         Total
Estimated Costs
PRIVATE SECTOR PARTICIPATION
IN PUBLIC SERVICES COMPONENT                                                    2,402.2       1,403.2       3,805.4
ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM
Institutional Restructuring Component                                      991.0        1,153.6       2,144.6
Honduran Social Security Institute and Social Security System Component    713.0         358.0        1,071.0
PUBLIC MANAGEMENT REFORM
Human Resource Management Component                                       1,277.1       1,224.9       2,502.0
IntegradedFinancial Management &InvestmentProgramming Component           3,015.0       1,878.4       4,893.4
Public Procurement Component                                                195.5        276.7         472.2
PROJECT COORDINATION                                                             323.4        1,003.8       1,327.1
TOTAL BASE COSTS                                                                8,917.2       7,298.6      16,215.7
CONTINGENCIES                                                                    211.6          173.2        384.8
IDB LOAN INSPECTION & SUPERVISION a/                                                                          49.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                                             9,128.8       7,471.7      16,650.0
Financing Plan
IDA                                                                             6,402.2       3,197.8       9,600.0
IDB                                                                             2,776.1       2,223.9       5,000.0
GOH                                                                                           2,050.0       2,050.0
TOTAL                                                                           9,178.3       7,471.7      16,650.0
a/ Inspection and supervision fee charged by the IDB on its loans.



Annex D
HONDURAS
PUBLIC SECTOR MODERNIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
A. Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Methods       NBF a!
Category                            ICB    NCB   Other        1DB  GOH  TOTAL
Goods                                 -        0.4   2.0       1.0             3.4
(0.4)  (2.0) b/                 (2.4)
Consultancies cl
Studies and Technical Assistance    --6.6                    3.7             10.3
(6.6)                    (6.6)
Training                             --0.6                   0.2             0.8
(0.6)                    (0.6)
Operating Expenditures                --2.1                                    2.1
1DB Inpsection and Supervision                                 0.1             0.1
TOTAL                                          0.4   9.2       5.0    2.1     16.7
(0.4)  (9.2)                   (9.6)
a/ Non-Bank financing.
b/ Procurement under Limited International Bidding (LIB).
c/ Contracting of consultants in accordance with IDA's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 198 1).
B. Disbursement Arrangements
Category                               Amount
(US$ million)
Goods                                   2.2        100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 93% of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Consultants' Services and Training      6.5        100%
R efu ndi ng of PPF                     0.8        Amount due
Unallocated                             0.2
Total                                   9.6
Estimated Disbursements
(US$ million)
Bank FY                               1996   1997  1998      1999  2000
Annual                                  1.7    3.0   2.7       1.5    0.7
Cumulative                              1.7    4.7   7.4       8.9    9.6



Annex E
Page 1 of 2
HONDURAS
Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Credit (PSMTAC)
Training Plan
Insitutional
Arrangements/
Area/Project Component             Training Mode                           Objecbve                              Target Recipients           Responsibilities         Expectcd Results          Timetable
PRIVATE SECTOR PARTICIPA-
TION IN PUBLIC SERVICES
COMPONENT
Civil Aviation                       Institutional Training    Strengthening of the technical capacity of       Technical and administraive           SHCP(CCP),    Strengthened capacity of            Jan. 98-
(Local consultants;      technical and administrative staff.               staff of the subsector.                SECOPT,        technical and administrative      Jun-99
some provision for                                                                                             Public enterprise  staff.
intl consultants)                                                                                               to be created
ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM
Institutional Restructuring         Institutional Training     Strengthening of the technical capacity of targeted  Managerial and technical staff of  CPME, Targeted   Strengthened technical capacity  Dec. 96-
Component                            (Local consultants;       entities to design and implement priority programs;    targeted entities               Secretariats    of entities in design and imple-  Dec. 99
some provision for       strengthening of environmental units in selected                                     and Decentralized  mentation of priority programs
intl consultants)        entities.                                                                               Insttutons
Honduran Social Security             On-the-Job Training       Training on affiliation and collecton system,    Technical staff of IHSS             CPME, IHSS,   Staff proficiency in new affiliation  Jan 97-
Institute and Social Security                                  and identification and monitoring of                                                      SHCP         and collection, and monitoring of  Sept. 97
System Component                                               beneficiaries of IHSS                                                                                  beneficiaries system
REFORM OF PUBLIC
MANAGEMENT
Human Resource Management            Insttutional Training    Module on modem personnel policies and            Technical staff of DGSC(SP),        CPME, DGSC,   Staff proficiency in modem           Dec. 96-
Component                            (Local consultants;       management                                       Secretariats                          Secretariats    personnel management and          Jun-99
some provision for                                                                                                              policies
intl consultants)
Insttutional Training    Special curriculum on applied computer applcations    Technical computer staff of         DGSC         Trained computer staff in         Jan.. 97-
(Local Unuversity)       for computer staff of DWSC and DGID               DGSC and DGI)                           DGID)        computer applcations               Oct-97
TACTRAIN XLS



Annex E
Page 2 of 2
HONDURAS
Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Credit (PSMTAC)
Training Plan
Institutional
Arrangements/
Area/Project Component             Training Mode                           Objective                             Target Recipients           Responsibilities         Expected Results          Timetable
Integrated Financial Management     Institutional Training     Module on modem methods and procedures for       Technical staff of financial            CPME,         Staff trained in modem            Sept. 96-
and Investment Programming           (Local consultants;      fundamental financial management functions        management and                       SHCP(SsACP)   methods and procedures                Jun-98
Component                            some provision for           Submodules:                                   investment programming units in                       for financial management
intl consultants)           - Improved budget programming and evaluation   each public entity                                    functions
through performance indicators
- Responsive budgeting, accounting, treasury and
public debt management
- Improved investment programming, monitoring
and evaluation
- Project evaluation, selection and priodtization
Public Procurement Component         Institutional Training    Module on modem methods and procedures for       Technical staff of centralized and      CPME,         Trained staff in techniques related    Sept. 96-
(Local consultants;      procurement and bid evaluaton                     decentralized entities responsible   SHCP(SsACP)   to bidding and promoting compe-      Sept. 97
some provision for                                                         for procurement and bid evaluaton.                   btion among supphers,
intl consultants)                                                                                                               contractors and consultants
Project Coordination                 Training budget                                                            Technical staff of the PCU            CPME, PCU       Trained PCU staff                 Sept 96-
Dec. 98
November 1995
TACTRAIN.XLS






i"   i          ,/     j: - 4   i 
Il  ,;1   -  t=,   _, _-            _         , -3        .        . ,  .    I.  i_ ! i-,_  . -,-   ,3
Y -7W                                                                                                                ''Q- .1        i      P, ,a   i



