Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23516
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-28140; PPFI-P8420)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A
PUBLIC SECTOR MODERNIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
June 28, 2002
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 28, 2002)
Currency Unit = Lempira (L)
1 Honduran Lempira = US$ 0.061
US$ 1 =   16.40 Honduran Lempira
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPME          -     Presidential Commission for the Modernization of the State
ANACI         -     Civil Aviation Authority
CAS           -     Country Assistance Strategy
CCP           -     Consultative Commission for Privatization
CNE           -     National Energy Commission
CONATEL       -     National Telecommunications Commission
CPME          -     Presidential Commission for the Modernization of the State
DGSC          -     General Directorate of Civil Service
DICTA        -      General Directorate of Science and Technology
EFMTAC        -     Economic and Financial Management Technical Assistance
Credit (Credit 3414-HO)
ESAF          -     Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ENEE          -     National Electricity Enterprise
GNP           -     Gross National Product
GPAL          -     General Public Administration Law
HONDUTEL      -     Honduran Telecommunications Enterprise
HIPC          -     Highly Indebted Poor Countries Initiative
ICAO          -     International Civil Aviation Organization
ICR           -     Implementation Completion Report
IDA           -     International Development Association
IDB           -     Inter-American Development Bank
IFC           -     International Finance Corporation
IHSS          -     Honduran Social Security Institute
IMF           -     International Monetary Fund
INFA          -     Institute of the Child and the Family
MIF           -     IBD's Multilateral Investment Fund
JNBS          -     National Board for Social Welfare
PCU           -     Project Coordinating Unit (Executive Secretariat of CPME)
PANI          -     National Children's Organization
PSMP          -     Public Sector Modernization Program
PSMSAC        -     Public Sector Modernization Structural Adjustment Credit
PSMTAC        -     Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Credit
SAG           -     Secretariat of Agriculture and Husbandry
SCL           -     Superintendence of Concessions and Licenses



SEFIN        -      Secretariat of Finance
SENASA        -     National Agricultural Health Services
SEP          -      Secretariat of Public Education
SECPLAN      -      Planning Secretariat
SERNA        -      Secretariat of Natural Resources and the Environment
SIAFI        -      Integrated Financial NManagement System
SIARH        -      Comprehensive Human Resources Management System
SINEG        -      National Inforrnation System for Evaluating
SISPU         -     Integrated Public Sector Investment System
SMP          -      Staff-Monitored Program
SOPTRAVI     -      Secretariat of Public Works, Transport and Housing
SSP          -      Secretariat of Public Health
UPEG          -     Planning and Evaluation Unit (Line Secretariats)
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director:  Ernesto May
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Miguel Mercado-Diaz






CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                   1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                  1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry       2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                           7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            18
6. Sustainability                                                                19
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                22
8. Lessons Learned                                                              23
9. Partner Comments                                                             24
10. Additional Information                                                      27
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                            28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                            31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                            33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                            34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components            36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Perfornance                               37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                           38






Project ID: P034607                                     Project Name: HN PUB SEC MOD TAC
Team Leader: Miguel Mercado-Diaz                        TL Unit: LCSPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: June 28, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: HN PUB SEC MOD TAC                           L/C/TFNumber: IDA-28140;
PPFI-P8420
Country/Department: HONDURAS                                          Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: BB - Public Sector Management Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   09/18/92                              Effective: 07/11/96          07/11/96
Appraisal:  04/14/95                                MTR: 12/31/97             12/31/97
Approval:  02/08/96                              Closing: 06/30/2000          06/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS/MIN OF FIN & PUBLIC CREDIT
Other Partners:  Inter American Development Bank
STAFF                Current                                 At Appraisal
Vice President:     David De Ferranti                        Shahid Husein Burki
Country Manager:     D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                     D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:      Ronald E. Myers                          Robert M. Lacey
Team Leader at ICR:  Miguel Mercado-Diaz                     Antonio Martin Del Campo
ICR Primary Author:  Cecilia Zanetta
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                     S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Honduras is the third poorest countries in Latin America, with a GNP per capita of $890 in 2001, a high
incidence of poverty, and low social indicators. Recurrent macroeconomic imbalances have been a major
factor contributing to high poverty and weak social indicators. By the end of the 1980s, Honduras was on
the verge of economic collapse as a result of state interventionist policies that had guided most Latin
American countries since the 1960s. Fueled by abundant external financing that masked the need to correct
structural distortions in the economy, high levels of government spending were also a central factor
contributing to macroeconomic disarray.
Stabilization and structural adjustment measures were undertaken in 1990, bringing about economic
recovery and substantial improvement in terms of growth, inflation, and fiscal deficits. In 1993, however,
the Government embarked on an expansionary fiscal policy in the run-up of a presidential election, which
resulted in a resurgence of fiscal deficits and rapid macroeconomic deterioration. With IMF support
through an Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) arrangement, the subsequent administration
(Reina, 1994-1998) implemented a series of drastic measures that succeeded in stabilizing the economy and
reviving growth during the 1994-95 period. It also launched the Public Sector Modernization Program
(PSMP), a comprehensive reform program aimed at restoring and sustaining macroeconomic stability by
developing a smaller and more efficient public sector.
The Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Credit (PSMTAC) was prepared in conjunction
with the Public Sector Modernization Structural Adjustment Credit (Credit 2826-HO; PSMSAC). The
objective of these two operations was to support the Government's objectives as articulated in the PSMP,
with a particular focus on correcting key structural weaknesses underlying poor fiscal
performance-particularly on the expenditure side-and the lack of transparency and accountability
existing in the public administration. Both operations were also aimed at increasing efficiency in the
provision of public services.
The PSMSAC was designed as a structural adjustment operation in which tranche disbursements were
contingent upon the implementation of key policy actions. The PSMTAC was conceived to complement the
PSMSAC by providing additional technical support to strengthen the capacity of key government agencies
responsible for the implementation of the reforms supported under the PSMSAC. In particular, the
PSMTAC's specific objectives were to support the Government in the areas of:
(a)    Policy formulation for the design of the reforms under the Government's PSMP,
(b)    Implementation support to:
i) Develop the means and information necessary for the reform process and to comply with the
conditions and action plans under the PSMSAC, and
ii) Modernize human resource management, financial management and public procurement
systems, and
(c)    Institutional support to the entities that would be beneficiaries of these management systems.
The Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) was the IMF's concessionalfacility for low-income countries. On
November 22, 1999 its purposes were redefined and it was renamed the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility.
-2-



The objectives of the PSMTAC and PSMSAC reflected closely the priorities of the IDA's strategy for
Honduras as articulated in the 1993 CAS. This strategy was aimed at three key objectives: (i) poverty
reduction; (ii) public sector reform and promotion of private sector development; and (iii) sustainable
management of natural resources. The PSMTAC was designed to provide ample financial and technical
support to the objectives of public sector reform and private sector development.
The two operations built on previous IDA work. In particular, they benefited from the study on Prospects
for Public Sector Reform (World Bank, 1992), which provided an exhaustive diagnosis of the main
challenges facing Honduras' public sector and laid down the foundations for the reform program. They also
benefited from the IBRD-IDB joint study on Reforming Public Investment and the Infrastructure Sectors
(World Bank, 1995), which provided in-depth recommendations for improving the management of public
investments and the provision of infrastructure services.
The PSMTAC's main tools included: (a) the development of strategies to enhance institutional and
organization framework; (b) the design of laws, regulations, methods and procedures; and (c) the design
and implementation of macro management systems; and (d) training of technical staff in the regulatory,
institutional and operational aspects of the reform. Designed as a technical assistance loan, it provided
financing for consulting firms, short-term international consultants, short- and long-term local consultants,
system development, hardware and software, and training.
Potential risks were properly identified during appraisal. First, the fact that the Government's priorities
might change over the life of the loan, especially given that a change of administration was going to take
place during the life of the operation, was considered a risk. To lower this risk, the Government was asked
to define basic implementation programs for each of the project components as a condition of loan
effectiveness. Second, the Government's lack of previous experience in implementing complex programs
such as the PSMTAC was also taken into consideration. To address this weakness, the importance of
having a strong and well-staffed Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) with adequate in-house resources
complemented by short-term experts was stressed. A Project Preparation Facility (P842-HO; PPF)
provided financing for key posts until the project became effective. Moreover, IDA coordinated with the
Inter-American Development's (IDB) field office to provide implementation support.
In summary, the program objectives were clearly delineated and responded to both the Borrower's priorities
and the IDA's overall strategy in Honduras. Similarly, the design of the program was closely linked to the
objectives set forth, which in turn were made operational through well-defined implementation programs.
As in the case of the PSMSAC, the only area of concem identified by this evaluation in terms of design
relates to the scope of the project. The large number of the components and the complexity of the
individual implementation plans resulted in a high degree of technical and institutional complexity,
particularly given the lack of previous experience in implementing this type of project in Honduras.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Although there was a revision to specific project components (para. 3.4), the program's objectives
remained unchanged during its implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
The PSMTAC focused on three main components of the Government's adjustment program, which were
defined as follows:
-3 -



(a)    Private Sector Participation in Public Services:
This component was aimed at promoting increased private sector participation in the provision of key
public services, with the ultimate objective of increasing fiscal revenues, reducing public investment
requirements, decreasing external debt, inducing new private investments, and increasing operational
efficiency in utilities and transport. This component supported the ambitious reforrns that were pursued as
part of the PSMSAC as well as the development of a reform strategy for the ports sector. Specifically:
o      Telecommunications: This sub-component was aimed at creating a competitive environment in
the telecommunications sector, including developing an adequate legislative framework, creating a
regulatory entity, and the transfer of operations to the private sector. Consultants financed under the PPF
assisted the Consultative Commission for Privatization (CCP) in preparing the specific privatization
strategy. The PSMTAC provided financing for key activities as part of the process of privatization of the
telecommunications company, such as marketing of the transaction, design of investment and quality of
service obligations by new operators, inventory and valuation of assets/liabilities, audit and restatement of
financial accounts, financial projections of the new corporations, and the preparation and negotiation of
legal documents of the transaction.
o      Civil Aviation: This sub-component built on the work initiated under the IDA-assisted Transport
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2458-HO) in restructuring the civil aviation sector. The Civil Aviation Law and
the Law for the Honduran Enterprise of Airports and Air Navigation Services were presented to Congress
in October 1995 as a condition for PSMSAC Board presentation. The laws reflect the Government's
strategy for restructuring the sector, calling for the creation of an appropriate regulatory framework,
decentralization of airport management, and a substantial increase of private sector participation through
consesioning. Key activities financed under the PSMTAC included the preparation of rules and regulations
of the Civil Aviation Law and the Law for the Honduran Enterprise of Airports and Air Navigation
Services, the creation of an autonomous normative regulatory entity, the creation of a public enterprise to
operate airports and air navigation services, and the extension of concessions to private operators for
commercial services.
o      Ports: This sub-component was aimed at providing financial assistance to prepare a study to
evaluate different options for increasing private sector participation in ports operations and its impact on
the publicly owned ports, develop policies and define the participation of private operators, define the
institutional role of the regulatory entity, and develop mechanisms for the participation of private operators.
The IDB was to provide complementary technical assistance to the private-participation component
through its Multilateral Investment Fund (MIF) with the purpose of establishing new regulatory
frameworks for each sector and strengthening the regulatory capabilities of autonomous/independent
entities. Specifically, the MIF provided financial and technical assistance to develop the legal framework
and regulations for the telecommunications sector, as well as the establishment of an independent and
financially autonomous regulatory entity, CONATEL.
(b)    Administrative Reform:
This component supported institutional restructuring and the rationalization of employment.
O      Institutional Restructuring: This sub-component was aimed at reducing the size and improving
-4 -



the organization of central and decentralized administrations through the implementation of institutional
restructuring plans in priority entities. The implementation plans had been prepared under the PPF, as well
as a new General Law of Public Administration (GLPA) establishing the new structure and composition of
the central and decentralized administrations. The new GLPA was presented to Congress as a PSMSAC
condition for Board presentation. The PSMTAC provided financial support for key activities within the
framework of the new GLPA, including the implementation of the institutional restructuring reforms in
priority entities, forrnulation of institutional restructuring plans in additional targeted entities, capacity
building, and the provision of appropriate support technology.
o      Honduran Social Security Institute and Social Security System: This sub-component was aimed
at supporting specific actions needed to avoid a short-term insolvency of the Honduran Social Security
Institute (IHSS) and to develop a long-term strategy for the sector and its links with reforms in the health
sector. With financial assistance from the PPF, the Government had identified a set of recommended
actions, including the increase in salary ceilings to social security contributions, and designed a
computerized system of registered users of IHSS. The PSMTAC would continue to support the
Government in its efforts to reform the IHSS by providing financial support to key activities, such as
implementation of the computerized system designed under the PPF, the updating of IHSS accounts and
affiliate registry, and the training of administrators and technical staff of IHSS. The PSMTAC also
financed a series of activities aimed at developing a long-term social security strategy, including a diagnosis
of the pensions system and provision of health services, a cost analysis of the current system and possible
future social security schemes, and the preparation of strategies for reform of pensions and health systems
and the development of a system of professional risk insurance.
(c)    Public Management Reform
This component was aimed at improving efficiency and transparency in the management of public
resources through the development and implementation of modem public management tools. Specifically,
this component focused on developing and implementing three key management systems: (i) a human
resource management system; (ii) a system for financial management and investment programming, and
(iii) a public procurement system.
u      Human Resources Management: This sub-component was aimed at reducing the fiscal burden
that resulted from overstaffing in the public sector by correcting distortions in the salary regime and
introducing incentives to increase the quality and efficiency of human resources in the public
administration. In addition, this sub-component complemented the Government's short-term efforts to
rationalize employment and salary scales with the development and implementation of a comprehensive
human resource management and payroll system linked to the budget for the entire public sector. The
PSMTAC was to finance key activities including: (1) the systematic monitoring of payrolls; (2) the
establishment of a permanent system for employment censuses and payroll audits; (3) the completion of the
implementation of a comprehensive human resource management and payroll system; (4) the development
of a strategy for improving the civil service regime at the normative; (5) institutional and operational levels;
(6) the development of a new post classification and grading system; (7) salary structure and incentives
plan for the civil service, and (8) amendments to the civil service law, as necessary. In addition, the
PSMTAC was to assist the Secretariat of Education in assessing teacher requirements, and the Secretariat
of Health in evaluating human resource supply, training, development, deployment and performance in the
health sector.
o      Financial Management and Public Investment Programming: This sub-component was aimed
at improving public resources allocation through the implementation of integrated systems of financial
- 5 -



management and investment programming. The financial management system linking all relevant
functions-budget, treasury, public credit, and accounting-was to replace overly centralized budgeting
functions. Key activities to be financed under the PSMTAC included the development and implementation
of an integrated financial management system, the further development and implementation of an
investment programming system, development of a strategy to enhance/reorder the institutional setting and
organizational framework of financial management and investment programming, and the training of
technical staff to develop or strengthen the financial management units in each public entity and investment
programming units within dependencies and entities responsible for the bulk of public investment.
O      Public Procurement: This sub-component was aimed at establishing a modem, decentralized
system of public procurement to promote competition and support the decentralization of decision-making
processes. Amendments to the Public Procurement Law aimed at providing a basis for institutional changes
were prepared under the PPF. The October 1994 Law of Restructuring of Public Sector Revenue
Mechanisms and Expenditure Reduction stripped the Central Procurement Office of its operative functions
and transformed it into a small normative unit. Key activities to be financed under the PSMTAC included
the development of clear and transparent administrative procedures and the establishment of the
methodologies needed to carry out an adequate registration, organization and control of the operations
within the new legal framework. It also included the development of norms for the selection of technical
staff, training in operational procedures and strengthening of the centralized and decentralized entities
responsible for procurement and bid evaluation, the development and implementation of coordination
mechanisms and communication systems among units responsible for procurement and bid evaluations, and
seminars on the new legal-institutional framework and its impact on operative procedures.
3.4 Revised Components:
In April 1997, the sub-component focusing on ports was replaced by a sub-component focusing on
electricity distribution, which had become an important Government priority. The objectives sought under
this new sub-component were the following:
Cl     Electric Distribution: This sub-component was included to support the Government's strategy to
increase public sector participation in the distribution of electric power in the framework of the Law of
Electricity approved in November 1994. Key actions outlined in the Government's strategy and also
agreed as the PSMSAC conditionality included defining a new electricity tariff structure, implementing the
new structure on a permanent basis, and taking the corresponding steps for transferring distribution to the
private sector.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory. The objectives of the PSMTAC operations were consistent with IDA's assitance objectives,
as articulated in the 1993 CAS as well as the Government's own priorities, as reflected in the PSMP.
Drawing from the IDA's previous economic and sector work, the operations correctly identified the major
issues and systemic distortions that needed to be addressed as part of the reform efforts. The PSMTAC
also reflected a thorough understanding of Honduras' public sector structure, functions, and characteristics,
in large part as a result of the work performed under the PPF. It is worti noting that in the 1999 CAS, the
need to modernize the public sector remained a priority, especially with respect to strengthening economic
and financial management, state modernization, institution building, and governance, attesting to the
continued validity of the objectives of these operations.
The PSMTAC incorporated well-defined implementation plans as well as annual work plans for each
component. The implementation plans avoided up-front bottlenecks and facilitated the work of the PCU and
- 6-



other participating entities during the implementation stage. Similarly, the PSMTAC stressed the
importance of identifying specific outputs, evaluation criteria and performance indicators to measure
progress. It also provided a criteria to improve project administration, especially in terms of procurement,
and emphasized the responsibilities of each of the counterparts in the beneficiary agencies and ensured the
adequate staffing of key positions. Finally, the project design considered the IDA's safeguard policies.
Therefore, major risks were appropriately identified and addressed as part of the design.
It is also important to point out the potential synergies between structural adjustment and technical
assistance operations, as clearly illustrated in the case of the PSMSAC and the PSMTAC operations.
Undoubtedly, the PSMTAC was critical in ensuring the success of the PSMSAC. In an attempt to
capitalize on the window of opportunity provided by a reform-minded administration, the PSMSAC tackled
a wide range of politically difficult reforms, all exhibiting considerable complexity and requiring specific
expertise. Without the technical and financial support provided by the PSMTAC to do the groundwork
required to accomplish these reforms, the effectiveness of the PSMSAC would have been seriously
hampered.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
By providing the necessary financial and technical assistance, the PSMTAC contributed significantly in the
implementation of the Government's Public Sector Modemization Program (PSKIP) and toward the
modernization of Honduras' public sector. As a result of the activities financed by the PSMTAC,
Honduras has taken important steps towards addressing some of the structural weaknesses of its public
sector, including controlling personnel expenditures, improving the organizational structure of the public
administration, and developing and implementing modern management systems. The PSMTAC also
contributed toward enhancing efficiency and private sector participation in the provision of public services.
In particular:
(a)    Private Sector Participation in Public Services: The overall achievement of the objectives in this
component were Satisfactorv. The provision of public services in Honduras improved over the life of the
Project with improvements in the coverage and quality of services and the private sector now playing a
more important role in the provision of services. The most remarkable achievement was the 20-year
concession for the four main airports, which exceeded original expectations. With the assistance of this
project, in the telecommunications sector the Government brought HONDUTEL ("Empresa Hondurena de
Telecomunicaciones") to the point of sale. However, the actual privatization was not completed as the only
bid that was presented tumed out to be lower than the Government's base price. Subsequently, the
Government expressed its commitment to grant a license for mobile telephony in Band B, but this was also
abandoned due to lack of support in Congress. Despite the unsuccessful attempt to complete the sale of
HONDUTEL or the concession of the Band B, the Government has made substantial progress in redefining
the sector consistent with the objectives of the modemization program. In the ports sector, progress was
made toward defining a sector strategy to increase private sector participation, to be continued under the
follow-up EFMTAC operation. Finally, the scope of the reforms in the electricity sector were significantly
broader than initially envisioned. However, implementation is lagging behind, as the new Electricity Law
has been stalled in Congress since December 1999.
A recent Bank study (Report No. 22070; World Bank, 2001) found Honduras' public services weak, with
the Microeconomic Competitiveness Index showing a particularly low performance for ports (59) and
electricity (58). Although airports (50) and telecommunications (40) are performing somewhat better, they
are below other Central American countries. The results stress the importance of continuing with the efforts
-7 -



to increase competition and private sector participation in telecommunications, electricity and ports, as well
as to strengthen the regulatory bodies in all sectors, which remain weak. Although coverage and quality for
telephone and electricity services in Honduras remain poorer than in other countries in the region, the
country has achieved advances in these sectors in the last few years.
(b)    Administrative Reform: Achievement under the administrative reform component has been
Satisfactory. The restructuring of the public administration has been carried out in accordance with the new
Public Administration Law, which resulted in the streamlining of the central administration and six key
secretariats, the elimination of redundant entities, and considerable progress toward decentralization. The
restructuring also called for the elimination of the national planning agency (SECPLAN), which had the
unintended effect of creating a vacuum in terms of planning, monitoring, and normative functions and
possibly hampering the Government's ability to coordinate poverty-reduction actions across the different
sectors. Similarly, it is not clear whether the restructuring has had a positive impact on service delivery
within each secretariat. To correct this deficiency, the IDA's follow-up operation, the EFMTAC, is
currently providing technical assistance to strengthen the planning units within each secretariat and to
develop a system of performance indicators.
The achievement of objectives has been considerably less satisfactory in terms of the reform for the
Honduran Social Security Institute. Although considerable progress has been made toward the development
of alternative reform strategies, no specific actions have been taken.
(c)    Public Management Reforms: The achievement of objectives in this component has been
Satisfactory. Substantial progress has been made in the implementation of a human resource management
system, including a reclassification of all 25,000 posts in the central administration and the restructuring of
the salary structure to match comparable private-sector targets. The salary restructuring has been an
important step toward improving the quality of human resources within the public sector, as competitive
salaries will permit the recruitment and maintenance of qualified staff. A basic human resource database is
now operational, which includes all posts in the payroll as well as their corresponding category and salary
according to the newly implemented classification system. Employment census and audits have also been
conducted in several secretariats, which have permitted the identification of operational anomalies and
structural deficiencies. Some of the identified operational problems include absenteeism, multiple
employments, and the mismatch between nominal and actual functional assignments. Recommendations
have been drafted to address these irregularities within each secretariat. Similarly, structural deficiencies
have been identified, such as the skewed allocation of posts to administrative functions despite the limited
planning and normative functions currently carried out by most secretariats. The work done under
PSMTAC has been key in identifying these deficiencies, bringing them into the open, and developing
strategies to overcome them. It is now up to the Government to take up the challenge of correcting
operational anomalies and assessing staffing needs within each agency. Similarly, the Civil Service
Directorate (DGCS) is still institutionally weak and requires significant reforms.
With PSMTAC support, the Government has also made substantial progress in the development and
implementation of a modem system of financial administration (SIAFI), incorporating the previously
dissociated functions related to the budget, treasury, accounting, and-public credit in to a single operational
framework. The 1999 and 2000 budgets have been executed using the SIAFI, which is now operational in
five secretariats. Overall, the implementation of the SIAFI has contributed to increase transparency in the
management of public resources by having on-line, real-time information on financial transactions within
the central administration integrated into a single database with access to multiple users. It also has the
potential to strengthen policy decision-making by providing timely and dependable information on public
finances. There is still much work to be done before the SIAFI can function as a fully integrated system
- 8-



that interrelates the centril database managed by SEFIN with local databases of the different organisms
within the central administration and decentralized entities. The IDA's current EFMTAC is providing
technical and financial assistance for activities supporting the integration of the SIAFI into the public
administration.
A new legislative framework for public procurement procedures has also been developed as part of the
PSMTAC. This new legislative framework was reflected in the changes to the existing Public Procurement
Law as approved by Congress in September 2001. The new procurement legislative framework is expected
to increase transparency and speed up procurement processes within the public sector. The EFMTAC
continues to provide support to this sub-component, financing the development of a well-defined body of
regulations to standardize public procurement procedures and fine-tune its implementation across
Honduras' public sector.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The outputs of the PSMTAC were closely linked to the conditions for disbursement agreed upon under the
PSMSAC. Some activities supported under the PSMTAC were not part of adjustment operation, such as
ports, social security, and public procurement. Interestingly, progress under these subcomponents was
generally less significant than that of those subcomponents that were part of the PSMSAC, pointing to the
complementarities between structural adjustment and technical assistance operations. The ports
subcomponent was eventually abandoned by the Government and replaced by an electric distribution
initiative. In the case of the social security component, progress was limited to a few studies, as political
will and attention shifted to other reform priority areas, such as financial administration. The specific
outcomes within individual subcomponents include:
-9-



Box I
Increasing Private Sector Participation in Honduras
IBRD and IDB's Policy Recommendations
The PSMSAC supported the Government's plan to drastically reduce the role of the State in the provision of public services by
increasing private sector participation. In order for this plan to be effective, the World Bank and IDB had recommended as part
of their Reforming Public Investment and the Infrastructure Sector report (World Bank, 1995) to pursue reforms in four main
areas: (I) the structure of ownership and competition of publicly-owned enterprises; (2) the regulatory and control processes;
(3) the procedures for tariff settings; and (4) the quality and efficiency in the provision of services, including targeting of the
poor.
1. Structure of ownership and competition: Government's efforts should be aimed at changing the structure of ownership
within publicly provided services and enhancing the degree of competition in the provision of services, removing artificial
barriers to entry in service provision. Further participation of the private sector would, in tum, improve the efficiency of public
services and would generate additional sources of finance. Increased participation is to be sought through transfers of
ownership and vertical and horizontal unbundling of service provision.
2. Regulatory and Control Processes: Equally important was the need for a major reform of the regulatory and control
rocesses in the provision and management of public services. To be effective, regulatory bodies should be designed as free as
possible from the pressures of regulatory capture by interest groups. Regulators should be skilled in sectoral regulation issues,
with appointments long enough to make them independent of any particular administration. Regulatory bodies should be
properly funded to ensure that they could effectively carry out their functions in an independent manner. In order to ensure
fairness, regulations should be applied evenly among all providers.
. Tariff Setting: Tariff setting should be based on a proper cost analysis, which includes all categories of users and what it
actually costs the company to operate the services as well as finance investments for expansion and improvement of services.
Enterprises should be required to meet at least operating costs for small residential consumers of electricity and local telephone
services and their long-run marginal costs for all other services. Cross-subsidies within each sector should be designed in such
a way as not to penalize a particular group that is important for economic growth (such as industries that use large volumes of
electricity and make international calls) or the extremely poor, who generally do not have access to the service and need to be
connected. Revenues from such cross-subsidies should be targeted to the poor, instead of using them to subsidize the middle
class. In general, subsidies should be directed as much as possible toward expanding access rather than subsidizing usage of
services.
4. Quality and Efficiency in the Provision of Services: Regulatory bodies should ensure that the costs of inefficiencies
should not be passed down to the consumers. Tariffs should be based on the production costs of an "efficient" enterprise.
Coverage and quality of services should be an important objective of the reform strategy.
Source: World Bank (1995) Honduras. Reforming Public Investment and the Infrastructure Sectors: A Joint World Bank and 1DB Study. Report No.
14084-HO, Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
(a)     Private Sector Participation in Public Services: Overall, the implementation of this component
was Satisfactory. In the early 1 990s, the provision of infrastructure services in Honduras was characterized
by lack of competition and inefficient regulations, which, in turn, resulted in low coverage, poor quality of
services, distortional tariffs and lack of adequate maintenance. Further, public enterprises were major
contributors to Honduras' chronic public deficits, as high levels of foreign credit were needed to finance
public investments. To reverse this situation, the Government established the Consultative Commission for
Privatization (CCP) to implement an aggressive privatization plan to replace state monopolies with
regulated competitive environments. The Government's privatization plan was guided by policy
recommendations designed by the World Bank and the IDB as part of a public expenditures review
conducted in 1995. These recommendations include major reformns in four main areas: (1) the structure of
ownership and competition of publicly owned enterprises; (2) the regulatory and control processes; (3) the
procedures for tariff settings; and (4) the quality and efficiency of the provision of services (see Box 1).
The PSMTAC provided timely and much needed technical support in the developing of adequate legal
- 10-



frameworks and the execution of all the activities leading to the privatization and concessioning of services.
Specifically:
a. I Telecommunications: The outcomes achieved as part of this subcomponent met expectations.
PSMTAC, financed consulting services to help the Government develop private sector participation in the
telecommunications sector. Specifically, the PSMTAC financed the: (a) marketing of the transaction; (b)
designing investment and quality of service obligations by new operator; (c) inventory and valuation of
assets/liabilities, (d) audit and restatement of financials according to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles, (e) financial projections of the new corporations(s); (f) preparation of the preliminary financial
value of the new company; (g) preparation and negotiation of legal documents of the transaction; and (h)
technical assistance throughout the entire international bidding process.
a.2    Civil Aviation: The outcomes achieved under this sub-component exceeded the original
expectations. Designed to support the objective outlined under the PSMSAC, the PSMTAC provided
technical and financial support aimed at establishing a legal framework conducive to improving efficiency
in civil aviation and airport management by concessioning services to the privet sector. The specific
outcomes achieved as part of this sub-component include: (a) the preparation of rules and regulations of the
Civil Aviation Law and the Law for the Honduran Enterprise of Airports and Air Navigation Services; (b)
assististance in (i) the creation of an autonomous normative regulatory entity, (ii) the creation of the public
enterprise to manage airports and operate auxiliary air navigation services, and (iii) the extension of
concessions to private operators for operating airport services; (c) the preparation of norms for selection
and recruitment of sectoral staff; and (d) the development and carry out a training program for technical
and administrative staff.
a.3    Ports: Outcomes for this sub-component were below expectations. Although alternative strategies
for the participation of private ports operators were developed under the PSMTAC, no specific actions
were taken. After a workshop held in April 1997, this sub-component was abandoned, as the Government's
priorities shifted toward the electricity sector. Work in the ports sector continues under the current
EFMTAC.
a.4    Electricity: The outcomes of this sub-componenent were below expectations. This
sub-component was incorporated as part of the PSMTAC in April 1997 to respond to a shift in the
Government's priorities. The objective was to provide support to the Government in its efforts to
concession electricity distribution. Considerable outcomes resulted from this sub-component, specifically,
the PSMTAC financed studies to support private participation in electricity distribution in the framework
of the 1994 Electricity Law (D158-94), which attempted to reform the electricity sub-sector by enabling the
privatization of new generation and the existing distribution network and separating policy and regulation
functions. However, as approved, the law presented important shortcomings, which impeded the planned
privatization goal. In August 1998, the Energy Cabinet approved the privatization strategy for the
electricity distribution companies. In December 1998, following Hurricane Mitch, an Executive Committee
was formed to direct the privatization process and negotiated a contract with the International Finance
Corporation (IFC) to serve as the investment IDA. Shortly thereafter, however, the Government decided to
depart from the originally envisioned strategy that focused on privatizing the ENEE's distribution system
and to adopt instead a more comprehensive sector reform strategy geared to opening the sector to private
investors and developing a competitive wholesale market. The new strategy reached beyond the
privatization of power distribution envisioned under the PSMSAC to also encompass: (i) opening power
generation to competition; (ii) allowing generators access to transmission lines; and (iii) establishing an
independent entity to serve as the clearinghouse/dispatch center between the generating and distribution
- 1 1 -



companies. The adoption of a more ambitious strategy required the subsequent preparation and passage of
a new Framework Law for the Electricity Sector. A bill of law was submitted to Congress in December
1999. Since then, 53 of the 152 articles have been approved, but subsequent debates in Congress have
stalled as support for the privatization of ENEE's distribution activities has waned during the pre-electoral
period. The Government has reiterated its commitment to increasing private sector participation in the
electricity sector and building consensus with the legislature and civil society. It has also agreed to conduct
a comprehensive study aimed at developing a coherent and detailed sector strategy before adopting the new
law.
(b)    Administrative Reform: The implementation of this component was Satisfactory. The
institutional structure of the Honduran public sector was characterized by a multitude of entities with
sometimes unclear, obsolete, or duplicate functions. As a result, there was considerable functional
fragmentation, inefficiency, and a high fiscal burden. The PSMSAC and PSMTAC operations were aimed
at rationalizing the size of the public sector, streamlining its activities, and improving efficiency in the
delivery of public goods and services. In this regard, the PSMTAC: (a) supported the preparation and
implementation of institutional restructuring plans in priority/selected entities as stated in the
Administrative Reform of the Government's PSMSAC; (b) strengthened selected entities' capacity to
design and implement policy; and (c) assisted the Government in its efforts to develop an adequate and
consistent civil service legal framework. In particular, the PSMTAC provided technical assistance in the:
b.1    Institutional Restructuring: Outcomes in this sub-component met expectations, specifically in
the:
Formulation of rationalization strategiesfor targeted entities. The PSMTAC financed consulting
services to help the Government to formulate institutional restructuring plans in entities such as the
Secretariats of Public Education, Health, Communications/ Public Works and Transportation, Natural
Resources, Economics and Finance, Planning, and in Social Services (JNBS/PANI).
Implementation of rationalization efforts. The PSMTAC financed consulting services, equipment and
training to assist the entities implement their reforms; particular emphasis was given to the Secretariats of
Education, Health, Conmmunication, Public Works and Transport, Natural Resources, and the Central
Secretariats of economics and finance, and to the National Board for Social Welfare/National Children's
Organization (JNBS/PANI), according to the action plans prepared by the Government for the PSMSAC.
Strengthening of the technical capacity of the entities to design and implementpriorityprograms. The
PSMTAC financed consulting services to help the entities design standard procedures and identify priority
areas, and provide specialized training to selected staff.
Development of a consistent legalframework. The PSMTAC financed consulting services to update
existing legal instruments such as reforms to the General Public Administration Law (GPAL).
b.2    Social Security Institute and Social Security System: Outcomes in this sub-component were
below expectations. Despite an energetic start during the first year, which included the preparation of three
proposals for reforming the social security, no action has been taken. In view of the immediacy of a change
in government, the Reina administration (1994-98) decided to give the incoming Flores administration
(1998-02) the opportunity to determine the course of action. The devastation and consequent change in the
Govemment's focus toward emergency management and reconstruction efforts were some of the factors
contributing to the lack of Government action in this area. IDA brought attention to this issue in early
2000, when an expert on social security joined a supervision mission and revisited the reform agenda. Still,
- 12 -



no actions have been taken, although a reform is urgently needed to save the system from collapsing. In
June 2001, the Honduran President approved a law "Ley de Seguridad Social" (Decree 80-001), which
contained important reforms for social security and for the strengthening and modemization of IHSS. The
reforms included the separation of accounting and financial functions of the EM and IVM, the obligation to
conduct actuary studies prior to a decision regarding the creation of special regimes or "regimens
especiales", and the release of ceilings for maximum remunerations subject to quotation, which existed
since the creation of the IHSS. The alternative reform strategies developed under the PSMTAC will be
useful inputs for future reform efforts.
(c)    Public Management Reforms: The outcomes achieved under this component are Satisfactory.
Substantial progress has been made towards the development of a Human Resource Management System
(SIARH), a system for financial management and investment programming (SIAFI), and a system of public
procurement. Specifically:
c.1    Human Resources Management: Honduras's public sector suffered from serious overstaffing,
inadequate systems of incentives, and the lack of effective management. Overstaffing was particularly
serious at the lower end of the salary scale, with large numbers of low-skilled personnel with high turnover.
At the same time, real wages had been declining steadily, affecting especially highly-skilled staff, thus
hampering the Government's ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Incentives were largely
inadequate, with post classification schemes that did not adequately take into account skills, level of
responsibility or performance. Job evaluation, career development, and training programs were almost
nonexistent. In turn, the lack of incentives and monitoring together with the politicization of hiring resulted
in low morale, high absenteeism, and poor performance. Management of human resources was almost
nonexistent as the result of the institutional weakness of the Civil Service Directorate (DGSC) and the lack
of employment data:
With the support provided by the PSMTAC, the Government has carried out many important steps to
improve government-wide personnel management, including a reclassification of posts, an initial reform of
the civil service pay structure, and the drafting of a new civil service law. The activities financed under the
PSMTAC included the systematic monitoring of payrolls of all public sector employment and salary
regimes of the Executive, the establishment of a permanent system for employment censuses and payroll
audits and the implementation of a comprehensive human resource management and payroll system, the
development of a strategy for improving the civil service regime at the normative, institutional and
operational levels. It also financed the development of a new post classification and grading system, salary
structure and incentives plan for the civil service, the design of a modem human resource policy, including
recruitment and selection criteria, and the drafting of necessary amendments to the civil service law.
Finally, there was significant emphasis on capacity building, including institutional strengthening of DGSC
and the central government Secretariats in human resource management, technical assistance to the
Secretariat of Education to assess teacher requirements, and technical assistance to the Secretariat of
Health in evaluating human resource supply, training, development, deployment and performance in the
health sector. Some of the key outcomes that resulted from the activities financed under this sub-component
include:
o      Strengthening of the DGSC capacity to monitor employment. An employment census has been
carried out in the Secretariat of Health and post audits aimed at verifying the accuracy of recorded
positions were carried out in the Secretariats of Finance, Education, Agriculture, Natural Resources,
Industry and Commerce, "Gobernaci6n," Cultural Affairs, and Labor. Although monitoring is still weak
for the decentralized institutions, the Government continues to improve the timeliness and completeness of
the data. To date, there is no effective mechanism to transform the one-time checks into a permanent
- 13 -



updating and correcting of staff lists. It is hoped that once the system for human resources management is
operational, a pernanent system of staff audits will be in place and linked to such a system. Under the
EFMTAC, these efforts will continue to be sponsored.
O      The consultancy -for the design and implementation of a Human Resource Management System
(SIARH) for the Central Government was finalized in 1999. This study set forth various elements,
including a proposal for the organizational restructuring of the DGSC, a post classification system and
implementation plan, a market analysis of national salary rates, a performance evaluation system, and a
Human Resources management system development plan.
o      The implementation of the post classification. By August 30, 2000, the 25,000 posts within the
Central Government had been reclassified according to the post classification system into four
groups-administrative, technical, management, and directors-and fifteen individual categories. This
process was a major undertaking, as each post had to be assessed in terms of its functions, required skills,
and responsibilities. In September 2000, the post classification system was approved via Legislative Decree
139-2000. In April 2001, a new Executive Decree (PCM 003-01) was passed mandating that, beginning in
2002, salary increases be based on performance evaluations. It also mandates that all Secretariats adopt
measures to rationalize employment, eliminate duplications, and generate all due severance payments.
o      The implementation of the new salary structure. The objective of the salary rationalization program
(nivelaci6n salarial) was to rectify the most notable cases of underpayment by bringing employees'
salaries in line with the newly developed salary structure and with comparable market-based targets. The
adjustment process has been undertaken under the direction of the Salary Committee, a group constituted
by the Vice Minister of the Secretariat of Finance, the Budget Director, the Director of Civil Service, and
the Commission for State Modernization. The group has been the champion of this process, which has
required considerable collective bargaining with the six labor unions. It has also required the handling of
numerous individual complaints, as employees whose salaries were determined to be higher than they
should be under the new salary scale were given only nominal salary increases. This process was
undertaken in three successive stages to ease its budgetary impact, with the last one completed in October
2001. As a result of this process, public-sector jobs will be now more attractive to qualified applicants.
o      Due to an agreement with SEFIN, the DGSC gained access to payroll data, and subsequently
verified them against its own personnel files. This constituted the basis of the new human resources
database that is currently operating in both institutions, which consists of updated central government
employment figures that are crosschecked for consistency with SEFIN's payroll database on a monthly
basis. Based on the data, the DGSC and General Directorate of Budget generate monthly reports on
employment figures within the central government, thus permitting timely and adequate monitoring on
employment levels. The conceptual design for turning the database into the full-fledged human resource
management tool operative within the different secretariats and linked with SIAFI is being developed. The
software development for the various modules of the system and a set of internal control mechanisms is
being financed under the current EFMTAC.
o      The SEP continues to improve its human resource information system for the teachers' regime.
There are also action plans to install a new human resources information system that will be capable of
establishing an Internet linkage between the SEP central office and the regional directorates. It is expected
that the related bidding process will be completed in the second half of 2002, and that the payroll and
budget modules will be fully functional by the enf of 2002. The upgraded system will be linked to the
SIARH and to the integrated financial management system, which is now the main tool for budget
programming.
- 14 -



o      Finally, the Government submited a draft of a new Civil Service Law to Congress in December
2001 by which the responsibility for the management of human resources would be assigned to an entity
with higher rank than the DGSC. Although this sub-component included the institutional strengthening of
the DGSC, no significant progress was made. The DGSC, which remains institutionally and technically
weak as well as very politically volatile, is not up to the challenge of managing human resources for
Honduras' public administration.
c.2    Financial Management and Public Investment Programming: Honduras' financial management
and investment programming functions were characterized by an excessive centralization, particularly in
the case of budget functions, the lack of an adequate institutional framework, the lack of an integrated
financial management and investment programming system, and poor expenditure monitoring and control.
With the support of the PMSTAC, the Government engaged a consulting firm to develop and initiate the
implementation of a Financial Management System (SIAFI) that will allow the decentralized expenditure
execution, provide unified and timely information, and facilitate control in the financial management of
public expenditures. Some of the outcomes achieved within the PSMTAC include:
o      The elimination of duplications in the budget function, simplifying procedures, and producing more
timely and accurate information for use in the decision-making process. In 1999, the SLAFI became
operational for the preparation and execution of the budget. Implementation of the related computer
systems in the central government began with the installation of SIAFI throughout five pilot Secretariats
(Finance, Health, Education, Government and Justice, and Industry and Commerce) where the system is
now operational. The implementation of SEFIN in these secretariats has resulted in the decentralization of
the budget execution by 51 percent in terms of the number of transactions and 66 percent in terms of the
amount of all the transactions done by the central administration. Similarly, it is estimated that the Health
Secretariat was responsible for executing 72 percent of its budget during 1999 and 98 percent during the
year 2000.
o      With the implementation of the SIAFI, the timetables for processing payments have decreased
considerably. For instance, the processing time of budgetary transactions in SEFIN went from an original
56 days to 6 days, while the average procurement time in the Health Secretariat has been reduced from
three months to 15 days.
o      Phase III of SIAFI was contracted in February 2001 under the EFMTAC. The objective of this
phase is to complete SIAFI coverage to all Secretariats and to test the system in one decentralized
institution. Implementation of SIAFI's current phase includes the development of performance indicators
for budget execution and the strengthening of the UPEGs and Administrative Units in participating
Secretariats. SEFIN's capacity to design and analyze policies and programs related to public investment
will continue to be strengthened under the EFMTAC.
o      With respect to investment capabilities, SEFIN is currently developing a system for managing the
public investment process more efficiently. This Integrated Public Sector Investment System (SISPU)
consists of a comprehensive database of ongoing and planned investment projects in the entire public sector
(including decentralized entities and public enterprises, which account for a large portion of public
investments). The system will be linked to other government financial management systems: the SIAFI, the
evaluation system SINEG, and sector-specific management information systems such as the Health
Secretariat's SIGADE. With the introduction of SISPU, the Government plans to have SEFNs Public
Investment Department screen all investment projects for their technical and financial viability.
- 15 -



o      With the assistance of the PSMTAC, a new Financial Management Law has been presented to
Congress. Passage of the proposed law will strengthen the implementation of the system's coverage
throughout the public sector, including the legislative and judicial branches, state entities established via
special decrees, and decentralized institutions financed at least partially with public funds.
o      The full implementation of SLAFI, as well as its integration with other management systems,
including the SIARH and the SISPU requires further development, which is pursued under the ongoing
EFMTAC project. The full integration of all management systems is key to avoiding the duplication of
bureaucratic procedures and increasing transparency.
c.3    Public Procurement: Excessive centralization in procuring, distributing, and controlling public
supplies had made the system inefficient and ineffective. The inadequate legal framework and cumbersome
procedures had discouraged competition and limited the authority of the executing units in purchasing
supplies. With the support of the PSMTAC, a decentralized system of public procurement has been
designed and is being implemented. The specific activities financed under the PSMTAC include the
development of clear and transparent administrative procedures and establishment of the methodologies
needed to carry out an adequate register, organization and control of the operations within the new legal
framework, the development of norms for the selection of technical staff, training on operational procedures
and strengthening of the centralized and decentralized entities responsible for procurement and bid
evaluation, the development and implementation of coordination mechanisms and communication systems
among units responsible for procurement and bid evaluations, and seminars on the legal-institutional
framework and its incidence on operative procedures. Some of the key outcomes resulting from the
activities financed under this sub-component include:
o      All operative functions were removed from the Central Procurement Office (CPO), and the
responsibility for procurement was transferred to the executing entities. The CPO was transformed into a
small normative office.
o      The existing Public Procurement Law was amended in September 2001 to provide a sound legal
framework for new procurement procedures (Law D.L. 74-2001, published in La Gaceta on September 17,
2001).
The Presidential Commission for the Modernization of the State (CPME) has played a key role in raising
awareness of the importance of a sound procurement system and law, conducting seminars for stakeholders
both within the public and private sectors. These outreach activities have facilitated the process of
amendment in Congress. The Government has given high visibility to this process, which was finalized with
the President signing the new law into effect in a public ceremony. The CPME will continue to conduct
seminars aimed at educating different public officials, such as city mayors, on the new procurement
procedures. Ultimately, the new procurement system should bring about economies of scale and enhance
transparency in public procurement procedures.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
N/A
- 16 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The PSMTAC closed on June 30, 2000 as originally scheduled. This is particularly noteworthy when
taking into consideration a change in administration that took place in early 1998, followed by the
devastation brought by Hurricane Mitch, which hit later in October of that year. Other factors, such as
government bureaucracy, also presented additional challenges during implementation. Despite these
challenges, most activities were carried out within acceptable timeframes and the project was able to close
on schedule.
The change in administrations-from the Reina administration (1994-1998) to the Flores administration
(1998-2002)--slowed overall project implementation, as the departing administration delayed the
implementation of some activities waiting for the new authorities. Fortunately, there was considerable
continuity between the two administrations in terms of key decision makers, which eased the transition.
However, the change in administration negatively impacted some of the project components, particularly in
relation to social security and electricity sectors, as some of the priorities shifted. However, the most
important challenge during the implementation of the PSMTAC in 1998 was Hurricane Mitch, which
brought destruction, particularly to Honduras and Nicaragua (see Box 1). Similarly, flooding in the
Ministries of Finance and Education resulted in significant damage of physical facilities and information
systems, as well as the loss of information, which complicated the timely implementation of project
activities.
The privatization of HONDUTEL was affected largely by factors beyond the Government's control,
underscoring the impact of international market conditions on the potential outcome of sound privatization
processes. By the time HONDUTEL was offered for sale in 1999, market conditions for the
telecommunications sector had changed substantially from those at the beginning of the decade. The
optimism that had fueled the first wave of privatizations had already waned and the stock prices of other
telecommunications companies in the region had fallen sharply. Conversely, governments' expectations in
terms of proceeds from the sale of public telecommunications companies did not adapt accordingly,
reflecting instead the higher prices of the previous years. Other privatization processes that were taking
place simultaneously in the region, including Nicaragua and Colombia, also failed for similar reasons.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The timely completion of the PSMTAC is particularly remarkable given the Government's inherently slow
processes. Some of the contributing factors include the complexity of the reformns, scarce availability of
professional staff with sound technical capacity to tackle such level of complexity, and the lack of
coordination between powers. As mentioned above, the operation involved too many components and,
despite the Government's political will, it proved very challenging to bring about change simultaneously in
so many fronts. Similarly, the scarcity of highly-qualified human resources within the different entities of
the public sector posed additional challenges to the implementation of the reforms. Ensuring adequate
staffing of key positions within the participating entities together with an aggressive training strategy
helped to counteract this weakness. However, some key entities, such as the Directorate for Civil Service
(DGSC), which houses the human resources management system, and the Ministry of Natural and
Environmental Resources, which houses the electric company, presented particularly difficult challenges in
this regard. These entities not only lack adequate technical and institutional capacity but are also subject to
strong political pressures, making more difficult the implementation of the reforms.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementing agencies-i.e., the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) and the Consultative Commission
- 17 -



for Privatization (CCP), both within the Presidential Commission for the Reform of the State (CPME) have
managed all the factors under their control satisfactorily, responding adequately to the requirements and
complexity of the project. The professionalism of the coordinators and staff of both the PCU and the CCP
greatly contributed to the success of the project. They conformed their actions to the needs of the project
and played active and important roles in the achievement of the project objectives and related activities.
Solid knowledge of issues addressed by the project was developed within these units. Staffing levels were
low, which contributed to a more active involvement on the part of other participating government entities.
Both the PCU and the CCP effectively coordinated efforts with other government entities as well as with
Honduras' private sector and foreign bidders. The technical assistance provided by the PSMTAC was used
well to support the different reforms supported under the PSMSAC.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The PSMTAC financed consultant services, equipment and training. Total costs for the technical assistance
program, which were estimated at US$16.6 million, amounted to US$11.7 million. The IDA Credit
financed US$8.75 million, and the IDB loan financed another US$2.81 million. The Goverrment
contribution was US$1.45 million, primarily to finance counterpart staff, training support costs, office
space, supplies, secretarial services, and vehicle operation. See detailed costs in Annex 6.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall, the outcomes achieved under the PSMTAC are likely to be sustained, although the degree of
sustainability varies across the different components. A good indicator of the sustainability of the overall
reform program in general and of the project outcomes in particular is that both presidential candidates in
last year's elections had stated their support and their intentions to continue with the reform program. In
fact, based on his electoral platform, the newly elected president from the opposition party is expected to
even bring new momentum to the reform process that has been under implementation under the current and
previous administrations. Also, the sustainability of the reforms is greatly enhanced by the new operation,
the EFMTAC, whose main objective is, in fact, ensuring the IDA's support for the continuation and
extension of the reforms supported by the PSMSAC and the PSMTAC. As noted above, the sustainability
of the reforms varies across individual sub-components, as follows:
- 18 -



Box 2
Effects of Hurricane Mitch
In late 1998, Hurricane Mitch and the subsequent flooding and landslides inflicted significant damage on Central
America, resulting in a large loss of human life and severe infrastructure destruction. The human and economic
oll was heaviest in Honduras and Nicaragua and lighter, though still significant, in El Salvador and Guatemala.
In Honduras, where Mitch is considered the worst natural disaster to have affected the country in recent years,
more than 13,500 people died and about 2.5 million (out of a total of 6 million) were displaced or left homeless.
Damage to crops (including bananas, a major export in Honduras) and infrastructure was extensive, and a large
proportion of the country's roads, bridges and water systems was destroyed or seriously impaired. Overall direct
and indirect damages are estimated at $5 billion (95 percent of Honduras' 1998 GDP).
In Nicaragua, about 3,000 people died and about 870,000 (out of a total population of 4.8 million) were displaced.
The impact on agriculture (basic grains, bananas, and sugar) and infrastructure was substantial, with total direct
and indirect damages estimated at $1.2 billion (57 percent of Nicaragua?s 1998 GPD).
The accompanying charts present pre-Mitch projections and post-Mitch estimates of real GDP growth, inflation,
external current account, and fiscal balance for Honduras in 1998 and 1999. Because of less extensive damage
that Mitch inflicted on Nicaragua, its economic recovery started in 1999, sooner than in Honduras, where a return
to positive real GDP growth was expected in 2000. These expectations were confirmed, as Honduras' real GDP
grew by 4.8 percent in 2000 led by the recovery in agriculture, following a decline of 1.9 percent in 1999.
Estimated effects of Hurricane Mitch
On Honduras and Nicaragua
Real GDP growth                         Consumer price Inflation, end of year
(percent)                                     (percent)
Honduras            Nicaragua       20       Honduras              Nicaragua
5                                              45.
2                                              10
0                    of G
-15
-2
-3                                              0
1998      1999       1998       199919899                           las99
Current account                         Nonfinancial public sector balance
(percent of GDP)                              (percent of GOP)
0-      Honduras             Nicaragua               Honduras               Nicaragua
.5               At              Ari
-10                                         19 -
-20                           4               .4
-25
-30                                            -
i98  1999      1998       1999          1998        1999     i998        1999
P re-Mitch                            Post-Mitch       Source: IMF staff estimates
Source: "Central America- Adjustment and Reformns in the 1990s" by Leonardo Cardemil, Juan Carlos Di Tata, and Florencia
-19 -



Frantischek, in Finance and Development, March 2000, pp. 34-37.
Private Sector Participation: In the private-sector participation component, the sustainability of the
airport master concession is, of course, the most likely of all the actions implemented as part of this
component. The concessionaire has already overcome its first test, when a controversy about newly
established freight charges was successfully resolved among the parties involved. As discussed below, no
significant progress was achieved with regard to ports, except for some studies that are now being used in
the framework of the EFMTAC. Progress in the telecommunications and electricity sectors can easily be
undone, as no contract has been awarded. Given the relatively small progress made in the electricity sector
and the strong interest groups against the implementation of structural reforms in this sector, sustainability
is more uncertain for this sub-component. The strategy adopted by the CCP has been to continue to work
on the privatization of HONDUTEL and the distribution of electricity, with the objective of having a
well-defined strategy and a finely tuned legal framework. Eventually, the medium and long-term
sustainability of the reforms under this component, together with ensuring the effectiveness of private
providers, will depend on the technical soundness and political independence of the regulatory bodies,
which is not yet guaranteed under the current institutional arrangements. The IDA provides continuing
technical assistance for this component under the EFMTAC.
Admiinistrative Reform: The institutional restructuring implemented under this component is likely to be
sustained over time, as it reflects the provision of the new Public Administration Law (DL No. 218-96)
passed by Congress in December 1996. The follow-up operation, the EFMTAC, is currently providing
technical assistance to strengthen the planning units within each secretariat and to assist them in the
development of a system of performance indicators, which will consolidate even further the new
institutional structure of the public administration. The reform of the social security system is still pending
and it will require full commitment from new administration.
Public Management: Progress made in the implementation of systems to improve the management of
human resources, financial administration, and public procurement is likely to be sustained. The new post
classification system developed as part of the human resources management sub-component has been
adopted through legislative action (DL 139-00). However, it is key to ensure by law that hiring and
promotion practices are based on qualification and merit to avoid patronage and to enhance the public
sector's ability to formulate and implement sound public policies. Similarly, there is still an urgent need to
develop a comprehensive strategy toward public employment, as the fiscal burden from wages and salaries
is currently on an unsustainable path despite the reductions in public employment achieved so far. The cap
on overall salaries expenditures established by executive decree PCM No. 003-01 refers only to the 2002
budget. Further adjustment of the wage bill seems unavoidable and should include a review of the
Estatutos especially those of teachers and doctors. The Government has crafted a Civil Administration
Law, which is being disseminated through workshops targeting various audiences, including the public and
private sectors, as well as the civil society at large, to build awareness of the need to tackle this challenge
and support for the proposed legislative framework.
In terms of the system for financial management and investment programming, its sustainability is highly
likely. Since 1999, annual budgets have been prepared and implemented under the new systems, and the old
systems have been abandoned. The system continues to be consolidated under the ongoing EFMTAC,
which has been successful in incorporating additional key govenmment entities, such as the Office of the
Comptroller. The passage of the supporting Financial Administration Law, which has been developed
under the PSMTAC and will be presented to Congress, will ensure the sustainability of the reforms over
the medium and long terms. Finally, Congress approved the new procurement system in September 2001
and the IDA will provide continuing support to the implementation of the system through its EFMTAC.
- 20 -



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N/A
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
IDA's performance in assisting the Borrower in identifying, preparing and appraising the operation was
satisfactory. IDA, together with IDB, conducted extensive sector work that provided the foundations for an
in-depth knowledge of Honduras' public sector and the correct identification of the main challenges it
faced. Through a PPF, IDA's staff helped the Government to identify and prepare an operation that was
fully consistent with both the Borrower's interests and IDA's Country Assistance Strategy. The quantity,
quality, and mix of IDA staff involved in project preparation were appropriate and the relations developed
with the Borrower have proved to be longstanding.
7.2 Supervision:
IDA's supervision was highly satisfactory. The project was supervised regularly and ratings were
adequately reported. IDA's ability to maintain a close working relationship with the Borrower during the
implementation of the program was praised during the interviews conducted during the ICR mission. This
is a particularly noteworthy accomplishment, given that the complexity of the operation required a heavy
dependence on external consultants and substantial coordination among the different implementation units
and with other donors.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
IDA's overall performance was satisfactory. IDA provided full support to the Borrower from the early
stages of the operation and exhibited great flexibility in extending the operation in response to the
Borrower's needs and the impact of unexpected events, such as the devastation brought by Hurricane
Mitch. In addition to its role in project preparation and supervision, Bank staff carried out activities, such
as training in procurement and facilitating communication between different authorities, that played an
important role in the satisfactory completion of the project.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation was Satisfactorv. The Borrower was fully committed to
the objectives of the PSMTAC, which reflected its own Public Sector Reform Program. The Borrower
participated in the preparation of the operation in a capable and timely manner. Furthermore, the
Government made good use of the resources provided under the PPF by carrying out preliminary activities
in a timely manner.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance was satisfactory. The two administrations-Reina and
Flores-showed strong commitment to the reform program and assigned top-notch managers to coordinate
the implementation of the operation. Throughout the implementation of the operation, the Government's
main actions have been consistent with the principles outlined in the Letter of Development Policy
presented during negotiations in connection with the PSMSAC. Top government officials have
demonstrated a strong interest in the implementation of the PSMTAC. It is worth noting the hands-on
approach taken by the Minister of Finance in the implementation of the sub-components under the
Ministry's influence, including the attempted privatization of HONDUTEL and the implementation of the
- 21 -



system of financial administration. Finally, the Government has provided adequate support to the PCU and
the CCP over the life of the project.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
As mentioned above, the performance of the PCU and the CCP greatly contributed toward the successful
completion of the project. Throughout the implementation stage, the implementing agencies have performed
their functions satisfactorily, elaborating detailed progress reports in a timely manner and effectively
coordinating the implementation efforts among the different entities. It is worth mentioning the very active
role of CCP in the concessioning of airports, which included organizing a seminar to educate key
decision-makers on the different strategies for concessioning early on in the process and conducting road
tours to identify, get input from, and foster the interest of potential investors. The process of privatizing
HONDUTEL and the concessioning of the airports were also particularly noteworthy in terms of their
transparency. Both implementing units were constituted by a top-notch group of professionals, who
combined high technical skills with strong commitment toward the reformn process.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory for the reasons outlined above.
8. Lessons Learned
There are a number of lessons that can be learned from this operation, including:
o      Government commitment is key in ensuring the success of the program. The PSMTAC and
PSMSAC effectively reflected the Borrower's own priorities, which was key in ensuring the continuous
support of the Government, even in the face of great challenges such as the devastation brought by
Hurricane Mitch.
o      The use of multiple instruments, including both lending and non-lending ones, to support
Bank interventions maximizes the Bank's effectiveness. In the case of the PSMTAC and the PSMSAC,
they were built on the foundations of exhaustive sector work, which provided a thorough diagnosis of the
key challenges facing Honduras' public sector. Similarly, having a PPF facilitated project preparation and
contributed greatly to the project's quality at entry.
o      There are important complementarities between structural adjustment and technical assistace
operations. The effectiveness of the PSMSAC was greatly enhanced by having a companion technical
assistance loan, which focused on laying the groundwork for the policy actions pursued under the
PSMSAC. Conversely, those sub-components that were not included in the adjustment operation received
significantly less attention on the part of the Government, stressing the importance of the incentives offered
by structural adjustment operations. Given the complexity of the project, it may have been better to include
only those sub-components directly related to the PSMTAC.
o      Transparency is a critical element of the privatization and concessioning processes. Both the
concessioning of the airports and the unsuccessful privatization of HONDUTEL were characterized by the
transparency of the processes. In the case of the airports, top-level Government officials evaluated the
proposals and awarded the concession during a live transmission over radio and TV, leaving no room for
speculation about process or results. The same was true in the case of HONDUTEL, which was even more
important given that the privatization was not completed.
o      It is important not to underestimate the complexity of legal frameworks. In the case of the
- 22 -



PSMTAC, obtaining conjtessional approval of broad legal frameworks for sector reform proved to be
considerably challenging and introduced significant delays in some sub-components.
oi    International market conditions can affect the outcome of sound privatization processes.
HONDUTEL was brought to the point of sale but the attempt to privatize it was unsuccessful due to
market conditions. That is, market conditions affect the outcome of the reform program, and the process
should be kept as short as possible.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Resumen
En 1992, el Gobierno de Honduras como complemento a las reformas econ6micas iniciadas en 1990
decidi6 emprender un programa de modemizaci6n del sector puiblico. Esta decisi6n fue apoyada por el
Banco Mundial y el Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo, que oportunamente se convirti6 en las
operaciones de credito IDA-2814-HO e IDA-2816-HO y BID-967/SF-HO y BID-968/SF-HO.
Los objetivos de las operaciones (apoyo a la formulaci6n de politicas que respondan a las reformas
deseadas y apoyo a la ejecuci6n de las politicas y acciones) mantuvieron congruencia con los objetivos
del programa del Gobierno (corregir algunas debilidades estructurales que afectan el desempefno fiscal,
incrementar la transparencia en la gesti6n puiblica y elevar la eficiencia en el suministro de los servicios
puTblicos).
Los objetivos generales del Programa se plasmaron en objetivos especificos claramente definidos,
aunque involucraron un nnmero posiblemente muy amplio de componentes y subcomponentes que
pusieron a prueba una debil capacidad institucional de ejecuci6n del Gobierno.
Asimismo, un programa multisectorial con amplia participaci6n de agentes tanto a nivel de decisi6n de
politicas como de ejecuci6n de acciones especificas present6 problemas de coordinaci6n y de
convencimiento. La presencia de una unidad coordinadora con respaldo pleno represent6 una ventaja
para sobrevenir algunos de los problemas que se presentaron. Sin embargo, este beneficio se vio
contrarrestado por la alta rotaci6n de responsables en los distintos niveles.
Aunque los objetivos globales se mantuvieron, factores ex6genos indujeron a cambios de prioridad o
ritmo de ejecuci6n de acciones, pero siempre enmarcados en la concepci6n original del Programa.
En varios de los componentes del programa se llenaron las expectativas, en otros se ha avanzado lo
suficiente como para asegurar continuidad en las reformas, mientras que en otros el nivel de
comprensi6n de la situaci6n es mayor contandose con instrumentos identificados para proceder a
concretar reformas.
Los componentes
A continuaci6n se presenta una breve apreciaci6n sobre el estado de los principales componentes del
programa.
Servicios Publicos
Los esfuerzos de reforma de los servicios piublicos en Honduras antes de las operaciones en referencia
- 23 -



fueron aislados, descoordinados, con escasos recursos financieros y tecnicos. Lo anterior dio lugar a
resultados muy pobres o nulos.
Las operaciones permitieron contar con una capacidad institucional fortalecida a traves de la Secretaria
Tecnica de la Comisi6n Consultiva de Privatizaci6n (STCCP), la cual se convirti6 en la unidad
ejecutora del componente, guardando coordinaci6n con la unidad ejecutora del programa. La STCCP
permiti6 brindar mejor asesoria en procesos de privatizaci6n, capitalizaci6n y concesi6n de los servicios
piiblicos. Ademas, permiti6 que se pudiera contratar personal local con altos niveles de calificaci6n y
consultores intemacionales a traves de procesos de licitaci6n piiblica internacional transparentes y
competitivos. Con estos recursos se logr6 mejor coordinaci6n y amplitud de dialogo con bases s6lidas de
informaci6n.
Se considera que el diseiio del componente fue adecuado ya que ademas de concebirse una transferencia
efectiva de la provisi6n de servicios puiblicos al sector privado, tambien se establecieron los marcos
legales que establen una clara definici6n de funciones de formulaci6n de politicas, regulaci6n y
operaci6n. Al cierre de las operaciones, los sectores de telecomunicaciones y aeropuertos han avanzado
en sus varios aspectos; en cuanto a la energia electrica la tarea estA avanzada en aspectos de regulaci6n
y participaci6n del sector privado; mientras que en puertos las acciones se han limitado a elevar la
eficiencia y a permitir cierta participaci6n del sector privado.
Los Bancos en todo este proceso han brindado recursos financieros y de asistencia tecnica en forma
expedita, oportuna y de sumo valor.
En este proceso de profundas reformas y experiencias que por diversas razones no siempre han
alcanzado los objetivos deseados es importante enfatizar el dialogo continuo y abierto con legisladores y
la sociedad civil, ademas de asegurar el flujo de informaci6n. Asimismo, el fortalecimiento de los
reguladores ayudara a establecer mercados competitivos y ganar la confianza de los usuarios a servicios
suministrados por el sector privado.
Recursos Humanos
Al cierre de las operaciones, el Programa en su componente de recursos humanos muestra avances en
todos los objetivos establecidos, aunque el grado de cumplimiento varia: en algunos casos se logr6 un
cumplimiento del 100 por ciento de la meta, y en otros el 6xito fue de menor medida. Se logr6 reducir el
numero de empleados redundantes y se introdujeron varias reformas y nuevos procedimientos en la
gesti6n del recurso humano. Aunque no fue posible la implementaci6n del sistema completo, se logr6
implantar los m6dulos basicos de reclasificaci6n de puestos en el Servicio Civil, y una nueva politica de
salarios. Con lo anterior, se logr6 descomprimir significativamente los salarios de los niveles tecnicos.
La puesta en marcha de sistemas de informaci6n es el objetivo que muestra un indice de ejecuci6n mas
bajo, esto debido a que su introducci6n requeria de avances previos en otras areas, especialmente de la
aplicaci6n de la totalidad del sistema de gesti6n de recursos humanos.
La complementariedad de acciones y simultaneidad de reformas contribuyeron a viabilizar la ejecuci6n
del componente. No obstante, el componente fue concebido de manera muy amplia, fijando metas
ambiciosas cuyo logro requeria de la conjugaci6n de varios factores y de condiciones extemas al
proyecto.
La alta rotaci6n en los responsables del componente influy6 negativamente en los avances, conllevando
continuos ajustes y retrasos en la forma de organizar y hacer operativa las acciones necesarias. Sin
- 24 -



embargo, esto fue compensado con la conformaci6n del Comite de Salarios (integrado por la Secretaria
de Finanzas, la Comisi6n de Modernizaci6n del Estado y la Direcci6n de Servicio Civil) que jug6 un
papel determninante en la coordinaci6n e implementaci6n de la politica de salarios y la reclasificaci6n de
los puestos.
Durante las etapas de preparaci6n y ejecuci6n del proyecto, los Bancos trabajaron muy estrechamente
con la unidad ejecutora en la organizaci6n y operacionalizaci6n de los planes de acci6n. Los tramites
administrativos fueron manejados en forma agil y oportuna. El asesoramiento en cuestiones
administrativas y tecnicas fue acertado y se mantuvo un dialogo abierto con la unidad ejecutora y las
demAs instituciones participantes. Esta actuaci6n contribuy6 positivamente en la ejecuci6n del proyecto
de conformidad con la programaci6n y el calendario establecido.
Si bien el diseno del proyecto debe ser ambicioso para que constituya un reto, debe ser tambien lo
suficientemente realista para no establecer metas cuya consecuci6n requiera de factores fuera del Ambito
del mismo. El grado de exito en la implementaci6n parece estar relacionado con el grado de focalizaci6n
de las acciones.
Reestructuracieln Institucional
En cuanto a los objetivos de la reestructuraci6n institucional se cumplieron todas las metas, quedando
avanzadas el mejoramiento de calidad de los cuidados de la salud y la conversi6n definitiva del PAN] en
Empresa Nacional de Loteria. En cuanto al fortalecimiento de las instituciones a traves de planes de
reestructuraci6n, los esfuerzos se vieron debilitados por lo numeroso de ellos y careciendo en ciertos
casos del apoderamiento de los beneficiarios.
Entre los logros que se pueden contar esta la mejor la asignaci6n presupuestaria para la Educaci6n
Basica; creaci6n de las Direcciones Departamentales de Educaci6n conllevando una redistribuci6n de
funciones, recursos y capacidad decisoria; se mejor6 el presupuesto destinado a la Salud BAsica ; y se
cre6 un marco legal moderno para las diferentes instituciones ejecutoras. Sin embargo, falto un
programa de divulgaci6n del proceso de modemizaci6n; se subestim6 el tiempo para la implementaci6n
de las reformas. Aun quedan pendientes la aprobaci6n de algunas leyes.
Gestidn Pfiblica
El Gobierno ha realizado considerables esfuerzos en el desarrollo y ejecuci6n del Sistema de
Adrninistraci6n Financiera Integrada. Recientemente se complet6 la tercera fase cubriendo aspectos de
presupuesto, tesoro, contabilidad, credito puiblico y bienes nacionales. De esta forma se han
descentralizado varios aspectos e introducido eficiencia en trAmites, notablemente reduciendo tiempos en
completar procesos. Un porcentaje substancial de las operaciones forman parte del sistema y son
operadas por los ministerios participantes, los cuales estan conectados en tiempo real.
Asimismo, se avanz6 en la reestructuraci6n de los 6rganos responsables en SEFIN. El marco legal asi
como otros aspectos para lograr una mayor transparencia en la gesti6n de las finanzas piublicas seguirAn
avanzando con la operaci6n del Proyecto de Gesti6n Econ6mica y Financiera.
Contratacidn del Estado.
Una nueva ley fue aprobada en junio de 2001 (Decreto N. 74-200 1) y publicada el 17 de septiembre de
2001. Por lo tanto se derog6 la ley anterior. En la actualidad se cuenta con una propuesta de reglamento
- 25 -



que estA en discusi6n.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
None
- 26 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Consistent development of a   Achieved.                    The Telecommunications Law
pnvate sector development                                   approved in 1995 provided legal
strategy.                                                   framework and the establishment
of a regulator. It was
subsequently revised in 1998 and
1998 to improve the prospects of
a successful privatization.
Transfer of the management and  Privatization expected to be  Bidding documents were offered
control of basic phone service  completed and ratified by  in November 1999, with eight
operations to the private sector.  Congress by August 2000.  pre-potential investors
pre-qualified. However, only one
bid was submitted on October 16,
2000, which was substantially
lower than the Govemment's
base price; thus the privatization
was not completed. The
Govemment is currently revising
its strategy with input from
potential investors and the Bank's
staff.
Implemented actions of reform of  The master concession of the  The concessionaire has been
the civil aviation sector.    four intemational airports was  operating the four airports since
awarded in March 2000.       October 2000.
Congress approved an 'Open   A new Civil Aviation Law is being
Skies' Law in March 2001, which  discussed in Congress.
effectively opens the sector to
competition.
Privatization process of the  Not achieved. This            The Bank's follow-up EFMTC is
sector initiated.             sub-component was replaced by  financing work in the port sector.
the privatization of electricity
distribution.                An Electricity Law reflecting an
The latest PSR expected the  ambitious reform strategy has
privatization of the distribution  been drafted and is still in
companies to take place in 2001.  Congress.
S '     L    - ,    -I 
Successful implemented and    A number of entities were     Further work focusing on the
adequately monitored reform at  eliminated or merged.       strengthening of planning
the micro-institutional level.  All action plans were adequately  functions and system of
implemented for each of the  performance indicators is being
participating Secretariats.  supported under the EFMTAC.
b.2 Social Security
Implementation of computerized  Unsatisfactory progress.    No action has been taken. The
system of register users of the                             Honduras Institute of Social
IHSS and program to improve    _Security (IHSS) remains
-27 -



b.2 Social Security (Cont....)
financial and administrative                          technically and institutionally
management of the Institute, and                       weak.
trained staff to operate it.
Well-designed strategy for  Studies have been conducted
separating financial management outlining alternative reform  No action has been taken
of the health care reserve fund  strategies            despite of urgent need for
from the pension reserve fund.                         action.
- 28 -



G. Reform of Pubite
Management            _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _
c.1 Human Resources
Management System (SIARH)
The new SIARH system should: (a) Implementation of the SIARH  Staff positions in the central
establish clear lines of authority and advancing well.     govemment and decentralized
responsibility in human resourc                            institutions have been reduced by
management; (b)              Conversion of current Civil Service 20.4 percent with respect to 1994.
develop adequate legal instruments Directorate's human resource  Monitoring of employment has been
needed to carry out that authority in management database into a tool satisfactory.
place; (c) reclassify posts,  for operation within the Secretariats The design and implementation of
particularly those that are key to the and linked to the SIAFI being  the SIARH was finalized in 1999.
functioning of the public sector; (d) developed.           The post classification has been
reform pay of senior management                            completed and approved by
staff and those occupying key                              Congress in September 2000.
positions; (e) set in place technical                      The salary rationalization program
criteria in place for recruitment,                         was completed in October 2001,
evaluation, and dismissal; and (f)                         with the compression ratio going
strength personnel management                              from about 6:1 in December 1998 to
10:1 in January 2001.
Database with payroll data is
currently operating in the DGSC
and SEFIN. Still far from being the
envisioned SIARH.
A new Civil Service Law has been
prepared.
Improve  efficiency  in teachei N.A.                       The SEP continues to improve its
employment within the Secretaria                           human resource information system
of Education (SEP).                                       For the teachers' regime.
c.2 Integrated
Financial Management
Effective and updated execution,  Action plan indicators met.  In 1999 the SIAFI became fully
monitoring and control of public                           operational for the preparation and
sector financial management and                            execution of the budget and is now
investment programming.                                   Fully operational in five pilot
ccountability for financial                              Secretarats. However, the system
management and investment                                 is still far from being a fully
programming.                                               integrated system. Support
continues under the EFMTAC.
A new Financial Management Law
has been drafted.
c.3 Public Procurement
Design system that will allow  Action plan indicators met   he Public Procurement Law was
decentralization of decision-making                        amended in September 2001 to
processes and promote                                      provide a sound legal framework for
competition.                                               new procurement procedures.
Prepared amendments to the Law                              he Bank's follow-up operation i.e.,
for reforming the current                                  he EFMTAC is providing support to
procurement system and simplifying                         he continuing implementation of
administrative procedural norms in                         he system.
awarding govemment contracts.
- 29 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)        .  .
Appraisal   ActuallLatest  Percentage of
Estimate    - Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million  US$ million
Private Sector Participation                        3.80          4.50           1.18
Institutional Restructuring                         2.15           1.23            57
Social Security                                     1.06          0.07              7
Human Resources                                     2.51           1.81            72
Financial Administration                            4.89          4.05             83
Public Procurement                                  0.47          0.05             10
Project Coordination                                1.33          1.30             98
IDB loan inspection                                 0.05
Total Baseline Cost                                16.26          13.01
Physical Contingencies                             0.39
Total Project Costs            16.65          13.01
Total Financing Required            16.65          13.01
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category -   ICB                                    N.B.F.    Total Cost
____ ___ ___   ___ __NCB _  Other-
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.40         2.00         1.00        3.40
(0.00)       (0.40)       (2.00)       (0.00)      (2.40)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         7.20         3.90        11.10
Studies,Tech Assistance &   (0.00)       (0.00)       (7.20)       (0.00)       (7.20)
Training
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         2.10        2.10
Operating Expenditures      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.10        0.10
IDB Inspection &            (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Supervision
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     0.00         0.40         9.20         7.10        16.70
(0.00)       (0.40)       (9.20)       (0.00)      (9.60)
- 30 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
.  .                 ~~~~~Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        ICB        P   Cu        M  thod2        N.B.F.      Total Cost
NCB          Other'     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1. Works                       0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
I______________________       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                        0.00          0.11          0.00          0.00         0.11
(0.00)        (0.15)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.15)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00          9.73          0.00         9.73
Studies,Tech Assistance &      (0.00)        (0.00)        (7.90)        (0.00)        (7.90)
Training
4. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
Operating Expenditures         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
IDB Inspection &               (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Supervision
6. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        0.00          0.11          9.73          0.00          9.84
(0.00)        (0.15)        (7.90)        (0.00)        (8.05)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project fumds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equiv alent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component             Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate  _______ :
-'IDA     Govt.     CoF.      IDA      Govt      CoF. I. IDA    Govt.   CoF.
Private Sector           2.30      0.40     1.10      2.35      0.26      1.89    102.2  65.0   171.8
participation
Institutional Restructuring  0.26  0.40     1.49      0.62      0.24      0.37   238.5   60.0   24.8
Social Security          0.91      0.15     0.00      0.07      0.00      0.00     7.7    0.0    0.0
Human Resources          0.93      0.32     1.26      1.56      0.15      0.10    167.7  46.9    7.9
Financial Administration  3.91     0.57     0.41      3.58      0.01      0.46    91.6    1.8   112.2
Public Piocurement       0.37      0.05     0.05      0.04      0.00      0.00    10.8    0.0    0.0
Project Coordination     0.60      0.16     0.48      0.53      0.34      0.43    88.3   212.5  89.6
Total Base Cost          9.37      2.05     4.79                                  0.0     0.0   0.0
Contingencies            0.23      0.00     0.16                                   0.0    0.0    0.0
IDB Loan Inspection                         0.05                                                0.0
Total Project Cost       9.60      2.05     4.95      8.75      1.45      2.81    91.1   70.7   56.8
- 31 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 32 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons. and Specialty...        Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS,',etc.). ..  Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
June 9-17, 1994             8    Task Manager; Health Sector        S             S
Specialist; Legal Counsel;
Education; Health Specialist;
Human Resources; Civil Service;
Tax Policy Reform; Public
Administration; Fiscal Analysis;
Public Administration Reform;
Procurement
AppraisalVNegotiation
June 13-23, 1995                 Task Manager; Health Sector        S             S
Specialist; Legal Counsel;
Education; Health Specialist;
Human Resources;
Information Systems; Civil
Service;
Tax Policy Reform; Public
Administration; Fiscal
Analysis;
Public Administration
Reform; Procurement
Supervision
1   Social Security Reforrn            S             S
March 12-15,                     specialist
1996
November 4 - 8,              1                                      S             S
1996                             Privatization
January 30 -                 1   Task Manager; Financial            S             S
February 5, 1997                 Management; Human Resources;
Public Procurement; Institutional
Restructuring
1   Privatization                      S             S
June 27 - July 4,                (Telecomm'unications)
1997
October 27-31,               7   Task Manager;                      S             S
1997                             Telecommunications; Civil
Aviation; Electricity;
Institutional Restructuring;
Human Resource Mgmt.; Public
Finance Mgmt.
Procurement
January 18 - 22,             6   Task Manager;                      S             S
1998                             Telecommunications; Civil
- 33 -



Aviation; Privatization
Electricity; Institutional
Restructuring; Human Resource
Mgmt.; Public Finance Mgmt.
May 29 - June 5,            5   Task Manager;                     S             S
1998                            Telecommunications; Civil
Aviation; Electricity;
Institutional Restructuring;
Humnan Resource Mgmnt.; Public
Finance Mgmt
April 6-10, 1999            1   Power Engineer                    S             S
ICR
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimnate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation             32.00                      72.10
Appraisal/Negotiation                  19.70                      37.90
Supervision                           103.22                     236.21
ICR                                       3                        15.0
Total                                 157.92                     361.21
- 34 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OI Macro policies                     O H   OSUOM     O N * NA
Sector Policies                      O H OSUOM O N O NA
IPhysical                             OH    OSUOM     ON   *NA
O Financial                           O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Institutional Development           0 H   0 SU 0 M  0 N 0 NA
O Environmental                       O H   OSUOM     O N * NA
Social
El] Poverty Reduction           O H   OSUOM O N       * NA
O Gender                        OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)        OH    OSUOM     ON    * AA
 Private sector development          0 H O SUO M 0 N 0 NA
 Public sector management            0 H 0 SU O M    0 N 0 NA
El Other (Please specify)             O H OSUOM       O N   * NA
- 35 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
D Lending                                           OHS OS OLU OHU
FII Supervision                                     OHS OS       OtU   OHU
EO Overall                                          OHS OS       O U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS       O U   O HU
L Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 O HS O S     O U   0 HU
OL Overall                                          OHS OS       OU    O HU
- 36 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
World Bank (1992). Prospects for Public Sector Reform Report No. 10318-HO. Washington, D.C.:
World Bank.
World Bank (1993). Honduras: Country Assistance Strategv. August 5, 1993. Washington, D.C.: World
Bank.
World Bank (1995). Honduras. Reformning Public Investment and the Infrastructure Sectors: A Joint World
Bank and IDB Studv. Report No. 14084-HO, Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank (2001). Honduras. Public Expenditures Management for Poverty Reduction and Fiscal
Sustainabilitv. Report No. 22070-HO, Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
- 37 -



- 38 -












IMAGING
Report No.:         23516
Type:     lCR



