CREDIT NUMBER 2814-HO
Development Credit Agreement
(Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated NA  I      ,1996


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2814-HO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                        , 1996, between REPUBLIC OF
HONDURAS (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satsfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)    the Borrower intends to contract from Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB) a loan (the IDB Loan) in an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 to assist in financing
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the IDB Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and IDB; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth
below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)    the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
(b)    the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the
purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association,
is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)    "Action Plan for Comprehensive Human Resource Administration and
Effective Management Control" means the Borrower's action plan for the development
of a comprehensive public sector human resource management and effective control
mechanism, dated November 22, 1995;
(b)    "Action Plan for Employment and Salary Reform in the Civil Service"
means the Borrower's action plan, dated November 22, 1995, to rationalize employment
and the salary structures of civil servants of the Borrower's central government and
decentralized institutions;
(c)    "Basic Implementation Plan" means the plan, satisfactory to the
Association, which determines the activities and institutional responsibilities of the
different agencies of the Borrower with respect to Project implementation;
(d)    "Framework Law for the Telecommunications Sector" means the law
approved by the Borrower's Congress as Decreto Ley No. 185-95, dated October 31,
1995, providing for the legal framework for telecommunications in the Borrower's
territory;
(e)    "IHSS" means Instituto Hondurefio de Seguridad Socia, the Borrower's
social security institute;
(f)    "Integrated Financial Management and Public Investment Programming
Action Plan" means the Borrower's action plan for the modernization of the public
sector's systems for expenditure planning, execution and control, and for financial
management of public resources;
(g)    "Institutional Restructuring Action Plans" means the Borrower's action
plans dated November 17, 1995 for the institutional restructuring of the Borrower's
secretariats of state in charge of the portfolios of education, health, communications,
public works, transport, natural resources, economy and finance, as well as the Junta
Nacional de Bienestar Social (the Borrower's National Board for Social Welfare) and the
Patronato Nacional de la Infancia (the Borrower's National Childrens' Organization);
(h) "PMSP" means the Borrower's Programa p_rn la Modernizaci6n del
Sector Pfbie, program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural


﻿-3-
adjustments of the Borrower's economy and the modernization of its public sector, as
described in a letter from the Borrower to the Association, dated November 22, 1995;
(i)    "Project Preparation Advance" means the Project preparation advance
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a letter signed by the Association
on November 15, 1993 and countersigned by the Borrower on December 12, 1993;
(j)    "Public Administration Law" means the Bill of Law submitted to the
Borrower's Congress on October 25, 1995, and providing for the legal framework for the
organization of the Borrower's executive branch of government; and
(k)    "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE H
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to six million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR6,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
Dollars a special deposit account in its central bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)    Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding
as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.


﻿-4-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later date as the
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from thz Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions
of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May
I and November 1 commencing May 1, 2006 and ending November 1, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 2015 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)    Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five
consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the


﻿-5-
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph
(a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE HI
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate managerial,
economic, financial and administrative practices and the Basic Implementation Plan, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)    maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association,
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;


﻿-6-
(b)    furnish to the Association, during the month of March and September of
each year until the completion of the Project, beginning in 1996, a report prepared under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, integrating the results of the monitoring
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of.this Section, on the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the six calendar months
preceding the date of said report;
(c)    in each of the reports referred to in paragraph (b) above, also recommend
the measures to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof; and
(d)    review with the Association, by not later than June 30 and December 31
of each year until the completion of the Project, beginning in 1996, the corresponding
reports furnished according to paragraph (b) above, and thereafter take all measures,
satisfactory to the Association, required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project
and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)    maintain, until the report referred to in Section 9.06 (c) of the General
Conditions has been prepared, a Project coordination unit with functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association which shall include, inter alia: (i)
coordination of the implementation of the Project; (ii) monitoring and evaluation of the
Project; (iii) preparation of the reports referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement
and 9.06 (c) of the General Conditions; and (iv) processing of documentation required for
the procurement of good. and consultants' services under the Project and for the
disbursement of Credit proceeds;
(b)    ensure that the unit referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section is at all
times staffed with full-time professionals with functions and responsibilities satisfactory
to the Association, in adequate numbers and with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices


﻿-7-
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)     have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including those for the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information concerning
said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)     maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records; and
(iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal


﻿-8-
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:
(a)    The IDB Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by June
30, 1996, or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction
of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
(b)    (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: (A) the right of the
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the IDB Loan shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the IDB Loan Agreement; or
(B) the 1DB Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof;
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any obligation under
the IDB Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (b)
(i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph
(b) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01
(b) of the General Conditions: (a) the unit referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this


﻿Agreement has been established; and (b) the Basic Implementation Plan has been issued
and adopted by the Borrower.
Section 6.02. The date '      '         , 1996 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.01 and the
provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which this Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de Hacienda y Cr6dito
Piblico of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretaria de Estado en el Despacho de
Hacienda y Cr6dito Piblico
Tegucigalpa, D.C.
Honduras
Cable address:        Telex:
HACIENDA             1308
Tegucigalpa          HACIENDA HO
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                     248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.            64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By   I-SI  \,",   e'A0      0
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION
By /S/                      jt  LA  3er-
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit                % of
Allocated           Expenditures
(Expressed in            to be
Category                  SDR Euivalent)         Financed
(1)    Goods                        1,470,000         100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 93%
of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(2)    Consultants'                 4,330,000         100%
services and
training
(3)    Refunding of                   500,000         Amounts due
Project                                         pursuant to
Preparation                                     Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                         of this Agreement
(4)    Unallocated                    100,000
TOTAL                        6,400,000


﻿- 13 -
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)    the term "training" means: (i) training materials; (ii) rental of training
facilities; (iii) transportation expenses of trainees to the place where training is provided
and subsistence expenses for such trainees; (iv) scholarships and fellowships for training
courses to be provided in the Borrower's territory or abroad; and (v) study tours and
internships in the Borrower's territory or abroad;
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.     The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and consultants' services
costing less than the equivalent of: (a) $50,000 in the case of goods (other than the
contracts to be awarded pursuant to Part C.1 of Section I of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement, and the first two contracts to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part
C.2 of such Section); (b) $50,000 in the case of consulting firms' services; and (c)
$25,000 in the case of individual consultants' services.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to strengthen the Borrower's capacity to
implement the PSMP; and (b) to modernize the Borrower's human resources and financial
management systems.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon form time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A:       Private Sector Participation in Public Services
Provision of technical assistance, and acquisition of goods required therefor, to:
(a) implement the participation of investors (other than the Borrower and Honduran public
sector entities) in the provision of telecommunication services; and (b) strengthen the
Borrower's capacity: (i) to enforre and implement the Framework Law for the
Telecommunications Sector; (ii) to implement a strategy to create a regulatory framework
for the airport and air navigation services provided in the Borrower's territory, to
decentralize airport management and to increase the participation of investors (other than
the Borrower and Honduran public sector entities) in the provision of airport and air
navigation services; and (iii) implement the participation of investors (other than the
Borrower and Honduran public sector entities) in the operation of the Borrower's ports.
Part B:       Institutional Restructuring
Provision of technical assistance, and acquisition of goods required therefor, to
strengthen the Borrower's capacity to: (a) implement the Institutional Restructuring Action
Plans and other public administration rationalization efforts; and (b) enforce and
implement the Public Administration Law.
Part C:       Social Security Institute and Social Security System
Provision of technical assistance, and acquisition of goods required therefor, to:
(a) implement administrative and financial improvements in the IHSS; and (b) implement
a strategy to reform the Borrower's social security system.
Part D:       Human Resources Management
Provision of technical assistance, and acquisition of goods required therefor, to:
(a) implement the Action Plan for Human Resources Management Control and the Action


﻿- 15 -
Plan for the Reform of Employment in the Civil Service Regime of the Central
Government and the Decentralized Institutions; and (b) strengthen the Borrower's capacity
in human resources management and to reform and modernize its employment and salary
regimes.
Part E:       Integrated Financial Management and Investment Programming
Provision of technical assistance, and acquisition of goods required therefor, to
strengthen the Borrower's capacity to implement the Integrated Financial Management and
Public Investment Programming Action Plan.
Part F:       Public Procurement
Provision of technical assistance, and acquisition of goods required therefor, to
modernize the Borrower's systems for public procurement, including the strengthening of
the legal and institutional framework for the implementation of such systems.
Part G:       Project Coordination
Provision of technical assistance, and acquisition of goods required therefor, to:
(a) coordinate, administer, monitor, evaluate and audit the Project and the implementation
of the PMSP; (b) develop means for a public dialogue between the Borrower and the
society at large regarding issues on public sector modernization, and to disseminate and
learn about international experiences on these issues; and (c) to disseminate within the
Borrower's agencies issues concerning public sector modernization.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.    Procurement of Goods
Part A:       General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:       International Competitive Bidding
1.     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.     Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:       Other Procurement Procedures
1.     Limited International Bidding
Computer hardware and software estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more,
per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.     National Competitive Bidding
Office equipment (other than that to be procured under Part C. 1 above) estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000, but $25,0000 equivalent or more per contract
and $100,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
In the procurement of goods under national competitive bidding procedures, the Borrower
shall use standard bidding documents acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 17 -
3.     International Shopping
Goods (other than the office equipment referred to in Part C.2 above) estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000, but $25,000 equivalent or more per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $900,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.     National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000, per contract, up to
an aggregate amount equivalent to $300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:       Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix I to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions
of said paragraph 1.
2.     Prior Review
With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Parts
B and C.1 of this Section, and the first two contracts to be awarded pursuant to Part C.2
of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
3.     Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.


﻿- 18 -
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
1.     Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, short
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $50,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individual
consultants estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent each. However, this exception
to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (b) single source selection of firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or more;
or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $25,000 equivalent or more.
Section m. Special Provisions
A.     In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall expressly govern
all procurement of goods referred to in Part C.2 of Section I of this Schedule:
1.     Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid in accordance with criteria
set forth in the bidding documents, and without taking into account, in the evaluation, the
financial cost of foreign exchange components.
2.     Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to:
(a)    be registered in Honduras;
(b)    have a representative in Honduras;
(c)    be associated with Honduran suppliers; and


﻿- 19 -
(d)    certify that, in their country of origin, Honduran suppliers are allowed to
participate in competitive bidding procedures under equal conditions with other bidders.
3.     Contracts shall not be divided for the sole purpose of reducing contract amounts.
B.     In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall
expressly govern all procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of this
Schedule:
1.     Foreign consultants shall be permitted to participate in the selection process even
if there is availability of Honduran consultants for the services being procured.
2.     Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered with Honduran
associations or to be associated with Honduran consulting firms as a condition for
participating in any selection process.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means. expenditures in respect of t1ke
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed ou; of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $700,000
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$350,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of $1,000,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower; withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b)    (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 21 -
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of
the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit
of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)    if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
(d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.


﻿- 22 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount
of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.     (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit
by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


