Dociment of
The World Bank;
FOR OFMCJAL USE ONLY
t I C10Fdl H l   ",E'li, t:tU Y                                 Report No. 10069
'eJr  Nt^  1 ()'J-.S IiK1.  jlxt$pu_   k (,;,I
HiA(  In .   'r   ,  X:31  ] . (,;   /    !j!, I
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1213-KE/LOAN 2098-KE)
NOVEMBER 5, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency units      =       Kenya Shilling (KSh.)
US$1.00             =       KSh. 10.00 (at appraisal)
US$1.00             -       KSh. 22.00 (at completion)
ABBREVIATIONS & ACRONYMS
CF           - Conservator of Forestry
CFD          - Conservator for Forcstry Industrial Development
FAO/CP       - FAO/World Bank Co-operative Programme
FD           - Forest Department
GDP          - Gross Domestic Product
GOK          - Government of Kenya
IBRD         - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA          - International Development Association
MENR         - Ministry of Environment & Natural Resources
RAES         - Rural Afforestation Extension Service
SAR          - Staff Appraisal Report
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30



FOR OmIcAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
O iffce M Oiectne-Ceeal
Opetatlwo Evahiation
November 5, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on KENYA: Third
Forestry Project (Cr.1213-KE/Ln.2098-RE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on the Kenya: Third Forestry Project
(Cr.1213-KE/Ln.2098-KE) ' prepared by the Africa Regional Office with
Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
(Cr. 1213-KE/Ln. 2098-KE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE                 ..................s   ...o................                                i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ........... ........................ ... ..... e  iii
PART I:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  .............                  ..               1
I.  Introduction  .............................................................           1
II.   Sector and Policy Context  ......             ............................           2
III.   Project Objectives and Components  ..... ............ .                              2
Objectives  ...........             .... .  .... ...........................      2
Components  .....         .      .......... ................................      2
IV.   Project Design  ........ . .      ......         .................... . ..    .      3
V.   Organization  ... .............             .................................        4
VI.   Project Implementation  ..             ................ ...................          4
VII.   Disbursements and Project Costs  ............................                         5
VIII.   Project Results and Impact  ......               ...........................          6
General # ...... .................. ...............                  so ...............  6
Establiebment of New Plantations ........ ......                                  6
Plantation Maintenance            .       ...........        .. . ..              6
Rural Afforestation Extension .                   ........................ .      7
Support to FD  ....... ...   ...             ...........        ........... ... .  7
Economic Rate of Return  ........ .........  ............. .                      8
IX.   Sustainability  ...... .......              .....................                    8
X.  Bank Group Performance  ..* ..            ... .....     ....  ..... ...........       9
XI.  Borrower Performance  .* ............... .......... . ....... so.                     9
XII.  Lessons .......... 00.....    ............ , ........................ 10
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Content  (Cont'd)                                                Page No.
PART Ils  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .................   11
1.  Introduction .... ............................. #... *...... to .... ....  ll
2.  Problems and Constraints during Implementation          .............   12
3.  Comments on Completion Report Prepared by the
World B"nk .............                     ..... gXsee*..... ...    17
4.  Changes in Plantation Areas during Project Period ..........   21
Appendix 1 - Royalty Collection 1983-84 to 1988/89 ................ . .   23
Appendix 2 -  Changes in Plantation Areas during Third Forestry
Project .........................................................   24
Appendix 3 - Analysis of Development Expenditures during the Third
Forestry Project ... ............  ...   ..... ......  ..........   27
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION ...................................   29
TABLES
1.  Key Project Data . .. .. .........       .. ..... ........   29
2.  Mission Data ..................         .............................   31
3. Project Financing .. ........         .............. .... , ..... .   32
4.  Schedule of IDA/IBRD Disbursements ........................   33
5.  Project Costs ............ ...... ....                              34
6. Key Implementation Indicators          .............................   35
7.  New Plantation Establishment Areas ...... *............. .....   37
8.  Estimated Wood Production - New Plantings        ..................   38
9.  Seedling Production RFD and RESD Nurseries .... ..... .......   39
10.  Backlog of Silvicultural Operations in 1989    ..........    40
it.  Game Damage - Damaged Plantation Areas and KM of
Game Moats ..............    41
12.  Road Maintenance . . ... .... * ........... .............    42
13.  Forest Department Staff Establishment:  1982-89 ..........   43
14.  Labor Expenditure .*  . . .o. .... . ............ . o............   44
15.  Stumpage (Royalties) Collections ..........                         45
16.  Economic Analysis - New Industrial Forest Plantations               46
17.  Status of Legal Covenants                                           49
18.   Staff  Inputs    ...S.    .    9........0..*....0..                 3
19.  Relate. Bank Loans and Credits .         .....................   54
MAP - IBRD 15900



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
(Cr. 1213-KE/Ln. 2098-KE)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Forestry
Project in Kenya, for which Cr. 1213-KRE and Ln. 2098-KE in the amounts of
US$16 uiilion and US$21.5 million respectively were approved in March 1982.
Other external funding for the project came from the Governments of Italy
and Switzerland in the amounts of US$9 million and US$7.6 million respec-
tively. However, due to implementation bottlenecks, only US$1.5 million of
the Italian funds were utilized and half of the Swiss loan was cancelled.
The project was closed on December 31, 1989, three years behind schedule.
The credit was fully disbursed but US$12.9 million from the loan were
cancelled. The last disbursement was made on April 24, 1990.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agriculture Operations Divi-
sion of the Africa Regional Office with assistance from FAO/CP (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
This document is based on material collected from the Project
Management Unit (PMU) of the Forestry Department (FD) in the Ministry of
Environment & Natural Resources (MENR) in Nairobi and on field visits to
the project area.   Other information has been derived from the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Loan and Credit Agreements, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank
memoranda.



- lii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
THIRD  ORSTRY PROJECT
(Cr. 1213-KE)ILn. 2098-KE)
EVALUATION SUH1ARY
1.    The project's main objective was to improve and expand the operations of the Forest
Department (FD) in order to ensure a sustained and increased supply of timber for traditional
uses and to satisfy t1'n rapidly rising demand for other forestry products. The project was to
promote more efficient softwood plantation operations through financial support for new
plantings and the maintenance of existing plantations. The operations of the FD's nurseries
were to be improved and a forest extension service established. Cost recovery as well as
management reporting and analysis were to be strengthened.
Implementation Experience
2.    The project started six months behind schedule because of delay by GOK in meeting
all conditions for credit and loan effectiveness, particularly the one relating to the recruitment
of several expatriate experts. Delay was also caused by the slow pace of negotiations for
bilateral funding between GOK and the Italian and Swiss governments. Later, project
implementation did not proceed as planned and the project closing deadlines had to be
extended thrice.
15.   Project implementation was beset by the following financial, institutional and climatic
problems: (a) inadequate budgetary allocations; (b) inadequate mobility, low labor
productivity, inadequate supervisory field staff and continuous transfers of key project staff;
(c) delay in reimbursement of project disbursements because progress reports, audited
statements and reimbursement claims were usually submitted late to the Bank; (d) a severe
drought in 1984/85 which seriously curtailed plantation activities; and (e) the unscheduled
move of the FD from their HQ to temporary accommodation, hampering implementation.
3.    Nonetheless, a total of 43,342 ha. of new plantations were established, compared with
the original SAR target of 25,600. Also some 75 nurseries were established, compared with
the SAR target of 30. Shortfalls were experienced in the maintenance of plantation which led
to large backlogs in pruning and thinning. These components also failed to materialize: the
pilot extension project, the road construction program, aerial surveys and staff training.
Results
4.    The project has not attained many of its targets because of the setbacks mentioned
above. However, the estimatod ERR of 17 percent from benefits accruing from the new
plantations compares favorably with the SAR estimate of 19 percent and is attributable to the
larger areas planted. However, it may be an over-estimate because probable significant
mortality in plantations established during 1986-89 has not been recorded and will not be
known until the ongoing inventory is completed. The project's institution building aspects are
largely unfulfilled. Major managerial and structural issues remain, such as the organization of
labor, the establishment of an efficient system of maintenance and a rural forestry extension
service, and cost recovery.



- iv -
Sustainability
5.     The following issues need ito be addressed if the project activities are to be sustained
in the longer term: (a) budgetary allocations: inadequate budget allocption to the project lhas
been a major bottleneck and has significantly curtailed smooth operations. Adequate funding,
particularly for capital replacements, operation and maintenance, is a prerequisite if project
operations are to be satisfactorily continued; (b) cost recovery: despite progress during the
project, there is still slackness in the collection of royalties. Systems will have to be devised
which facilitate the smooth billing and collection of income and minimize the incidence of
evasion; (c) labor productivity: for the project to achieve its maximum potential and
sustainability, steps will need to be taken to boost labor productivity, possibly including a
gradual but progressive re-introduction of the task rate and bonus methods of remuneration as
the existing permanent subordinate staff retire from Service; (d) institutional strengthening:
FD's institutional base has been weak. There has been a general problem of too few staff
assigned to Project Management, lack of adequate delegation and frequent staff transfers,
which have deprived the project of  continuity in personnel and resulted in occasional lapses in
communication, record keeping, and reporting. In the field, the management and supervision
of labor have been weak and trainilng poor.
Findings and Lessons Learned
6.    The following are some of the major lessons gained from implementing this project.
(a)    In an environment of budgetary constraints it is necessary to restructure the
use of whatever scarce resources are available. While payment of personnel
is a priority, it may be necessary to retrench their numbers so that a fair
amount of the budget can be channelled toward capital development activities
and the operation amd maintenance of essential vehicles and equipment. The
follow-on Forestry Development Project is financing a study of the FD's labor
profile and producitivity. This would form the basis for an action plan to
improve labor productivity and cut production costs.
(b)    In order to reduce the burden of forestry maintenance costs on FD's budget, it
is possible and advisable to have cost sharing arrangements with the
sawmillers (on the basis of accounting for costs incurred and advance planning
for such participation). Participation of the 2rivate sector, NGOs and other
community groups in forestry operations should be encouraged.
(c)    Industrial plantations need to be put on a commercial footing. To better
control costs, better accounting needs to be introduced and made distinct from
the rest of FD's finances. Cost recovery is also essential to the plantations'
sustainability and has been included as a key component in the Forestry
Development Project.
(d)    Given FD's weak implementation capacity, future projects should include
strong technical assistance and institution building components. This has
become the focus of the follow on project.



(e)    Up-to-date forest legislation and policy are needed to guide subsector
development. The preparation of a Masterplan for forestry is being funded by
FINNIDA.
(f)    Arrangementi for a suitable headquarter for FD are required for a new project
to go ahead. TMis has been made a condition for effectiveness of the Forestry
Development Project.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD) FORESTRY PROJECI
cedit_No. 1_2I3-KR: Loan No. 209-KE
PART I1: PROJEC REVIEW )1ROM BANK'S PERSPIECTIVE
I. INTRODUCIO
1.            The Third Forestry Project was o follow-up to two earlier Bank-funded
projects in the forestry sub-sector. The First F~orestry Project was implemented over six years
from 1970 to 1975 at a cost of $4.0 milliorn of which $2.6 million was a Credit from IDA. It
aimed at establishing industrial forest plantations and some institution building. But its scope
was rather narrow a-nd its achievements modest. It failed to address the basic issues of
competition for land between forestry and agriculture as well as .Ost recovery. The Second
Forestry Project was a follow-up to the first one and was also implemented over a six year
period from 1975 to 1981. It cost US$55.5 million of which US$20.0 million was a credit
from IDA. It was a fairly complex project whose components included establishing nation-
wide Industrial plantations, Improving forestry infrastructure, institution building and studias.
However, it sufferecd from poor management, inadequate record-keeping, substantial cost
over-runs and failed to carry out vital studies such as the land use survey. The appraisal
targi.-ts were over-optimistic and overall the project was less successful. than anticipated.
2.            The Thbird Forestry Project was conceived with the aim of addressing the
above problems and correctir~g the short-comings in both earlier projects. Identified by GOK
in May 1979 and prepared with FAO/CP assistance in June 1980, the project was appraised in
November 1980. The IDA Credit and IBRD Loan were successfully negotiated in November
1981, approved ty the Board in March 1982 and Credit and Loan agreements signed in
August 1982.
3.            Total project base costs at appraisal were estimated at US$68 million net of
taxes and duties (equivalent KSh. 682 million) of which US$37.5 million or 55 percent would
be funded by the Bank Group, US$9 million or 13 percent would be loan finance from the
Italian Government, US$7.6 million or II percent would be grant finance from the Swiss
Government, and the remainder US$14 million or 21 percent of project costs would be
counterpart funding from G0K.
4.            The project became effective in May 1983 after GOK had finalized the co-
financing arrangements with the Governments of Italy and Switzerland. The project was
expected to be implemented over a 4 year period but because of funding, management, and
operational problems it was extended three times and finally closed on April 24, 1990. A
follow-up project, the Forestry Development Project, was approved by the Board on
December 20, 1990.



- -
II. SECTO  ANDl  POLICY CONEXT
S.    The Forestry subbsector constitutes a small but very important section of the
agricultural sector in Kenya. Besides the crucial environmental benefits in a country which is
80 percent arid or semi-arid, the subsector contributes about 10 percent of the Country's
agricultural GDP, almost 80 percent of total energy requirements and 50,000 full-time jobs in
forestry related industries and operations.
6.    GOK's policy has for a long time emphasized the creation and preservation of forestry
resources so that the country can be self4sufficient in wood and wood products and have a
marketable surplus for export. At the time this project was formulated, the country was
experiencing a sustained increase in the demand for forest products particularly fuelwood and
charcoal for domestic energy, timber for building, and plywood, fibreboard and pulp wood
for industrial use. The rate of growth in demand for these products was in excess of that of
population growth, then estimated at about 4 percent per annum. Yet the country's forest
reserves were declining because over the past 50 years most of the indigenous forests had
been exploited for sawn timber and other fcrestry products, especially charcoal. Most of the
valuable species had been depleted and if no further strict measures were taken, the forests
would be completely exploited by the end of this century. Since the natural regeneration of
most of Kenya's indigenous wood takes between 60 and 100 years, it was necessary to
consider establishing quick growing soft wood species to provide the country with the
required domestic and industrial wood products thus supplementing ard easing pressure on the
natural forests. Efforts to that end had started 20 or 30 years before but tl ese were clearly
not adequate. The First and Second Forestry Projects supplemented these efforts. This
project was to continue and consolidate the efforts and achievements of the earlier two
projeas.
III. PROJECT QBJECTWES AND COMPQNENTS
OBJECTIVES
7.    The project's main objective was to improve and expand the operations of the Forest
Department (FD) in order to ensure a sustained and increased supply of timber for traditional
uses and to satisfy the rapidly rising demand for other forestry products. The project was to
promote more efficient softwood plantation operations through financial support for new
plantings and the maintenance of existing plantations. The operations of the FD's nurseries
were to be improved and the forest extension service strengthened. Cost recovery as well as
management reporting and analysis were to be improved.
CQONENTIS
8.    The project had 4 components, namely:
(i)    Establishment of new plntations: At least 6,400 ha of new
plantations would be ostablished per Project Year, principally in areas of the
gazetted forest that would be clearfelled during the project or which were
clearielled but not replanted under the Second Forestry Project;



3-3
(ii)    Plantition maintenance: To undertake the maintenance of all
plantations of the Forest Department, Including the construction and
maintenance of fire stations, equipment, fire breaks, game moats, and
appropriate laboratory support;
(lii)    h     L--:  1X: Involving the improvemont and
expansion of the Rural Afforestation Extension Service (RAES) through, LiLr
&, establishment of at least 30 nurseries in administrative divisions without
RAES nurseries, expansion of approximately 125 existing nurseries, increased
extension efforts to follow up on distribiuted seedlings, recruitment and
training of staff, and applied re-search; and
(iv)   Supol-   rart enett: Including the construction, upgrading
and maintenance ui roads and tracks; building or rebuilding of 12 forest
stations houses, improvement of water supply systems at approximately 60
existing forest stations; expansion, operation and maintenance of the FD's
fleet of vehicles; improvement of the FD's management capability and its
technical, financial and reporting controls including a management information
system; training, both in Kenya and abroad, of medium and senior staff of the
FD; and periodic aerial surveying of parts of the forest area for the purposes
of monitoring changes therein and facilitating forest land-use planning.
IV. PROJECT DESTGN
9.     The project was straightforward, clear, and generally well understood by all the
parties involved. In particular, the small number of components and their homogeneity
helped avoid coordination problems during implementation.
10.   However, the project design failed to give sufficient emphasis to issues that pj ,ued
Forestry II. These are:
(i)    One key Issue was the large labor force and -heir low productivity. However,
the project did not make provisions for addressing this; on the contrary, it
continued to finance labor costs without insisting on an improvement of labor
productivity;
(ii)    The two earlier projects had each been extended to a six-year duration instead
of the four years estimated at appraisal. This indicated the borrowers'
inability to execute project components on a timely basis. In spite of this, the
designers of the third project expected FD, with its weak institutional base, to
execute a larger and more complex project in only four years.
(iii)   Inadequate attention was given to institution building. The technical assistance
provided did not include specialists to help PD build its implementation
capacity.
(iv)   This was the third forestry project the Bank was financing and yet there was
no overAiew of the forestry subsector and a medium-term framework for its



-4-
developmerAt, taking into account the country's demand for wood and
competing land uses.
V. ORGANIZAMN
11.   As was the case for the preceding two phases, the Third Forestry Project was
implemented under the authority and direct supervision of FD in the Ministry of Environment
and Natural Resources (MENR). The project activities were incorporated in FD's annual
budgets and work plans and all disbursements to the project including external loans and
assistance were channelled through FD.
12.   Within FD, the components relating to the establishment of new plantations and
plantation maintenance were executed under the responsibility and control of the field
conservators of forests (CF). The rural afforestation extension component was carried out
under the Conservator for RAES. In the forest activities component, operations relating to
road and trat;k construction and maintenance were carried out under the Conservator for
Forestry Industrial Development (CFID) while the remaining operations were carried out
under the auspices cf the respective departmental heads.
13.   In 1988, a major reshuffle and reorganization took place in the Fl) with the Chief
Conservator of Forests being replaced by a Director of Forests. This situation had a
somewhat disruptive effect on the project, resulting in a considerable number of new staff
appointments and transfers which further weakened the structure and staffing of the Project
Management team at headquarters. The key post of project accountant remained vacant for a
long time while constant changes took place in the positions of Project Director (PD) and the
Assistant PD. In all, the project has had four PDs and six APDs.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
14.   The project started six months behind schedule because of delay by GOK in meeting
all conditiors for credit and loan effectiveness, particularly the one relating to the recruitment
of several expatriate experts. Delay was also caused by the slow pace of negotiations for
bilateral funding between GOK and the Italian and Swiss governments. Later, project
implementation did not proceed as planned and the project closing deadlines had to be
extended thrice.
15.   Project implementation was beset by the following major financial, institutional and
climatic problems:
(a)    Treasury expenditure ceilings which resulted in FD being allocated a budget
that was less than adequate (72 percent of requirements in 1988/89). Much of
the allocation was expended on personnel costs (88 percent in 1988/89 - see
Table 14) which led to a shortage of funds for capital expenditures, operation
and maintenance of essential equipment and vehicles. Many buildings and
roads have been left in a state of disrepair;
(b)   Inadequate mobility because most vehicles purchased before and during the
project were not serviceable due to lack of spare parts; also, the roads



component (financed by Italy) was not implemented because of FD's
inexperience with Italian procurement procedures and stringent ceilings on
investment expenditures imposed by Treasury;
(c)    The excessive size of the permanent labor force (see Table 13) whose
productivity was low because of poor supervision, lack of transportation,
inadequate tools and materials, as -well as a method of remuneration which
lacked incentive and rewarded workers equally irrespective of their level of
output;
(d)   Inadequate supervisory field staff particularly at the level of Forestry Assistant
whose role in many cases had been delegated to village headmen who had no
forestry training;
(e)    Continuous transfers of key project staff particularly at the level of Project
Director, Assistant Project Director, and departmental heads;
(f)    Delay in reimbursement of project disbursements because progress reports,
audited statements and reimbursement claims were usually submitted late to
the Bank. In the case of expenditures for plantation establishment, the Bank
requirement that reimbursements be based on annual costs and hectarage
resulted in GOK receiving reimbursements at least 15 months after the
expenditure was incurred. Tkis resulted in exacerbating GOK's and therefore,
FD's, already tight liquidity position;
(g)    A severe drought in 1984/85 which seriously curtailed plantation activities;
and,
(h)    The unscheduled move of the FD from their HQ to temporary accommodatio"
at Karura during the closing stages of the project which has hampered project
implementation and resulted in the loss of some files and information relating
to both the project and FD.
-'l. DISBURSEMENTS AND PROJECT COSTS
16. Disbursements to the project were initially slow (see Table 4) in line with the early
delays in project implementation. Because of the unsatisfactory rate of disbursements, the
Bank loan was subsequently reduced by US$10 million to US$11.5 million and the Swiss
Government grant halved to SWFR 7.5 million. The IDA Credit and the balance of the Swiss
grant were fully disbursed by FY 86/87 but only about US$1.5 million of the Italian loan was
disbursed because the bulk of the roads sub-component it was supposed to finance was not
implemented. Disbursements from the Bank loan totalled US$8.6 million. US$2.9 million
was cancelled at the time of project closing.
17.   As shown in Table 5, at completion, project costs are estimated to be in the region of
US$52 miiion or 76 percent of the initial project cost estimate. The above shortfall in project
cost is largely attributable to the substantial devaluation of the Kenya Shilling vis a vis the US



-6-*
dollar and other hard currencies as well as the institutional bottlenecks and budget restrictions
which have constrained project activities throughout the implementation period.
VIII. PR CT RESU5LTS AND IMPACT
18. figggrg. The project has not attained many of its targets because of the setbacks outlined
in Section VI above. While targets for establishing new plantations were reported to be
mostly realized, those relating to plantation maintenance have fallen back and substantial
backlogs exist in both pruning and thinning operations. Under the RAES component more
new nurseries than targeted have been established but the agreed Pilot Extension Project did
not materialize. Support to FD has had mixed results. While the building programme was
partly achieved, the road construction and maintenance activities as well as aerial surveys and
staff training were not implemented. Results from individual components are highlighted in
Table 6 and discussed in the following paragraphs.
19. Establishment of n  lntt: The project aimed at establishing 6,400 ha of
plantation per year. A total of 43,342 hectares of new plantations have been established,
which compares favorably with the original SAR target of 25,600 ha and the revised target of
44,800 ha. However, since 1985/86, the programme has been increasingly affected by
planting of indigenous hardwoods with much longer rotations (some over 100 years) than the
softwood species stipulated in the SAR. As shown in Table 7, this has resulted in the area
planted to hardwoods exceeding the original target by over 5,800 ha while pine and cypress
have had a shortfall of 9,200 ha. The long rotations of the hardwoods will reduce the
financial viability of the project. This coupled with the high cost of establishing the
plantations will inevitably reduce the eventual ERR of the project. The high costs have been
due to the increased cost of transporting seedlings, low survival rates which have necessitated
replaniting, lack of suitable equipment and tools, and poor supervision. The pitting has not
always been appropriate and the planting methods not always ideal. Therefore, although the
project succeeded in attaining its physical targets, it has had limited impact in instituting
tecinically sound and economically efficient planting techniques. Furthermore, toward the
end of the project, several thousand hectares of plantations within FD's forest estate were
apparently established by forest industry enterprises rather than by FD, and significant
mortality appeared to occur after plantations were established. It has not yet been possible to
quantify these recent developments but the picture would be clearer after the ongoing
inventory is completed.
20.   Plantation Mgintena: Maintenance activities have suffered considerably due to
funding (budgetary) constraints, lack of transport, inadequate tools, poor labor supervision
and a low level of morale in the field. As a result, the maintenance of plantations has been
both costly and unsatisfactory. As shown in Table 10, there currently are substantial backlogs
in pruning (19,500 ha) and thinning (15,900 ha) which if not addressed will have an adverse
impact on tree growth and reduce the eventual benefits expected from the plantations.
21. The protection of plantations against game damage has not been adequate over the project
period. The main areas where game damage (by elephant and buffalo) is most prevalent has
been in the Aberdare and Mt. Kenya regions of Nyeri District and the Mt. Elgon region of
Trans Nzoia District. Some plantation areas have almost been totally destroyed. There is a
total of 1,496 ha of damaged plantations in the above regions (see Table 11). Very little



-7-
maintenance of game moats has been carried out during the project and many moats inspected
are overgrown and easily crossed by animals. The problem should be explored and joint
consultations conducted with the Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife to find satisfactory
solutions.
22.   Since July 1989, in order to catch up with maintenance backlogs, the FD has
developed a joint cost-sharing system with the sawmillers operating in the Rift Val%,, area.
They are contributing about KSh. I million towards the cost of incremental casual labor hired
to reduce the pruning and thinning backlogs while FD officials are providing administrative
and supervisory backup. This is a commendable start to involve the private sector in
plantation maintenance and should be emulated elsewhere in the country. It also indicates
FD's inability to clear its backlog using its own labor force.
23.   Rural Afforestation Extension: Some 75 nurseries were established, compared with
the SAR target of 30 nurseries and in addition, the FD oversees about 400 nurseries belonging
to NGOs, schools, churches, and women's groups. However, overall, the project has not
been able to carry out much discernible work in rural forest extension due to lack of funding,
transport, and staff trained in forestry extension. Seedling production from extension
nurseries has declined over the years (55 million in 1986/87 and 46 million in 1988/89, see
Table 9) and a pilot Extension Project agreed between GOK and the Bank in 1987 did not
materialize because of frequent changes in senior extension service staff, appointment of
people who are not specialized in forestry extension, communication bottlenecks, and a certain
reluctance or disinterest in practical experimentation.
24.   Support to FD: Project support to FD had mixed results. The level of track and road
maintenance was less than 10 percent of what would be expected under normal operations.
As a result, most plantations created by consecutive projects are not easily accessible. The
upgrading and construction of forest roads using private contractors as stipulated by the
project did not take place. Instead, use was made of FD's four road units although this
turned out to be more expensive. The effectiveness of the road units has continuously
decreased and the results and impact of their effort are negligible. Unless they can be
rehabilitated, serious consideration should be given to disbanding them and making use of the
private sector for road maintenance on a contract basis.
25.   Because of lack of funds for repair and maintenance, many buildings and vehicles are
dilapidated. Construction of new buildings or rebuilding old ones planned under the project
has only been partly achieved. Only 448 houses were built instead of the 2,272 estimated in
the SAR. However, as shown in Table 6, other building targets were exceeded or nearly
attained. Although lack of adequate transport facilities has been a recurrent theme throughout
this project, none of the estimated 80 motorcycles were purchased and only 66 trucks and
pick-ups were bought instead of the SAR estimates of 124.
26.   The other intended project activities involving staff training and aerial surveys have
not materialized because of occasional communication lapses within FD. As a result, the
respective officers in charge of training and mapping were unable to utilize the funds available
under the project for their respective departnents.
27.   The project's efforts to encourage FD to increase stumpage rates were largely
successful. The rates were revised annually taking into account current plantation replacement



-8 -
costs plus 10 percent surcharge to cover FD's overhead costs. This has borne fruitful results.
As shown in Table 15, stumpage fees from sawlogs increased by 124 percent from KShs 5.4
million in 1982/82 to a peak of KShs 13.4 million in 1986/87. Stumpage fees from firewood
increased by only 58 percent from KShs 2.4 million to KShs 3.8 million during the period.
However, in 1987/88, stumpage income declined for both sawlogs and firewood. There were
a number of reasons, such as the use of ground sLaling for royalty assessment which left room
for evasion by sawmillers, exemptions to the tea parastatal to clear a belt for the tea zone,
poor inventory and lack of supervision and monitoring.
28.   Economic Rate of Return (ERR): The component for new plantations is estimated to
have an ERR of 17.5 percent from benefits accruing from the new plantations established by
the 1,roject. This compares reasonably well with the SAR estimate of 19 percent and is
largcly attributable to the larger areas planted. However, it may be an over-estimate because
probable significant mortality in plantations established during 1986-89 has not been recorded
and will not be known until the ongoing inventory is completed. The ERR calculations are
set out in Table 16. No ERR was calculated at appraisal for the extension component.
IX. SUSTAINABILITY
29.   The constraints experienced during the implementation of the project are a pointer to
how difficult it will be in the future for FD to sustain the activities started by the project and
to build on the achievements. The following will particularly need to be addressed if the
project activities are to be sustained in the longer term:
(a)    Budgetary Allocations: Inadequate budget allocation to the project has been a
major bottleneck throughout project implementation and has significantly
curtailed smooth operations. Adequate funding, particularly for capital
replacements, operation and maintenance, is a prerequisite if project
operations are to be satisfactorily continued and consolidated. In the
maintenance activities, besides thinning and pruning, serious efforts will be
required to rehabilitate forest roads and to ease accessibility. Game moats
will also have to be repaired if animal damage is to be minimized.
(b)    Cost Recovery: During the project, substantial progress has been made in
increasing the stumpage rates to a level that nearly equates full cost recovery
by GOK. However, this notable improvement has been undermined by
increased slackness in the collection of royalties, with the result that income
therefrom of late has been declining. Therefore, systems will have to be
devised which facilitate the smooth billing and collection of income and
minimize the incidence of sawmillers evading the payment of royalties. The
prices of seedlings, fixed since 1974 at KShs 0.20 each barerooted and KShs
0.25 each potted, are too low and require urgent upward adjustment so as to
avoid nurseries producing seedlings at a big financial loss.
(c)    Labor Productivity: The SAR expectations of increased labor productivity
during the project have not materialized although the proportion of FD's
budget spent on personnel has increased. For the project to achieve its



-9 -
maximum potential and sustainability, steps will need to be taken to boost
labor productivity, possibly including a gradual but progressive re-introduction
of the task rate and bonus methods of remuneration as the existing permanent
subordinate staff retire from service.
(d)   Institutional Strengthening: During this and the prior project phases, FD's
institutional base has been weak. There has been a general problem of too
few staff assigned to Project Management, lack of adequate delegation and
frequent staff transfers, which have deprived the project of continuity in
personnel and resulted in occasional lapses in communication, record keeping,
and reporting. In the field, the management and supervision of labor have
beer weak and training poor. The above issues will have to be addressed if
the activities of the project are to be sustained at acceptable levels.
X. BANK GROUP PERFORMANCE,
30.   Besides the design weakness mentioned in para 10, Bank performance during the
project cycle has been satisfactory. The Bank also contributed to resolving difficulties
between GOK and the governments of Italy and Switzerland in respect of protracted
disagreements which arose from the terms of their participation in funding the project.
31.   A total of 15 supervision missions visited the project to monitor implementation
progress. As shown in Table 2, the missions largely comprised foresters, agricultural
economists, and financial analysts. Continuity of staff on supervision was good and overall
their input was satisfactory and instrumental in ensuring that agreed covenants were fulfilled
as far as possible. They also pinpointed implementation bottlenecks and suggested possible
remedies. However, for a problem project such as this one, more frequent supervision visits
would have been useful.
XI. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
32.   There were delays in reaching bilateral agreements between GOK and the Italian and
Swiss governments regarding the arrangements fcr co-financing of the project. There were
also lengthy delays by GOK to recruit expatriate technical assistance as agreed. Both these
delays led to the postponement of the start of the project. Project funding from GOK was
perennially inadequate and led to the implementation problems discussed in Section VI. Most
other covenants were fulfilled, although usually late.
33.   FD, as the executing agency of the project, showed institutional weaknesses in its
support to the project. Financial records were not always up-to-date and audited accounts and
expenditure reimbursement applications were usually late. The project staff were too few and
subject to considerable changes and transfers, which led to lack of continuity and occasional
crucial breakdowns in communication, both internally and externally. Project performance
declined when the FD were forced to move out of their building into temporary and
inadequate quarters dispersed at different locations.



-10-
XII. LESSONS
34.   The following are some of the major lessons gained from implementing this project.
(a)   In an environment of budgetary constraints it is necessary to restructure the
use of whatever scarce resources are available. While payment of personnel
is a priority, it may be necessary to retrench their numbers so that a fair
amount of the budget can be channelled toward capital development activities
and the operation and maintenance of essential vehicles and equipment. The
follow-on Forestry Development Project is financing a study of the FD's labor
profile and productivity. This would form the basis for an action plan to
improve labor productivity and cut production costs.
(b)   In order to reduce the burden of forestry maintenance costs on FD's budget, it
is possible and advisable to have cost sharing arrangements with the
sawmillers (on the basis of accounting for costs incurred and advance planning
for such participation). Participation of the private sector, NGOs and other
community groups in forestry operations should be encouraged.
(c)   Industrial plantations need to be put on a commercial footing. To better
control costs, better accounting needs to be introduced and made distinct from
the rest of FD's finances. Cost recovery is also essential to the plantations'
sustainability and has been included as a key component in the Forestry
Development Project.
(d)    Given FD's weak implementation capacity, future projects should include
strong technical assistance and institution building components. This has
become the focus of the follow on project.
(e)    Up-to-date forest legislation and policy are needed to guide subsector
development. The preparation of a Masterplan for forestry is being funded by
FINNIDA.
(f)    Arrangements for a suitable headquarter for FD are required for a new project
to go ahead. This has been made a cond;,ion for effectiveness of the Forestry
Development Project.



- 11 -
KENYA THIRD RFOESTRY PROJECT
(Credit No.-1213-KE:LAhL.-O-Q2.-KE
PROJECT CQMPLETIN  -REPORT
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    INTRODUCTION
The World Bank has been involved in forestry development in
Kenya for nearly 20 years now. It has been participating in part financing of the
development of forest plantations in the country primarily to help meet the country's
wotA requirements from internal sources. This has been done in three phases
between 1970 and 1989. The first two phases (1970-1981) concentrated mainly in
establishing plantations to supply pulpwood and sawwood materials. The third
forestry project continued with establishment of additional plantations for the same
purposes but, in addition, also provided for the management of these plantations and
those established during the first two phases. It also provided for funds for
supporting rural afforestation extension services.
At the beginning of the Third Forestry Project there were approximately
148,000 ha. of plantations in Kenya. By the end of the project period there were now
approximately 168,000 ha of plantations, an increase of about 15%, despite an annual
plantations clearfell programme of about 3,380 ha. These plantations which consisted
(as at the end of 1989) of approximately 45% cypress, 34% Pines, 10% Eucalyptus
and about 1  % other indigenous and exotics species, have been able to meet the
national requirements of most forest products. On the average they provide about 1.2
million cubic meters of roundwood annually from which about 70,000 metric tonnes
of papers and 200,000m3 of sawn timber are produced annually mainly for the home-
market consumption. This has been able to save the country about Kn 184,000
million worth of foreign exchange annually. The Kenya government is therefore
extremely grateful for all the assistance it has received from the World Bank which
has made all this possible.



- 12 -
2.    PROBLEMS AND CONSTRAINTS DURIN                E     TATIN
At the time the Third Forestry Project was coming into effect, the Forest
Department had already successfully implemented two earlier forestry projects and it
was expected to have accumulated enough experience to implement a similar project
however more complex it was. However, the implementation of the Third Forestry
Project has not been as successful as earlier anticipated. This has been due to a
number of constraints among which are the following:
(a)    Ability of the government to absorb the cost of the PrQiec
Although the project agreement indicated that the government of Kenya was
expected to contribute only 21% of the project costs it turned out that the
government had to meet much more than that as her contribution towards the
project. Apparently the World Bank Group was only able to reimburse Kenya
about 23 % of the total expenditure incurred by the government to sustain the
project. An analysis done by the government has shown that there were a
number of activities which the Forest Department had to undertake as part of
the project work for which expenditures were classified as unclaimable.
These constituted about 57% of the Forest Department budget. For the
remaining 43% of the expenditures Incurred on activities acceptable by the
World Bank as claimable, the government was only able to claim about 54%
of the expenditures incurred. This was because the Bank Group could only
meet some proportions of the costs incurred as per the agreement.
The requirement that the government meets the 77% of the Forest Department
expenditures from her coffers was a major hindrance to the utilization of funds
made available by the Bank Group (I.B.R.D. and I.D.A.) which necessitated
cancellation of part of the loan during the project period. It also prevented
the smooth implementation of the project due to frequent expenditure freezes
and withdrawals from the budget of the Ministry/Department to bring
expenditures to levels that could be accommodated by the available local
resources. It was also a major factor which contributed to the need for the
extensions to December 1989.



- 13 -
(b)    Labour Cost as a proportion of the total development budget
By their very nature forestry operations are labour intensive. It is no wonder
personnel costs constitute a significant proportion of every forest activity.
When, however, it constitutes as much as 90% of an organization total
development budget it may act as a constraint towards normal development.
Apparently this has been the case within the Forest Department where 80-85%
of the Department's total derelopment budget has been spent on salaries and
allowances alone. This has left very small proportions of the budget for real
development. Unless additional funds can be made available for operational
cost and investments, there may be need for significant change in policy
regarding utilization of labour for forestry operations. It should be noted,
however, that the high proportion of labour cost in the overall Forest
Department expenditure budget cannot be blamed on the World Bank's present
and cast involvement in industrial plantation development, as has been
nisconceived in some quarters. As discussed in (c) below, the staff are
needed for other equally important development activities in which the Forest
Department is involved. If these activities are considered priorities funds
must be provided to sustain them so that their execution does not infringe on
other forestry development work as has been the case during the period of this
project when industrial plantations development suffered most due to other
forestry development work.
Design of future projects must take into consideration necessity to have labour
within the Department with which it will undertake the various responsibilities
charged to it by the government. Funding arrangement for forestry
development must take into cognition the fact that a large proportion of the
Department's development budget has to be used to pay salaries and other
personnel related costs for her regular staff at various levels. It should be
noted that the government's ability to contribute towards financing of any
investments within the forestry sub-sector will depend on her ability to raise
funds over and above those needed to maintain her regular staff, as a first
priority.



- 14 -
(c)    Forest Labour and Labour Productivity
Towards the end of the Second Forestry Project in 1981, when the Third
Forestry Project was being negotiated between the G.O.K. and the World
Bank concern was raised by the Bank on the need for the permanent labour
force of the Forest Department at the time. It was said to be to too large and
unproductive. An agreement was reached on to restrict further employment of
that cadre of staff during the Third Forestry Project. Apparently it was
assumed that all the subordinate staff of the forest Department were to be
engaged in forest plantations development as the only development work in
the Department. It was not considered that quite a large proportion of the
total labour force is also engaged in forestry extension programmes and in the
protection and conservation of the indigenous forest resources also managed
by the Department. The effect of the decision on the labour age distribution
and hence productivity were also not foreseen.
This arrangement has since 1982 seriously affected the normal operations of
the Forest Department. There has been serious shortage of the staff necessary
to expand forestry activities within farmland through forestry extension
programmes. The Department has not been able to expand its sfeedings
production fast enough to meet the generally increased demand for tree
sedlings by farmers and other N(iOs. The management in gazetted forest
reserves has also been affected by shortaae of labour. Although the Forest
Department hais been able to establish an average of 6,000 ha. of plantations
annually since 1982, it has not been possible to manage the plantations
properly. Silvicultural treatments have not been done when they havefallen
du. Forest boundaries have also not been well maintained due to shortage of
labour.
(d)    Transport and Roads Construction Equipment
If there was any one area in which the Third Forestry Project can be said to
have failed it was on transport. Most of the vehicles and items of plant and
equipment used to implement the project were those carried forward from the
Ist and 2nd Forestry Projects. A survey carried out in May 1989 showed that
although the forest Department had a fleet of 823 vehicles and items of plant
about half of these were too old and just deserved to be boarded or scrapped.



- 15 -
159 of them were over ten years old (with 76 being over 20 years). The
survey also showed that most of the vehicles identified as serviceable were
actually grounded because of lack of tyres only.
It Is the view of the government that the project design was a major
contributor to the poor transport situation during the project implementation
period. Out of a total of US$9.0 million Italian loan earmarked to support
transport situation and roads construction work during the project period only
US$1.5 million was utilized. The rest was canceled (or reallocated to other
projects) when it became apparent that there were difficulties in acquiring the
vehicles and equipment fiom Italy. These difficulties started being
experienced not long after the project implementation had just started. Had
the project been reviewed early, it could perhaps have been possible to take
positive steps to correct the situation and look for alternative financiers (i.e.
gap fillers) when the Italian loan had failed to operate. Since transport and
forestry roads are intricately related to other forestry develepment work,
inability to acquire the anticipated vehicles and the roads construction
equipment had contributed signiflcantly to the lowering of the achievements of
the other components of the projects. The project Hqs. staff were unable to
visit the field more frequently to monitor progress of work in the field due to
lack of reliable transport arrangements at the Headquarters. Reliable transport
will be needed at the Project Hqs in future to allow for ease of field visits by
the project officers at Hqs., including the Project Manager, Project
Accountant, etc.
(e)    prie  Administration
(i)    During the Second Forestry Project and the early part of the Tfhird
Forestry Project the implementation of the project was mandated to a
Project Manager with a rank equivalent to that of the Deputy Director
of Forestry. Of late this has not heen the case. Effective coordination
of such a Project, however, dictates that the Project Manager be
senior enough to make it easier and natural for all the staff engaged in
the project to be answerable to him. The original arrangement was a
more logical and practical approach.



- 16 -
(ii)    The magnitude of activities during the Third Forestry Project was such
that it had become impracticable to efficiently process project related
data manually as had been the case during the 1st and 2nd Forestry
Projects. Despite the all out effort made by the Project Officers
towards that end it was not possible to prepare reliable returns within
a short time. There will be need to strengthen the Projects data
capturing and processing office to enable it to be more useful In
providing management information to the system.
(iii)   It will be necessary in future to e:tsure that the data that comes from
the field upon which decisions affecting thi> project activities are based
are prepared by competent officers. There will be need for more
frequent in-scrvice training of officers involved in project activities to
ensure that reliable data comes from the field. Training will also
ensure improvement in work performance.
(iv)   The disjointed nature of the Forest Department Hqs. arrangement,
towards the end of the project period, nearly paralysed the
effectiveness of the Project Manager's office. With officers and
records scattered in offices and sites far removed from each other, it
became almost impossible to effectively coordinate the workings in the
office. A better Hqs. arrangement is necessary if the office is to
operate with any measure of efficiency.
(f)    Changes in Government Policy
Plantations development during the project period found itself caught up in a
shift of government policy in a number of areas related to forestry
development. The changed situations called for introduction of new ideas,
techniques and methods some of which were just but experiments and could
not guarantee success. There were policy changes in the following areas:
(i)    Development and Conservation of Indigenous forest Vegetation
Plantations development in the past had given greater emphasis on
promotion of exotic tree species, sometimes at the expense of more
suitable indigenous species. During the Project period the government
decided to lay increased emphasis on promotion of the indigenous



- 17 
species through planting and preservation of indigenous forest areas on
soil and water conservation sites, and on water catchment zones.
Some of the exotic plantations were clearfelled to be replaced with
indigenous species.
(ii)    Abolition of tle Shamba System in forest reserves
Success in plantations development in the past has been credited to use
of the shamba system which ensuired that the trees planted out had a
high survival rate and faster growth. With the abolition of the shamba
It can now be expected that higher costs had to be incurred to ensure
high survival, and to maintain the general hygiene in the plantations,
(iii)   Abolition O' iesidence in forest reserves
To remove squatters from the forest reserves the government not only
stopped cultivation in the forest (i.e. the shamba system) but also
directed that those working in the forest must operate from their
residence outside the forest reserve. For remotely located forest
stations the decision seriously affected labour productivity as the staff
spent most of their working time moving to and from work.
(iv)   Ablition of grazing rights in fQrest reserves
This decision may not have had direct effect on plantation
development but it is feared that forest reserves will experience
increased risks of fires and rat damage due to increase in grass in the
understorey. This will call for stepped-up fire protection activities and
facilities.
3.     Comments on Completio,n Report Prepared by the World Bank
(a)    Preface
Paragraph 2 Please note that the Swiss financial contribution in the
3rd Forestry Project was not a loan but a grant.
(b)    Introduction (Chapter 1)
Paragraph 3
See paragraph 2(a) above on what the GOK contribution turned out to
be as the project was being implemented.



- 18 -
(c)    Project Obiectives and Components (Chanter III)
Paragraph 7
Please note that Forest Extension Services started way back in 1971
and not during the project period. The 3rd Forestry Project intended
merely to strengthen its activities. By 1982 at least 14 Districts
already had District Forestry Extension Officers facilitating forestry
extension activities.
(d)    Project Design (ChapLter iy!
(i)    Pgragrah 9
See paragraph 2(d) above and note that the government
attributes failure to acquire vehicles and items of plant and
equipment during the project period on design of the project.
Had the project design been flexible enough it could have
responded to the need to review the Italian contribution to
ensure that it did not affect other project components.
(ii)   Paragraph 13
The frequent changes in Project Management saw 4 Project
Directors managing the project during its implementation
period. The 4 Project Directorm were Messrs. S. Mbinda,
J.0. Angwenyi, A.H. Chavangi and J.O. Gor.
(e)   (i)    Paragraph 20
The main cause of failure to maintain plantations properly was
shortage of resources (funds, transport, equipment and
labour). However by the end of 1989 most of the backlogs
had been cleared through a Haramnbee collaboration with the
wood-using industry.
(ii)   Paragraph 21
Since the mid 1970s the maintenance of the game moats has
been considered a responsibility of the government Ministry
responsible for Wildlife Management. They appear to have
failed to maintain the moats. Funds for the maintenance of the
moats need to revert to the Forest Department to ensure that
they are brought back to good conditions, as used to be the



- 19 -
case when their maintenan.e was a responsibility of the
Department.
(iii) Paagra_h 23
The FESD has been too thin not only on the ground but also
at the HQs. to be effective. Moreover the staff are neither
adequately trained nor exposed to intricacies of real extension.
That could have been part of the reason why the pilot
extension project agreed on did not take off. With new and
better trained staff things are expected to work out for the
better in future. The officers are now ready to experiment on
a pilot basis where necessary.
(iv)   Pararaph 25
Please note that 40 motor cycles, 12 Suzuki light vehicles and
80 bicycles were bought as part of the Swiss contribution to
the project,
(v)    Paragraph 26
Budgetary constraints played part in preventing execution of
some project activities; staff training and aerial surveys
included.
Low budgetary ceilings could not allow for allocation of funds
for these activities.
(vi)   Pgraph 27
Please note that the royalties paid for sawwood and pulpwood
materials during the project period shown in table 15 are not
correct. See appendix 1 attached herewith for the correct
figures (1983/84 to 1988/89). Decline in revenue from sale of
forest produce may be due to uncollected revenue but it could
also be due to other factors among them being the following:
-     Availability of cheap materials from the Nyayo Tea
Zone.
-     Inaccessibility to the forest caused by bad weather and
road conditions.



20 -
Decline in harvesting caused by uncertainties resulting
from directives to translocate mills from forest
reserve, and risk factors resulting from the
requirement that wood-users participate in maintenance
of forest plantations.
(D    *stainabilitv (Chater_UX
rraph 2B(c)
Re-introduction of the task rate system does not need, as a
prerequisite, retirement of subordinate staff in service today. It was a
mistake to abolish its use. It should be re-introduced immediately. It
should be understood however that although use of task rates is more
practicable where permanent labour is in use, as is the case within the
Civil Service, it is not in itself ideal. Other modes of payment such as
the bonus and the piece rate systems are not practicable in the civil
service.
(g)    Bank GiroupPerformncg (Chapter N
Paranraph 29
The difficulties between the GOK and the government of Italy were
not quite resolved by the World Bank. Insufficient participation by
the Italian government on the project components was a major cause
for poor project performance. The Bank could have helped to resolve
initial differences. It should have taken a leading role later to ensure
that the project was reviewed at the appropriate time to ensure that
failure of the Italian contribution did not adversely affect the whole
project performance. As coordinator of Donor involvement at design
stage, it should have continued playing the same role even during the
project implementation.
0)    Borrower Performance (Chapter XI)
Paragerah 32
See paragraph 2 (e)(ii) above. Use of computers will be necessary in
future to ensure that reliable data is maintained and processing of the
same can be done fast enough to p-ovide useful information to the
management.



- 21 -
(k)    Lessons Chapter (XI)l
One of the lessons learnt during the project period is the need to
ensure that balances on undisbursed loans are reviewed more regularly
to take care of devaluations of the local currencies. The cancellation
of the US$ 10 million from the IBRD loan was not due to inability of
the government to utilize the loan funds but was due to accumulated
devaluation of the local currency against the US dollars. At the end
of 1989 the original US$ 21.5 was equivalent to US$ 47.3 million.
Based on the 1989 local currency value only US$ 9.8 million was
equivalent to the original loan value. Some of the loan should have
been canceled much earlier to avoid payment of interest on loan
principal that was not going to be utilized.
4.    CHANGES IN PLANTATION AREAS DURING PROJECT PERIOD
Appendix 2 attached herewith gives the best estimates of changes that took
place within the plantations during the prGject period. More reliable data will
be obtained when the on-going plantations inventory project will have
produced up-dated data.



23 
APPENDIX 1
ROYALTY COLLECTION 1983/84 TO 1988/89
YEAR            ITEM                DESCRIPTION                 AMOUNT (Kg)
1983/84         641         Timber Royalty                       3,522,380
642         PuelwooA Royalty                      176,229
670         Misc. Forest Receipts                 234,804
TOTAL                         3,933,413
1984/85        641        Timber Royalty                       4,333,761
642        Fuelwood Royalty                       190,561
670        Misc. Forest Receipts                  266,679
TOTAL                            4,791,001
1985/86        641        Timber Royalty                       5,072,252
642        Fuelwood Royalty                       148,433
670        Misc. Forest  Receipts                 207,685
TOTAL                           5,428,370
1986/87        641        Timber Royalty                       6,718,828
642        Puelwood Royalty                       191,957
670        Misc. Forest Receipts                  244,621
TOMAL                          7,155,406
1987/88       641        Timber Royalty                       6,032,555
642        Fuelwood Royalty                       153,475
670        Misc. Forest Receipts                  236,891
TOTAL                          6,422,921
1988/89       641        Timber Royalty                       6t736,477
642       PFuelwood Royalty                       161,024
670        Misc. Forest Receipts                  201,653
7,O99,054



tHA%NGES IN PLANTATION AREAS DURING THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
-AREA OF       S I          1982        1983      1984      1985        1986        1987        1988        1989         TOTAL
FOI._P.
5       CYPRESS      62,938.9
PINES       59,640.5
EUCALYPrS   10,312.4
OTHERS      12,113.9
0 | | |  TOTAL      145,005.7
CYPRESS      4,168.0    4,443.3  2,905.7   3,596.3    3,804,9         3,035.5   2,793.6     2,194.3      26,941.6
PINES        2,429.7    1,766.6    984.6   1,336.4        873.1         312.3     485.6        669.7      8,858.0
EUCALYPITS    1,652.9    1,647.1  1,038.8   1,065.2       781.6         891.4     333.9       653.0       8,063.9
_   TOTAL    8,761.2    8,500.5  5,561.0   6,614.7    6,232.1        5,488.0    5,475.1    4,960.6       51,593.2
CYPRESS      1,489.8    1,500.0  1,403.9   1,484.9    1,212.8       1,726.9    1,610.1    1,489.8        11,918.2  ,
0 p       ~~~PINES       1,138.9    1,200.0  1,218.6   1,231.0        905.8     2,220.5    1,845.1    2,032.8       11,792.7   t
EUCALYPTS      510.4       400,0    339-9      518.8      248.6        180.4       -         314,0        2,512.1
m tJ 5OTHfERS   39.1        30.0     33.3       54.1      232.7       216.9       107.7      102.0          815.8
TOTAL        3,178.2    3,130.0  2,995.7   3,288.8    2,599.9       4,344.7    3,562.9   3,938.6         27,038.8
CYPRESS     65,617.7   66,101.8  69,045.1  70,546.9   72,658.3   73,966.9   75,150.4  75,854.9           75,854.9
> W      ~~PINES       609,931.3   61,077.9  61,644.5  61,410.5   61,515.9   59,607.7   58,248.2  56,885.1         56,885.1
a S 2      ~~EUCALYPTS   11,454-9  12,597.4  13,848.2  14,547.1   15,093.5   15,804.5   16,138.4  16,477.4           16,477.4
g i        ~~~OTHERS    12,585.4   13,056.9  13,670.4  14,269.0   14,831.7   15,863.6   17,617-9  18,959.5           189959-5
3 t W 0   ~TOTAL       150,589.3  152,834.0  158,208.2 160,773t5  164,099.4  165,242.  i6795.   6,7.                  6,7.
CYPRESS     + 4.26      +O.74       +4.45    +2.18       +3.00       +1.80        +i.6o     +O.94           +20 52
Sa  -   PINES        + 2.i6     +0.24        +O.93    -0.3e       O.07        =3.10        -0.60     -2.34          _4.62
EUCALYPPS   +11.08      +9.98       +9.93    +5.05       +3.76       +4.71        +2.11     +2.10           +59.78  I
OTHERS      + 3.89    +3.74         +4.70    +4.38      +3.94        +6.96       +11.06    +7.61            *     6
TOTAL        + 3.85    +1.49         +3.52  +1.62        +2.07        +0.70       +1.16      +0.61         +15.98 -



1.   NOrN S   1982 figures are extrapolations where actual records of areas clearfelled
could not be traced. The 1989 figures are also provisional since clearfell
figures have not been fully confirmed.
- Of the total area shown as planted in 1982 only 1087.2 was done during the
Third Forestry Project period. The other 3080.8 ha were planted during the
last part of the Second Forestry Project.
LJ1
-   Clearfell areas are based on returns received from the field.  It may not have
-    included areas clearfelled to give way for the Nyayo Tea Zone.. Assumption
has also been made that Eucalyptus plantatihns once felled never coppiced to
re-establish the plantations.  This is correct.  It is most likely that the
Eucalyptus plantations areas are much larger than those reflected. This
would in effect increase the standing plantation plantations foreat-area.



ANALYSIS OF DEVELOPtENT EENDITURES DURING T11E THIRD FORESTRY PPROJECT
(1982-89)
EX?ENDITURES ON CLAIM LE ITEMS
rwvnom   MOIn2                               -DMfU~I
MAL                                                       mass            AIAN         GMI 58  .  .  in."
.i          _1P   P...                               c .   .U0   .12  ,OA   ED1OI-._. 
196V96      C7S         10.570.39 5N    ,764314            1           32,031                                  5,652         315683
618          1,183,466     1,100,2             2            2;181                                   545           2,727
6719        3504,125       2.63,525            3          "99454                                 165,782       1,305,T27
(81            12.66s      155,055            4          4620653             -                    1,625        544,217
f8 "16,169                   13,486                       19 4,540                                83.374        217,914
TA .^.a    *15.31,5117    12,668,60                     1.630,63,                                336,978       1,96t1817         15,347,508     15.664.278
9ao6'    C .,         l0,o9o.645     0,366.556           1       19.944           _              _         126.194         246,13e
*   1,295.(66  1,057. All         2        5.541           _             _           58,374         41.114
El)          5.1'3.711    2,523,528            3      869,769           _              _       2.096.007       2,965.T76
691           27",622       134,579            4      664,74.7          _                        811.417       1.476,164
6n8        ......1L14L..     61.202 --        j~ S                      -              _       1.448.998       1.ss,6s69
T107*                14,830.363   1V,143,756                  1,740,499                                 4,524.489       6,264.988          8.565.395    13.089.W4
1"1166    676           9.857.606     8.627,729           1      326,046           _                  -   -211114           114.952
617          1,2817.50    1.0g9.604            2       72,423           _           645,079   (-) 26,049        691,453
679          2.051.6#2    2.316,343            3      918.429           _              _        1,03d.140      1.952,5f9
681           222.4i        148,947            4    1,6o0,281    *      _              _          61,231       1,611,512
698            29,910         25,647      _           212*722           _              -        1,537,546      1.750.269
1tAi         14.2m.190    12,218,270                  3,1,502                       645.019    2W395.754       6,110,735          8.078.45    10.474,199
196/67  616            9.446,272     7,609,620           1      456,61          l10.983          -      (-) 47*585         522,411
618           10e8,352       650,10T            2      2,1.W             _             _        -)155,512         94,670
619           2.1783401    2.037,990            4    165'9,167           _             _          35,503        1.615.270
663            270,769       156.004            4    1,655,12            -                     (-)i93*745       1.459.984
689             11,5" )        9.036            5    2,104,179       1.130,071         _       (-)i97,94       3,9,6.68!.
_MtAL       155.53o    10,64196,044.670                              1,241,054                 (-)1.686.104    5,599,023          7.96,520     6,53,616
1965/86   616           e.445.067    6,455,543           1       410,556 t        18,565 3                   202,260       651,179
678            9S7o51.       764,5)9           2       211,310            544          _            90,162       302,016
679          2.405,34      1.,e9s7g6           3         -               -                        1 14,89.374  1,489.374
681            760."6       125,542           4       464,522           -             _           987,482      1,552,004
(f9       ~      5.515        42,390           5       61?,554          62,006         -          1.032.099    1.711,459
A7 u  ---12,121,926        V.25 3e10                 1,70542   .        83,113         -         3,701,377     5.486,032          6,655,894     10,357,271
-                                                  -                           -            -      __
1962/45  616          25,605.567    22,370,770          1       566,20D         210,239         -           998.986      1.775,55
616           1.914,625    1,517,012           2        95,241           1.089         -           216.5s7       570.917
atvn   619            5.520,540     3,476.096          3      1,750.008   *                     -         2.185,449    35955,451
..<      681            640.618       4950,1s           4     1.61,.55              _           -         2,292.o04     5.971,557
v3/.r  6m8              66.511    --.29.6?              s     1.      l .1     .4 2.120         -         2.S21.886     5.218.567                     . _
-   1'tAt         4.7SaZ 61L  ..1 12  L.,.             _                  bs.Ma i244  ..6 5zll  _   _  .t2f sl. 2 _  3.269.005         1Se.s         257a7 _.  __-_____e
snW~1.T 196216A -,13 6919
t^X...   ff.420.22?                    jV .02.695       2.965.635        '4t .- 79  17.544.36    4'.15o.395          60,129.412    77.674.210  W



NOTE:  A  Expenditure Category:                             B  All costs are in KL
1 - Civil Works
2 - Vehicles & Equipment                         C  Expenditures for 1982/83 - 1984/85 are
lumped together because some of the
3 - Labour Plantation Establishment                 individual years' records are not acces-
sible.
4 - Labour Plantation Maintenance
5 - Operation and Maintenance
I



KENYA
FORESTRY III PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KEY PROJECT DATA
A. PROJECT SUMMARY
Country                           Republic of Kenya
Sector                         : Agriculture
Project Name                   : Tbird Forestry Project
IDA Credit Number              : 1213 KE
IBRD Loan Number               : 2098 RB
Credit Amount                  : SDR 13.6 miUlion (US$ 16.0 miUlion). Credit fully disbursed
Loan Amount                    : US$ 21.5 million (Reduced to US$ U.S million in January 1989). Only US$8.6 million disbursed
Government of Italy Loan       : US$ 9.0 million.  Only US$ 1.5 million disbursed
Government of Switzerland Grant: SWFR 15.0 million (US$ 7.6 million; Reduced to SWFR 7.5 million in September 1985). Fally disbursed
local Counterpart Funding      : US$ 14.1 million.  US$ 21.0 million equivalent disbursed
Total Project Cost (Ercl.Taxes): US$ 68.2 million; Actual US$ 52.8 millioa
Estimated ERR                  : New Plantations - 19Z; Rural Afforestation - 22Z                                                                       t
Actual ERR                     : New Plantations - 17.52:; Rural Afforestation - N/A
B. PROJECT TIE TABLE
Date Planned                Revised Date                 Actual Date                                              0
Item                          lo-nth      Year            Month       Year             Month       Year
-                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z
Identification                 -            -                                          May          1979
Preparation                   January      1980           Jtme         1980            Jtne        1980*
Appraisal                      -            -              -            -              November   1980**
Loan/Credit Negotiations       -            -              -            -              November   1981
Board Approval                 -            -              -            -              March       1982
Loan/Credit Signature          -            -              -            -              August      1982
Loan/Credit Effectiveness    November    1982             March        1983)
May          1983)           May         1983
Loan/Credit Closing           December    1986            December    1987)                                                             1!
December    1988)
December    1989)           April        1990                                 o
DecFaber   1989
Loan/Credit Completion        June         1986
* Preparation Report issued October 1980
**  SAR Issued Jan. 1982 after past appraisals In March and August 1981



C. ID/TIBRD CUMULATIVE CREDIT/LQAN DISBURSEMENTS
(USS mn)
Fy   1983     1984      1985      1986      1987      1988      1989      1990
SAR Estimates         3.7      11.3      21.5      31.8      37.5       -        -         -
Cancellations         -         -         -         -         -         -        -         12.9
Actual                -         3.3       6.9       8.9      16.6      20.4     23.2       24.6
* Mission Estimate
D. AVERAGE EXCEANGE RATES:
At Appraisal                      U.S. S 1  K SR                      10.00
1982183                                                              13.31
1983/84                                                              14.41
1984/85                                                              16.43
1985/86                                                               16.23
1986/87                                                              17.00
1987/88                                                              17.36
1988/89                                                              18.5
1989/90                                                              22.0*
* Mission Estimate
E. ANNUAL INFLATORS *
1982/83                                                                1.67
1983/84                                                               1.50
1984/85                                                               1.41
1985/86                                                               1.32
1986/87                                                                1.23
1987/88                                                               1.11
1988/89                                                               1.00
I5, '
x o
~ o 
F0



KENYA
FORESTRY ill PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOPT
MSION DATA
Stage of Project                                          Number of    Period in                        Performance
Cycle          Sent by              Month/Year        Persons      Field        SpecialstioB       Rating                         Types of
(Days)      Represented        t atus       rend        Problems  '
Preparation
Appraisal
Supervision I       IDA/IBRD            April 1982            1           3        F                       1                2               P
2       IDAIIBRD            Algust 1982           2          7        P, E                     1               2                P
3       IDA/IBRD            January 1983          3          6        F, EF, AE                2               3                P
4       IDATIBRD            October 1983          2          6        P, AE                    3                2               P,M
5       IDA/tBRD/STdC       May 1984              3         13        F, E                     2                1               F,P,M
6       IDA/IBRD/STC-/      November 1984         2         12        P                        2               2                F,T,P,M
7       IDAlIBRD            September 1985        2          4        F, A                     2              N/A               N/A
8       IA/IBRD             November 1985         1         10        F                         2              N/A              N/A
9       IDA/IBRD            June 1986             3         10        F, EF                     3             NIA               N/A
10       IDh/IERD            September 1986        2        N/A        F                         2             N/A               N/A
11       IDA/IRD             December 1987         2         12        F, E                      2             N/A               N/A
12       IDA.IBRD            September 1988        1         10        F                         2             NIA               N/A
13       IDA/IBMD            April 1989            2         12        F, FA                     3             N/A               N/A
Notes:
1.  F - Forester  ; 3 - Economist; EP - Economist/Financial Analyst; 8A - Agricultural Economist; A   Agriculturist; FA - Financial Analyst
2. 1 - Problem-free or minor problem; 2 - Moderate Problems; 3 - Major Problems.
3. 1   Improving; 2 - Stationary; 3 = Deteriorating;  not applicable after 1985 when format changed.
4.  F ' Financial; M - Managerial; T - Technical; P - Political; 0 - Others
5. STC - Swiss Technical Cooperation
6. Representatives from STC and the Italian Government participated on a part-time basis.
N/A - Information not available. Ia 1985, the IDA Supervision report summary format changed so that no comparative evaluation or performance
rating and types of problems is available.
X 



KENYA
FORESTRY III PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PROJECT FINANCING
uSS Million
Planned 1!             Revised            Final (Actual)
A. IDA/IBRD FUNDS                            Credit       Loan       Total      Loan       Credit       Loan    Total
Expeaditure Category
1. Civil Works                              3.81        4.99       8.80       0.90        1.89       0.68       2.57
2. Vehicles & Equipment                     0.87        1.14       2.0I       0.40        0.54       0.13       0.67
3. Labour - Plantation Establishment        3.46        4.54       8.00       3.30        3.54       2.74       6.28
4. Labour - Plantation Maintenance          3.03        3.97       7.00       3.45        5.40       3.41       8.S1
5. Operation & Maintenance                  2.03        2.67      4.70        1.90        4.63       1.56       6.19
6. Consultants                              0.60        0.80       1.40       -                      0.06       0.06
7. Training                                 --                     -          0.25        -           -          -
8. Research & Extension                     -           -          -          0.40
9. Unallocated                              2.20        3.39       5.59       0.90        -           -          -
Sub-Total                             16.00       21.50      37.50      11.50       16.00       8.58      24.58
B. Swiss Govt. Grant 3t                                               7.60       4.60                               4.60 V
C. Italian Govt. Loan                                                 9.00                                          1.50 4'
Total External                                               54.10                                        30.7
D. GOK Contribution                                                  14.10                                         21.0
TOTAL                                                        68.20 6/                                      51.7 7f
I/   Per Credit/Loan Agreements
2/   Per T-?n Agre'ent -nertdmPnt of .triTlary 1989                      _  __
31   Equivalent SwFt 15 million.  In September 1985, SwFr 7.5 million was cancelled. The remainder of the loan was fully
disbursed.
41 Equivalent to KShs 12.9 million which, according to FD, is all that was disbursed.
,5/ Acording to FD, GCIK had disbursed KShs 253.6 million by 30 June, 1988. On a pro-rata basis, total GOK disbursements would
reach KShs 329 million by the time the credit is completed. These figures however are debatable because with the
budgetary constraints that GOK has been exercising it is difficult for it to have equalled or exceeded its agreed
contribution.
61 Excluding taxes and dutie,
7/ Equivalent KShs 845 milli,



- 33 -
Table 4
KENYA
FORESTRY III PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Schedule of IDA/IBRD Diabursements
SAR Estimate                         Actual                        Estimate
Piacal Year          By end of_ 0                     By end of                        By end o_f _
and Quarter           _Larter        Cumulative        Quarter       Cumulative         Quarter       Cumulative
----------                  ---Us S million--------
1982/83
Sep 30                   0.3             0.3              -              -
Dec 31                   0.7             1.2              -              -
Mar 31                   1.2             2.4              -              -
Jun 30                   1.3             3.7              -              -
1983/84
Sep 30                   1.3             S.0              -               -
Dec 31                   2.1             7.1              2.3             2.3
Mar 31                   2.1             9.2              1.0             3.3
Jun 30                   2.1            11.3              0.8            4.1
1984/85
Sep 30                   2.2            13.5              0.4            4.5
Dec 31                   2.7            16.2              1.6             6.1
Mar 31                   2.7            18.9              0.6             6.7
Jua 30                   2.6            21.5              1.4             8.1
1985/86
Sep 30                   2.5            24.0              0.0            8.1
Dec 31                   2.5            26.5              0.7             8.8
Mar 31                   2.6            29.1              0.9             9.7
Jun 30                   2.7            31.8              0.4           10.1
1986!87
Sep -30                  2.7            34.5              2.8           12.9
Dec 31                   3.0            37.5              2.2           15.1
Mar 31                                                    0.5           15.6
Jun 30                                                    0.4*+0.6      16.6
1987/88
Sep 30                                                    0.1           16.7
Dec 31                                                    1.3           18.0
Mar 31                                                    0.6           18.6
Jun 30                                                    1.2           19.8
1988/89
Sep 30                                                    0.6           20.4
Dec 31                                                    0.0            20.4
Mar 31                                                    0.3           20.7
Jun 30                                                    0.1           20.8
1989/90
Sep 30                                                    1.9           22.7
Dec 3310
Mar 31S/                                                                                   3.0'
Jun 3(&V                                                                                                  25.7A/
a/  Credit (SDR 13.6m - USD esP. valent 16.0m) drawn down in June 1987.
b/  Closing Date extended to D.  31, 1989 on 12/23/86 and US510.0 m. cancelled from Loan 01/13/89.
c/  On the assumption that qtinl'ard Bank practice of setting deadline for final diaburaementa at six months
beyond closing date will i-p;Yp
d/  Likely undisburse4 amount   a:.on is estimated at US$ 1.8 million.



- 34 -
Table 5
KENYA
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PROJECT COSTS
(Expressed in US$ Millions)
ESIIMATE 1/   ACTUAL 2/   ACTUAL AS
% OF ESTIMATE
New Plantation Establishment       10.1           13.6              135
Plantation Maintenance              9.6            9.7              101
Total  'lantation Costs        19.7           23.3              118
Rural Afforestration                6.6            7.2              109
Forestry Department                27.7           21.2               77
Total Base Costs               54
Contingencies:
Physical                          5.4
Price                            14.7
Total Project Costs            74.1           51.7               70
1/    Per SAR
2/    Including Physical & Price Contingencies
N/A   Cannot be derived because SAR does not give expenditure by category
including contingencies
Source: Forestry Department, Nairobi



Table 6
- 35           ~           Page I of 2
KENYA
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
KEY IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS
SAR
Unit           Estimate               Actual
1.  PIantation Establishment            Ha              25,600                  43342
(Revised 44,800)
2. Civil Works
A. Building
Class 5 houses                     unit                 12    1
Class 9 houses                     unit                100    1
Foxest Guard houses                unit                160    ]2272         448
Forest Workers houses              unit               2000    1
Forest Station Office & Store      unit                  8                   76
Forest Station Water Supply        unit                 12    1
Replacement Water Supply           unit                 60    ]72            60
New Nurseries                      unit                 30                   75
Expansion of Existing Nurseries   unit                 125                  N/A
B. Roads
Contracted Road Construction       km                  160                 N/A
Contracted Road Upgrading          km                   48                 N/A
Sub-total
C. Other
Game moat contruction              km                  100                    0
3. Training out of Prolect Funds
6 days course                      person trained      420                    0
Scholarships abroad                3 month course        3                    0
6 day course for EFAs              person trained      200                    0
6 day course for EFs               person trained      160                    0
Coordination seminar               unit                  4                    0
Study tour (Africa)                man-day             200                    0
Study tour (outside Africa)        man-day              84                    0
4. EquiRnment and Materials
A. Vehicles
Motorcycles                        unit                 80                    0
4 Wheel Drive Vehicles             unit                  2                 N/A
Graders                            unit                  4                    0
4 Wheel Drive Pick-up              unit                 80                   43
Trucks (7 ton)                     unit                 44                   23



- 36 
Table 6
Page 2 of 2
SAR
Unit           Estimate                Actual
Tractors (60-65 HP)                 unit                 64                  20
Trailers (5 ton, tipping)           unit                 44                   0
4 Wheel Drive Station Wagon         unit                  4                   0
Saloon Cars                         unit                  2                   1
Water Trailers                      unit                  4                    0
B. Other
Fire Control Equipment              set                   1                   0
Fire Towers, Material               set                   4                   0
Research Materials                  set                   4                   0
NOTES
N/A = Information not available
Source: FD, Karura



KEA
FORESTRY III PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEW PLANTATION ESTABLISHMENT AREAS
(HECTARES)
ANNUAL     Year 1       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4      Year 5       Year 6       Year 7
TYPE OF TREE           ESTIMATE      1983         1984        1985         1986         1987         1988        1989       TOTAL
Cypress Sawlogs          3,200      3,654.4      2,107.3     2,501.9       3,207.0    2,367.2         995.0       900      15,732.8
Pulpwood                 1,800      2,222.0      1,588.7     1,244.4       1,454.7       876.8     2,530.0      2,000      11,916.6
Pine Sawlogs               850        781.5        432.8     1,405.1         311.9       279.5         73.0       100       3,383.8
Eucalyptus Poles           300      1,337.1        527.2     1,102.6         632.4       701.5        226.0       200       4,726.8
Other Hardwoods            250        568.0        546.0       673.0         660.0    1,248.0       1,887.0     2,000       7,582.0
TOTAL                    6,400      8,563.0      5,202.0     6,927.0       6,266.0    5,473.0       5,711.0     5,200      43,342.0



FHUPlltStl  PINEEI
PANECT CWnEIIDIN ltiPI                                                                 bl      
EITINATED  Mh   PlONsIIDts - inr Pliatinji
_ ... . ................................................... ........................... .................................  .. . _.__..__.
tfttSS SwOS                          PIIK SNKSS                           PtlACD                            DtHER                         TOIAL HMDN0055                            ELCALIPMU
.._.. ....  ..............................._. ..__........................                   ........................           ..................                          ............... ._
ProJrt             Tot, Arta  Prokhttio"             Tot. Area    Proditio:            Tot. Area    pro4uttieto          Tot. Atl   r o Pt bodi                Aro        ProdtetIOA      bRAnl P)"lnle          Prod.- Poiti           p-oo.- rlmw00
leir                   IRA)   loomt solid)               Ha IRV      11 Soir761d)          tIN4    loomolid                  (HI)C th}   01oor 6011^0         (H)   100083 Soltd)              IN71                osos 0113 Soo           , 0003 s5:1o
_.. .... ..  ._..........                  ... . _.................          ... .  _ .... ...... .... ...............    . ........I..............  ... .   .. ........ ...._ ...  ........ ....       ............            ...............
2               571`2                             5B11                              1214                              1114                              11901                               512
3               1264                             50S5                               2619                              1797                              17123                              1103
4              11471                             6510                               27J)                              2447                             23559                                63n
5              153a3                              7307                              3211                              Uff                              2B)O1                                ol
4              It4t                              991                                124                               55B2                              35510                               226
7              1S353                             11917                              us                                7sa2                             3s0b                                 200
10                                                                                                 11.2                                                             17.2
11                                                                                                 26.7                                                            2c                                ..D.
12                                                                                                 57.6                                                            51. z6s
13                            840                                3 s.3                             64.5                                                           201.9                                             S.5                      14.5
14                           132.3                               91.5                              70.6                                                           294.o                                             3.z                       .
15                           190.1                             121.3                               n2.2                               1.1                         ss*.a                                            3.5                         .
o6                           20N.0                             151.2                               74.4                               2.2                         496.7                                            1.1                        3.6
17                           318.3                               77.3                              74.4                               3.6                         57.6.                                            1.o 0
le                           341.2                             23a.0                               74.4                               4.9                         658.3
19                           3o1.9                              2a^.0                              S7.                                7.4                         n12.5
20                           361.9                              28b.0                              47.2                              11.2                         750.1
21                           341.9                              2B^.o                              16.a                              1.2                          679.9
n2                           31.9                               2a .0                              10.0                              15.2                         673.0                                             b.7                      2f.
23                           361.9                              M6.0                                3.9                              15.2                         oo6.a                                             2.9                       b.o
24                           361.9                              266.0                               2.2                              IS 2                         665.2                                             S.s                      * .3
25                           361.9                              21ao.0                              o.o                              1S.2                         b3.0                                              3.2                       Q.5
2b                           3b1.9                              28b.0                               0.0                              15.2                         oW.0                                                                        s.. 
n7                           351.9                              2ao.0                               o.o                              15.2                         663.0                                             Z                         *
78                           361.9                              M.0                                17.2                              15.2                         680.2                                             ;os
r9                           Su1.9                              2ab.0                              26.7                              15.2                         689n7
so                           m6.9                               2ao.0                              57.o                              15.2                         no0.6
31                           277.8t                             232.7                              64.s                              15.2                         590.
32                           m2.3                               194.5                              10.o                              15.2                         W09.7                                             6.y                      20.1
33                           171.a                              164.7                              72.2                              15.2                         423.9                                             2.9                       a.0
34                            98.0                              129.B                              74.4                              15.2                         317. '                                            5.5                      :.
33                            43.6                              101.7                              14.4                              15.2                         741 9                                             3.2                       .
36                            20.7                               4a.0                              74.4                              15.2                         18.3                                             3.5                       10.5
37                              0.0                               o.0                              51.3                              15.2                          72.4                                             1.1                       3.4
se                             o.o                                o.o                              47.7                              1S.2                          02.9                                            1.0                        *.o
39                             -                                0.0                              1o.a                              15.2                          12.0
.0                             0.                                 0.0                              10.0                              15.2                          25.1
:1                             0.0                                0.0                               3.a                              10.2                          19.0
42                             0.0                                0.0                               2.2                              15.2                          17.4                                             6.7                      207.1
43                             o.o                                o.o                               o.o                               13.2                          15.2                                            2.9                       a.o
44                             0.0                                0.0               o.o                                               15.2                          15.2                                            5.                       165
45S                             o.O                               0.0                               o.o                               15.2                          15.2                                            3.2                       9.5
4b                             o.o                                o o                              1712                               15.2                         72.3                                             3.5                      10.5
*7                              0.0                               o.O                              26.7                               15.2                         41.9                                             1.                        3 s4
4t                              o.o                               o.o                             5s.6                                15.2                         72.8                                             1.0                       3.0
49                            S*.0                                3.3                              u4.5                               15.2                        217.0
So                            102.5                              91.5                              7o.6                              15.2                         309.0
_ _.                                                                                                   _   - __.   _.   __   ..    _   _  ....... .. . --._ ...... _ _ .. -_._ .......... ... . - _ _ _ _ _ _ ..............................    .   .    ..    .     .  .   ..    .    .......... _.__
-tOTAL       1577        a510.0               1)9)1         5M7.9                3S84         1516.1                75U          re65.5              3ulo        14os0                   4721                    5.4                     256.3
vigil Assgietio
Cyprnost lu Vdut lerot of Mis.s. htUrtty 30 Ytbrs
PiaHti hon b.wl lrcr"et 24311i . kterity 20yWr
ptpl a hg" bbl tr"Ft 22r,Blh.littrity to yvrdDr
etwt lrhas4 fesive *oriatiloll fth Aal lucrrl 2B3/k#. hatyrity 60 to 100 y.trs
Eigal)strsi hri u)i laorwt WMS of ditir 25tp) oolw 1n 41r"COd. h bl)rty 10 years..
_nuewsono~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .sJ-saunssDosnesstnns                                             .nsassttsnss* .......na-ssznanssa n   n    oso



KXMA
FORESTRY III PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SEEDLING PRODUCTION KFD AND RESD NURSERIES
(IN MILLIONS)
-   1987/88                                               1988/89         -
Exotic         Indeginous                        Exotic         Indigenous
Species         Species          Totals          Species        Species            Totals
Nyanza                        4.3               2.5             6.8             4.6            1.4                6.0
Western                       5.2               2.4             7.6             3.6            1.5                5.10
Central                      12.1                .99           13.09            8.6            2.6               11.20
Rift Valley                  21.2               7.3            28.5            18.8           11.90              30.70
Coast                         2.1               1.2             3.3             2.1            0.74               2.84
North Eastern                   .37              .16             .53              .23            .23               .46
Eastern                       9.0               1.7            10.7             7.1            2.4                9.50
Nairobi                         .85              .17            1.02             .95             .33              1.28
TOTALS                       55.12             16.42           71.54           45.98          21.1               67.08
L.B. Statistics for 82-86 not available.



- 40 -
KENYA
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT                Table 10
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT              T
Big"  0o1 &frMEy gkAL; uA           IN 1989
( ARI      B _ZSA  
DIS9PT PURDNIIG OIIUZIG
31.    J>erl                       Is,                  549.0
2.    Ua3ia Giohu                  1,167.9              174.6
3.    terioho                      3,255.3            31557.9
4.    Laikipa                      1,147.0              942.6
5.    USZfg@                       1,843.4            1,382.6
6*    Tras Nsoia                   1,058.0              393.0
7o.   R1go Narekvet                  697.0              385.0
Be    NakurA                       5,931.6            5,099.4
9.    Kiambu                         240.0            1.159.0
20* .    ahakou                      495.6              842.2
211.   Ihwanga                       356.9              203.1
12.   Kakau.ga                       132,0              274.4
13.  INorm                         1,464.0              293.6
14.   lrynsrga                       360.0              268.0
15.  vaun                            350.2              416.3
total                        19,5203             15,940.7
II: Work on olea."ing of backlogis In allvioulturl op.raton. bas beea done
In  k    District aA in In propss in Korioho Distztot and lia3bu
batriit.
Source: Kenya Forestry Department



- 41 -                        Table 11
KENYA
FORESTRY III PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GAME DAMAGE
DAMAGED PLANTATION AREAS AND KM OF GAME MOATS
Area (ha)                Moats (km)
Nveri District
Gathiuru/Mugeria                          183.7
Nanyuki                                   100.0
Naro Moru                                  46.0
Kaharu                                    358.5                       10
Hombe                                     257.8                        8
Ragati                                     95.5                        9
Chehe                                      87.4                        5
Kabage                                     56.3                        5
Kiondongoro                                84.8                        -
Zaina                                      24.3                        -
Muringato                                   -                          3
Total                      1274.3                       40
Trans Nzoia District
Kimothou                                  207.1
Kiptagot                                   14.3                       15
Total                      2211.4
Grand Total               1495.7                       55
Source: Kenya Forestry Department.



THBID FORESTRY PROJECT
ROAD MUNTEMANCE
A. 1mL DOMR (TMs)
ELDORAT                    LONDIAHI                    KIMLKU                       NYEB1                   TOTALS (4 UNITS)
CONSTR.  UPG8AD.  GRAD.  CONSTR. UPORAD.   GRED.  CONSTR. UPGRAD.  GRAD.   CONSTR. UPGRAD.  GRAD.   CONSTR. UPCRAD.  GRAD.
1982183      -        -         -      25.5       -       10.0        -       -         -       8.5      11.3       -       34.0    11.3    10.0
1983184      -        -         -        -        -       33.0        -       -         -        -       11.5       -        -       11.5    33.0
1984185      -        -        8.0       -        -       29.8       3.0     7.0        -        -       24.0       -        3.0    31.0    37.8
1985186     3.0       -        5.0       -        -       45.8        -       -       11.6      7.0       -       41.0      10.0      -      103.4
1986187    23.4       -        1.0       -        -       55.7        -       -       10.8       -        -       40.4      23.4      -      107.9
1987188      -                 7.0       -        -       23.3       0.5      -         -        -        -       10.5       0.5      -       40.8
1988189      -        -        7.0       -        -       23.3        -       -         -        -        -       10.5       -        -       40.8
TOTAL   26.4       -       28.0    25.5        -      220.9       3.5     7.0      22.4    15.5       46.8   102.4       70.9    53.8   373.7
B. TOTAL SANtT        43                       72                            18                          S0                         183
1988/89                                                                                                                  TOTA  (4 UNTiTS)       4
TOTAL EXPEND-        IL P.E.        A.I.E        P.E.        A.I.E.       P.E.         A.I.E.        P.E.        A.I.E.        P.E.        A.I.E.
ITURB
1982183                 -           4,500       42,980       75,400         -            -          39,296       70,450       82,276      150,350
1983184                 -             -         43,470       25,050       16,146        4,100       49,944       21,950      109,560       51,100
1984185                24,840      14,493       43,470       29,000       16,146       20,475       39,944       16,685      124,400       80,653
1985186                27,000      26,850       47,250       30,810       17,550       34,070       43,200       29,980      135,000      121,710
1986187                29,159      28,195       51,027       32,265       18,953       32,410       46,655       31,170      145,794      124,040
1987188                32,646      12,205       57,130       14,475       21,220       12,507       52,234       14,141      163,230      53,328
1988189                33.952      12.768       59,415       15,103       22.069       11,983       54,323       13,596      169.759       53.450
TOTAL              147,597      99,011      344,742      222,103      112,084      115,545      325,596      197,972      930,019      634,631
CRAND TOTAL    1,564,650



- 43 -
Table 13
KENYA
THIRD FORESTRY PROJEC
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FOREST DEPARTMENT STAFF ESTABLISHMBRTj 1982-
>   Year      >    Total Officer       > Total Surbodinate        Total        >
>             >         Staff          >       Staff          >                >
>    1982     >         2,421          >       12,155         >      14,576    >
>    1983     >         2,768          >       15,407         >      18,175    >
1984     >         2,890          >       15,168         >      18,058    >
>    1985     >         3,418          >       14,983         >      18,401    >
>    1986     >         3,425          >       14,945         >      18,370    >
>    1987     >         3,683          >       14,796         >      18,479    >
>    1988     >         3,829          >       14,512         >      18,341    >
>    1989     >         3,873          >       14,610         >      18,483    >
Source:  Personnel Section, MENR



KENYA
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LABOUR EXPENDITURE AS PROPOTION OF TOTAL EXPENDITURE
FOR SELECTED FORESTY ACTIVITIES
1982/83     1983/84     1984/85      1985/86     1986/87     1987/88      1988/89
%           %           %            %           X           %            %
Budget Line    Description
676           Plantation              77.7         83.5        69.3        76.0         81.4        91.9         86.0
Development
678           Local Afforestation    46.4          67.8        75.1        87.6         89.1        95.7        93.1
679           R A B S                 72.3        82.9         66.7        85.4        84.1         94.0        94.3
681           Road Construction       28.0        60.8          5.6        30.1        44.1          0          57.0
685           Sawmill Industries      17.4          0           0           0           a            0           0
Weighted Average       72.9         82.3        67.4         76.9        81.4        90.2         88.1
Non-Labour Items       27.1         17.7        32.6         23.1        18.6         9.8         11.9
Total                 100.0        100.0       100.0        100.0       100.0       100.0        100.0
Source: PD Accounts Dept., Karura



- 45 -
THIRD EORESTRY PROJE-CT
PROECCOMLETION REO
ST-UMPAPS ( ROYALTIES ) COLLECTIONS
(KSHS MILLIONS)
YeaK         Sawloas      Flrewood          Sawloge       F1rewood
1982/83        4.7           2.1             5.4             2.4
1983/84         5.7          2.6             7.0             3.6
1984/85        -             -               8.7             3.8
1985/86         7.8          1.7            10.1             3.0
1986/87        14.2          2.3            13.4             3.8
1987/88       16.2           2.3            12.1             3.1
NB: Figures for 1988/89 are uot yet available
Source: FD, Karura



KENYA
THIRD FORESTY PROJECT
PROJECT CO(:LETZON REPORT
ECONIC ANALYSIS
NEW INDUSTRIAL FOREST PLANrATIONS                                                                                                               a
fnhet fear                                         1       2        3        4        5        6        7        8        9       10      11       12       13       14       15      36       t7       is       19       20      21
IEEFUS
Silogs 1000 3 uLb)
CYpus                                                                                                                                              84   15    19D.1   263.1   318.3   341.2   361.9   361.9   3b1
Price fksbsIS                           523      52      523      S 523    523      52       523      52       523     53       5        5        5        523      523     523      5        523      523      523     1795
valu   lsi ailli0s)                                                                                                                              43.9    69.3    59.4   139.0   166.5   178.4   189.3   239.3   649.6
fin                       I                                                                                                                      53.3    91.5   123.3   15.2   177.3         238      286      236      286
Price t4sb13?             %2            436      436     46       436      436      436      436      436      436      36      436      436      436      436      436      436     436      A36      43S6    4U3      14
gain (ksbs millions)                                                                                                                             23.2    39.9    52.9    68.1    77.3   103.8   124.7   12.7   427
ulpd.   (00D .3 Lb)             %I                                                                                           17.2    26.1    57.6    64.5    70.6    7L2         74.4    74.4    74.4    57.3    47.7    16.8
Pricesiblesn3)                  12            192      192     192      192      192      192      192      192      19.      192     192      192      192      192      192     192      192      192      192      192    1Z
Val"  tksb uliIias                                                                                                           3.3      5.1    ILA       12.4    13.6    13.9    14.3    14.3    14.3    11.0           9.2    21.0
Polns 1000 s3 u.b)              U                                                                                                     6.7      2.9      5.5      3.2      3.5    L          I        0        0        0
Price IkstI3l                    ?            388      3B 38    8       3        388      388      38      3s8        88     38       38      3n8       38       39       "53     38       388        8      3B       33B      3
Value ttsb dllitsl)                                                                                                                   2.6      1.1      2.1      1.2      1.4     9.4      0.4      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Fuloood t%w sv3 ulb             %                                                                                                    20.1      a.6    16.5       ?.5    10.5      3.4        3        0        0        0       0
Price (ts/sIu31                 U2            207      207     207      207      207      207      207      207      207     207      207      207      207      20      207      207      207      207      207      207     D17
Valet ttsbs dillilons)                                                                                                                4.2      1.8      3.4      2.0     2.2      0.7      0.6      0.0      0.0      0.0     0
Total bfifits lksbs aillions)                                                                                                3.3    11.9    14.0    85.1   126.0   169.7   221.5   259.1   296.5   325.0   323.1  1095.5
CM75 (tsb silliU0s)
Plantation Estlisbmt            U3           38.1       42    39.3    36.3    41.6    43.4          43
Platation Naotainance           %3           25.4    20.3    26.9    18.5    19.8    43.2    44.5    44.5           U.4      4.5 4    4.5     U.5      U.S      44.5    U.5    44.5       U.S      44.5     U.S    44.5    44.54     5
TOl Costs                                    63.5    623    66.2    54.8    61.4    86.6    87.5    44.5            U.5    44.5    44.5    44.5    U.5          44.5     U.5    44.5    44.5        f.5    44.5    44.5    44
EIT  EFIT (itsh illions)                       -63.5   -62.3   -66.2   -54.8   -61.4    -6.6   -87.5    -44.5   -44.5   -42.2   -32.6   -30.5    40.6    81.5   125.2   177.0   214.6   220    230.5   278.6  1054.0
EMOKIHIC RATE OF RETUN (ERR)           17.51
Notes                                                                                             ~~
i1      Per Table 8                                                                                                                                                                            s j
U2      Per Foustry Developmnt Project preparation  reort , roex  It
13      Exrpressd in I98 canstut teras using ififlators derived Eras official price index statistics



KENA
THIRD FaESTRY FROJECT
PROJEET ETtION REPORT
ECOEC AVAiISIS
KEN U9sS     . FOT PLAXTAT1I1
22      23       24      25       26       27      2z       29       30      3t       32       33       34      35       36      37       39       39      40       41       42      43       44       45      46       47
361.9   361.9    31.9   361.9   361.9   361.9   361.9   361.9   361.9   277.8   229.3   171.8              98    43.6    20.7        0        0        D       0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0
7M       79      1795    1795    1795    1795       I9      1795    1795    1795    1795    1795    1795    1795    1795    1795    1795    1795    1795    1795              795    1795    i75       1795    1795
619.6   649.6   649.6   649.6   649.6   649.6   649.6   649.6   649.6   498.7   411.6   308.4   175.9    78.3    37.2              0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0
2B6     286      296     256      2B6      286      286     286      286     286   232.7   194.5   164.7   129.8   108.7           48       0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0        0       ?
1496    1496    1496    1496    1496    1496    1496    1496    1496    1496    1496    1496    1496    1496    1496    149$    1496    1496    1496    1496    1496    1496    1496    1496    1496    14
427.9   427.9   427.9   427.9   427.9   427.9   427.9   427.9   427.9   427.9   348.1   291.0   246.4   t94.2   162.6    71.8               0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
1o     3.8      2.2       0        0        0     17.2    26.7    57.6    64.5    70.6    72.2    74.4    74.4    74.4    57.3    47.7    16.8             10      3.8      2.2       0        0        0    17.2    26
125     1252        122  2252    1252    1252    1252    1252    1252    IZb2    1252    125z    1252    1252                              25 125 2  1252 1 252 122  U252    1252    1252    1252    2252    25          25
i2.5     A.9      2.8     0.0      0.0      0.0    21.5    33.4    72.1    8.s    88.4    90.4    93.1    93.1    93.1    71.7    59.7    21.0    12.5               4.8     2.8      0.0      0.0      0.0    21.5    33.4
6.7     2.9      5.5     3.2      3.5      2.1        I       0        0       0        0      6.7     2.9      5.5      3.2     3.5      1.1        I       0        0       0        0      6.7      2.9     5.5      3.2
318     398      38a     389      398      398  388         3a        388    388      389      388      388     388      388     388      388      3a8     398      38a      388     3es      38a      398     388      3sa
2.6     1.1      2.1      1.2     1.4      0.4      0.4     0.0      0.0     0.D      0.0      2.6      1.1     2.1      1.2     1.4      0.4      0.4     0.0      0.0      O.0     0.9      2.6      1.1     2.1 
20. I     .6    26.5      9.5    10.5       3.4       3        0       0        0        0    20.1      8.6    16.5       9.5    10.5      3.4       3        0        0       0        0    20.1      8.6    16.5       9.5
207     207      207     207      207      207      207     207      207     207      207      207     2D7      207      207     207      207      207     207      207      207     207      207    ,207      207      2
4.2     1.8      3.4     2.0      2.2      0.7      0.6     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      4.2      1.9     3.4      2.0     2.2      0.7      0.6     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      4.2      1.8     3.4      2.0
1096.7  I1B5.1  1085.8  2080.7  1091.0  1078.6  1180.0  1110.9  1149.6  1007.3   848.1   696.5   518.4   371.1   296.1   147.1    60.9    22.0    12.5                4.8      2.8      0.0     6.8      2.9    27.1    36
44.5    44.5    44.5    44.5    44.5    44.5    44.5    44.5    44.5    39.1            32    26.3    19.6    13.8        5.3     5.3      5.3     5.3      5.3      5.3     5.3      5.3      5.3     5.3      5.3      5.3
44.5    44.5    4.5    44.5    44.5    44.5    44.5    44.5    44.5    39.1             32    26.3    19.6    13.8        5.3     5.3      5.3     5.3      5.3      5.3     5.3      5.3      5.3      5.3     5.3      5.3
1052.2  10.6  1041.3  1036.2  1036.5  1034.1  2055.5  1066.4  1205.2   968.2   816.1   67D.2   498.8   357.3   290.8   141.8    55.6    16.7                 7.2    -0.5    -2.5    -5.3        1.5    -2.4    21.8    31
I tl
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ===......==2=t==-.tt.=   ==== =c==



48      49      50
0      84   132.5
1795    1795    1795
0.0   150.8   237.8
0    53.3    91.5
1496    1496    1496
0.0    79.7   136.9
57.6    64.5    70.6
1252    1252    1252
72.1    80.8    88.4
3.5     1.1       1
388     3S8     388
1.4     0.4     0.4
10.5     3.4       3
207     207     207
2.2     0.7     0.6
75.6   312.4   464.1
5.3     5.3     5.3                                                                                                                                                                             a'
5.3     5.3     5.3                                                                                                                                                                          0
70.3   307.1   458.8



STA'US OF LEGAL COVENANTS
KENYA
FORESTRY III PRWECT
Agree-      Section     Status      Original   Revised      Description of           Comments
ment                                Date        Date        Covenant
--------------------------------------------------------------__------------__--------------------____________
Loan        3.01        Not OK                              Provide, promptly as    Budgetary ceilings imnposed by
neededi, the funds and   the Treasury have made it
resourced required for  impossible to implement the
the purpose             the Project as targetted.
Also the FY89/90 budqet has
an inappropriate structure
(85%- personal emoluments)
3.02 (a)    Partly      03/30/89                Furnish to the Bank      The 1989/90 Plan was
ard         OK                                  plans, work and          submitted as a Forward Draft
Schedule 2                                      procurement schedule6   Plan already in Sep.  1988 and    I
para 5                                          (Annual Plans for next  commented upon, blut struc-
Project year)           tural changes desired by the       .
Bank were not incorporated by
the time the Plan and Budget
were subt-1tted to HOF in
March 1989
3.03 (b)    OK          May 89                  Furnish to the Bank
six-monthly Progress
Reports
3.03 (d)   OK           06/30/87    Oct. 90     Prepare and furnish to  It would not have served a
IDA a Project Com-      usefLal purpose to hav-e FD
pletiom Report - not    conduct the PCR; instead, the
later t.han 6 months    Bank had FAO-CP carry it out
after Closing Date      (as a draft). Part II of the
PCR wias received in S!ept. 90
4.02 (c)   ACT          12/31/90                Furnish to the Bank    FY 1989/90 audited accounts
not lat-er than 6 months are 14 months in arrea&rs.
after end of each FY    All other audited acceunts         0
certifi ed copy of      received
o 



STATUS OF LEGAL COVEWANTS
KENYA
FORESThY III PROJCT
Agree-      Section     Status      Original   Revised       Description of            Comments
ment                                 Date        Date        Covemani
audit ed financial
statetmefntR
4.03 (a)   OK                                    (Freetze onI Recruitment
of fu ll-tine unskilled
labor
4.03 (b)    Partly OK                            Studies for increase of Limited labor product,vity
labor productivity and  studies were undertaken late
to hire unskilled labor during the project; FD does          I
as caeuals               not hire casual labor               >
4.04 (a)    OK                                  Study to determine        Continuous study ongoing
stumpage rates to
recover costs and earn
a reasonabLe rate of
returm
4.04 (b)    Not OK                               Plan to improve          Collection has been weak
collection of            during the project and
sawlogy stuepages        has improved only after
the project
4.04 (c)    OK                                   Annual incr.ease of      Continuous operation
stumpa.ge rates in
accord.ance with item
4.04 (4a) above
4.05        Not OK                               Proposials for increas-  Entire RAES program is now
ing cogt reccovery of    under reformulation
RAES seedlingrs          (i.e. after the project)          Io
0-
a.,'



STATUS OF LEG& C-OVENIMTS
FORESTRY III PRWEC_
Agree-      Section     Status      Original    Revised      Dwscription of            Commente
ment                                Date         Date        Ccovenant
6.01 (a)    OK                                   Efffectiveness of L.A.   However, both cofinancing
subject to effective-   agreements have later been
n4ass of Swiss and       changed substantially
ItzAliain cofinancing
ac2reements
6.01 (b)    OK                                  Ap3poiantment of finance
amd management specialist
aind forest economist
Schedule    OK                                  Apopointmeent of a forestry
2, Part                                          ex:tension expert
I1, Para
2
Schedule    Not                                  in-trodutctLon of a more  After several years of
2, Part     OK                                   intensive RAES program  delay four pilot areas have
II, Para    under                                in twc piLot districts  been selected for test
2/          this                                                          extension activities with
Amendment   project                                                       bilateral support
Schedule   OR                                    Apipointmeat of a roads
2, Part                                         prcoqramzning and control
11, Para                                        exWert
3
ScheduLe    mainly                              Eetabliwhment and use   A MIS was developed by the
2, Part     Not                                 of a comprehensive        finance specialist but not    ' '
II, Para    OK                                  mamagemsent information  adopted or operationalized    OQ 
4                                                symtea  (HIS)            by FD                            CD
0 _J
4-



STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
KENYA
FORESTRY III PROJECT
_______________ - -------------------------------------------------- - -------------------------------------------
Agree-        Section       Status        Original      Revised       Description of              Coments
ment                                      Date          Date          Covenant
--------------------------------------------_--_--_____________________________-___-__-------------------------
Schedule    Not                                         Employment of short-
2, Part       done/                                     term consultants to
II, Para    Not                                         help with special
4             OK                                        forestry problems
Schedule    Not                                         Advance revenue             FD's advance planning does
2, Part      OK                                         estimates Jas part          not produce these estimates
II, Para                                                of Annual Plans)
5 (a)
September 7, 1989
Up-dated Feb. 25, 1991
CKeil:tr
0 H
21-
o I



- 53 -
Table 18
STAFF INPUTS
Stage of
Project Cvcle            Planned        Revised        Final        Comments
Through Appraisal           -                           95.8
Appraisal through
Board Approval                                          66.5             -
Board Approval
through Effectiveness               -                    3.0             -
Supervision                                            299.7             -
TOTAL                                             465.0



- 54 -
Table 19
KENYA
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Related Bank Loans and Credits
Loan/Credit                          Year of
Title            Purpose            Approval    Status        Comments
First            New planting of       1969          Closed      Modest
Forestry         sawlogs and                                     achievement.
pulpwood, and some                             Failed to
institution                                    address issues
building.                                      of land use and
cost recovery.
Second           Expanded              1975         Closed       Suffered from
Forestry         industrial                                      poor management
plantation program                             and cost
of new and                                     overruns.
replanting, roads                              Vital studies
and technical                                  not carried
assistance                                     out.



S U D A t9N -              7    .
h                                                               N.                                                       -             NE T H 0 P I A
/%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
eif          --  *  -                               _ - _  J\_ E,   < g U~~~~~~~~~~~~To ddsA h be  /  
A         . _                                                               \                                       /.~~~~~~~~- 
LodworOOrURKANA j                                                              3 
Conservancy                                          O,sbtSO                                                              ALIA
UGANDA   ? )                                                                 I 0 r n
J .1J-)                                                       Canservancy                           0                   
.1               S                 / \  <Nao/uru -t
'N                    Can s e;  ,    anc
; 8,K a                         X                 C et
(   " V    -                   'E-o   - -                                                                       - - -                  , sa,o'_ 
V VtKz[Vr a\  \rrku/J 5                                           .                    \          J aJ   A         e.rI              {.              /
Butere? Can  Cr                       X    .~ dNanyuiri                            C            ran'cy
-' - , 
THIRD   FORESTRY   PROJECT  -  fOosn,_-
r Potection forests                                                                  '
Forest pFoentarions                     MS^                  ,         \       8A    
Futum foDrest plantations                        5.<                                          /r        t  \r66fa6ob5
Conservancy boa idres.
__District Forest Office boundaries                                  /                                      ,RVMob.nl) ~6-t4.f~08
*foreststaEions *r                                                 -                           voncy                            . .....
o    RA.ES.stotions            iBRD 1SEE                                                             KILIFI1ZT-AvrA5*     'z
NForest  Cnd R.AE.S stations-
KENYA                N rod AN                                                     -,  / r    Otc,,r 
3,National coFoitalt                                                                      KWAl E3  Mombaso             .UAN    K E NYAI 
R    Provinciol cR pitals P   N.                                                       /                         oe          -
Proviecionl boundrries                                     | ,  i, i                                A_
oInternvtionan boundaries                                                  To        r                                                     '
Kd-t-eerrs 0  40    80    i;0    160                                               -           0 P 0.0 0; ir.x|,
mi  0    20   io F0 s0 and  A. stati
.~~~~~~ ~                                                                                    ~ ~~~~~~~ /  KENYAgr  r| 
@_ Prvnilcptl.                                                                                                 ..               ..



