Document of
The World Bank   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3205--KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND LOAN
TO
KENYA
FOR A
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
February 9, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency units - Kenya Shilling (K. Sh)
K Sh 1.00      -  US$0.10 1/
US$1.00        -  KSh 10.00
US$1.00        -  SDR 0.85128
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)   -  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km) -  0.62 mile
1 meter (m)      -  3.28 feet
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACCF                    -  Assistant Chief Conservator of Forests
CCF                     -  Chief Conservator of Forests
FAO                     -  Food and Agriculture Organization of the
United Nations
FD                       -  Forest Department
MENR                     -  Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
MIS                     -  Management Information System
RAES                    -  Rural Afforestation Extension Service
SDR                     -  Special Drawing Rights
tpa                     -  tons per annum
FISCAL YEAR
Government, including the Forest Department       July 1 to June 30
1/   Since September 1981, the Kenya Shilling has been pegged to the SDR at a
rate of SDR - KSh 11.95. The rate vis-a-vis the dollar has fluctuated
since that time. A rate of US$1.00 - KSh 10.00 has been used in evaluat-
ing this Project.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
LOAN/CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:      Government of Kenya
AMOUNT:         Credit:  SDR 13.6 million (US$16 million equivalent)
Loan:    US$21.5 million
TERMS:         Credit:  Standard
Loan:    Repayable in 20 years, including five years of
grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION:  The project would improve the Forest Department's operations
through more efficient planting activities and better cost
recovery. It would support new plantings of 6400 ha per annum,
maintenance of about 160,000 ha of existing plantations and
expansion of rural afforestation activities, particularly
nurseries. The project would also support the improvement of
forest roads, the construction of forest stations, the replace-
ment, operation and maintenance of vehicles and the provision
of specialist staff.
Benefits:  The project would increase wood production and
reduce pressure on Kenya's fast depleting indigenous
forests. It would also lead to public savings in
national afforestation programs and prevent
disruption of water flow and soils in densely
populated areas.
Risks:     The principal risk of the project is that manage-
ment reforms at the Forest Department would be
slower than intended and that unit costs of
plantation activities would not decline to target
levels. The project is designed to minimize this
risk through the introduction of annual work
plans and a management information system.
{ This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ESTIMATED COST:
Local       For i;n        Total
- …--------USFmillion---…-
New Plantation Establishment                 9.4          0.7          10.1
Plantation Maintenance                       8.9          0.7           9.6
Rural Afforestation                          4.7          1.9           6.6
Other Forest Department
Technical Assistance                   0.2          1.0           1.2
Roads                                  2.4          4.0           6.4
Buildings                              4.6          1.5           6.1
Vehicles                               1.1          4.0           5.1
Vehicle Operating Costs                2.9          5.4           8.3
Surveys, Study Tours                   0.4          0.2           0.6
Total Base Costs                      34.6         19.4          54.0
Contingencies
Physical                               3.5          1.9           5.4
Price                                 10.7          4.0          14.7
Total                                 14.2          5.9          20.1
Total Project Costs                        48.8          25.3          74.1
(including US$5.9 million
of taxes and duties)
FINANCING PLAN:
Local   Foreign   Total
------US$ million------
IBRD/IDA                                22.8    14.7        37.5
Government of Italy                      1.2      7.8        9.0
Government of Switzerland                4.8      2.8        7.6
Government of Kenya                     20.0      _         20.0
Total Project Cost                      48.8    25.3        74.1
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENT:
Bank Group Fiscal Year               1983    1984   1985    1986    1987
-------US$ million equivalent-…--
Annual                          3.7      7.7   10.1    10.3       5.7
Cumulative                      3.7    11.4   21.5    31.8    37.5



- iii -
RATE OF RETURN:           The economic rate of return of the new plantation
component is 19% and that of the rural afforestation
component is 22%.
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT:  Report No. 3614-KE, dated January 15, 1982.
MAPS:     IBRD No. 15900
IBRD No. 15901






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN AND CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA FOR A
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Kenya of SDR 13.6 million (US$16 million
equivalent) on standard terms, and a loan for the equivalent of US$21.5
million to assist in the financing of a Third Forestry Project. The interest
on the loan would be 11.6% per annum. The loan would be repayable in 20
years, including five years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Kenya - Country Economic Memorandum and Annex on
Agricultural Issues" (Report No. 3456-KE), dated June 1981, has been distri-
buted to the Executive Directors. A summary of social and economic data is in
Annex I. A Basic Economic Report on Kenya is now nearing completion.
Long-Term Economic Growth and Structural Problems
3.        Kenya became an independent nation in 1963.  Since then the country
has experienced remarkable continuity in both political leadership and develop-
ment strategy. That strategy has been to promote rapid economic growth by
means of public investment, encouragement of both smallholder and large-scale
farming, and promotion of accelerated industrialization, by providing incen-
tives for private, including foreign, investment in modern industry. The
Kenyan development model can be characterized as "mixed", in the sense that it
incorporates a diversity of organizational forms and incentives and combines
private enterprise with a significant amount of Government participation and
guidance. It is clear that the country has made a smooth transition to new
leadership following President Kenyatta's death in 1978, and that the future
will see continuity in both the political and economic spheres. Peaceful
elections in 1979 provided additional confirmation of this.
4.        Kenya's first decade as an independent nation was one of remarkable
growth and structural transformation. Total GDP grew at an annual average
rate of 6.6% during 1964-73. Both agriculture and manufacturing grew rapidly,
at 4.7% and 8.4% per annum respectively. The expansion of agriculture was
stimulated by redistribution of large estates to smallholders, rapid diffusion
of hybrid maize, and growth of smallholder output. Growth of manufacturing
was very largely made possible by the expansion of domestic demand due to
rising agricultural incomes, while investment for domestic production was
being encouraged by high levels of protection, a liberal attitude towards
foreign investment, and active Government promotion of and participation in
manufacturing ventures.
1/ This section is essentially the same as that of the President's
Report for the Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project, dated
November 17, 1981.



5.        Despite this rapid growth, Kenya remains a poor country, still
heavily rural and dependent upon agriculture. Growth of per capita income has
declined substantially since 1974 and average GNP per capita in 1980 was
US$420. Agriculture accounted for more than a third of GDP and about two
thirds of exports (other than refined petroleum products) in 1978-80.
Since the growth of the industrial sector has been largely confined to the
major urban areas, agriculture remains the principal source of income in the
rural areas where over 80% of the population live and work. About one-fourth
of the population have incomes which place them below the absolute poverty
line.
6.        The most fundamental problem Kenya faces is posed by the rapid
growth rate of population, currently estimated by the Government to be 3.9%
per year, which is among the highest in the world. This is, ironically,
the result of Kenya-s past success in raising living standards, which has
resulted in a steady decline in mortality and has probably resulted in an
increase in the country's already high fertility rate.
7.        With rapidly increasing population, pressure is beginning to mount
on Kenya-s limited arable land. Of Kenya's total land area of about 583,000
sq km, about 520,000 sq km are categorized as potentially agricultural;
however, on the basis of annual rainfall and fertility, only 13% can be
regarded as high potential land, with 6% medium and 81% low potential arid-
and semi-arid areas. Thus, less than 20% of the land area has good arable
potential, and much of it is now densely settled. Because of traditional
ethnic landholding patterns, some higher potential land is not fully utilized.
Mounting pressure on land is resulting in increasing subdivision and landless-
ness in high potential areas, and in settlement in semi-arid areas ill-suited
to farming. The latter also poses a serious threat of environmental degra-
dation.
8.        Rapid population growth has created other problems as well.  First,
there is the strong likelihood that, unless growth slows dramatically or ways
are found to increase the rate at which income earning opportunities in
agriculture expand, excess rural labor will be pushed into urban areas. Even
if the non-agricultural formal wage sector (which employs less than 15% of the
total labor force) grows very rapidly, it will probably be unable to absorb
all the new urban labor force entrants, resulting in rising urban unemploy-
ment and underemployment. Second, considerable budgetary pressure has already
been created by the growing demand for social services, especially education.
Finally, efforts to improve the distribution of income will be impeded by the
relative lack of access to land and education for the children of the poorest
section of the population.
9.        A second problem area has developed in the manufacturing sector.
The rapid growth of industry in the past has been largely based upon invest-
ments in simple import-substitution industries by multinational companies.
To a lesser extent manufacturing production has also catered to the export
market in neighboring countries, particularly in the protected East African



- 3 -
Community (EAC) market. However the scope for further industrialization along
these lines is limited as most of the easy import-substitution possibilities
have been exhausted and the EAC preference for Kenyan goods has been abolished.
The past pattern of industrialization has left the sector increasingly dependent
on imported raw materials, components and spare parts and therefore vulnerable
in case of a shortage of foreign exchange. To maintain growth it will be
necessary to reorient industry toward increased use of domestic inputs and
increased production for export.
10.       A third major problem has been the slow growth in agricultural out-
put, which has averaged only about 2.7% per year over 1972-79. This reflects
generally less favorable climatic conditions, a weakening of the structural
factors fueling earlier growth and problems of policy and institutional sup-
port. The latter, which has been one of the most serious impediments to
sectoral performance, includes inconsistencies in pricing policy and inadequa-
cies in marketing. In addition, the concentration of land holdings and
insecure land tenure are inhibiting agricultural growth. Measures to deal
with these problems are essential to revitalize the agricultural sector.
11.       A further problem is the slow growth and lack of diversification
of exports which have consistently grown at a slower pace than GDP. From
1964-74 the volume of exports expanded at an average annual rate of 4.6%.
However, over the past five years, export volume has grown slowly. In 1979,
export volume was 4% below the 1975 level. To some extent this is a reflec-
tion of production problems in agriculture and industry, but it is also
an indicator of the need to direct more resources toward export-oriented
activities.
Economic Performance 1974-1980
12.       Kenya's growth performance since 1974 has been especially vulnerable
to swings in the country's international terms of trade. Thus, the GDP growth
rate fell sharply during 1974-75 when the dramatic increase in petroleum and
other import prices required restrictive economic policies, accelerated
rapidly in 1976-77 as the impact of the "coffee boom" following frost damage
in Brazil worked its way through the economy, but began to decelerate in
mid 1977 with the rapid decline in coffee prices.
13.       During 1978-80, Kenya again experienced strong external shocks as a
result of the latest round of petroleum price increases and declining coffee
prices. The balance-of-payments and incomes effects of this were compounded
by poor weather affecting coffee and maize production. As a result, GDP
growth slowed to 4.2% in 1979 and an estimated 2.4% in 1980. The trade
deficit rose sharply in 1978, and foreign exchange reserves were rapidly
depleted. The balance on current account deteriorated from an exceptional
surplus of US$58 million in 1977 to a deficit of over US$656 million in 1978,
while reserves fell by US$200 million. In order to prevent further depletion
of the country's foreign exchange reserves, the Government introduced a
program of import restrictions in late 1978, effecting a sharp decline in
imports and reductions in Kenva's revenue gap and current account deficit
in 1979. This, together with increased external borrowing, resulted in a



recuperation of about US$179 million in gross reserves in the same year. The
improvement in the balance of payments proved to be short-lived. The increase
in petroleum prices combined with the need for additional food imports resulted
in a 25% rise in the value of imports in 1980. While exports rose by 16%,
this was not sufficient to prevent a rise in the current account deficit to
almost US$900 million and, despite increased external borrowing, a decline of
US$195 million in foreign exchange reserves.
Fourth Five-Year Development Plan, 1979-83
14.       The emphasis of the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan is on restor-
ing growth to the levels that prevailed before 1974, while alleviating poverty
through creation of income earning opportunities and provision of social
services to meet the basic needs of the population. The Plan correctly
identifies the key problems that Kenya faces and sets forth a development
strategy appropriate to their solution. It is sharply focussed, explicit in
its recommendations, and shows a sound awareness of constraints on development.
15.       The Fourth Plan recognizes the strong link between agricultural
growth and poverty alleviation. One of the most significant changes pro-
posed in the Plan is increased access to land through legalizing subdivision
of high-potential large farms. In addition, the Plan proposes that a National
Land Commission be established to review ways of encouraging land use inten-
sification and labor absorption. The Plan also proposes that marketing and
pricing policies pay closer attention to the structure of domestic and inter-
national prices and the marketing system be made more competitive and efficient
to improve prices to farmers. Research and extension services are to be more
closely linked to the needs of small farmers. Finally, in addition to projects
to increase larger scale commercial and smallholder production, a series of
integrated rural development projects in semi-arid areas is proposed to
redress the neglect of these areas.
16.       The major thrust of industrial policy will be to effect a transition
from import substitution to a strategy emphasizing industrial efficiency and
export diversification. This will involve further rationalization of tariffs
and elimination of quantitative restrictions on imports over a five-year
period. This policy will be very difficult to carry forward over the next
few years when, because of balance of payments problems, there is likely
to be considerable pressure to increase, rather than reduce, protection.
The Plan proposes no fundamental change in Kenya's traditionally liberal
policy on foreign investment with the important exception that review and
approval of projects for which special concessions or Government participation
are being sought will rely more on economic criteria and will be centralized
in the Ministry of Finance. On the whole, the Plan calls for a more limited
role for Government in terms of direct participation and intervention.
However, efforts will be made to restructure industrial investment incentives
to encourage employment and decentralization. Finally, while there are doubts
in Kenya about how dynamic a role the informal sector can play in the develop-
ment process, the Plan is more specific in its recommendations for aid to
small firms (provision of financial and technical support and ending of
unnecessary licensing and other restrictions) than the previous Plan.



17.       The Fourth Plan acknowledges the heavy burden rapid population
growth places on the economy and places high priority on the promotion of
family planning. The target for new acceptors during 1979-83 is 700,000,
compared to 280,000 recruited during 1974-78. In order to achieve this, the
number of field educators will be more than tripled (from 430 to over 1,300)
and the number of fixed delivery points doubled (from 315 to 630). Although
Kenya is doing more to promote family planning than most other African coun-
tries, the rate of population growth is projected to remain extremely high
because of strong cultural and traditional factors, and even greater
efforts will be required to bring about a significant decline in fertility.
18.       Due to Kenya-s worsening financial and budgetary constraints, which
had not been anticipated when the Plan was written, implementation of the
Fourth Plan has been very slow so far. As a result, the Government had to
reassess the Plan targets and has already introduced a revised shortrun
economic program incorporated in Sessional Paper (SP) No. 4 of 1980, while
maintaining the overall development strategy set out in the original Plan
document. The SP identifies and deals with Kenya's short- and medium-term
problems in a frank and consistent manner. It offers, among other things, a
revised set of policy initiatives designed to overcome the country's urgent
financial problems resulting from continuing budgetary and balance of payments
pressures.
Structural Adjustment and Economic Prospects
19.       If Kenya is to attain positive growth of real per capita income and
establish a more equitable pattern of growth in the 1980's, it should revita-
lize the agricultural sector, restructure the industrial sector to make it
more internationally competitive, design government expenditure plans which
are consistent with resource availabilities, support growth of the productive
sectors and contribute to meeting basic needs, and reduce the rate of growth
of population. The country's Fourth Development Plan provides the appropriate
development strategy and policy framework for meeting this challenge.
20.       The Government is determined to carry out the strategy outlined in
the Plan despite adverse international and domestic circumstances and adminis-
trative adjustments. In order to do so it has devised and is executing a
program of structural adjustment. The Government's first program involves:
(a) revising the Government's investment program to make it more consistent
with the country's new economic circumstances; (b) ensuring the country's
creditworthiness by improving external debt management and introducing better
planning and control of external borrowing; (c) beginning the process of
rationalization of the trade regime; (d) improving the incentives for exports
and ensuring they are competitive; and (e) reviewing and revising interest
rate policy to ensure that it is consistent with development objectives. The
program has, on the whole, been carried out satisfactorily. However, actions
have been slower than anticipated in some areas and more rapid in others.
While the general thrust of the program has been maintained, attempts to
execute the policy measures have revealed some weakneses in planning and
administration that need to be remedied.



- 6 -
21.       A second structural adjustment phase is under discussion which, in
addition to supporting continuation of the process of rationalization of the
system of industrial protection and improvement of incentives for export,
will include measures aimed at revitalization of the agricultural sector,
at conserving energy and reducing the country's reliance on imported petroleum,
and policy initiatives in population.
22.       While the structural adjustment program will have a favorable impact
on the balance of payments over the longer term, the first years of the 1980's
are going to be difficult ones for Kenyan policymakers and for the Kenyan
economy. The temporary respite provided by the coffee boom is over and the
prospect is for an unfavorable world environment in which the country's inter-
national terms of trade are likely to continue to deteriorate. In addition,
debt service obligations will be high because of high borrowing associated
with the large current account deficits of the past three years. At the same
time, the Government's fiscal operations are likely to be subjected to extreme
pressure because of slower growing revenues and demands for increased expendi-
tures. It is within this context that critical policy decisions must be made
involving a fundamental restructuring of the pattern of development. Kenya's
easy options have been exhausted and the Government must now come to grips
with the country's basic structural problems. The strong probability of a
highly constrained situation with respect to both internal and external
resource availability is going to make it difficult to carry out the required
policy changes.
23.       Given the adverse external circumstances, it is unlikely that posi-
tive growth of GDP per capita can be maintained during 1981-83. However,
growth prospects appear somewhat better from about 1983 onward provided the
Government's structural adjustment program is continued and there is adequate
external assistance to enable its successful implementation. The country's
terms of trade should also stabilize, the growth of external debt should
decelerate and current account deficits should remain stable over the next few
years. It should, therefore, be possible to follow gradually more expansionary
policies and a growth rate of GDP around 5% per year should be attainable
during the second half of the decade. A feasible growth scenario would then
be one in which GDP increases at a pace below that of population in the early
years (1981-83) then gradually accelerates, averaging about 4.0% per year during
the first half of the decade and about 5.3% per year during the second half.
External Debt
24.       The recent expansion of government and government-guaranteed commer-
cial borrowing has adversely affected the debt service ratio, which has risen
from 5% in 1977 to about 12% in 1980. This includes service payments on a
notional 50% share of the debt of EAC corporations. The debt service ratio is
expected to increase to about 19% in the mid-1980s, and decline gradually
thereafter. Debt service payments to the Bank in 1980 accounted for 14.5% of
total debt service payments; the IDA share was 0.7%. The Bank's share of
total debt service payments is expected to rise to about 15% by 1985
while IDA's share would rise to 1%. The Bank is presently holding 18.5% of
Kenya's total outstanding and disbursed external debt, and IDA 11%. The
Bank's share is expected to rise to 22% and IDA's to about 15% by 1985.



The expected rise in Bank exposure is due largely to anticipated repayments of
loans with short maturities. An additional factor, however, is the gradual
switch by other donors from loans to straight grants (including conversion
of some loans to grants). Because of the long-term balance of payments
constraint, Kenya's development program will require substantial financing
in excess of public savings and available non-Bank Group external capital
combined, and we therefore expect to continue our practice of financing a
substantial portion of total project costs, including some local costs when
necessary.
East African Community (EAC)
25.       The developments affecting the EAC were outlined in a report to the
Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and more recent develop-
ments were reported in a statement to the Executive Directors during their
meeting on May 6, 1980. Dr. Victor Umbricht, the independent mediator appointed
by the Partner States in January 1978, has visited East Africa on numerous
occasions and prepared reports on the results of his fact-finding work on the
EAC Corporations and the General Fund Services, and the methodology adopted in
appraising the assets and liabilities. In March 1980, the mediator presented
to the three Governments his proposals for the allocation of these assets and
liabilities and in December 1980, he submitted a supplemental report in response
to the Governments' reactions. In August 1981, the three Governments agreed
that the next step would be the start of negotiations based on the mediator's
proposals; these negotiations began in December 1981. According to his terms
of reference, the mediator would be available to assist in arriving at a
definitive settlement. The mediator's report and recommendations on the
future structure of the East African Development Bank have been accepted by
the Partner States. The revised Charter, along with the Treaty to enact the
new Charter, have been ratified by the three Governments.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
26.       To date, Kenya has received 37 Bank loans, including three on Third
Window terms, and 33 IDA credits amounting to US$1,303.7 million, which support
63 operations. In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries of 10
loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the development
of common services (railways, ports, telecommunications, and finance for
industry), operated regionally for the three partner states of the EAC. Annex
II contains summary statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Kenya and to
the EAC corporations, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of
October 31, 1981.
27.       The Bank Group has begun to reorient its lending program to assist
the Government in its efforts to restructure the economy. This has meant the
inclusion in the program of non-project assistance, and a first credit in
support of the Government's structural adjustment program was approved in
1980. A second program is at present under discussion with the Government.



- 8 -
Recent economic and sector work has also focused on the structural problems in
the various sectors, and the Basic Economic Report, now nearing completion, is
expected to address comprehensively the issues of income distribution, popula-
tion growth and appropriate long-term agricultural and industrial policies.
28.       Support of the structural adjustment efforts is, however, not limited
to non-project assistance. The selection of projects for financing and their
design has been influenced by the need to complement policy actions under the
structural adjustment program. Continuing priority has thus been given to the
agricultural sector, but increasing emphasis has also been placed on sectors
such as population and energy. Projects approved since January 1981 include
a Fifth Education Project, a Railways project and a fourth line of credit to
the Agricultural Finance Company. Projects that have been appraised include
the second structural adjustment program, a second population project,
a cotton processing and marketing project, and an urban transport project.
Projects under preparation include a fourth power project, a grain storage and
marketing project and an urban (small cities) project.
29.       Project implementation has deteriorated in recent years, in contrast
to the successful implementation performance in the past. Factors accounting
for implementation delays have varied widely but some of the more pervasive
factors have been institutional/management constraints (Third and Fourth
Education projects), procurement problems (Nairobi Water Supply Project) and
budgetary constraints leading to a lack of local financing (Highway Sector
Loan and Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project). An in-depth review of the
causes of the poor project implementation performance and, consequently,
poor disbursements is to be undertaken shortly, and the problems and possible
solutions will be discussed with the Government.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
30.       IFC has committed a total of US$54.3 million for seven operations in
Kenya. These include loans for four companies: Pan African Paper Mills,
Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.,; Tourism Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.;
and Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.). Also included are a US$2.0 million credit
line to the Commercial Bank of Kenya, a US$5.0 million credit line to the
Commercial Finance Company of Kenya and US$1.4 million in equity to the
Development Finance Company of Kenya. As of October 31, 1981, IFC held for
its own account US$39.7 million comprising US$30.4 million of loans and US$9.3
million of equity. A Summary of IFC Investments in Kenya is included in
Annex II.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND THE FORESTRY SUB-SECTOR
31.       Kenya has a total area of 583,000 km  and is a country of striking
topographical and climatic variety. Agriculture is the most important sector
of the economy and provides a livelihood for about 90% of the population.



- 9 -
A broad distinction can be made between the large farming sector, including
Government farms, and the approximately 1.5 million smallholdings in Kenya,
most of which are farmed by their owners. Maize is the staple crop, but a
range of other crops are grown by smallholders, most of whom also have a
few head of livestock.
32.       During the period 1976-80, agriculture grew at an average annual
rate of 2.9% in real terms. This was much lower than the average annual
growth rate of 4.7% achieved from 1964-73. Agricultural output also grew more
slowly than the economy and the industrial sector, which grew at about (5%)
and (8%) respectively during 1976-80. The share of agriculture in total GDP
has averaged about a third in the 1970's. Adverse weather conditions in some
years, inappropriate policy decisions and a growing constraint on land have
contributed to poor performance. Forestry contributed about 5% to GDP in
1979, with charcoal production accounting for the major part of this share.
Forest products valued at about US$8.8 million represented less than 0.6% of
total exports in 1979. Kenya however remains an importer of forest based
products (mainly paper and paper-board products) the total value of which was
about US$23.0 million in 1979.
Forest Resources
33.       Some 4% of Kenya's land area is under forests; they play a vital
role in water conservation, the regulation of water flow and the prevention
of floods and erosion. A high proportion of the nation's forests occupy
high potential, high rainfall areas and over the last 60 years, natural
forests have been exploited not only to supply timber, fuel and polewood, but
also to clear good land for other agriculture and settlement. Some 80% of the
nation's population and 80% of its forests occupy the same 20% of the land
area. Since much of the forest reserve is gently sloped, fertile and well-
watered, there is constant pressure to convert forest to farm land. Many of
the indigenous forests are not well protected at present. Those managed by
the Forest Department (FD) are being steadily replaced by softwood planta-
tions and those outside its jurisdiction are giving way to shifting cultiva-
tion at a very fast rate.
34.       Production and Consumption.  Most wood in Kenya is consumes as fuel-
wood, mainly for cooking, at an annual rate of at least 13 million m per year.
These needs are met either directly through wood gathering or, particularly in
the towns, by small-scale charcoal producers. Domestic industries, however,
consume about 900,000 m per year. These requirements are met through large-
scale harvesting from existing plantatiois and indigenous forests, which have
potential annual yields of 2.6 million m  per year.  Indigenous 3forests in
fact produce very little wood - probably no more than 130,000 m . The ixotic
plantations, on the other hand, could produce approximately 1.2 million   of
sawlogs and an equal amount of pulpwood or smallwood on a sustained annual
basis, with proper management.



- 10 -
35.       Exotic softwood crops provide an increasing proportion of the annual
cut. In 1980, the proportion was about 70%, and it should reach about 85%
during the 1980-2010 period. There is expected to be an industrial roundwood
surplus until about the year 2,000. The surplus wood is partly exported.
Forest Industries
36.       Sawmilling.  Sawmilling is the principal forest industry in Kenya.
There are approximately 350 licensed sawmills and an unknown number of small
unlicensed mills which operate without any guaranteed supply. Mills range
from large integrated undertakings to the tiny, moveable, bench-type variety.
The majority are poorly organized and maintained, with products of indifferent
quality. Most are periodically short of logs and operating at half of their
capacity or less, as a result of inadequate log extraction and transport
equipment. The sealing prices of sawn lumber vary considerably, from around
KSh 700 to 1,000/mr  .  Though reliable statistics do not exist, consumption of
sawn lumber appears to be divided between the building trade (55-60%), wood-
working industries (20-25%) and agriculture and packaging (15-25%). Wood-
working industries are increasing rapidly as larger sawmillers begin to
diversify into wood-based industries other than sawmilling. The export of
sawn timber which had reached a level of 15-20,000 m per annum during
the seventies has decreased over the last two to three years.
37.       Pulp and Paper.  There is one pulp and paper mill in Kenya belonging
to Panafrican Paper Mills (E.A.) Ltd. (PPM) and situated at Webuye some 400 km
from Nairobi and 900 km from Mombasa. PPM is owned jointly by Government, the
Birla group of India, IFC and several Kenyan development banks. It is an
integrated pulp and paper mill which started operating in 1975 and produces
just over 50,000 tons per annum (tpa) of various paper and paper products.
About 25% of the production is currently exported. Felling and extraction are
done by PPM and transport is handled by contractors. Expansion of production
to 71,200 tpa by 1986 through the addition of a mechanical pulp mill has been
approved. A new pulpmill of 100,000 tpa capacity is planned by PPM, but
Government has not yet approved this project.
Institutions in the Subsector
38.       The Forest Department.  The management of Kenya's forests is the
responsibility of the Forest Department (FD) of the Ministry of Environment
and Natural Resources. FD operates 120 forest stations and substations all
over Kenya and is headed by a Chief Conservator of Forests. Total FD staff
was about 12,700 at the end of 1981. Despite impressive progress, FD is still
short of senior staff, particularly those trained in management, administration,
and accounting. Kenyan nationals fill virtually all FD positions. Forestry
graduates are trained at the Department of Forestry, Faculty of Agriculture,
of the University of Nairobi. FD, like other employers, has been instructed
by Government to increase its work force by 10% to alleviate unemployment and
now has over 10,000 laborers (paragraph 60). These unskilled staff have been



- 11 -
given civil servant status and receive a monthly salary. Their ensured
employment and the failure to set and enforce strict productivity standards
have had a damaging effect on labor output and the unit cost of forestry
operations.
39.       The Rural Afforestation Extension Service (RAES).  This service was
created in 1971 as part of FD, and is headed by a Conservator. The Extension
Foresters are controlled by the RAES Conservator through FD's eight regular
Field Conservators. In Kenya, "rural afforestation" means all activities
related to afforestation outside the gazetted forest area. Although RAES's
activities have a variety of objectives, the main ones are production of
fuelwood for the rural population and environmental protection. At the end
of 1981, RAES had nurseries in 108 of Kenya's 175 divisions. The Government
would like to extend RAES activities to all of them. The establishment of 37
additional nurseries is envisaged for 1981/82. Approximately 20 existing
nurseries receive or will receive technical and financial assistance from
external aid agencies. In 1979, out of a total of 9.2 million seedlings
produced 6.8 million were sold and the balance given out free. Once a year,
on National Tree-Planting Day, seedlings are distributed without charge, up to
a maximum of three per person. Because of shortage of staff, there can be
little follow-up with growers, and the estimated tree survival rate is less
than 20% as compared with 75% in the FD plantations.
40.       Other Organizations.  Numerous organizations are involved in rural
afforestation activities: the Ministry of Agriculture has a large extension
service, runs nurseries and encourages tree-planting; the Ministry of Energy
promotes the development of alternative sources of energy; the National
Christian Council of Kenya and the National Council of Women of Kenya dis-
tribute free seeds, establish tree nurseries and plant "green belts" around
villages. In addition, numerous foreign assisted rural development projects
include rural afforestation activities.
Potential, Objectives and Constraints
41.       Kenya's softwood plantations currently meet the country's demand for
sawn timber and paper, and generate modest exports, but their maintenance and
the continuing establishment of new plantations by the Forest Department is
currently inefficient, leading to high costs. Cost recovery is low as a
result of high costs, low timber prices and a considerable degree of evasion
of even these low rates. Moreover, Kenya's forests are failing to keep pace
with the demand for wood for its predominant use -- fuel. Kenya's shortage of
fuelwood (as measured by prices and by distances walked to gather wood) is not
yet acute by African standards, but consumption is far outstripping growth.
42.       Kenya currently exports about one-quarter of its pulp and paper
production (about 14,500 t in 1980) and small, variable quantities of lumber.
Expansion of the Kenyan market is expected gradually to eliminate exports
from the existing mill and from its agreed expansion, but if the proposed
100,000 tpa pulp mill is built, its entire production will be exported for
many years to come. Kenya has a strong locational advantage for lumber



- 12 -
exports to neighboring, land-locked countries. It would seem also to have a
competitive position in softwood lumber in the Indian Ocean and rapidly-growing
Middle East market but has failed to expand exports to these areas. The
future of lumber exports depends on better organization of the sawmill industry,
on the development of grades and quality standards in the local market, and
possibly on improvements in Mombasa port.
43.       Development Objectives and Constraints.  Kenya's 1979-83 Develop-
ment Plan aims at ensuring a sustained and growing supply of timber for
traditional needs and to satisfy the expanding demand for forest products.
The Government supports rural afforestation schemes both on private farm
land and on land owned by county councils. The plantation schemes are
designed to produce pine and cypress sawlogs and smallwood, mainly for pulp,
and to date, FD has planted 157,000 ha. Population pressure on forest land
and plantation management and cost recovery are the principal constraints
facing the program. In recent years, large areas of natural forests have been
taken over for smallholder settlement and substantial spontaneous illegal
settlement has also occurred. In several instances, the removal of the forest
cover, followed by uncontrolled grazing and cropping, has already caused
erosion and a deterioration in water supplies. If this trend continues, an
already serious problem will become critical.
44.       Plantation Management and Cost Recovery.  Forest plantation manage-
ment has deteriorated during the last five years. Numerous new laborers have
been paid, but have not been organized to accomplish even simple tasks effec-
tively. The breakdown in management discipline has resulted in planting to
fulfill hectarage targets, rather than to ensure tree survival. Lax manage-
ment is reflected most clearly in escalating unit production costs, and in
declining cost recovery. Timber prices (or "stumpage rates") were increased
by 10% per year in real terms from 1976 to 1981 as required under the Second
Forestry Project. However, due to the escalation of costs, these rates still
cover only part of the replacement cost of plantation softwood (see paragraph
65).
World Bank Projects in the Forestry Sub-sector
45.       A first Forestry Project (Loan 641-KE) was approved in November
1969 and involved a Bank loan of US$2.6 million to finance the planting of
about 20,000 ha of sawwood and about 9,000 ha of pulpwood; the maintenance of
the new plantings and of 3,000 ha of existing pulpwood; the carrying out of a
marketing survey of Kenya timber and pulpwood; and the introduction of an
improved accounting system. The project was carried out by FD and closed
fully disbursed in June 1975. The Project Completion Report was issued in
July 1976 and the project performance audit report, in March 1977. Both
reports concluded that the project achieved satisfactory results and had
significant institution-building effects. However, it was noted that some of
basic issues, e.g. competition for land between forestry and agriculture, were
not resolved. The expected economic rate of return was estimated at 10-18% at
completion. The first project achieved about 80% of appraisal objectives in
physical terms.



- 13 -
46.       In June, 1975, a Credit of US$10.0 million (Credit 565-KE) and a
Loan of US$10.0 million (Loan 1132-KE) were approved for the Second Forestry
Project. Total project cost was estimated at US$55.5 million, of which 23%
was expected to be in foreign exchange. The project supported a six-year
planting program and involved considerable expansion from the first project.
This project resulted in the planting of 30,000 ha of trees out of 46,000 ha
planned, and the institutional development of FD through expansion of its
technical and regular staff. FD was not able to produce reliable production
cost figures for the various components of the plantation programs partly as a
result of failure to recruit and retain a forest economist as originally
agree,d. Unit costs increased tremendously as a result of wage increases and
of the change in numbers and status, from casual to permanent, of much of the
labor employed. Experience with these first two projects has been taken into
account in designing the proposed project.
Other Projects
47.       Almost all other external assistance for forestry is aimed at
rural afforestation, either as part of rural development projects or working
through the Ministry of Energy. Finnish assistance concentrates on the
logging and sawmilling subsector, providing training, repair assistance, and
help in arranging credit. In addition, UNDP has a small forest-fire-management
project being implemented by FAO, and the UN Industrial Development Organization
has provided experts to develop new timber products.
IV. THE PROJECT
48.       The proposed Project was prepared under the FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program in June/July 1980 and was appraised in November/December 1980.
Post-appraisal discussions were held with the Government in March and April
1981. The proposed Project would follow on from two previous Bank Group
supported projects in the forestry subsector and would support the Govern-
ment's strategy for the development of forestry activities. A Staff Appraisal
Report entitled "Kenya: Third Forestry Project" No. 3614-KE has been cir-
culated to the Executive Directors separately. Negotiations were held in
Washington from December 2 to December 8, 1981; the Kenyan delegation was led
by Mr. J. N. Kiio, Deputy Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Natural
Resources.
Project Description and Objectives
49.       The Project would be implemented over a period of four years by the
Forest Department (FD) of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources.
It would aim to improve FD's management performance through more efficient



- 14 -
softwood plantation operations and increased cost recovery. Financial
support for new plantings and maintenance of existing plantations would be
continued. The operations of FD's nurseries, producing tree seedlings for
distribution, would be expected to improve and a forest extension service would
be established. These objectives are consistent with the Government's
development strategy for the sector. The Project is included in the current
Development Plan and is provided for in the 1981/82 Forward Budget.
Detailed Features
50.       Plantation Establishment and Maintenance.  Funds would be made
available for FD to plant 6,400 ha per year for four years. Most of the areas
to be planted would be areas of gazetted forests that would be clearfelled
during the Project, or which were clearfelled but not replanted during the
Second Forestry Project; virtually no indigenous forest reserves would be
converted to plantations. Of the total, 1,800 ha/year (28%) would be managed
on a short rotation basis (18-20 years) to provide pulp to the PPM Webuye
mill. These plantations would consist mainly of pine, with some cypress and
eucalyptus. The rest of the new plantations would comprise cypress, pine and
some slow-growing hardwoods (e.g. Meru oak) for sawlogs, with smallwood from
thinnings and final fellings increasingly supplying pulp, particle-board mills
or firewood as the practice of integrated harvesting spread. Provision would
also be made for study tours for senior FD staff to observe superior nursery
and silvicultural techniques practiced in other African countries. Carrying
out of prescribed silvicultural practices should bring substantial improvements:
current pruning and thinning are very uneven as a result of poor management
and defective agreements with loggers and millers. Moreover, cost projections
presume a major reduction in unit costs, as a result of improved management
(see paragraph 60). Plantation costs consist 90% of unskilled labor and
10% of tools and materials. As under the First and Second Projects, the
continuing development costs of maintaining existing plantations would also be
supported. Such investments would include labor, firecontrol equipment and
the services of entomologists and pathologists to diagnose problems affecting
plantations.
51.       Rural Afforestation.  The project would enable RAES to embark
on its own forestry extension effort and follow up on its seedling distribution
through staff recruitment, training, technical assistance and provision of
vehicles. RAES would increase the size and efficiency of the 125 existing
nurseries not covered by other external aid programs, as well as construct and
operate new nurseries in the 30 districts where none now exist. Research
grants would assist nurseries in growing and distributing tree species that
are appropriate for the conditions of their areas. The component would be
expected to increase annual production of seedlings for distribution from 13.0
million in 1981 to 52.5 million in 1986, and increase the survival rate from
an estimated 20% to 40%, through improved follow-up with growers.



- 15 -
52.       Other Forestry Department Activities.  Forest road construction,
up-grading, and maintenance would be financed under the Project, using the
two existing roads units, which are well-equipped but poorly utilized. FD
would also contract for the building or rebuilding of 12 of the 120 forest
stations, including over 2,200 housing units (mainly laborers houses), as well
as offices, stores, and water-supply systems. Project activities would
include replacement or improvement of water-supply systems at some existing
forest stations. Funds would be provided for the purchase, replacement,
operation and maintenance of vehicles. There would be technical assistance to
overcome FD's senior management problems, including:  (a) a Finance and
Management Analyst to design and implement a Management Information System
(MIS); (b) a Forest Economist (already in post) to assist in setting appro-
priate wood prices; (c) a Roads Programming and Control Expert to program,
manage and control road construction, upgrading and maintenance; (d) a Rural
Afforestation Adviser to assist with nursery management, the establishment of
a forestry extension service, and coordination between FD and other agencies;
and (e) short-term consultants to help with specific forestry problems. Other
FD activities to be supported include annual aerial surveys of part of the
forest area, study tours for senior FD staff and mission travel allowances to
keep senior management in close contact with field operations.
Project Costs and Financing
53.       Total Project costs during the four-year investment period, inclu-
sive of taxes and duties, are estimated at US$74.1 million with a foreign-
exchange component of US$25.3 million. The project cost net of taxes is
estimated at US$68.2 million. Cost estimates are based on prices prevailing
at the end of 1981 and include adequate physical and price contingencies.
Full costs of technical assistance (including salary, subsistence and inter-
national travel) are estimated at US$8,100 per man-month; 15 man-years would
be required. Full costs of short-term consultants are estimated at US$8,800
per man-month,including salaries, subsistence and international travel; 19
man-months would be required.
54.       Financing of Project costs would be shared by the Government of
Kenya, the Governments of Switzerland and Italy and the Bank Group in the
proportions of, 21%, 11%, 13%, and 55% respectively. The proposed IBRD Loan
of US$21.5 million equivalent would be made to the Government of Kenya for
twenty years, including five years of grace, at an interest rate of 11.6% per
annum, and the proposed IDA Credit of SDR 13.6 million (US$16 million equi-
valent) would be on standard IDA terms. Together, the Loan and Credit would
finance 58% of foreign exchange costs and US$18.3 million equivalent of local
expenditures net of taxes and duties. A grant from the Gcvernment of Switzer-
land for Swiss Francs 15.0 million (about US$7.6 million equi-valent) would
finance 83% of the costs of the rural afforestation component on a parallel
basis and a loan from the Italian Government of US$9.0 million equivalent
would finance mainly vehicles, equipment and materials, also on a parallel
basis. The Italian loan would be for a period of 13 years, including two
years of grace, at an interest rate of 2.25% per annum. The conditions
precedent to effectiveness of the Swiss grant and Italian loan would have



- 16 -
to be met before Bank Group financing became effective (Section 7.01(a) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement and Section 6.01(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The proceeds of the Loan and Credit and the Government' s con-
tribution would be made available to the Forest Department as budgetary
allocations. While the further development costs of maintaining existing
plantations would be financed, following standard practice in the forestry
field, the Government would continue to finance certain FD recurrent expendi-
tures not included in Project costs (e.g. senior staff salaries, housing,
forest guards etc.).
Procurement and Disbursement
55.       Contracts for purchase of vehicles, equipment and materials of
US$250,000 or more, totalling about US$2.6 million equivalent, would be
awarded through international competitive bidding, in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines. To the maximum extent possible, purchases would be grouped
for the purposes of bidding. Qualified domestic manufacturers would be
allowed a preference of 15% of the c.i.f. price or the level of applicable
import duty, whichever is the lower, when comparing domestic with foreign bids
under international competitive bidding. Contracts for goods valued between
US$100,000 and US$250,000, which would total about US$1.5 million equivalent,
would be awarded after local competitive bidding in accordance with standard
Government procedures which were examined during appraisal and are satisfac-
tory. Orders of up to US$100,000 equivalent for other goods would be procured
by negotiated purchase, normally on the basis of at least three suppliers
quotations, up to an aggregate limit of US$500,000 equivalent. Civil works
contracts for construction of buildings and water supply facilities for FD
(US$8.0 million) and forest roads (US$5.5 million) would be individually too
small and dispersed to attract international contractors not already estab-
lished in Kenya, and would be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding procedures, acceptable to the Bank. The largest single contract of
this kind is unlikely to exceed US$300,000. Locally based contractors exist
in sufficient numbers and are capable of carrying out the required works.
Forest roads and tracks to be built by FD would total about US$2.7 million.
Technical assistance and consulting services (estimated to cost about US$1.4
million) would be engaged in accordance with Bank guidelines on the use of
consultants (Schedule 3 of the draft Development Credit and Schedule 4 of
the draft Loan Agreement). Aerial surveys (US$320,000) would be undertaken
by specialized firms represented locally or in neighboring countries in
accordance with the above-mentioned guidelines.
56.       The proceeds of the IDA Credit and of the Bank Loan would be dis-
bursed over four and a half years against: (a) 75% of unskilled labor costs
of plantation establishment by FD; (b) 75% of unskilled labor costs of
plantation maintenance by FD; (c) 70% of civil works expenditures for FD
buildings, water supply facilities and forest roads; (d) 100% of foreign
expenditures and 80% of local expenditures for vehicles; (e) 70% of incre-
mental operating expenditures (operation and maintenance of vehicles, upkeep
of buildings and staff travel allowances); (f) 100% of foreign expenditures
and 80% of local expenditures for technical assistance, consultant services,



- 17 -
surveys and training; and (g) US$5.6 million unallocated. All disbursements
would be fully documented except local expenditures under (a), (b) and (e) and
force account expenditures under (c) which would be made against statements of
expenditure, with the supporting documentation retained by FD and made avail-
able for inspection by Bank supervision missions. Disbursements for (a) would
be made only for those plantings which had been certified by FD's Chief
Conservator of Forests to have been satisfactorily established. Project
plantings would be considered established approximately three months after
planting. Amounts to be claimed for disbursement under (a) and (b) would be
established by applying reference maximum unit values per activity as well as
the disbursement percentages to the work performed by FD (Schedule 1, paragraph
3 of the draft Development Credit and Loan Agreements.) The reference maximum
unit values represent the highest reasonable costs for the various operations
and they were used as the basis for estimating Project costs.
Accounts and Audits
57.       FD would keep Project accounts and records consistent with sound
accounting practice, adequate to reflect FD's operational and financial
situation and to permit adequate monitoring of the Project (Section 5.01(a) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement and Section 4.02(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The responsibility for auditing FD's accounts rests with the
Auditor General. FD's accounting capability would be strengthened under the
Project through provisions for implementation of a management information
system (paragraph 60). FD would also make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank
Group, for the independent audit of those disbursements under the Project made
on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such expenditures would cover FD's
incremental operating costs and road and track improvements undertaken by the
Department (Section 5.01(b) and (c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement
and Section 4.02(b) and (c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Environmental Significance
58.       The proposed Project would bring significant benefits in preserving
and protecting Kenya's forest resources. In the first instance, it would
strengthen the Forest Department's capacity to protect existing resources
against illegal settlement and exploitation. Legislation currently before the
Kenyan Parliament would also extend the Forest Department's jurisdiction over
the third of the country's forests now controlled inadequately by county
councils. The project would promote rural afforestation with a view to
improving fuelwood supplies, reducing the wastage of smallwood and thereby
easing pressure on existing forests. Most, if not all, of the Project-supported
plantings would be on land where exotic softwoods had previously been cut and
which would otherwise be converted to potentially damaging uses, such as
livestock grazing. The project would involve no land use study of the forest
areas, mainly because forests compete with other uses, such as agriculture and
livestock, in several parts of the country, with the result that the Forest
Department is not perceived as a sufficiently objective locus of land use
analysis. However, outside the forestry sector, evolving land use is being



- 18 -
studied by the Kenyan Rangeland Ecological Monitoring Unit (KREMU) which is
being financed under the Bank's Second Livestock Project. The Government is
preparing a Land Use Policy Paper and is expected to begin a comprehensive
national study of the question during 1982. The subject of land use planning
has also been prominently addressed during discussions of a second Structural
Adjustment Loan for Kenya.
Project Implementation
59.       Organization and Management.  All Project activities would be
implemented under the authority and direct supervision of FD. Its parent
ministry (MENR) would monitor Project progress through the Senior Assistant
Secretary responsible for forestry. FD-s management structure is considered
adequate for Project implementation. However, the Project would support a
number of proposals aimed at eliminating the operational constraints met
during the implementation of the Second Forestry Project and at improving
FD's managerial performance at all levels.
60.       Improved management as well as technical and financial control would
be key elements for the successful implementation of the proposed Project. To
carry out these operations a Management Information System (MIS) would be
implemented by FD in two phases helped by a Finance and Management Analyst to
be appointed under the Project for a period of four years. Within four
months of the beginning of the Analyst's assignment, FD would submit a report
through MENR to the Bank Group for its approval; the report would contain a
proposed basic structure for the MIS and a schedule for more detailed design
and implementation (Schedule 2, Part II, Section 4 of the draft Development
Credit and Loan Agreements). Approval by the Bank Group of the proposed MIS
design and implementation schedule would be a condition of disbursement for
plantation establishment and maintenance (Schedule 1, paragraph 5 (ii) of the
draft Development Credit and Loan Agreements). The second phase would com-
prise the implementation of the MIS designed in the first phase and approved
by the Bank Group. To assist in improving its management and financial
controls, FD has employed a Forest Economist to advise on all aspects of
the Department's costs and revenues. The Government appreciates the serious-
ness of the overmanning problem at the Forest Department (paragraph 38). In
addition to enforcing the freeze on public employment which was announced in
October 1981, the Government expects FD to justify its proposed staffing plans
in detail in its draft Annual Work Programs and Budgets under the project.
Even the proposed transfer into FD of unskilled labor from other departments
or agencies on a temporary basis would be evaluated in the light of the
Department's productivity and financial situation at the time. FD would also
explore ways and means of transferring existing staff to more productive
activities and of hiring labor on a temporary rather than permanent basis.
Specific proposals along these lines would be reviewed by the Bank Group
following the receipt of FD's draft Annual Plans (Section 5.02 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement and Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
61.       Plantation establishment and maintenance would be implemented under
the responsibility and control of the eight Field Conservators of Forests, who
are properly qualified and experienced. Rural afforestation activities would
be carried out under the responsibility and control of the C6nservator of



- 19 -
Forests (RAES). About 80 Extension Forest Assistants and personnel for the 30
new nurseries to be established under the Project would be transferred from
other assignments at FD. The Conservator (RAES) would be assisted by a Rural
Afforestation Adviser who would be selected by the Government of Switzerland
and appointed with the concurrence of FD and the Bank Group (Schedule 2, Part
II, Section 2 of the draft Development Credit and Loan Agreements). Planning
and control of road works would be the responsibility of the Conservator for
Forest Industrial Development (FID), based in Nairobi. Laborers would be
transferred to the road units from other parts of FD. To strengthen the
programming, implementation and control of the FD's Road Program, a Roads
Programming and Control Expert would be recruited for a four-year period. He
would have line management responsibilities and report to the Conservator,
FID. By December 31, 1982, FD, through MENR, would submit to the Bank for
approval a detailed program including the equipment and staffing of the four
Road units as well as the implementation schedule for the construction,
upgrading and maintenance of forest roads. For those forest roads that would
be constructed or upgraded by local contractors, the FD would provide the
Ministry of Transport and Communications with appropriate information
(Schedule 2, Part II, Section 3 of the draft Development Credit and Loan
Agreements).
62.       Staffing.  Technical assistance staff would provide on-the-job train-
ing to local personnel, and also ensure that senior local staff were given a
thorough grounding in essential management matters, such as work planning and
supervision, budgeting and financial control. These responsibilities would be
clearly defined in the terms of reference of technical assistance staff.
Proposals for the use of the consultants' services would be included in the
Project Annual Work Programs and Budgets. All technical assistance staff and
consultants would have qualifications and experience and would be employed
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. It would be a condition
of Credit and Loan effectiveness that the Finance and Management Analyst and
Forest Economist had been employed (Section 7.01(b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement and Section 6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). It would
be a condition of disbursement for the roads component that the Roads Pro-
gramming and Control Expert had been appointed and taken up his position
(Schedule 1, paragraph 5(iii) of the draft Development Credit and Loan
Agreements).
63.       Annual Work Programs and Budgets.  Basic documents for Project
implementation would be annual work programs and budgets. These would be
prepared by FD and submitted through MENR to the Bank for review and approval
not later than March 30 of each year, using a format agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Bank (Schedule 2, Part II, Section 5 of the draft Development
Credit and Loan Agreements).
Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
64.       FD would obtain detailed information for monitoring and evaluating
project implementation through the MIS. This information would be incorpo-
rated into semi-annual reports, summarizing project progress and performance,



- 20 -
which would be submitted to the Bank for review. The format and contents of
these reports would be discussed in detail during the first Bank supervision
mission. FD would also prepare a completion report summarizing Project
performance and evaluating its impact. The report would be submitted to the
Bank not later than six months after the closing date (Section 4.03(d) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement and Section 3.03(d) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Cost Recovery
65.       An economic study would be carried out to determine appropriate
timber prices under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. The results
of the study would be submitted to the Bank for review and comment by December
31, 1982. By the same date FD would prepare and submit to the Bank a plan for
improving collection of sawlog rates. The plan would specifically consider
public auctioning or tendering of cutting rights to forest compartments.
Until agreement was reached on a formula for determining timber prices, the
Government would increase such prices annually, beginning in FY1983, by an
average rate of 12.5% in real terms (Section 5.03 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement and Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). Beginning in
the second year of the project, the Forest Department would also include in
the draft Annual Plans specific proposals for increasing the recovery of the
recurrent production costs of seedlings produced and distributed by RAES.
Such proposals would demonstrate their impact on reducing the annual financial
deficit on RAES' operations (Section 5.04 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement and Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
66.       The most direct benefit of the Project would be increased production
of wood from the establishment of new plantations and the rural afforestation
program. Wood from existing plantations would be sold as high value pruned
timber rather than as lower value unpruned logs. The Project would bring a
dramatic reduction in the rate at which Kenya's forest cover is being lost or
allocated to other uses. Pressure would be reduced on the remaining indigenous
forests. Both of these factors are vital to the regulation of water flow and
protection of soils. By supporting the Forest Department, the Project would
be expected to lead to greater efficiency in this organization and greater
productivity from its labor force; these in turn, would entail major public
savings.
67.       Of the expected benefits, only sawlog and pulpwood production is
readily quantifiable. In making the economic analysis, the accounting values
of unskilled labor and foreign exchange were taken into account. Standing
sawlogs have been valued at border price equivalents, those to be harvested
before the year 2000 at export parity and those thereafter at import parity.
Parities were calculated at Nairobi and on the basis of an expected 2.5% per
year real increase in the world market price for lumber until the year 2000
and 3.0% per year thereafter. Estimating the value of pulpwood is more
difficult but it was calculated as a function of the export value of pulp
until the year 1990 and of the import value after that date. Incremental
production of fuelwood was valued on the assumption that it would replace



- 21 -
kerosene imports, allowing for the economic value of foreign exchange and the
costs of gathering, transporting and selling the wood. On these assumptions,
and assigning no benefit to smallwood not converted to pulp, the economic
rate of return of the new plantations component was calculated at 19%; that
of the rural afforestation component was determined at 22%.
68.       The principal economic risk of the Project is that management
reforms will be slower than intended and unit costs will not decline to target
levels. The project has been designed to minimize this risk by introducing
operational improvements, such as Annual Plans, which will build on the
existing organizational strengths of the Forest Department. Disappointing
results in improved revenue collections could also pose a financial risk.
However, the financial burden of maintaining plantations established under
the project would diminish with the age of the plantations and could be
met, if necessary, by reducing the rate of new plantings after 1986. A
long-term enterprise like forestry always runs agronomic and catastrophic
risks. The Project's provisions for fire and game protection, and for diag-
nostic and referral capabilities for diseases are designed to allay these to a
considerable degree. There is some risk that Kenya will fail to exploit
the full annual harvestable growth of its softwood plantations. While
the domestic market is likely to be satisfied, progress on exports requires
better organization and a better product. Finnish Government assistance to the
logging and sawmilling sector is designed to address these problems and to
turn the substantial over-capacity in the sawmilling sector to economic
advantage. The risk that land-use conversions will continue to take place in
an unplanned manner with adverse ecological consesuences is too broad and
deeply rooted to be dealt with in the context of the forestry subsector
alone. It is being addressed in the context of sectoral and structural
adjustment dialogues between the Government and the Bank.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Development Credit and Loan Agreements between the Republic
of Kenya and the Association and the Bank, the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
70.       Conditions of effectiveness include the execution of the Swiss Grant
Agreement and Italian Loan Agreement (Sections 7.01(a) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement and 6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement), the recruitment of
a Finance and Management Analyst and a Forest Economist (Sections 7.01(b) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement and 6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment), and provision of evidence of the due authorization or ratification, and



- 22 -
satisfaction of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness, of the Swiss
Grant Agreement and Italian Loan Agreement (Sections 7.02 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and 6.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). Conditions of
disbursement include: (a) the approval of a basic design and implementation
schedule for FD's MIS and (b) the appointment of a Roads Programming and
Control Expert (Schedule 1, paragraph 5(ii) and (iii) of the draft Development
Credit and Loan Agreements). Special features of the draft Development Credit
and Loan Agreements are referred to in Annex III of this report.
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit and Loan would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan and credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 9, 1982



- 23 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                        Page  1  of  6
KENYA - SOCIAL INDICATDRS DATA SHEET                                     g
KENYA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIOGTED AVEWES
LAND AREA (IHUUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                           - NDST RECENT ESTIMATE)
IOTAL             582.6                                  MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       60.4               1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAMA    LATIN AMERICA 4 CARIBBEAN
CNP PER CAPITA (U5S)                   100.0        170.0      380.0                 794.2                    1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       150.4        122.1     180.1                  707.5                   1324.1
POPULATION AND VLITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  8189.0        11253.0   15274.0
URBAN PUPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  7.4           10.2       13.8                  27.7                      64.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MlLLIONS)                         34.1
STAILONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          109.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2095
POPULATION UENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         14.1         19.3      26.2                   55.0                     34.3
PER sQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    145.2          191.4     244.4                  130.7                     94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRS.                           47.6         48.9      50.0                   46.0                     40.7
15-64 YIS.                           49.B         48.6      47.6                   51.2                     55.3
65 YRS. ANI ABOVE                     2.6          2.5       2.4                    2.8                      4.0
PUPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.4          3.2       3.4                    2.8                      2.4
URBAN                                5.2          6.4       6.8                    5.1                      3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       52.0         52.7       51.3                  46.9                      31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       24.0         17.5       13.4                  15.8                       8.4
GRubS REPRUDUTCIUN RAIE                3.6          3.8        3.8                   3.2                       2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANUS)         ..         30.9      61.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            1.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX UF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-I01)            99.0        100.0      86.0                   89.9                    108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRM£ENTS)                     99.0        99.0       88.0                   92.3                    107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMIS PER DAY)           70.0         68.0      52.0                   52.8                     65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         29.0         28.0      20.0                   16.1                     34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALIITY RATE      34.0         22.5       15.2                  20.2                       7.6
HEALIH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    41.3           49.1       54.7                  50.8                      64.1
INFANT MIRTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            126.Oc      119.0      91.0                     ..                     70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TUTAL                                 ..         15.0      17.0                   27.4                     65.7
URBAN                                           100.0     100.0                   74.3                     79.7
RURAL                                 ..          2.0       4.0                   12.6                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATIUN)
OUIAL                                 ..        50.0       55.0                     ..                     59.9
URBAN                                 ..         85.0      98.0                     ..                     75.7
RURAL                                            45.0      48.0                     ..                     30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           10690.6       7830.9Ld 11625.2/d              13844.1                   1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       223.0/.Ld  1474.1/d  1085.7Ld                 2898.6                   1288.2
PUPULAIION PER HOSPITAL BED
lUTAL                              807.OLc     774.1      770.8                1028.4                     471.2
URBAN                                 ..           ..     602.1                 423.0                     558.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     802.8                3543.2
ADMISSIUNS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..
HOUSING
AVEKAGE SIZE UF LOUSEUHOLI
TOTAL                                 ..          4.7
URBAN                                 ..         4.7
RURAL                                 ..          4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER RKOQM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                2.5/c        ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
UF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           .
RURAL                                 ..           ..



- 24 -                                                     AMNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
KENYA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KENYA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE7AGES
- moST RECENT ESTIMATE).~
HOST RECENT         MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                47.0         60.0      99.0                 73.7                    101.7
MALE                 64.0        70.0      105.0                 96.8                    103.0
FEMALE               30.0        49.0      94.0                  79.0                    101.5
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  2.0          8.0      18.0                 16.2                     35.3
MALE                  3.0        12.0       22.0                 25.3                     34.9
FEMALE                2.0         5.0       14.0                 14.8                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (t OF SECONDARY)    ..          2.0       2.0                  5.3                     30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           42.0        34.0       33.0                 36.2                     29.6
SECONDARY                         15.0        21.0       25.0                 23.6                     15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       20.0/c       30.0      45.0                   ..                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         8.0         8.5        8.0                 32.3                    42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         7.0        44.4       36.8                 69.0                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.3         1.4        4.2                  8.0                    89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 13.0        13.8       11.2                 20.2                    62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1.0          ..        0.4                  0.7                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     3299.8      4319.7    5530.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  34.5        34.3       33.5                 36.7                    22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             86.0        82.0       78.4                 56.6                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 5.0         7.0        9.6                 17.5                    23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               40.3        38.4       36.2                 37.2                     31.8
MALE                                53.3         50.9      48.5                 47.1                     49.0
FEMALE                              27.5         26.1      24.1                 27.5                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.2          1.3       1.4                  1.3                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        20.2/e
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..        52.6         ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          3.97
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         11.77
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    150.0                  381.2
RURAL                               ..          ..      112.0                156.2                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      179.0                334.3                   513.6
RURAL                               ..          ..      106.0                137.6                   362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..       10.0
RURAL                               ..          ..       55.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
Ic   1962;  /d Registered, not all practicing in the country;  Ie Urban only.
May, 1981



-25 -
ANNEX I
DFNT ONOF SOCIAL I9TICATORS                                                   Page    3   of 6
NMotor  Aliboogb the data at- ie   o   ots  geneely  ogdtemtauhorttiendeibl,i  shoul  ulc he noted that they say no  he inter-
nat IonLy. comparabl  because of thelac  of~'  eIardartedI    deittosan  onoPt  usedby difrn   outisi   olett!h  dt,tedteaeIo.
bltee .. . oafo1 to d-eorih  orer   at   gitode. indicate tretde, and .hoaraoteriee caeit  major dlffere..e..hbtee...n........
The  eeeo    onev t Ii) tie saI   ooonItrp Irop nf the sobjotI coun.try and (21aonr)rn    nhsmwa   ihereoeebosta   h   nno   to
otte ut jt   oniy  eoetfr   eitlMapoIOllloree   ropefee  Mdiebom    orhAtleen   idl   no'Osoosoboil                                                     o   ttne
eoootrrffnte)                   rterfrneeordttIefvrasaerr,aIorachadaIthmeic anar  to  each  i                                          goctc  erd et.oomh.nnyrte
aejortoy of the oounoriee in s groop hoe data- (o Ftatinicto.  gtinn  Irha  "oKedage1 of  oo tre among.t,i                        I      m -   the lodict d4 podoor hs. abalab.Ilit  of dat
and15- 0  onfor,cnite               eeecsdi  reltig          .a.rge  of . on   .idIct-t -oeo-thr            .bo.. average  ar. tyceo   ronaigSen eo
LAScl  (hoed  qh.                                                                         Pooltin  erOIfial3r p-toa, orhared  oe  -?plao(ttl
total - Tnl  nfeiaeacdpLg ad  00an   nlt   acr .uhr,ad  oel   niddby-to e-otc   teeroToeaa.bd
hatotoa     timteo   gicloaloe  oe   efoaly   rrrnrnlyeolai   npoioco    rargrea   n  ep                                h.lir    rptlf  sd  o
T.,.,                                                                                                "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a  oe   re(ytie.tthIe" ae-t-  -roIdlgpioplyce
CrP  ft  APT  (51     ltPpr  apt  ctotte  a   ntet  arerpirs,tl-dilcr0  r  nr  nload-Onalhepter  hpee, t-oe  eat
odleted by see oooverton  ethda   ol  oo    re   17-7    el)   90                        end ....diol ooeartpraetyeefdh     haca   hth
C.   llP.-till     1-  ~          ~      ~     dtio  ndprvie    hmd   reoge of medical  fa            hite. PrIItal
frrSC  -oncePIo P--t  -APIT  -. kaoitcteh poonofcseril  neg   (otI                                ialb Iorllr  orhatI hoeiti  told        dOO   prcnoipl/aerl hetite
ardlgtit.petoleo.vaoral   a.enhydr-.rolearvdaerheraaarc.                           odrcalhortte.loci orrulabt*fta1erIllucai:ldenPI
trioly) l  kllgree  ofclyqovln   ercpt;  90   90,odi79cnea 11 ipelloe   heph os  te  nodd  oi  ondet total.
deta.                                                                                Odelesione ret OIlerite-l-tedki..o..iIndiler-of ld-ioeiot  to O  dIecar
POPUS,kTSOtr ARc otTAl. STATISTICS.R-11  ..P,.l                                                                              ...    I     h.ll
data.                                                                                        Avraedin   f   ooehidderon  rt  oe...).   tnl. bcohen .antol-
""diffret   Ieiulo   fohnaessyafetcaaoiyo   aaed thIrnto na.. ..  horero tloage  madiy orP1 mey not Me, tet,di
among oooniiee; 1900,  970, end 199 dana.                  theboneehold t- etatiaricl porpre            'h
PNRGOpulaTIon inyPER     1-Crec   ouaitpoetos  t   ae   tlf                                       e  ofIrereotadp00ivlne i all urban. andirorl  oopetoat
total  opniaIonb              adsead  hi    oraiyad  etlt  rates                               deigereptvlp                 elogncdeo-errntsrtrean
"ing Ifeepcao   t  it   nrano   uhd                   oty     e   riein eMoet  Olcccicb                               rrei0 h    deia. -lile)-t         ra.ad.    ruraIl.-
eatesfrfriiyrtalohvthelee.eeegdeln   aotoa,rh, and royal dPeliog   resecivly
d nhounn   e h aeiod  n   f  hs  n,ine  19e60ne19ors ofd 19r79ir                                         I'llCATId
SO'Taion ArDVIA  STroATISTICStioar    ooato   htrf oornbsni                                       rmr  schooIl. -dotl.db m l. and fnle b.rde.         oal   al   n  fei
Tthebirtret   oe -qactoh.e. de)-Achae afoJaIY orhr19 ges1r70oore1e-                       eOSNG oloiflaeeteonayeaepreteefreeon
mat  oaat            o   ssoivdnt   fo   etiiyrtsdotat                                          pteyeho-g    oolrre   omlyicudsoide   gdhi
ch   epeeen  tvl  funont  errutiofae-ro   ac   sorti-yer  htajotdio-dfern  lntsffprmryeucton   o
oif.1 rome  telacrel Itef  eabotly. Th   itier  poplaio .siesasootient   noeeleuainerlmntsyeie   0                                                                   on
ithyer100  an  thrtoo  doin   ffot'Syraetorp' I-Saodetscol- toAl male   .  Lnd                                               dg.al  -   1 Cp Ye -s bhna  secondary
meitlrr.                                                                                  dcain  eqiesatlas   ro  pa.1f9proe9pimr Ietutin
Per en. ha.aerto ltoa flan --hoaote  as      Pabov   Ifo  aiohlnoral..  lan                Enl   ra   eetrr   f  sndr   nrtt
Population hoe Seructuocfreroent)- CJidog (i0h I tpearel,   .,ritgeg   11-pimary acd aecondurty   tol   iie  b                         hr   freresi  h
6  yers),  nd reired  (65peers, and near) a  fareng5  of s-dpea  pop,-                    C--i-epnd_nglevls.--               -i  .        tti-     b.- I
fain    90,17,  a   99  ae              hdltltrcyrt   reor)- LnrteL adlts falet  radad-ri-
Pooato  GothO ts 'nten(tnl  dce at                i   aEs ofci. Loa   t-sepretg  o   oa   fl                                     oatr  gd1   er   n   0r
year populeion   ford p9061I96-,         t. end 197 -7.             f
Prealation iooeih gate " forat -  oran-   Ouu  geth- rate  ot orkor pop'-            COItPI
hlerf ori-  I.tl-O,19h-.    an~ d:h 197-79     ld.1.                                      paEeenear Car cI.frerllI thosan   -dultiof   -Pee1    gr  ar  tryresad      o
Crod  tenth gat  (r-r nhoad -1    .. anua  dea1th. pe  thoad   fadya                         al    oeo er t-hendeo                        IYtn  i- ll d types of reeier  for 1d
popoletn; 596, 1970,and 197  dan.                                                     bned ber  to gredsr ., dubif per thocehn of puoaine;yedlodos.I   ua-
Petl "lanen-detd        e  annual (d.thseds) - Annualj nIbe  of.  irpp rrtjO  otiver  leerthousand  doplIAtr  - thrcatoer  ford hrIa.ssn .h
P000 nOt fMfTiIttOtI                                                                   to be V.-  dailytOf..itlappears en lbesthfou  times g a   - tcasfk.Pil
lodn r  Pond Prdcto  ro   air   lhM715   -I-                    fpr  a    aenal                ins Inof  Atendnc  rr   lotartYa  -Mdr  the -ueb- o
iso   aedrya   ai.Criisoirptaygos(..sgrneai moile trite.f.121i                                                                          v. 
tnetad      snar  whch  re  dibe ad:  icantein-nuort-ttaileg,Pcoffeednod
te  ae  atodd . Aaeaepouto   fec   on              sbadn                        inn   puict
na11tionlavrg  prodo..r pricet veChil;1d         -6.170-n  1979  ate.Y-naiLabo  Port                                   Ptoas  -       ....an Itlly -ective persd-. -uiloding
64epysq .     ten.f.atfod  upleaavidbt t.cunr  pet capit                                      coveingy. popuatio  r 1al-1a. d efinitibonsb invriu    ru thie  o
per-- day., Avaiabl  1uplie dtpie   omaicpod   ir,imotslestt io~taMe   90   95ed17   aa
P qeaniinies- uEdli  fond- ptceiu  and1 Aloose'itdistt foI-I. Mour-Aredtr   ore-    LLabor .force 1in  fare, fretry , bonit                                           -iend
heu.seheld  evl   016-M t70,   and  197079dta                                                 tO  a     .d 1979 dan.-A..    i
Per. caitthR,.I. sa th of   . frte eea  e   a) - k-    i.b,h P-rnei  tooter  rf pe   ata      Prl teiio   Mot           lighto P-.tria. sale.nd.f sale    P         ...ito  ord
P          19rne  f605 1970, ofIdte  prdtelo pe   a   n   0geao   iomtad16.17,adtOOdt.Teeaehsdoelb    entpe                                                            ae
C ardsacslhowerihanthrsel of               -.  .                     id-y...tlposnadageer  fR      asimneae  tonoinasrrce
Or 9i Pro  Survey  lOg-d  19709ed   t7   attn   tenro   aorfrs
Porterta aroain suely frmrottdc andpulse  lPruPan surpAltf foddde
riveP-d frre . enial  en   use   ngrm   e  dp   96-i   97   n  17   ot.                  ICSEltMtlI
Child lE-c 16Mralt  gt                   ferthu   d-gll -ntol deatb  p.r1 thLan   n            Peone    fPrvt  Icm   (boh itcasad kInd)~ -. hotod.b  nh
toieet dane deIveIrm        -ienale   96.170ad199dt,                      7f9nhia
UnLIM                                                                                   povtgn r"' f.ott omoroptYAl  -                             b
an birt; 1060,1970 .an   19791  90,110 daaIen  thnud he  intrpetd wtb r- ideel  nutn
le  a    otlt    oe  ertoen)-Aroldah   fifnendrncya                                        elaedAslt   rat   on-lvlln   e    oto      ra   n   ua 
ofae  e  thosan  lieb         =te                                                               aeluepvet  tvm   lvtdatanlosAeelhlo-bobaaIia
peintgecfte Hrrapriv    rittoe.I a   renaenapblrpasmt  nseo   hevofe.tra   evlesdrve   eaete  oa
red-  nabld scse  ol  ipythtte  os-ieo  mtr  o  h  household                                    end1ruraly -    f P iet ofpepulathonI. (frhe  tsod  _aa)  h   rmk.    ln
ft earhave  o eren  5 dipooprttoeat  partof th  da  it l fetcin,.th            Croor"          ttl-                                         h   -,
femolr' s rotor reeds. ~ ~ ~     ~        ~        ~       ~ ~            "' :l
Morse  o Moteta lirreal irnet  .f.riein      otl oha  adrea 
percentages af ith to reeaiibeipaaira   entrea diaeeabmay iatud
the  cullantirn ` end dipat   lb  rwtottenmn,o  raa   art                                                                            c nomio adl1. to    IMtetvso
lar -inatlatt-ac.                                                                                                                                 Mopl 19917d..Tt.  d.     S. i-
Pr   aien e P  siian- Ppeltur  divdedby  rmoer  f rstnd 9n                                                                                 .....yst-i
oiaea   ted  earn a medical erhoat at university level.g h.
Prrnlriiy  qoVI.r nsn  Pru   Punfnin  iIde   ynme fc '.Prattittn                                                       -YI...   t.
mat  an  fsale  gradute etena   prnor lbnre, and a               pi n  nurses.






tta  eec-  cc.  itte-              ret-               ci-               s:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..   .   ..   .
c-ct         etc                tee-.1M             1                 F i-ge  i-ce, tee                     c      I          eT-c                                          ..c-.
c-ce    c-cc                c-cc              ~~tic                17 ret           tic                 get              tee                                        e.I._q.tc
ret  ttc  eec               cee                tee                tee                eei               ice~~1W
tes-  ece   eoc                i-t-               eec                ccc                ee-                -ce                                               e.cclleVcW
i-tee  a-tee 6-eec      i-ee               c-ete              c-c                c-il              i-ccitcccedce   occtoicocc
tee  tee    Icc                eec                tee                etc                S-l~~            ~~t 601                                  .tecelo tt,
.cl......     gOle....        gt
eiec  elite  c-tee              ccce               c-itt              ttc IM            c-etc                                          otcccee ce -
1-It                                                                                                 t-11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cl i  la             c-Itoecc-o,
ctl    -cc1               6-c         -      le                 6CoecictWI-t-






- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
Balance of Pa senta and External Assistance
(US$ Million)
Actual                   Pre
1976           1977           1978           1979           1980           1981            1982           1983            1984           1985           1990
A.   Summary of Balance of Paynents
1.   Exports (incl. NFS)                                                      1131.7         1572.1         1475.5         1567.6         1821.0         2069.1          2364.7         2720.2         3115.3          3559.0         6667.8
2    Imports (incl. NFS)                                                     1132.9          i441.4         2085.7         2020.7         2517.6         2707.3         2955.2          3301.2         3691.2          4124.3         6952.1
a 3    Resource Balance                                                           -1.2          130.7         -610.2         _453.1         -696.6         -638.2          -590.5         -581.0         -576.9          -565.3         -284.2
4.   Net Factor Service Income                                                -137.4         -143.8         -142.4         -142,3         -178.5         -221.9          -269.2         -308.0          347.3          -395.6         -02.0
4.1  Net Interest Payments of which:                                           -34.7          -12.1          -15.9          -55,5          -88.2         -122.2         -144.4          -168.8         -192.0          -222.9         -307.8
(Interest on Public M & LT Loans)                                  (-12.7)        (-21.3)         (-5.2)        (-27.4)       (-106.8)        (-129.2)       (-154.8)       (-183.4)        (-210.7)       (-246.5)        (-364.7)
4.2  Direct Investment Income (Net)                                           -113.8         -143.8         -176.5         -142.5         -149.6         -157.1          -165.0         -181.5          -199.6         -219.6         -353.6
4.3  Workers' Remittance (Net)               )                                  34.7           12.1           50.0           55.7           59.3           51.4            40.2           42.3            44.3           46.9            59.4
4.4  Otherr ctor Tnservices Income (Net)                                        14.6           71.3          103.1          105.6          160.6          180.3           202.4          227.3          255.2           286.6          491.6
6.   Balance  on Current Account                                              -i24.o           58.2         -649.5         -489.8         -714.5         -679.9         -657.3          -661.8         -669.0          -674.4         -394.7
7.   Private Direct Investment                                                  22.9           17.9           67.7           87.0           95.8          122.4           134.6          148.2           163.0          179.3          288.8
Public N & LT Loans
P. Disbursements                                                                87.2           80.7          181.0          193.9          331.1          512.0           440.6          584.0          490.0           515.0          707.8
9.   Amnrtization                                                              -19.4           -1.7          -21.0          -26.3          -31.7          -47.2           -59.6          -86.3           -94.8         -121.6         -228.6
10. Net Disbursements                                                           67.8           79,0          159.9          167.5          319.4          464.9           381.0          497.7          395.1           393.4          479.2
Private N & IT Loans
Pl.  Disbursements 1o                                                          127 9          115.2          208.9          295.4          168.2          144.4           310.2          289.0           427.6          517.0          424.4
12. Amortization IT                                                             -1.9           -1.5          -48.3          -47.7         -109.6         -148.3         -173.6          -213.1         -243.8           333.9         -643.1
13. Net Disbursements ij/                                                      126.0          113.7          160.6          247.8           58.6           -3.9           136.6           75.9           183.7          183.1         -218.7
14.  Use of IMF Resources                                                       19.8          -54.8            8.0          -10.0           73.3          146.5            65.1            -               -              -            -30.0
15.  Short-term Capital Transactions                                            -5.0            7.7           35.0          187.0            -              -               -
16.  Capital Transactions, n.e.i.                                               -2.6           -4,3           25.1            0.0            -              -               -              -               -
17. Change in Reserves (- = increase)                                         -104.9         -217.4          193.2         -189.5          167.4          -50.0           -60.0          -60.0           -72.9          -81.5         -124.7
B.   Grants and Loan Coemitments
1.   Official Grants                                                            40.3           40.0           40.0           40.0           40.0           44.0            48.4           53.2           58.6            64.4           82.2
2.   Public M & LT Loans                                                       210.6          356.7          537.1          566.2          562.4          532.5           839.6          864.1         1036.7          1105.1         1242.1
2.1  IBRD                                                                       31.0           84.0          156.0          110.0           92.5          111.5           167.5          215.0          207.5           165.0          204.1
2.2  IDA                                                                        14.0           36.0           61.0           27.0          184.8          110.0           120.0          107.5          115.0           107.5
2.3  Other Multilateral                                                         10.7           67.1           44.3           57.0           50.0           27.3            29.7           32.4           35.3            38.5           59 2
2.4  Governments                                                                35.5           69.0          173.9          136.7          125.0          189.6           205.7          223.3          242.4           263.1          397.7
of which, centrally planned economies                                   0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0             0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0             0.0            0.0            0.0
2.5  Suppliers Credits                                                          56.5           19.4            0.0            0.0           30.0           30.0            50.0           52.5           55.1            57.9            0.0
2.6  Financial Institutions 2/                                                  62.9           81.2          102.0          235.5           80.1           64.2           266.7          23334          381.5           473.1          404.2
2.7  Bonds                                                                       0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0             0.0            0.0            0.0             0.0            0.0
3.   Other M & LT Loans (where available)                                        7.5            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0
C.  Memorandum Items
1.   Grant Element of Total Commitments                                         23.0           36.5           34.9           35.0           45.9            46.5           28.3           33.6            25.8           23.2            38.6
2.   Average Interest (Percent)                                                  6.4            5.2            8.5            8.5             4.1            4.8            6.4             6.0            6.6            6.9             5.3
3.   Average Maturity (Years)                                                   17.5           25.6           31.0           30.0            30.2           28.8           19.9           21.9            18.4           16.3            24.9
.i  Includes financing of projected balance of payments deficit (1980-1990) on commercial terms.
EAN CPIA
2/  Includes commitments on gapfill.                                                                                                                                                                              June 8, 1981






- 28 -
KENYA                                                                                     ANNEX I
Debt1 and creditworthinessl                                                                           Page 6 of 6
*Atual                                                                       Prolected
1976          1977           1978           1979          1980           1981          1982           1983           1984           1985           1990
A.  Medium and Long-term Debt (Disbursed Only)
(US $ million)
1.   Total Debt Outstanding (DOD: End of Period)                         100.5          917;1          1290.7        1616.7         2189.2         2655.8         3179.8         3769.5        4358.1         4941.7         7219.6
2.   Including Undisbursed                                              1331.2         1700.4          2343.7        2841.9         3470.9         3808.0         4414.4        4979.1         5677.2         6326.7         9095.6
3.   Public Debt Service                                                 -49.4          -57-3          -121.9        -118.2         -248.1         -324.5         -387.9        -482.8         -549.4         -702.0        -1236.4
3.1  Interest                                                            -23.9          -32.4           -52.6          -68.2        -106.8         -129.1         -154.8        -183.4         -210.8         -246.5         -364,7
4.   Other N & LT Debt Service                                                                                          ..                                   ..             ..             ..
B.  Debt Burden
1.  Debt Service Ratio                                                     4.4            3.6             7.8           8.4           12.9           15.1           15.9          17.3           17.2           19.2           18.2
2.  Debt Service/GDP                                                        1.4           1.3             2.3            2.0           3.6            4.1            4.4           4.9             5.1           5.8            6.2
3.   Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                                6.6            6.1            10.5           8.4           14.9           17.2           18.4          '0.5           21.1           24.2           25.8
C.  Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                                        3.4            3.5             4.1           4.2            4.9           4.9            4.9            4.9            4.8            5.0            5.1
2.   Total Debt Service/Total DOD                                           7.1           6.2             9.4           3.3           11.3          12.2           12.2           12.8           12.6           14.2           17.1
D.  Dependency Ratios for M & LT Debt
1.   Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                              15.9           16.1            17.5          23.3          20.6           24.2           25.4           26.4           24.9          25.0           16.3
2.   Net Transfer/Imports (incl. KPS)                                     11.6           12.1            14.2          19.6           15.0          17.0           17.5           17.4           15.7           14.0            3.7
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                                      72.6           75.2            81.0          84.3           72.8          70.2           68.9           65.7           63.1          55.9           23.0
E.  Exposure
1.  IbRD Disbursements/Gress Total Disbursements                          37.0           44.5            14.6          10.7            9.9          22.1           16.9           25.4           16.6           15.4          15.2
2.   Bank Group Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements                   15,0           22.6            20.1          16.4          27.9           41.8           25.8           38.7           25.7          23.9           27.3
3.  IPRD DOD/Total DOD                                                    24.2           37.7            25.2          22.2          18.4           20.3           20.5           22.7           22.6          22.4           21.3
4.   Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                             22.0           34.2           35.1           31 4          29.4           34.2           34.2           37.3           37.1          36.9           39.0
5.  IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                                  29.7           31.3            21.0          28.6          13.5           12.0           13.6           13.6           15.8          16.0           18.1
6.   Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                           31.5           33.2            22.1          29.9          14.1           12.9           14.6           14.6          16.8           17.0           19.4
i/ Includes Kenya's share of a notional 50 percent of EAC debt.
EAN CPIA
June 8, 1981






- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A.  Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of October 31, 1981
US$ Million
Loan or                                                            Amount (Less Cancellations)
Credit 1    Year   Borrower    Purpose                            Bankl   TW   IDAl  Undisbursed
Sixteen (16) Loans and Seventeen (17) Credits
Fully Disbursed                                    266.68        179.72
477       1974    Kenya        Livestock                                       17.50     9.51
537       1975    Kenya       Group Farm Rehabilitation                        7.50      3.67
1105       1975    Kenya        Sites and Services                 8.00                   3.60
1167       1976    Kenya       Mombasa & Coastal Water Supply  35.00                      2.41
1184       1976    Kenya       Third Education                    10.00                   8.45
( 650      (1977   (Kenya       (Integrated Agric. Development                  10.00   ( 3.80
(1303-T    (1977   (Kenya       (Integrated Agric. Development           10.00           (10.00
1304-T     1977    Kenya       Wildlife and Tourism                     17.00             9.68
( 651      (1977   (Kenya      (Rural Access Roads                               4.00    ( .10
(1305      (1977   (Kenya      (Rural Access Roads                  4.00                  (4.00
1389       1977    Kenya        South Nyanza Sugar                25.00                   5.81
( 692      (1977   (Kenya      (Third Agriculture                               20.00    (1.35
(1390-T    (1977   (Kenya      (Third Agriculture                         5.00            (5.00
1438       1977    IDB          Third Industrial Dev. Bank        20.00                   7.48
( 722      (1977   (Kenya      (Bura Irrigation Settlement                       6.00   (  .92
(1449      (1977   (Kenya       (Bura Irrigation Settlement        34.00                 (34.00
750       1978    Kenya       Small Scale Industry                            10.00      8.80
1520       1978    NCC          Second Urban Water Supply         30.00                  22.50
( 791      (1978   (Kenya      (Second Urban                                    25.00   (22.22
(1550      (1978   (Kenya      (Second Urban                      25.00                  (25.00
797       1978    Kenya       Fourth Education                                23.00    20.30
1636       1979    Kenya        Sugar Rehabilitation              72.00                  67.92
1637       1979    Kenya       Rural Water Supply                 20.00                  19.89
858       1979    Kenya       Narok Agricultural Development                  13.00    12.41
1680       1979    Kenya       Telecommunications                 20.00                  15.55
1684       1979    Kenya       Highway Sector                     90.00                  87.79
914       1979    Kenya       Smallholder Coffee Improvement                  27.00    26.19
959       1980    Kenya       Second Integrated Agric. Dev.                   46.00    45.66
962       1980    Kenya       Baringo Pilot                                    6.50      6.06
1799       1980    Kenya       Third Power (Olkaria Geothermal)40.002                    16.93
1817       1980    IDB         Fourth Industrial Dev. Bank        30.00                  29.07
1045       1980    Kenya       Export Promotion Technical Asst.                 4.50      4.50
1051       1980    Kenya       Fisheries                                       10.00    10.00
1107       1981    Kenya       Fifth Education4                                35.90    35.90
1976       1981    Kenya       Railway                            58.00                  58.00
(1143      (1981   (Kenya      (Fourth Agriculture3 4                            9.40      9.40
(1995      (1981   (Kenya      (Fourth Agriculture3               25.00 _                 25.00
Total                            812.68 32.00 455.02   678.87
of which has been repaid        44.80   -      2.57
Total now outstanding            767.88 32.00 452.45
Amount sold                11.81
of which has been repaid 11.81   .00
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA              767.88 32.00 452.45
TOTAL undisbursed                           433.39 24.68 220.80   678.87
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/ Includes Loan S-12 ($9.0 million).
4/ IDA-6 Credit amounts expressed in dollar equivalents of SDR's.
3/ Not yet effective.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
B. Summary Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Involving
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as of October 31, 1981
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan No.   Year   Borrower   Purpose                  Bank'    Undisbursed
-----US$ million-----
Six loans fully disbursed                            135.80
638-EA    1969    EAHC        Second Harbours        35.00         0.52
865-EA    1972    EAHC        Third Harbours         26.50         0.35
914-EA    1972    EAPTC      Third Telecom.          32.50         0.28
1204-EA    1976    EADB        Second Dev. Finance   15.00          3.27
Total                                             244.80         4.42
of which has been repaid                          68.89
Total now outstanding                             175.91
Amount sold                            24.36
of which has been repaid              24.36        0.00
Total now held by Bankl                           175.91
Total undisbursed                                   4.42         4.42
1/ Net of exchange adjustments.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
C. Status of Projects in Execution1
(As of October 31, 1981)
There are currently 31 projects under execution in Kenya.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 477-KE - Second Livestock Project: US$17.52 million Credit
of April 5, 1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982-
The implementation of this project has been hampered by a number of
policy and institutional issues. Consequently, disbursements have been
exceedingly slow and the outstanding balance as of December 31, 1980, the
closing date, was US$14.3 million. Agreement was reached with the Government
that the credit would be extended for a period of two years to December 31,
1982, if a number of conditions necessary to resolve the above issues were
implemented by November 1980. These conditions implied a more realistic and
modified project with decreased project costs. Agreement was also reached
between the Government and the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) with
the Association that since the total amount of the credit could not be
utilized even with the proposed new closing date, the Government would
request a cancellation of US$4.0 million and a reallocation between
categories in Schedule 1 of the Credit Agreement, once the conditions were
met. Although the cancellation is now effective, the other amendments have
not come into effect, since the countersigned letter of amendment from AFC
has not yet been received.
Credit No. 537-KE4 - Group Farm Rehabilitation Project: US$7.5 million
Credit of March 26, 1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.
2/ Net of cancellations, an amount of US$4.0 million was cancelled on
December 30, 1980, since the total amount of the credit could not be
utilized.
3/ The new closing date will be effective once the countersigned letter from
AFC is received.
4/ Loan No. 1093-KE, US$7.5 million, was cancelled on May 11, 1981,
retroactive to November 30, 1980, at Government request.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
The Project faces major problems. The progress of rehabilitation
of existing project farms is encountering a variety of legal, social,
political and financial problems. Despite project efforts to recruit
qualified farm managers, most of the farms continue to suffer from inadequate
financial and operational management. The majority of project farm group
owners would like to subdivide, but are constrained by large debts for common
assets and by the absence of a clear Government policy and guidelines on
legal subdivision of group farms. Although rehabilitation of a few farms,
particularly coffee estates, seems to be proceeding satisfactorily, the Bank
and the Government are jointly reviewing the project objectives in light of
difficulties encountered, and the Government has undertaken a study of the
financial impact of various alternative solutions to the financial problems
of group farms and will review the implications of sub-division for the
regions concerned. In the interim, recruitment of additional farms has
stopped, and the cancellation of the total loan amount of US$7.5 million, at
Government's request, has been effected.
Loan No. 1132-KE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation Project:
US$9.9 million' Loan and US$10.0 million Credit of June 27, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Project is a continuation of the first Kenya Forestry
Plantation Project (Loan 641-KE), to complete the Government's long-term
afforestation program target of 130,000 ha. of sawlog and 24,000 ha. of
pulpwood plantations by 1980. The credit and the loan are now fully
disbursed. A Completion Report is under preparation. At completion, the
planting program was 35% below target due to a variety of reasons, including
bad weather conditions as well as poor and deteriorating management. The
building and labor housing programs were considerably behind schedule.
Loan No. 1303-T-KE/Credit No. 650-KE - Integrated Agricultural
Development Project: US$10.0 million Loan and US$10.0 million Credit of
July 9, 1976; Effective Date: March 15, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1981
The reorientation of the project towards assisting large numbers of
subsistence farmers rather than progressive smallholder farmers has led to a
number of difficulties. Late release of credit funds has led to delayed
application of farm inputs, and expected yield increases were therefore not
achieved. Measures are now being taken to ensure availability of credit
funds at the appropriate time. The overall balance between numbers of
borrowers and infrastructural support--staff, storage and transport--at
cooperative union level has been improving, and greater efforts have been
made to improve the input supply and marketing systems.
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: US$25.0 million Loan of
April 15, 1977; Effective Date: November 3, 1977; Closing Date: March
31, 1983
5/ Net of cancellations, an amount of US$0.1 million was cancelled on
July 20, 1979 since items which were to have been financed under the loan
were not procured in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
The sugar factory is in operation, agricultural development has
advanced well and nucleus estate development is complete including drainage.
Yields from outgrowers' cane have been projected somewhat higher as compared
with 1980 yields; however, actual 1981 production may well fall short of
management expectations if the amount of rain and distribution of rainfall is
not favorable. All civil works are virtually completed, work on minor roads
is improving and major road works are proceeding satisfactorily. Certain
weaknesses in project management, particularly cane handling and transport,
have become apparent, and consultants are being employed to rectify this
problem. Although statutory sugar prices were changed in April 1981 by about
10%, SONY (the Project entity) is experiencing serious financial
difficulties. KSA and SONY will review the situation to ascertain what
financial assistance will be required from Government and if the Bank's legal
requirements have been satisfied.
Loan No. 1390-T-KE/Credit No. 692-KE - Third Agricultural Credit
Project: US$5.0 million Loan and US$5.0 million Credit of April 15,
1977; Effective Date: September 14, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The closing date of the Project has been postponed one year to
compensate for initial disbursement problems related to budgetary cutbacks
and cumbersome administration of reimbursement requests and to reallocate
underutilized credit funds for medium-scale farmers and livestock holders
to the small-scale farmer category, where AFC commitments have exceeded
appraisal estimates. The balance of funds for onlending, about $3.2 million,
is expected to be fully drawn down by AFC by end 1981. The new, computerized
accounts system is now operational, and is being programmed to provide
improved arrears reporting, budgeting and financial control.
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit No. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlement Project:
US$34.0 million Loan and US$6.0 million Credit of June 22, 1978;
Effective Date: June 27, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Despite a slow start-up, project implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily. However, a detailed review of cost estimates indicates that
the Project will experience serious cost overruns; the revised estimate is
about twice the appraisal figure, and there seems to be little scope for
reduction. The Government has indicated that it will proceed with the
Project despite the significant burden on its finances, and is currently
reviewing its budget and seeking additional external assistance. No
supplementary IDA financing is proposed.
Loan No. 1636-KE - Sugar Rehabilitation Project: U$72.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: September 20, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Implementation of this Project is facing a serious problem. The
Government has indicated reluctance to sign the Subsidiary Financing
Agreements for two of the three factories to be rehabilitated under the
Project, and has now confirmed its intention formally to the Bank.
Developments in these project areas are in suspense since the companies have



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
not given evidence that they have a viable financing plan and since the
Government has not provided detailed plans for the complementary field and
infrastructural development. Rehabilitation of the third factory has been
held up by delays in the recruitment of consultants; serious cost over-runs
are expected. Cane supply is expected to drop unless cane prices are
significantly increased. In spite of the economic difficulties facing the
sugar production sector, investments in new factories are being projected. A
study to review sugar marketing prospects is due to start soon, and
appropriate changes in project design will be discussed immediately
thereafter.
Credit No. 858-KE - Narok Agricultural Development Project: US$13.0
million Credit of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Implementation is proceeding slowly due to difficulties in
developing effective credit programs adapted to the special circumstances of
the traditional Masai farmers of the district. Land adjudication, initially
an obstacle to medium-term lending by AFC, is proceeding relatively well, the
construction of a central Farmers' Training Center is finished, and project
staffing is nearly complete; however, project coordination and supervision of
extension services has been weak due to a change in the District Agricultural
Office (DAO) and the continued lack of an Assistant DAO. Disbursements for
seasonal and medium-term loans are likely to proceed more slowly than
expected, because of the need for intensive extension work and resolution of
disputes on land issues and credit terms. The Government has requested the
reallocation of some credit funds to other areas, including improvement of
critical access roads, and this proposal is under review.
Credit No. 914-KE - Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project: US$27.0
million Credit of June 11, 1979; Effective Date: April 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Principal project activities started slowly due to the lower than
estimated 1980/81 Government budgetary allocations, the first since the
Credit Agreement was signed, to finance SCIP lending operations for coffee
factory rehabilitation/construction and farm improvements. However, most
project personnel are in post and it is expected that the Project will be
fully staffed shortly. Training has made good progress, but training
programs need to be expanded and accelerated. Financial difficulties are
expected to continue to prevail in the near future, and whether Project
infrastructure, equipment and personnel will be utilized in an optimal
fashion will depend on future Government funding of the Project.
Credit No. 962-KE - Baringo Semi-Arid Areas Project: US$6.5 million
Credit of March 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 10, 1980; Closing
Date: October 31, 1984
Project activities are proceeding well given the remoteness of the
project area and the pilot nature of the project. The internationally-
recruited technical staff and the local agricultural and livestock extension
staff are all in place. Due to the 1980/81 Government budget constraints,



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
allocations for the project were only a third of the amount requested and
approved in project Work Plans. This shortfall has had a particular impact
on construction of project housing, which is sorely inadequate, and the
budget for project field services, which consequently remain limited.
Despite these problems, the project team has launched a number of experiments
in dry-land and irrigated farming, soil conservation and water harvesting,
and range management. Project demonstrations have attracted local interest,
and participation of area residents in project activities is increasing.
Credit 959-KE - Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project:
US$46.0 million Credit of April 23, 1980; Effective Date: July 2, 1980;
Closing Date: April 30, 1986
IADP II faces many of the same problems as IADP I, mainly high drop
out rates of project recruited farmers and low credit repayment rates. These
problems are partly related to the inefficiencies of the farm input delivery
system, the financial and managerial weaknesses of cooperative inter-
mediaries, and inadequate marketing arrangements for smallholder production.
Supervision of the project has emphasized streamlining of the credit and
agricultural input delivery system and greater technical assistance to
cooperatives and the strengthening of the Ministry of Cooperative
Development's extension and audit services. IADP II provides significantly
more support than IADP I for infrastructure, including rural access roads,
rural water supplies, small-scale irrigation, and resource/soil conserva-
tion. Most infrastructure components are in the planning stage with
construction to start in 1981/82. General delays in project implementation
are expected due to severe Government budgetary constraints, which have
resulted in cuts in the Annual Work Plan programs.
Credit No. 1051-KE - Fisheries Development Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of July 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 9, 1980; Closing
Date: September 30, 1987
Project start-up activities are proceeding satisfactorily. The
Project Manager and key Area Managers have been appointed. An early problem
regarding a potential project overlap with a proposed Kenyan/Nordic
cooperative fisheries project was resolved in May 1981 by the Nordics
withdrawing from the project. A subsidiary financing agreement between the
Government and the Cooperative Bank of Kenya for the cooperative credit
program is being finalized. Recruitment of technical asistance for the fish
farming center and boat building components is scheduled to be completed by
December 1981.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: US$10.0 million Loan
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Physical implementation of the project is about 3-1/2 years behind
schedule. Government is taking measures to counter cost overruns and
difficulties in making available their financial contributions by, inter



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
alia, phasing activities in the project implementation period. The rate of
progress towards achievement of educational objectives is linked to the rate
of progress of physical implementation of the project. Minimal progress in
preparation of a new and appropriate curriculum has been made by the Kenya
Institute of Education, who has a leading role in improvement of primary
education. Provisions under the Fifth Education Project for strengthening
the Project Unit will likely benefit achievements by a more efficient
management of implementation activities.
Credit No. 797-KE - Fourth Education Project: U$23.0 million Credit of
June 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 25, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
Physical implementaton of the project is about 22 months behind
schedule (about 17% of completion). Revised total project cost increased to
about KShs 329 million representing approximatley 28% cost overrun in civil
works in terms of local currency. The Technical Assistance program as well
as the pursuance of educational objectives under the Credit are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 1107-KE - Fifth Education Project: US$40.06 million Credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 30, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1986
This Credit became effective on July 30, 1981.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project: US$35.0
million Loan of October 5, 1975; Effective Date: January 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Full scale operational capacity is now at least 30 months behind
schedule. Although there is a substantial cost overrun, this is not seen as
a major problem since Government is fully committed to earliest project
completion and is providing the additional funds, 80% local currency, as
needed. Regarding key personnel vancancies requiring the Ministry of Water
Development's (MWD) attention, MWD is fully aware of this situation and,
while progress is slow, remedial action is being taken. The Water
Engineering Department of the MWD was able to start small scale operations,
by means of temporary arrangements, in December 1980 and helped estimate
substantially Mombasa's water shortage during the 1980 year end dry season,
and the project was formally commissioned in April 1981. The Closing Date
has been postponed by two years to June 30, 1982.
Loan No. 1520-KE - Second Nairobi Water Supply Project: US$30.0
million Loan of March 27, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
6/ IDA Credit US$40 Million equivalent to SDR 31.4 million at the time of
negotiations.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
Implementation started on schedule but completion is now forecast
about 21 months behind schedule due to difficulties with tender evaluations
and delays by the Borrower in contract administration and in concluding
satisfactory arrangements for construction supervision. Most supply
contracts financed by other donors and the construction contracts being
financed by the Bank now have been awarded. Good progress is being made on
detailed design and tendering for the remaining contracts. Bid prices to
date have been favorable, but due largely to the delays there is an estimated
increase of 35% in local currency costs and 5% in total costs. Water supply
and sewerage operations are in sound financial condition. However, the
Borrower has been slow in fulfilling financial covenants pertaining to
external audits.
Loan No. 1637-KE - Rural Water Supply Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: January 24, 1980;
Closing Date: July 1, 1985
The original project included 33 schemes but since two schemes are
proposed to be joined together and three schemes are being constructed under
other programs, only 29 schemes remain. The implementation is about 18
months behind schedule due to late effectiveness and slow start by the
Ministry of Water Development (MWD) in preparing studies for the schemes.
The training program is progressing satisfactorily; bids for MWD vehicles and
construction equipment are being evaluated; MWD's reorganization has been
generally implemented although some improvements are still to be completed.
Water tariffs were changed in April 1981, on Presidential order and MWD will
submit to the Bank computations showing the impact on revenues and the
covering of O&M costs.
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Projects:
US$4.0 million Loan and US$4.0 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Progress on the Rural Access Roads Program (RARP) was reviewed in
depth by all donors and discussed with Government during the Annual Review
Meeting held in October 1980. The project is about two years behind schedule
due to administration and procurement problems which delayed establishment of
construction units. All eight Bank-financed construciton units are fully
equipped, and are now operational, and satisfactorily staffed since these
problems were resolved in the beginning of 1978. By September 15, 1980, 646
km of access roads had been constructed, of which only 135 km were gravelled
due to the above-mentioned delays and later to the labor shortage. The
decline of annual output and ,roductivity of construction units, also due to
a shortage of labor, was increased from 30 km per annum to 33 km per annum
primarily because the Government granted a daily minimum wage increase that
was proposed by MOTC. The labor supply has been adequate since June 1980,
following the May wage increase.
Loan No. 1684-KE - Highway Sector Project: US$90.0 million Loan
of April 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 18, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
Implementation of the Government's Highway Sector Plan has been
delayed by about one year because a critical shortage of funds has caused a
reduction in the highway work program.  While this has not yet affected the
project appreciably, the continuation of this trend in FY82 could touch
projects included in the Sector Loan. The two contracts for construction of
Uplands-Limmuru (11 km) and Nairasha-Nakuru (56 km) were recently signed and
mobilization is satisfactory. The contracts for strengthening the Mau
Summit-Kismu road (136 km) is being retendered while the Nakuru-Timboroa road
(81 km) tender documents are completed. The remaining two subprojects, the
Nairobi-Thika and Longonot-Uplands roads, are under design. The regravelling
of gravel roads projections were achieved during the past two years
(1979-80). Resealing of paved roads is behind schedule with only 18% of the
appraisal target accomplished due to shortage of bitumen and poor
organization. Bitumen is now being imported and four resealing units out of
the six planned are operational. The resealing operation is now
progressing. The funds allocated for road maintenance are about 15% below
appraisal estimates but with better organization and utilization of existing
resources, the targets could be achieved.
Loan 1976-KE - Railways Project: US$58.0 million Loan of May 7, 1981;
Effective Date: September 3, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Loan became effective on September 3, 1981, following the
receipt of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and Kenya
Railway.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1799-KE - Olkaria Geothermal Power Project: US$40.0 million
Loan of April 25, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
This Loan includes the US$9.0 million for the Engineering Loan
(S-12-KE), refinanced under this project. Progress under the loan has been
satisfactory. Drilling is proceeding on schedule; fabrication of the new
drill rig and accessories has ben completed, and erection of the rig at the
site is expected to be completed by the end of the year. Miscellaneous
supplies and equipment have been purchased under International Shopping
procedures. The project is expected to be completed ahead of schedule and
within the estimated cost.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 1438-KE - Third Industrial Development Bank Project: US$20.0
million Loan of June 22, 1977; Effective Date: November 10, 1977;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Seventeen sub-projects have been approved under this Loan. As at
February 28, 1981, US$20.0 million has been fully committed and as at
September 30, US$13.5 million had been disbursed.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
Credit No. 750-KE - Small Scale Industry Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of November 28, 1977; Effective Date: June 26, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE) is making efforts to improve its
slow implementation rate and high arrears of clients. The Association is
seeking Government assistance in correcting two problems, noted previously,
caused by the transfer in March 1980 of a loan portfolio from another DFC
(ICDC): (i) that KIE complete the reconciliation of the individual subloan
amounts stated in the transfer agreement with available documentation and
receive compensation for the doubtful debts in the portfolio; and (ii)
a proposal to increase KIE's paid-in share capital to maintain the
debt/equity ratio below 3, the ceilig (3:1) of the IDA Project Agreement. As
of September 30, 1981, US$3.9 million was committed for 73 subloans and some
technical assistance, to 57 subprojects, but only US$1.2 million had been
disbursed. About half of the commitments were for eight subprojects with the
remainder allocated to smaller free-limit subprojects.
Loan No. 1817-KE - Fourth Industrial Development Bank Project: US$30.0
million Loan of June 16, 1980; Effective Date:   August 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Ten subprojects have been approved under the Loan to date. As at
September 30, 1980, US$14.9 million had been committed and US$ 930,000 had
been disbursed.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 1045-KE - Export Promotion Technical Assistance Project:
US$4.5 million Credit of July 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 15,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This Credit became effective on October 15, 1980.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Loan No. 1680-KE - First Telecommunications Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of April 11, 1979; Effective Date: August 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The Project is now progressing satisfactorily. Bid awards for all
Bank-financed goods have been completed and contracts signed. Initial delays
in procurement of goods are likely to cause about a year's delay in project
completion. Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (KPTC) has
completed the installation of a total of 960 lines of extension equipment in
eight manual exchanges using its own funds. The balance of a total of 570
lines in four exchanges is expected to be in service in 1981.  KPTC has now
completed design of cable networks and buildings.
URBAN SECTOR
Loan No. 1105-KE/Credit No. 543-KE - Sites and Services Project:
US$8.0 million Loan and US$8.0 million Credit of May 6, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
Overall project execution continues to be satisfactory but there
are mounting delays in implementation causing a slippage of two years due
primarily to construction delays. Infrastructure has been completed for the
first 1,000 plots and most beneficiaries have constructed satisfactory
housing. Infrastructure for an additional 2,700 plots is about 30% complete
and construction of infrastructure for the remaining 2,300 plots is expected
to begin soon. Cost recovery continues to be good. One primary school is
now operational, but designs for the remaining schools are behind schedule.
One health center is under construction; however, the Bank does not plan to
disburse against its costs as its design was too expensive and was not
approved by the Bank. The design of the other health center should be
submitted for approval soon. Tenders have been invited for all other
community facilities. Technical assistance components are completed or
scheduled for completion in conjunction with the project. Project costs for
the first phase remain close to appraisal estimates but are expected to
exceed original estimates for the remaining components because of delays
incurred. The credit is fully disbursed and disbursements under the loan
have started. Although loan disbursements are expected to increase rapidly
now that the construction activities are progressing satisfactorily, the
Closing Date has been postponed one year.
Loan No. 1550-KE/Credit No. 791-KE - Second Urban Project: US$25.0
million Loan and US$25.0 million Credit of May 75, 1978; Effective Date:
October 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress in implementation of physical components of the project Is
generally satisfactory. Consultants for detailed design and engineering of
Phase I sites in all three cities (Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu) are making
good progress. Appointment of consultants for Phase II sites has now been
completed and design work is underway. The Housing Development Departments
are operational in all three cities with most key posts filled. Recruitment
of other staff is underway. Progress on studies included in the project is
slower than expected. Municipal finance reforms have been delayed pending
Cabinet approval of a paper on the subject.
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM SECTOR
Loan No. 1304-T-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: US$17.0 million
Loan of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30,1982
After initial delays, project implementation is accelerating.
Officers for the Project Management Unit have been appointed, and six key
Wildlife Planning Unit positions have been filled. The Ministry of Transport
and Communications has appointed various consultants for the design and
construction of all physical project components. The Tourism Pricing Study
and the Very Large Herbivores Study have been completed, and recommendations
contained in these two studies are under review by the Government. The
anti-poaching units are fully staffed and deployed, and initial effectiveness
of the units appears satisfactory. Draft amendments to the Wildlife
(Conservation and Management) Act of 1976 to fulfill the requirements of the



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
supplementary letter giving detailed proposals for anti-poaching operations
have been approved by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources and
are now in the final stages of processing.
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently four projects in execution in the East African
Community.7
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million Loan
of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness: December 26, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single buoy tanker terminal for the Port of Dar-es-Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. Construction of all major project elements has been completed and a
joint project completion report was issued in January 1979 for the Second and
Third Harbours projects. General cargo throughput has increased above
appraisal forecasts for Dar-es-Salaam, and cargo handling productivity has
generally improved with increasing throughput; however, port labor
productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours
Authority and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of ports
in both countries is competent. Some US$34.5 million of Loan 638-EA has
already been disbursed.
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: September 19, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment, and
training. The slippage in the project's completion was due to initial delays
in procurement caused by staffing and other problems associated with the
relocation of headquarters. About US$32.2 million of the loan has now been
disbursed.
7/ Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive
Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this Annex. The Closing Dates for Loans 638-EA,
865-EA and 914-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated
to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly identified under
the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978, as proposed
in the above report (R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The Loan is fully committed and disbursements are expected to be
completed by the Closing Date of June 30, 1982. The economic difficulties of
the three countries in which EADB operates has had a negative impact on
EADB's portfolio. Helping clients to service their debts, therefore,
continues to be EADB's priority.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
ANNEX II
D. Statement of IFC Investment in Kenya as at
October 31, 1981
Fiscal Year       Obligor              Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968,
and 1973      Kenya Hotel Properties   Hotels                5.2     0.7       5.9
1970, 1974,
1977 and
1979          Pan African Paper Mills  Pulp and Paper   22.2         6.3      28.5
1972           Tourism Promotion
Services                 Hotels             2.4       -        2.4
1976          Rift Valley Textiles
Ltd.                     Textiles            6.3     2.8       9.1
1977          Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd.                     Capital Market    2.0        -        2.0
1980          Development Finance        Development
Company of Kenya Ltd.    Finance             -       1.3       1.3
1981          Kenya Commercial           Money & Capital
Finance                   Market             5.0      -        5.0
Total Gross Commitments                  43.1    11.1       54.2
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                   12.7      1.8     14.5
Total Commitments now held by IFC        30.4      9.3     39.7
Total Undisbursed                        10.1       -       10.1



- 44 -                   ANNEX III
Page 1
KENYA
TANZANIA - THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:              Eighteen months
(b)  Date of first presentation to
Bank Group:                         January 1979
(c)  Preparation Report Completed:       October 1980
(d)  Appraisal Mission:                  November-December 1980
(e)  Negotiations:                       December 1981
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:    June 1982
II. Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
(a)  The basic design and implementation schedule for the management
information system at the Forest Department would be submitted
to the Bank Group for its approval as a condition of disburse-
ment for plantation establishment and maintenance (para. 60).
(b)  Proposals for recruitment, transfer or replacement of fulltime
unskilled staff at the Forest Department would be included in the
draft Annual Plans to be submitted to the Bank Group; the Department
would also study the possibilities of transferring such staff to
more productive areas or hiring such staff on a temporary basis
(para. 60).
(c)  The Borrower would employ a rural afforestation specialist with
qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank Group (para. 61).
(d)  The Borrower would employ a Roads Programming and Control
Expert and submit to the Bank Group by December 31, 1982
a detailed program for the construction, upgrading and main-
tenance of forest roads (para. 61).



- 45 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) The Forest Department would employ a Finance and Management
Analyst and Forest Economist as a condition of project
effectiveness, while the employment of the roads specialist
referred to in (d) above would be a condition of disbursement
for the roads component of the project (para. 62).
(f) The Borrower would undertake, and submit to the Bank Group
for its review and comment by December 31, 1982, a study of
appropriate timber prices, as well as a plan for improving
the collection of revenues for sawlogs (para. 65).






.5 ~ ~ ,. 
SUD-AN                                                          .;                                           -.      -            -S 
A/                                  j 3 X              >o .                   xEla efOPI-A;    g -;   -                                     --
0 r  e      AKE
0'~~~~F   KA P,                    tO    0)URIiA
f  <  D  r o KA P} rrGDRrA / L o~67 s,te r n i  -
UG-AN-D,-A        >                           |           <            i                    \>                                  i-  :0--.R:-A
0 0  2 -   t  &;   >  oJ              -\             ~Conservoncy                          Wjr     
S                      A\         >  Nyahurururr1:<\            }f                                                           .-gX
,~~ ~ ~ -                                                                   -,, L,E I:       ,,
a W       =   \>4   g : >             xW  deted Xs erere sa ee IEJfiD 15,901   )     .i0\o 
t~~~~~owr~u~N -vc0u    /z             \tr*9_,                                                             \\0;  
o\                                         Cons                                                                     r
).0KA I ~ ~   ~    ~     N 
CE   KAPENOURI                                     Eastern< X             t n O/a                               -,^,
w  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    NrA Eastern
e                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
THIRD PORST R PR                                                   Con servancy
rJrrr **- i.                               -                    I
yenfros     A      0Ah  IAf           A.lOiVTASA B* 5- -' Gal                  eTisso  I
_.  _     a PZO %TCA  OCdrF                                                        ,    1S   >     T           SFw          -  
IA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Distric~os~Cffi/           D   2f                               ,/ %afErO  /pp       Maiid        'S                   E    -
o       AEc,o/-                 LOS
-.r                                                                                                      Hotne,toa~boSlo--  oe ~oe
cii o~rn0  40  0     2     15
Conse rVa n CyANANI






IBRD 15901
/ ~ Zd.ae                                                      T-M-i                                                                                                    UY18
/2 /   AP[V                                                                                                                                THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
¶ 0   hlt  Etr4   orA I'                                                                           SAMBUR iWy                                                           = /  r  Protection forests
Kitaleoo                             Na k t r/                                          C                                                                     F orest plantCtions
~~~,oo  Ala 4 & t j        2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Future forest plantations
}~~        ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~ c) rv 57        0 t-se  Va G n> C- yi(                                                                                           Pa28r  jrks
r D  DFO ft'fiVGOMA                                                                                              _Si  \ f  J S  FOAR*iVGO  C onservancy boundaries
/92  0   &INGOMA                                                                                                                                                                 District Forest Office boundaries
IMalabo         Webuye                                                                                                                                                                  Forest stations
BU NG     /    -     --       OE do r e             tRINGO                                                                                                            0 r   RAE. stations
BUNOG;MA                     0
~~~~~~Z  ~ ~ ~       ~        ~        ~       ~        La S e                                       Forest and R A.E.S.stations
§ o COr1 s    e         c              ry       v a                                                                                        I7 cy                    N SIOLO              Main roads
| 'n                       6                                                          D  F O. IAAM/P/A                          0          Y                             Railroads
Kkr-,!ga C                           -                                                                                                  F /2 MA//LI                          Railkoads
0           1~~~~~~~ B.g-,,1~~~~~~~~~~~~~  URUTI                                                                     a ~~~~~~~~~~~~National capital
UMURUTI     N~anyl                                           VProvinciail boundaries
Ny( h  uru EI                      N        y                       QMer u                              Interniational boundaries
Kisumu                                           F~~~~/LA  N-IYANL9ARP/
A                                            ncliani          k   i    0                                                                 Cy v                                            6p~~~~~erv nc   ~mu 
CrORM                                                                              1. N ZA    tYA                                                              ~O'\. KoNtALA   /2 A /2 /U
52 SUR GOAIZURAAGA~ 
A                                                                                                      on'&)1vonc.n r n   4               /2F/2 ./6/
Th16~~~~~ /nQ                                       F.S 60 td\ theNK Wt.i F.l' thGJ  t iSclWl:    .agd                                                                                          W ttZSA           >         S
O'K I s 1/2/2  N/IOKIAA/A  A2 /MURANGA2 0 
ofiv eeviee ii ase,ion vs i,,or ,v avm     pee C                                                                              A ve  U R IANA
Th.5 eanoev 5,, se, v.viedr                                                *_ih Io'i~,    v,i,iv v    /                                       _~ ,                                                   ._                   f'       FA
I   E                                                       oR?s,                  U                       ; SoAsskt           \  \ SoMombass         \Narok  D Fo. T:hik. .
Meve~$~)Md                                        AMvKIAMBi
divide,,. po  i a, vie pai dada orer tenftaivn, dieirevia,ne,iiyiDtF, l.aIiau
eavivienae a/~~~~~~~i'saape,/da             'N.,                                             ThAI~~~~~~~~~~~PP                                                      .UA,               TIO



