Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3614-KE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KENYA
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
January 15, 1982
Eastern Africa Region
Central Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency units = Kenya Shillings (KSh)
KSh 1.00        = US$ 0.10 1/
US$ 1.00        = KSh 10
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Decimal Metric                        British/US Equivalents
1  meter (m)                          3.28 feet
1  h,.ct:are (ha)                  -  2.47 acres
1  kilcometer (km)      2          -  0.62 mile
1  square kilometer (km )          -  0.39 square mile (sq. mi)
1  kilogram (kg)                   -  2.205 pounds (1 lb)
1  liteir (1)                      -  0.26 US gallon (gl)
- 0.22 British gallon (imp. gal)
1  metric ton (t)                  -  2,205 pounds (lb)
AB:BREVIATIONS
ACCF              -  Assistant Chief Conservator of Forests
CCF               -  Chief Conservator of Forests
CP                -  FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme
FAO               -  Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FD                -  Forest Department
FID               -  Forest Industrial Development
FITC              -  Forest Industries Training Centre
MENR              -  Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
MIS               -  Management Information System
Mj                -  Megajoule
PPM               -  Panafrican Paper Mills
RAES              -  Rural Afforestation Extension Service
SDR               -  Special Drawing Rights
tpa               -  tons per annum
USAID             -  United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
Government, including FD         July 1 to June 30
1/   Since September 18, 1981, The Kenya Shilling has been pegged to the
SDR St a rate of SDR 1 = KSh 11.95. The rate vis-a-vis the US dollar
fluctuates with the dollar. I'he average rate of US$1 = KSh 10 has
been used in evaluating this Project.



FOR OFFICIA'L USE ONLY
KENYA
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND  ...............................................
A.   General ...............................................
B.   The Forestry Subsector   ..............................                       2
C.   Institutions in the Subsector  ........................
D.   Production and Markets Potential  ....                .................9
E.   Development Objectives and Constraints  ....                  ...........    12
II. THE FIRST AND SECOND WORLD BANK FINANCED FORESTRY
PROJECTS  ...............................................                       13
A.   First Forestry Project  ...............................                      13
B.  Second Forestry Project  ...........................1...                      l4
III.   THE PROJECT  ..............................................                        16
A.   General Description  ..................................                      16
B.   Detailed Features  ....................................                      16
C.   Project Costs  ........................................                      20
D.   Financing  ............................................                      22
E.   Procurement  ..........................................                      23
F.   Disbursements  ........................................                      23
G.   Accounts and Audits  ..................................                      25
H.   Environmental Significance  ...........................                      26
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ...................................                        27
A.   Organization and Management  ..........................                      27
B. Training .............                                                         30
C.   Reporting,  Monitoring and Evaluation  ....                 .............    3L
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, composed of
J. Gamba, W.I. Jones, N. Brouard, Y. Gazzo (IBRD), J. Laurent (Swiss MLnistry
of Foreign Affairs), and R. Riikonen (consultant to the Finnish Ministry of
Foreign Affairs), which visited Kenya in November-December 1980.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
V.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES ............................                                                                                        32
A.       Production    ...........................................                                                                            32
B.      Markets    ..............................................                                                                             33
C. Price Prospects .............................                                                                                              36
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                                                   .....................   39
VII.   BENEFITS  AND  JUSTIFICATION  ..............................                                                                                      42
A.       Project   Benefits    ....                               ...................................                                       42
B. Economic Analysis ......................                                                                                                 43
C.  Risks and Sensitivity ................................                                                                                 47
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ........ ..                                                                         .........                49



- iii -
SUPPORTING TABLES, CHARTS AND MAPS
Supporting Tables
1A. Cost Estimates: Plantations Component;
Cost of New Plantation Establishment
1B. Cost Estimates: Plantations Component;
Maintenance of All Plantations
2.   Cost Estimates: Rural Afforestation (RAES) Component
3.   Cost Estimates: Forest Department Component
4.   Cost Estimates: Summary
5.   Essential Non-Project Costs
6.   Cost Estimates by Categories of Expenditure
7.   Forest Department Budget
8.   Functional Breakdown of Recent Forest Department Expenditures
9.   Forest Department Expenditure Projections
10.   Government Cash Flow Without Project
11.        "       "    "  With Project
12.   Economic Returns from Industrial Forests Planted Under Project
13.   Economic Analysis:  Forestry Extension Component
14.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CHARTS
1.   Forest Department Organization Chart
2.   Estimated Project Implementation Schedule
Documents in the Project File
Maps
IBRD 15900 and 15901 KENYA - Third Forestry Project



I



KENYA
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. General
Project History
1.01      In early 1979, the Government of Kenya indicated its intention to
request Bank financing for a third phase of the on-going forestry program.
World Bank Group financing had supported aspects of the forestry investment
program from 1968 in two phases, the second of which ended in late 1980
(Chapter II). In June 1979, it was agreed that the FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Programme (CP) would assist in preparation of the third phase. The prepara-
tion mission, originally scheduled for January 1980, was postponed in an
effort to permit resolution of issues of wood use, notably the proposed
expansion of the Panafrican Paper Mills (PPM) (para 1.15). The preparation
mission visited Kenya in June-July 1980 and its report was submitted t:o
Government in October 1980. The Bank maintained close contacts with (Govern-
ment and with CP throughout this period, inter alia, through supervision
missions of the Second Forestry Project, the last of which was timed l:o
coincide with the preparation mission, and through a March-April 1980 mission
to Kenya.
1.02      Government submitted a request for Bank financing immediate:Ly upon
receiving the CP preparation report. In November-December 1980, a Bank
mission composed of J. Gamba, W.I. Jones, N. Brouard, and Y. Gazzo (IBRD),
J. Laurent (Swiss Ministry of Foreign Affairs), and R. Riikonen (consultant
to Finnish Ministry of Foreign Affairs) visited Kenya to appraise the Project.
A post-appraisal mission held discussions with Government in March 1931. No
major changes in the preparation report's project proposals were introduced
at appraisal.
B. The Forestry Subsector
Forest Resources
1.03      Kenya-s forests, both natural and man-made, total 2.35 million ha
in area, equivalent to 4% of the nation's land area. They are divided into
two categories: "gazetted" and "ungazetted". Gazetted forests, those with
officially marked boundaries, total 1.57 million ha; the balance of 0.78
million ha is ungazetted. Indigenous forests and plantations make up 60%
and 10% respectively of the gazetted forests; the remaining 30% is bush,
bamboo and mangrove.  The indigenous forests prod ce very little wood.  It
has been assumed that a total volume of 150,000 m could be removed annually
from these forests inqefinitely: this figure represents a mean annual incre-
ment of roughly 0.1 m per hectare from the indigenous forest, which is very
low. In fact the actual volume removed annually (and officially) from these



-2 -
3
forests probably does not exceed 130,000 m . The existing exotic plantations,
oi the other hand, would probably be able to produce approximately 1.2 million
m of sawlogs and an equal amount of pulpwood or smallwood on a sustained
annual basis. This represents a mean annual increment of roughly 15 m per
hectare or 150 times that of the natural forests. The rotations vary from
8-18 years for pulpwood (hardwoods and conifers) to 25-30 years for sawlogs
(conifers only). Some of the forests and plantations in Kenya are on good
soils, and there is competition between agriculture and forestry.
The Role of Forests
1.04      Forests are of vital importance to the overall development of Kenya
because of the role they play in water conservation, the regulation of water
flow and the prevention of floods and erosion. They are also a valuable
produLctive asset: forestry directly contributed about 5% to the national GDP
in 1979 with charcoal accounting for the major part of this share. Indirectly,
forests provide a base for other agricultural activity, which in total accoun-
ted for one third of the GDP and 60% of exports in the same year. About 90%
of Kenya's population are rural dwellers and depend on agriculture for a
livelihood. A high proportion of the nation-s forests occupy high potential,
high rainfall areas and over the last 60 years, natural forests have been
exploited not only to supply timber, fuel and polewood, but also to clear good
land for other agriculture and for settlement. Some were replanted after
clearing, originally with local slow-growing species such as juniper and
Podocarpus, and later on with eucalyptus, pine and cypress. Fast-growing
exotic plantations now occupy approximately 150,000 ha.
Land Availability and Use
1.05      The bulk of Kenya's forest reserves cover the upper catchments, and
their location was decided for the most part early in this century. Some 80%
of the nation's population and 80% of its forests occupy the same 20% of the
land area. Since much of the forest reserve is of gentle slope, fertile and
well-watered, and since Kenya's population of 15.3 million people (mid-1980)
is estimated to be growing at a rate of 3.9%, there is constant pressure to
convert forest to farm land. Such conversion occurs constantly and inexorably
through overt excisions and through illegal squatting. Some of Kenya's forests
represent unique examples of ecological systems that may be worth preserving
for their ou n sake or for the sake of the unique flora and fauna they contain.
Many of the indigenous forests are not well protected at present. Those
managed by the Forest Department (FD) (para 1.18) are being steadily replaced
by softwood Dlantations and those outside its jurisdiction are giving way to
shifting cultivation at a very fast rate.  Tri the fiture, ungazetted forests
should be gazettcd anid protectiorn measures enforced.  A selection should also
be anade of the most erdangered forests and detailed ecsological work carried
out before they become extinct. Similar work should also be carried out for
qess threatened fores .s which subsequentiv might leaI to a better selection of
those t_ be preserved, The issue of land use,  hich affects agriculture as
well as forestry, will be addressed through discussions of Kenya's Structural
Adjust-ment Program.
1.06      To establish plantations, FD nas generally made use of "taungya,"
known locally as the "shamba' system. Amn area is given out for cultivation



- 3 -
for one year, trees are planted in the second year, and the cultivator con-
tinues to grow crops until the growth of the trees seriously affects crop
yields. This system controls weed growth in the early years, and hence
reduces or obviates weeding costs. The growth of the tree crops has oEten
been spectacular. Recently, the shamba system has begun to break down because
salaries have greatly improved and there is therefore less willingness on the
part of persons employed in the forest to rent shambas for the production of
crops. However, trees still form an integral part of farming in most of
Kenya's highlands, as the landscape in the densely populated areas north-west
of Nairobi shows.
Fuelwood Consumption
1.07      The population of Kenya consumes a great deal of fuelwood for its
domestic needs. Fuelwood provides, directly or indirectly (through chiarcoal),
at least 80-90% of all the domestic energy consumed in the country but the
average consumption per head of fuelwood (including charcoal) is not known
with any de ree of reliability.  The most accurate figure is likely to be
about 0.8 m  per head p.a., but a 1979-80 survey carried out by the Mini stry of
Environment and Natural Resources (MENR) came up with a figure of 1.5 in , one
of the highest in Africa. Even if the lower estimaSe is used it would repre-
sent an annual consumption of at least 13 million m for fuelwood and charcoal,
which is at least 15 times the total annual consumption of industrial wood in
Kenya now. It is not clear where all this fuelwood is coming from, but a
substantial amount must come from forest land, whether gazetted or not; the
rest must come from scrubland, farmland, scattered trees and shrubs. Since
annual consumption far outstrips wood regeneration, fuelwood consumptiDn is
clearly leading to significant deforestation. The dimensions of the pheno-
menon, however, are only dimly known. MENR's 1979/80 survey found acute
scarcity in Kitui, Turkana, Machakos, and parts of Kakamega Districts and in
much of Nyanza province. Crop residues and manure are widely used in these
areas to substitute for fuelwood; richer families are able to afford kerosene.
Rapid loss of forest cover was noted in areas peripheral to Nairobi, which
furnish the capital with charcoal.
Forest Industries
1.08      Sawmilling.  Sawmilling is the most important forest industry in
Kenya after charcoal-making. There are approximately 350 licensed sawmills,
of which only about 20% have five-year licenses and the rest one-year licenses.
In addition there is an unknown number of unlicensed mills, which operate
without any guaranteed supply. The unlicensed mills and most sf the licensed
ones are very small, with a monthly output of well below 100 m . Due to
anomalies in the allocation of cutting rights, most mills do not receive
enough wood to operate at capacity, even though that wood is available.
Figures of input and output are jot reliably known. According to FD-s Marketing
Section, approximately 400,000 m sawlogs are being sold annually to sawmills;
yet the same Department 3estimates that total log input into the sawmills is
not less than 550,000 m , of which exotic timbers probably make up ibout 90%.
The native forests are estimated to produce an average of 120,000 m of sawlogs



- 4-
annually, some of which is used in plywood plants or even exported in log
form. For exotic timbers, the annual cut is substantially below the sustain-
able annual yield.
1.09      The volume of logs consumed is considerably greater than the amount
recorded by FD and for which royalties are received; this undoubtedly leads to
serious losses in revenue. Among the reasons for the discrepancies are:
(a) production from areas not controlled by FD is not recorded;
(b) some of the production, especially that from indigenous
forest reserves, is unrecorded;
(c) production from exotic plantations is under-recorded;
(d) some small royalty payments are recorded as revenue,
but not as volume;
(e) annual returns for five-year license sawmills report sales,
not production figures; and
(f) the present log grading system adjusts for deficits by
reducing volume.
The plantations west of the Rift Valley produce approximately 60% of sawlogs
(almcost 30% from Elburgon conservancy alone), while the plantations east of
the Rift Valley produce the remainder (over 15% from the Nairobi area). The
Naircobi area alone consumes about half of the output from the sawmills.
1.10      Mills range from large integrated undertakings to the tiny, moveable,
bench-type. The majority are poorly organized and poorly maintained; their
produLct is of indifferent quality which, however, the local market, as
yet poorly differentiated in terms of quality and grades, will accept.  Kiln
drying and pressure treatment with preservatives are extremely limited and are
the exception rather than the rul.e. Most mills are periodically short of logs
and operate at half of their capacity or less. Their log stocks are generally
very low, even just before or dur-ing the rainy season, when their supplies may
be interrupted for weeks or even months. The main causes of this shortage are
the inadequacy and poor condition. of their log extraction and transport
equipment.
1.11      Most of the wood sold Tby FD is either cypress or pine, cypress being
particularlv sougnt after for sawnwood.   The stumpages for this wood in
1                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
L980/81 varied according to grade. and size Xut averaged KSh 72/m ; with the
1981 ncrease, this average is now KSh 86/m ). The selling prices of sawn
lumber vary considerably, acco-diing to species, dimensions, locality, etc.
from around KSh 700 to 1,000./ m.  Though reliable statistics do not exist, it
is likely that the consumption of sawn lumber is as follows: 55-60% by the
building trade, 20-25% by wood-working industries and the balance by agricul-
ture and packaging.  According to the Building Cost Index in Kenya, over the



past 10 years, timber prices have been rising at a lower rate than all building
materials combined. Prefabricated timber housing forms only a small pa5t of
the building industry, but it is growing. The average basic cost per m in
1980 varied from around KSh 250 if sold by the Forest Industries Training
Centre (FITC), a branch of FD, to KSh 600-750 if sold by private enterprise,
or approximately double these figures if fully fitted. FITC's price does not
fully recover its costs.
1.12      Wood-working industries are increasing rapidly as larger sawmillers
begin to diversify into wood-based industries other than sawmilling, such as
the production of plywood, fibreboard or vertically-integrated wood products,
such as furniture or houses. Officially there are more than 1,300 registered
establishments employing more than 10,000 people, but the real numbers must be
much higher because there are many unrecorded establishments in rural areas.
Cypress and pine are widely used, particularly for cheap grades.
1.13      The export of sawn lumber, which had reached a level of 1-.20,000 m
per annum during the seventies, went down sharply to below 10,000 m over the
last two or three years, mainly due to competition from Chile, where vast
areas of Pinus radiata plantations have recently reached clearfalling agei
Before the 1980 recession, with a buoyant local wood market willing to buy
lumber with little regard for grade or quality, mills were under little
pressure to develop export markets. Constraints on the development of logging
and sawmilling have been studied by a number of Finnish Government missions.
The chief bottlenecks identified are training and logging equipment. Finnish
assistance to address these problems has already begun and more is currently
being discussed with Government. The principal thrust of this assistance is
to improve the quantity and quality of output of existing sawmills through
training. The FITC at Nakuru is to be rebuilt with Finnish assistance. A
training sawmill will also be built and a resident training program in simple
logging and sawmilling skills instituted. Moreover, for smaller mills, whose
owners would not be willing to send their staff for FITC resident training,
the program will provide a mobile repair and training unit. This program
should lead to a higher quality product and to higher output from existing
mills.
1.14      In view of existing sawmill over-capacity, the Project would involve
no effort to stimulate investment in new mills. However, it is recognized
that most mills need to invest in logging equipment, and that many need to
complement existing machinery. Adequate lines of credit are available for
such purposes from development and commercial banks. However, such banks do
not have the technical expertise to deal with sawmiller/loggers (and vice-versa).
Therefore, Finnish technical assistance has placed a sawmilling/logging expert
in a development lending institution, Kenya Industrial Estates, to improve the
interface between sawmiller/loggers and credit institutions. Coordination
between Finnish and Bank Group assistance in the sector has been and continues
to be close, although it was not found justified to include the Finnish assist-
ance as part of the Project.
1.15      Pulp and Paper.  There is only one pulp and paper mill in Kenya,
and it belongs to Panafrican Paper Mills (E.A.) Ltd. (PPM). It is situated
at Webuye, in Western Kenya; some 400 km from Nairobi and 900 km from Mombasa



- 6 -
by road and rail, on the Nzoia river, at an altitude of 1,500 m. PPM is
owned jointly by Government, the Birla group of India, IFC and several Kenyan
development banks. It is an integrated pulp and paper mill which started
operating in 1975 and produces just over 50,000 tons per annum (tpa) of
unbleached and bleached sulphate pulp and kraft paper, kraft liner board,
and printing and writing papers. About 25% of the production is currently
exported. In 1980, 53,300 t of paper and paper board were sold for KSh 324
million. The mill buys about 90% of its wood from FD. The wood requirement
is 5.8 m  per ton of paper.  The wood intake consists of approximately 55%
pine, 25% cypress and 20% eucalyptus. Government has earmarked more than
60,000 ha as a Pulpwood Working Circle, of which some 54,000 ha are supposed
to be plantable. In fact only 27,000 ha have been planted so far, in Eldoret
and Turbo forest divisions. Early in'1980 between 1,000 and 2,000 ha of pine
(P. patula) of all ages from 0-12 years old died in the Turbo area. The exact
cause of death is not yet known, but drought must have been at least a contri-
butory factor.
1.16      The sgumpage rate charged for pulpwood, which was KSh 7/mi  in 1975,
is now KSh 30/m ; this represents only about half of the replacement cost of
the wood if 10% compound interest is included. Felling and extraction are
done by PPM, transport by contractors. The average haulage distance is just
over 100 ~m. Total delivered wood cost at mill site is still reasonable at
KSh 195/m . Expansion of production to 71,200 tpa through the addition of a
mechanical pulp mill has been approved; the mill is expected to come on stream
in 1984 and to be operating at capacity by 1986. A new pulpmill of 100,000
tpa capacity is planned by PPM, but Government has not yet approved this
project. The uncertainty surrounding the new pulpmill, which would produce
entirely for export, was a serious issue during both preparation and appraisal.
Whatever its eventual outcome, it seems likely that the Government will in the
future allow PPM to expand capacity at least to keep up with the growth of
domestic demand. The pulpwood for such additional production would have to
come not only from the present pulpwood concession area, but also from outside,
within a radius of 200-300 km from the mills, mostly from plantations situated
west of Rift. In such an event, harvesting of sawlogs and pulpwood would have
to be integrated in order to limit waste and losses.  Integrated harvesting
trials have recently been completed under the joint auspices of the FAO
Technical Cooperation Programme, FD, PPM, and a number of private sawmills and
loggers. The final report will soon be issued by FAO.
Rural Afforestation and Research
1.17      Forestry in Kenya was in the past oriented towards industrial
plantations of fast-growing exotics.  However, the Government is now strongly
committed to forestry extension.  During the first six years following inde-
pendence in 1964, there were extensive excisions of state forest areas and
fragmentation of large European-owned farms which were partly covered by
indigenous forest or plantations of exotic trees. The new settlers cleared
the trees to make room for agriculture.  A similar development took place in
the "Native Reserves  as their popuiation increased.  This led to erosion,
flooding and local wood scarcity. The concern which this development caused
at the highest level resulted in the creation, in 1971, of the Rural Affore-
station Extension Service (RAES) (para 1.21). RAES's field of activity is



- 7 -
alternatively referred to as "rural afforestation", "community forestry" or
"social forestry".  Here the term "rural afforestation" will be preferred.
When preparation of the proposed Project began, the Government indicated that
it would like rural afforestation to be included. This commitment is in line
with the objectives of Kenya's Development Plan for 1979-83. Forestry Research
is directed from a head office at Muguga near Nairobi. The research service,
now a non-regional conservancy of FD, is made up of four main sections:
silviculture, pathology, entomology and utilization. It is envisaged that
forestry research will be transferred to the Kenya Agricultural Research
Institute, soon to be formed. Forestry research is generally adequate, except
for rural afforestation in arid areas, where it will be strengthened by the
Project's rural afforestion component.
C. Institutions in the Subsector
The Forest Department
1.18      The management of Kenya's forests is the responsibility of the
Forest Department (FD), which is part of the Ministry of Environment and
Natural Resources (MENR). FD operates 120 forest stations and substations all
over Kenya which is divided into eight regional conservancies. It is headed
by a Chief Conservator (Chart 1).  Forest conservancy boundaries have recently
been realigned to coincide with administrative boundaries in order to facilitate
coordination between FD and other administrative services.
1.19      Staffing and Training.  Total FD staff was about 12,700 at the end
of 1980, including laborers. These included 56 graduates and 161 foresters.
The Second Forestry Project (Chapter II) target was 36 university graduates.
Despite impressive progress, FD is still short of senior staff trained in
management, administration, and accounting. Kenyan nationals fill all FD
positions. Forestry graduates are trained at the Department of Forestry,
Faculty of Agriculture, of the University of Nairobi. The annual intake of
the Department is 25. (This Department is supported by the World Bank's
Education V Project.) Foresters, forestry assistants, and forest guards are
trained at the Kenya Forest Training School at Londiani. The annual intake,
which includes some non-Kenyans, is 42 for the forestry assistants, and 49 for
the forest guards. The School plans to curtail intake once supply of these
specialists catches up with demand. The School has received Canadian assistance
in the past.
1.20      FD, like other employers, has been instructed by Government twice in
recent years to increase its work force by 10%, in order to alleviate unemploy-
ment. It now has over 10,000 laborers. These unskilled staff have been given
civil servant status and receive a monthly salary. This fact, coupled with
failure to set and enforce productivity standards for these workers, has had
a disastrous effect on labor productivity and the unit cost of forestry
operations has increased correspondingly.
The Rural Afforestation Extension Service (RAES)
1.21      This service is part of the FD, and is headed by a Conservator.  The
Extension Foresters are controlled by the RAES Conservator through FD's eight
regular Field Conservators. In Kenya, "rural afforestation" means all activi-
ties related to afforestation outside the gazetted forest area, irrespective



- 8 -
of purpose or target group. It could thus refer to plantation blocks or
individual trees, intended for fuelwood, poles, sawlogs or soil conservation,
for the benefit of the rural or the urban population, or for industries and
institutions. Conversely, plantations within the gazetted areas are the
responsibility of FD-s Field Conservators, even if they are fuelwood planta-
tions serving the rural population. Although RAES's activities may thus have
a variety of objectives, the main ones are production of fuelwood for the
rural population and environmental protection.
1.22      At the end of 1980, RAES had nurseries in 108 of Kenya's 175 divi-
sions. The Government would like to extend RAES activities to all of them.
The establishment of 37 additional nurseries is envisaged for 1980/81.
Approximately 20 existing nurseries receive or will receive technical and
financial support from external aid agencies, such as the European Development
Fund, Norwegian Aid, the British Overseas Development Administration and the
US Agency for International Development. Regardless of production, each of
the RAES nurseries now has approximately 20 workers. This labor force is
often excessive in relation to the production of seedlings. Due to the lack
of definite instructions, labor is employed on general maintenance and routine
operations. In the high rainfall areas, where trees grow well and are in
great demand, the nurseries sometimes produce as much as 300,000 seedlings per
annum each. In the dry areas, the average annual output is about 20,000. In
1979, a total of 9.2 million seedlings were produced, i.e. an average of about
90,000 per nursery or 4,500 per worker per year. Of these, 6.8 million were
sold while the remaining 2.4 million were given out free. The seedlings are
sold in boxes of approximately 35 for KSh 2 per box, which is only about 2%
of production cost.  The price has not been adjusted for several years ,since
it was reduced to the present level by the late President. The box alone is
worth more than the price. Once a year, on the National Tree-planting
Day, seedlings are handed out free, up to a maximum of three per person.
Because of shortage of staff, there can be little follow-up, and RAES esti-
mates that the survival rate is less than 30% as compared with 75% in the
case of FD plantations. Independent estimates put the survival rate at 10%
or even lower.
External Aid for Forestry
1.23      World Bank assistance (Chapter II) is only one of a number of
external-assistance projects related to forestry. Almost all other external
assistance is aimed at rural afforestation, either as part of rural development
projects or working through the Ministry of Energy. Finnish assistance con-
centrates on the logging and sawmilling subsector, providing training, repair
assistance , and help in arranging credit.  Finland is also providing a
forest economist to FD and a lectuirer to the University-s forestry department.
In addition to these, the UllN Industrial Development Organization has provided
experts to develop new timber products and to foster pressure impregnation of
softwood timbers.
l.24      Numerous other governmerital and private organizations carry out
or are planning rural afforestation. The Ministry of Agriculture, which
has a large extension service that is represented even on the division



- 9 -
and location level, already runs nurseries and encourages tree-planting as an
anti-erosion measure and for wood production to satisfy the needs of the
tobacco and tea industries. The Ministry of Energy was created in 1979 and is
called upon to have an active role to play in the promotion of alternative
sources of energy. Though it does not plan to carry out field activities, it
should coordinate those of the technical ministries. The National Christian
Council of Kenya and the National Council of Women of Kenya are among the
most efficient organizations engaged in the field of rural afforestation in
Kenya. Among other things they are, responsible for the distribution of free
seed, tree nurseries and planting of "green belts" around villages. Other
organizations, including schools, tea and tobacco estates, may also keep
nurseries to satisfy their needs in tree seedlings or to supply seedlings
to the population.
1.25      In addition, numerous rural development projects have rural
afforestation objectives. The following should be mentioned: (a) European
Development Fund, Integrated Development Project in Machakos with a rural
afforestation component which covers protection of water catchment areas, reduc-
tion of soil erosion, and production of fire wood, building poles and timber
for commercial purposes and improvement of the Kibwezi Forest Research Station;
(b) Norwegian Aid, Turkana District. This rural development project concen-
trates on fishing and road development but has extended its activities since
1978 to include migration, health and forestry extension (nurseries, small
tree planting schemes around villages and fishing centers, and applied forest
research); and (c) USAID, Renewable Energy Development Project, which aims to
assist Government in developing appropriate energy policies, with emphasis on
renewable and non-conventional energy resources and technologies, especially
as will benefit the rural areas. The project's main forestry input will be to
develop six seed and extension centers around existing nurseries belonging
both to FD and the Ministry of Agriculture. USAID will also support the rural
afforestation work of the National Christian Council of Kenya. The funds will
be channelled through the Ministry of Energy. Other external agencies which
already have or are planning rural afforestation components as part of rural
development projects include: Australian Aid (forestry plantations in Kilifi
District on the Coast north of Mombasa); Bura Irrigation Settlement Scheme and
the Narok Agricultural Development Project (World Bank et al); Overseas
Development Administration's Integrated Development Project in Embu, Meru and
Isiolo Districts; Pilot Semi-arid Areas Project in Baringo (World Bank);
UNESCO's and UN Environmental Programme's Integrated Project in Arid Lands in
Marsabit District; and USAID's Integrated Development Project in Kitui District.
D. Production and Market Potential
Production
1.26      Sawlogs and Smallwood.  On a sustained basis, the existing softwood
plantations could yield an average annual cut of about 2.4 million m (over
bark) of sawlogs and smallwood. Including the small yield from indigeneous



- 10 -
forests, the sustained national annual yield is about 2.6 million m3 . This
is more than twice the estimated annual cut in recent years. Exotic
softwood crops provide an increasing proportion of the annual cut. As of
1980, the proportion was about 70%, and At should reach about 85%, during
the 1980-2010 period. The 2.4 million m p.a. from exotic softwood crops is
broken down approximately as follows:
Sawlogs          3    Pulpwood
…-------- '000 m ---…--------
Cypress                820                     320
Pine                   380                     880
Total                1,200                   1,200
1 27      Fuelwood.  Fuelwood consumption, estimated at from 13 to 30 million
m per year, dwarfs industrial wood use (see para 1.07 above). A study
currently under way, being conducted by the Beijer Institute of Stockholm and
sponsored by the Ministry of Energy and a number of external financiers,
should' clarify patterns of fuelwood consumption, sources of supply, and
the consequences of various policy options. At present, however, production
and consumption figures are orders of magnitude. Most of fuelwood consumption
is for cooking. In the countryside, most fuelwood is burned directly. In
cities; and towns, since most cooking is done inside in chimney-less houses,
fuelwood is generally consumed as charcoal or substitutgd by kerosene. As a
result of inefficient production techniques, about 10 m of roundwood are
needed, to produce one ton of charcoal. Probably half of the wood used for
fuel is converted to charcoal for local consumption. Charcoal exports were
banned in 1970.
Lumber Market Potential
1.28      For industrial use, the present cul  for domestic use - lumber, pulp,
fiberboard and plywood, - at about 900,000 m per year over bark is far less
than the sustainable yield. There is expected to be an industrial roundwood
surplus until about the year 2000. The surplus is partly exported at present.
The total exportable wood surplus is estimated as follows:



- 11 -
Industrial Roundwood Balance
( 000 m over bark)
1980      1990       2000       2010
Potential production    1,170       1,900      2,600     2,600
Domestic consumption
sawnwood                 500        830     1,300      2,030
paper                    300        500        810     1,310
panel products            80        130        190        280
Total                      880      1,460      2,300     3,620
Surplus or deficit         290        440        300    (1,020)
These projections assume an annual average yield of 17.4 m /ha/year f,3r Third
Forestry Project plantations, which would then produce 11.2 million m over
their life, in addition to the production expected from the existing planta-
tions and indigenous forests. While no deficit of industrial roundwood is
thus expected until after the turn of the century, this deficit must be met by
additional afforestation during the next five years, and this is one of the
main objectives of the Project. Consumption estimates were based on the
following assumptions:
1980-1990       1990-2010
Annual population increase        3.4%             3%
Annual consumption increase
per capita                   (1980-1994)    (1994-2010)
sawnwood                     1.7%              1.5%
wood based panels             1.3%             1.2%
Exports
1.29      Kenya currently exports about one-quarter of its pulp and paper
production (about 14,500 t in 1980) and a small but very variable amount of
its lumber production.  Roundwood equ valents of lumber exports i  recent
years have ranged from about 40,000 m in 1976 and about 18,000 m in 1978.
Exports of pulp and paper are a residual for PPM. Exports to neighboring
African countries where Kenya has a locational advantage are only slightly
less profitable than sales on the domestic market. Exports to Asia are
considerably less profitable. Expansion of the Kenyan market is expected
gradually to wipe out exports from the existing mill and from its agreed
expansion. If the proposed 100,000 tpa pulp mill were built (para 1.16), its
entire production would be exported for many years to come. Kenyan exports,
even with the proposed expansion, would represent a negligible share of world
markets.



- 12 -
1.30      For lumber exports, Kenya has a very strong locational advantage in
neighboring, land-locked countries such as Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi. It
would seem to have a locational advantage over other softwood lumber producers
in the Indian Ocean and rapidly-growing Middle East market also, but has
failed to expand exports to these areas. There are several reasons for this.
Firstly, a buoyant local market has meant that mills could make money without
concerLtrating on exports. Secondly, the local market will accept lower
quality than export markets will. Thirdly, Kenya's hundreds of small mills
are not organized for export; attempts to organize trade associations to that
end haLve failed. Finally, due to lack of organization, the locational advantage
is lost; small, custom orders pay a sea freight to Arabian destinations
two-thirds higher than ship-load charter rates paid by Chilean plantation pine
to the same destination. Thus, Kenya's lumber exports have been reduced to
custom, high-value orders from Kenya's few big mills, where Kenya's pruned
pine and cypress is superior to the competition. The future of lumber exports
depends on organization of the sawmill industry, on the development of grades
and quality standards in the local market, and possibly on improvements in
Mombasa port. While price is a factor, Kenyan lumber would appear to be quite
competitive in Indian Ocean and Middle Eastern markets at least, certainly so
if quality standards can be met and bulk shipments arranged. Stumpage actually
is a mLinor factor in the fob lumber cost structure, about 12% at present.
World demand and real prices for softwood lumber are expected to rise in the
next half century. Even if Kenya were able to export all of its wood surplus
as lumLber, that would constitute less than half of one percent of the world
market for that product.
E. Development Objectives and Constraints
1.31      Development Objectives.  Kenya's 1979-83 Development Plan aims at
ensuring a sustained and growing supply of timber for traditional needs
and to satisfy the expanding demand for forest products. Since 1945, FD has
planted mainly exotic softwoods on areas formerly occupied by indigeneous
forest. Also, the Government supports rural afforestation schemes both on
private farm land and on land owned by county councils, usually hilltops and
marginal agricultural land. The -plantation schemes are designed to produce
pine and cypress sawlogs and smallwood, mainly for pulp, in increasing quanti-
ties. As it takes 60-100 years to produce timber of usable size through
natural regeneration of indigeneous forest species, the Government has, over
the last 40 years, been replacing some of these forests with plantations of
fast-growing exotic softwoods.  BY 1968, some 89,000 ha of exotic softwood
and eucalyptus (8,000 ha) had beeni planted.  Today, FD has 150,000 ha planted,
of which some 8,000 ha are eucalyptus, 55,000 ha are cypress, 61,000 ha are
pine, and 11,000 ha are hardwoods other than eucalyptus. The main reserves of
commerciallv viable native species have been considerably diminished agd the
potential for timber exploitation has been reduced to about 130,000 m  a year
from indigeneous forests for the next 20 years.
1.32      Constraints.  Populationl pressure on forest land and plantation
management and cost recovery are the principal constraints facing the planta-
tion pirogram. Forest land is increasingly attractive to hard-pressed farmers



- 13 -
(para 1.05).  In recent years, large areas of natural forests have been taken
over for smallholder settlement and substantial spontaneous illegal settlement
has also taken place. In several instances, the removal of the forest cover,
followed by uncontrolled grazing and cropping, has already caused soil erosion
problems and a deterioration in water supplies. If this trend continues, an
already serious problem will become critical and it is essential that some
viable solution be worked out. The issue of public land suitable for forestry
is a highly political one because of the number and diversity of interests
involved. The Interministerial Land Use Committee established to monitor the
land-use study during the Second Forestry Project never became operational.
Competition for different agricultural land uses remains an important issue,
not only because of the productive outcome but also due to the related
social and political factors. So far, Government decisions, or the lack of
them, have not been conducive to a proper resolution (para 1.05).
1.33      Plantation Management and Cost Recovery.  Forest plantation manage-
ment has deteriorated drastically during the last five years. During the
Second Forestry Project, staff were to be cut by 1,000 to 6,000; at present,
there are more than twice that number, while prescribed thinning and pruning
schedules are not met. The flood of new laborers, many admittedly imposed on
FD, have been paid, but have not been organized to accomplish the simple tasks
at hand. One third of the planting target for 1975-81 was not met. Drought
played a part in this failure, but more important was the failure to monitor
moisture levels and to schedule planting accordingly. Breakdown in management
discipline led to planting to fulfill hectarage targets, not planting to
ensure tree survival. Shift of workers from piece rate to time rate led to
declines in worker productivity. Higher pay for forest workers as compared
with other rural workers performing jobs requiring similar skills has also
tended to undermine the "shamba system" (para 1.06). In about half of the
plantation area, forest workers are relatively prosperous and thus refuse to
take up "shambas"; this leads to higher establishment costs. The impact of
lax management is seen most clearly in escalating unit production costs, and
in declining cost recovery. Stumpage rates were increased by 10% per year in
real terms from 1976 to 1981 as required by the Second Forestry Project Credit
Agreement. However, at present, due to the escalation of costs, stumpages
still only cover a small part of the replacement and maintenance cost of
plantation softwood.
II.  THE FIRST AND SECOND WORLD BANK FINANCED FORESTRY PROJECTS
A. First Forestry Project
2.01      General Description.  The First Forestry Project (Loan 641-KE)
was approved in November 1969. A Bank loan of US$2.6 million was to finance
66% of estimated project costs (US$4.0 million), including US$1.3 million in
local currency. The project consisted of: a) the planting of about 20,000
ha of sawlogs and about 9,000 ha of pulpwood in the six years 1970-1975;
b) the maintenance of the proposed new plantings as well as the maintenance



- 14 -
of 3,000 ha of existing pulpwood; c) the carrying out by consultants of a
market-ing survey of Kenya timber and pulpwood; and d) the introduction of an
improved accounting system. The project was carried out by FD (para 1.18).
2.02      The internal economic rate of return was estimated at 12% for
the sawlog component and 11% for the pulpwood component. Gross foreign
exchange savings and earnings were expected to amount to about US$250 million
over the life of the project. Indirect benefits were expected to accrue from
the promotion of secondary industries. The sawlog component was expected to
permit: import substitution as well as to generate exports. The pulpwood
component was designed to supply raw material to the proposed pulpmill. It
was assumed that, should the mill not materialize, the pulpwood would be
maintained for a longer period and sold eventually as sawlogs.
2.03      Implementation Experience.  The project closed fully disbursed in
June 1975. The Project Completion Report was issued in July 1976; a Project
Performance Audit Report, based on a desk review, was issued in March 1977.
The conclusions of the two reports were similar. The latter concluded that
the project achieved satisfactory results and had significant institution-
building effects. However, it was noted that some of the basic issues raised
by this type of project in East Africa, notably: (a) competition for land
between forestry and agriculture, (b) inadequate stumpage rates to ensure a
maximtm financial return to Government, (c) shortcoming of the rate of return
sensitivity analysis, and (d) lack of regional coordination among Bank under-
takings in forestry, were not resolved by this project. The expected economic
rate of return was estimated at 10-18% at completion.
2.04      Lessons.  The first project achieved about 80% of appraisal objec-
tives in physical terms, and had significant institution-building effects.
The Project Completion Report pointed out that the main lessons of the first
project were conceptual and methodological. In particular, the project was
geographically restricted, and because it was operated as a separate project
within FD, it caused some administrative problems. Bank staff believed
that the first project demonstrated the ability of FD to implement a large
scale industrial plantation program successfully. The Operations Evaluation
Department comments on the Project: Completion Report warned, however, about
the difflculty of weighing the administrative inconveniences and advantages
setting up separate prcect entities within an existing organizational struc-
ture. In particular, it was suggested that the Bank should put more emphasis
on appraising a given organization and its capacity to carry out any type of
sectoral program, rather than on ippraising the economic impact on a given
sector oAf specific development programs.
B. Second Forestry Project
2.or      General Description.  In June 1975 a Credit of US$10.0 millioni
'Credit 565-KE) and a Loan of -JS$10.0 million (Loan 1132-KE) were approved for
the Second Forestry Pro4ect. Total project cost was estimated at KSh 396.5
million (US$55.5 million), of which 23% was expected to be foreign exchange



- 15 -
(US$12.9 million). Of the US$35.5 million equivalent remaining for Govern-
ment to finance (64% of the total project cost), it was estimated that
about US$18.0 million would be offset by revenues from industrial planta-
tion stumpage fees and about US$2.0 million would be realized from taxes and
duties, leaving a net balance of US$15.5 million to be financed by Government.
The Loan/Credit agreements became effective in September 1975.
2.06      The project supported a six-year planting program.  It involved a
considerable expansion in scope from the first project. Rather than a geogra-
phically limited program, it included the total industrial plantation program
of FD, specifically: (a) afforestation: 32,000 ha for sawlogs, 8,000 ha for
pulpwood and the reforestation of 6,000 ha of clear-felled plantations, mainly
for sawlog products; (b) further development of 120,000 ha of existing
plantations; (c) construction, up-grading, and maintenance of forest roads;
(d) construction of staff housing, and administration buildings; and (e)
studies, technical assistance, trials, and training.
2.07      Overall Conclusion.  The most important result of the Project was
the planting of about 30,000 ha; the higher than anticipated cost of planting
per ha, however, affected profitability. These higher costs were caused by a
combination of negative factors, e.g. poor project management and monitoring.
2.08      Lessons.  The Second Forestry Project was a large and complex
operation, which required a high quality of management if it was to succeed.
Notably, a clear policy environment and sustained Government support were
essential. These basic preconditions were not fulfilled and the Project-s
implementation was therefore less successful than anticipated. The most
serious shortcoming was the substantial increase in production costs; this
problem resulted initially from a number of factors, including poor manage-
ment, but the impact of rising costs was not fully appreciated because of
poor record-keeping and inadequate analysis of operational experience. The
lack of sustained Government support further contributed to the problems of
management. Costs were increased directly by increases in wages and man-
power size, and indirectly by the change in status of the labor from casual
to permanent. The actual labor use (48,253 man years) to establish 30,568
ha during Phase II corresponds to the very high figure of 474 man days per ha.
At the September 1980 daily wage rate of K Sh 26, the actual plantation cost
per ha equals K Sh 12,324 (US$1,232) as against K Sh 4,836 (US$484) estimated
at appraisal. The irony was that the plantation activities contributed to
an increasingly costly operation, which weighs heavily on the Government
budget at a time of financial strain, yet deficiencies in management them-
selves obscured the picture and delayed a realization of what was occurring.
As a result, prompt and effective corrective action was not taken, and
the problems became, by end of the Project period, very complex and dif-
ficult to resolve. In retrospect, it is most regrettable that the forest
economist, whose task was to aid in assessing costs and the productivity of
operations, could not be retained, and that the planned comprehensive land
use survey was never carried out.



- 16 -
2.09      In all forest plantation projects, the ultimate financial benefits
remain in doubt until clearfelling takes place. If plantation costs increase
for political reasons (for instance, decisions to increase wages or to allo-
cate additional personnel) as happened in the Second Forestry Project, stump-
age rates should in theory also be increased to ensure the financial viability
of these activities in the long run. However, two implications of this
solution should be carefully considered. First, large increases in stumpages
may seriously endanger the financial performance of forest industries (because
of the higher wood cost). Second, if stumpages are not increased to fully
cover higher costs, then the development of plantations must inevitably be
subsidized by the Government. This is what has occurred to date in Kenya.
However, because of the lack of effective procedures for evaluating policies
and monitoring forestry operations, the system has served to support ineffi-
ciences and not to provide for a financially viable FD or long-term economic
and social benefits. If a subsidy is required under such circumstances, it
should be considered as an interim measure tied explicitly to efforts to
ensure higher resource (physical and human) productivity. This is a central
objective. These lessons were taken into account in the design of the proposed
Third Forestry Project.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      Kenya's softwood plantations currently meet the country's demand for
sawn timber and paper, and generate modest exports, but their maintenance and
the continuing establishment of new plantations by the Forest Department is
extremely inefficient, leading to high costs. Cost recovery is low as a
resull of the high costs, low stumpage rates, and a high degree of evasion of
even these low rates. Consequently, the net cost of FD to the Treasury is
high. Moreover, Kenya's forests are manifestly failing to keep up with the
demand for wood for its predominant use -- fuel.  Kenya's shortage of fuelwood
(as measured by price and by distances walked to gather wood) is not yet acute
by African standards, but consumption is far outstripping growth. The proposed
Project would aim to improve FD's management performance leading to more
efficiLent softwood plantation operations and to increased cost recovery.
Financial support for new plantings and further development of existing
plantations would be continued. The operations of FD's nurseries producing
tree seedlings for distribution would be expected to improve and a forest
extension service would be established. These objectives are in line with
Government's development strategy for the sector; the Project is included in
the Development Plan and is provided for in the 1981-82 forward budget.
3.02      The Project would be carried out over a four-year period by FD,
through which all Project funds would be channelled. Project activities
would include direct support for plantations and rural afforestation, plus a
number of FD activities which cannot be easily allocated between its three
main responsibilities industrial plantations, rural afforestation, and forest
protection.



- 17 -
B. Detailed Features
Establishment of New Plantations
3.03      Under the Third Forestry Project, FD would establish 6,400 ha of
plantation per year for four years. This figure is set as a realistic target
given past performance and the improved management expected to result from
the Project. It is not a limit; in fact, establishment of a larger area of
plantation annually would be economically justified. Most of the areas to
be planted would be plantation areas of the gazetted forests that would be
clearfelled during the Project or which were clearfelled but not replanted
during the Second Forestry Project; virtually no indigenous forest reserves
would be converted to plantations. They would be distributed over the current
plantation areas (see maps, IBRD 15900 and 15901). Of the total, 1,800
ha/year (28%) would be in the pulpwood working circle and would be managed
on a short rotation basis (18-20 years) to provide wood for the PPM Webuye
mill. These plantations would consist mainly of pine, with some cypress and
eucalyptus. The rest of the new plantations would comprise cypress, pine and
some slow-growing hardwoods (e.g. Meru oak) for sawlogs, with smallwood from
thinnings and final fellings increasingly supplying pulpwood, wood for parti-
cle-board mills or firewood as the practice of integrated harvesting spread.
Eucalyptus (5% of total establishment; 300 ha/year) would be cropped on a
continuing 8-15 year cycle, mainly for poles and other building material.
Sawlog cypress would make up half of plantings (3,200 ha/year) and would be
cropped on a 30-year cycle. Sawlog pine would constitute 13% of plantings
(850 ha/year) and would be cropped on a 25-30 year rotation. Slow-growing
hardwoods would constitute 4% of plantings (250 ha/year) and would be grown on
a 50-year rotation.
3.04      Cost projections are based on the assumption that recommended
silvicultural practices would, in fact, be used. Provision is made for study
tours for senior FD staff to enable them to see, first-hand, good nursery
and silvicultural techniques practiced in other African countries. Carrying
out prescribed silvicultural practices would be a substantial improvemnent:
at present, a substantial part of prescribed pruning and thinning is -never
carried out as a result of poor management and of defective agreements with
loggers and millers. Moreover, cost projections presume a major reduction in
unit costs, which are now excessive, as a result of improved management. They
assume that 121 days of unskilled labor would be needed (not counting "shamba"
laborers) to establish an average hectare of forest plantation and to maintain
it through its first four years (see Table 1A).  While this input is high com-
pared to what is theoretically possible and also compared to what is achieved
in other African countries under similar circumstances, it is less than one-
third what FD has been using to establish plantations in recent years. Total
direct base costs of new plantation establishment are estimated as KSln 100.6
million (US$10.1 million). They consist 90% of unskilled labor cost and 10%
of tools and materials.
Plantation Maintenance
3.05      The Project would support FD activities during the Project period
to maintain existing and new plantations and to bring wood to or towards



- 18 -
market. Expenses would consist largely of the labor required to prune, mark
-or thinning, reduce the coppice in eucalyptus compartments after harvest.
maintain fire statioTas, firebreaks, to fight fires and build fire towers and
to construct and maintain game moats. Investments would also include fire-
control equipment and the services of entomlogists and pathologists to
diagnose problems affecting plantations.
3.06      Cost projections assume essentially a continuation of current
silvicultural practices, but with increased management efficiency due to the
introduction of a management information system (para 3.12) and an incentive
system of disbursement (para. 3.23).  For instance, the assumed unskilled
labor input for all maintenance activities is 3.9 man-days/ha/year, as compared
to the 7.6 man-days now used on maintenance, even though pruning and thinning
schedules are not now met. Total direct base costs for maintenance of all
plantations are estimated at KSh 96.1 million (US$9.6 million). They consist
85% of unskilled labor cost; most of the rest (9%) represents the cost of fire
control equipment (Table 1B).
Rural Afforestation
3.07      Project activities would enable RAES (para 1.21) to embark on an
extension effort and follow up on its seedling distributions through staff
recruitment, training, technical assistance and provision of vehicles.
Moreover, the Project would permit RAES radically to increase the size and
efficiency of the 125 existing nurseries not covered by other external aid
programs, as well as to construct and operate new nurseries in the 30 districts
where there are now none. Research grants are designed to ensure that nurseries
are growing and distributing tree species that are appropriate for the climatic
conditions of their areas, which is rarely the case at present. The component
would be expected to result in increased annual production of seedlings for
distribution from 13.0 million in 1981 to 52.5 million in 1986, and an increase
in the survival rate from an estimated 20% to 40%. Total direct base costs
for ruLral afforestation are estimated at KSh 66.6 million (US$6.7 million).
About three-quarters of those expenditures would support the nursery program:
expanding (or building) nurseries, the incremental costs of operating them,
and the applied research to support them. A large proportion of these costs
is actually labor. The other quarter of component costs would cover the
establishment and operation of the extension service: salaries, vehicles,
housing, training, technical assistance, extension materials and operating
cost (Table 2).
Forest Department Activities
3.08      Many of FD's activities support forestry in general and can be
allocated between plantations, extension forestry and indigenous forest
reservas only on an arbitrary bas-s. The Project would support such activi-
ties 1n those instances where theNy are incremental investments related to
Proiect objectives and which might not be undertaken without the Project.  A
certain number of strictly non-incremental recurrent activities, which are
likely to be undertaken in any case but which are nonetheless essential to
realization of Project objectives, are listed in Table 5.



- 19 -
3.09      Forest road construction, up-grading, and maintenance would be
financed under the Project. Road construction (40 km/year) and road up-
grading to facilitate clear-felling (about 12 km/year) would be contracted
out; contractors would be selected and appointed by the Ministry of Transport
and Communications. Other road works - up-grading for thinning (about 26 km/
year), opening tracks (65 km/year), and track maintenance (1,200 km/yesar) -
would be carried out by FD. For this purpose, the two existing road units,
which are well-equipped but poorly utilized, would be split into four units.
Their equipment would be supplemented by four graders. Their staff would be
supplemented by two more superintendents as unit heads, two roads supearvisors,
and by a complement of laborers. The technical assistance of a roads pro-
gramming and control expert to improve programming, management and control
would be made available for four man-years. This approach to the forest roads
problem, which affects both plantations and management of the indigenous
forest, is expected to be more effective than the present system.
3.10      Civil Works.  FD would contract for the building or rebuilding of
12 of the 120 forest stations. This would involve construction of over 2,200
housing units, mainly laborers- houses, as well as the appropriate offices,
stores, and water-supply systems. Moreover, since inadequate water supply at
existing forest stations is a very important reason for inadequate seedling
production, Project activities would include replacement or improvement of
water-supply systems at 60 existing forest stations.
3.11      FD's sizeable fleet of vehicles is essential to all of its opera-
tions, such as transporting crews and seedlings for plantation operations,
supervising logging of all forests, protecting forests, roads operations and
others. Funds would be provided for the purchase, replacement, operalion and
maintenance of vehicles.
3.12      By enabling FD to acquire technical expertise for several specific
purposes, the Project would provide the critical input that would allow FD
to overcome its most serious management problems (para. 4.04). The proposed
technical assistance would comprise:
-  (a)   a Finance and Management Analyst for about four years,
to design and implement a Management Information System
that would not only provide the Chief Conservator wgith
a constant feed-back of salient information on FD
(including RAES) operations, but also would constilute
a monitoring and evaluation system;
-  (b)   a Forest Economist for one year, to ensure continuity
for at least a third year of this post after the present
two-year contract of the FINNIDA-financed forest economist
comes to an end, and to provide a strong basis for the
establishment of wood prices that would permit FD to
achieve adequate cost recovery;
-  (c)   a Roads Programming and Control Expert for about four
years, to help set up the four roads units and to
program, manage and control road construction, upgrading
and maintenance;



20 -
-  (d)   an Rural Afforestation Adviser for about four years,
to assist in nursery management, the establishment
of a forestry extension service, and, in coordination
between FD and other agencies including external
agencies assisting extension forestry (Table 2); and
-  (e)   short-term consultants (about 41 man-months) to
help with specific forestry problems, such as
auctioning or tendering cutting rights, integrated
harvesting, applied research in forestry extension
(Table 2), silvicultural practices, and pathological
problems;
3.13      Other FD activities that would be supported by the Project are: (a)
per-iodic aerial surveys of part of the forest area to monitor changes and
faciLlitate land-use planning; (b) study tours for FD staff to other African
countries to learn their silvicultural and nursery practices and overseas to
observe wood auction and tender systems; and (c) mission travel allowances for
FD staff to keep senior management in close contact with field operations and
to facilitate staff communication and delegation of authority within the
organization. The Italian government has also offered to finance the services
of two experts on a grant basis for the implementation of the Project. This
possibility has not been included as part of the Project cost. During nego-
tiations it was proposed that these experts be experienced mechanics whose
main responsibility it would be to keep FD's vehicles and equipment in running
order. One would be based west of the Rift Valley and the other one east of
the Rift Valley.                                                           i
3.14      Total direct base costs for FD support activities are estimated at
KSh 277.1 million (US$27.7 million). Of this amount, vehicle operating costs
would account for 37%; buildings, forest stations and improving their water
supply for 21% (of which all but 2% would be for housing construction);
vehiLcle purchase for 20%; contracted road improvement for 15%; technical
assistance for 4%; and all other aspects (mission travel allowances, incre-
mental salaries and wages of roads units, aerial surveys, and study tours)
for 3% (Table 3).
C. Project Costs
3.15      Total Project costs during the four-year investment period, inclu-
sive of taxes and duties, are estimated at KSh 741.7 million (US$74.1 million)
with a foreign-exchange component of 33% or KSh 252.9 million (US$25.3 million).
import taxes and duties plus taxes and duties on fuel, salaries and other
incremental operating costs are estimated at KSh 59.3 million (US$5.9 millionr
or 3% of total costs.  Thus Project cost net of taxes is estimated at KSh 682Q4
million (US$63.2 million). Detailed cost estimates a-e presented iLn Tables
2, and 3. and are summarized in Table 4 and below:



- 21 -
% Base
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total  Cost
----- KSh million            ----- US$ million ----
New Plantation
Establishment        93.6      7.0      100.6       9.4     0.7       10:1    19
Plantation Main-
tenance            89.4      6.7       96.1      8.9      0.7        9.6    18
Total Direct
Plantations       183.0    13.7       196.7     18.3      1.4       19.7    37
Rural
Afforestation    47.3       19.3       66.6       4.7     1.9        6.6    12
Forest Department 116.4    160.7        277.1      11.6     16.1      27.7    51
Total Base Costs  346.7    193.7        540.4      34.6     19.4      54.0   100
Contingencies:
Physical          34.6      19.4       54.0       3.5      1.9       5.4    10
Price            107.6      39.8      147.4     10.7       4.0      14.7    27
Total
Contingencies   142.2       59.2      201.4      14.2      5.9      20.1    37
Total Project
Costs            488.9    252.9       741.7     48.8      25.3      74.1
Cost estimates are based on prices expected to prevail in December 1981.  A
physical contingency of 10% has been applied to all Project costs to represent
a measure of the uncertainty about quantities required. Expected price
increases were applied to baseline costs corresponding to the yearly percent-
age rates shown below:
1982     1983      1884      1985
local costs                15.0       9.0      8.0       8.0
foreign costs               8.5       7.5      7.5       7.5
Costs of technical assistance (including salary, allowances and international
travel) are estimated at US$8,100 per man-month; 13 man-years would be
required. Costs of short-term consultants are estimated at US$8,800 per
man-month inclusive of salaries, subsistence and international travel; 41
man-months would be required.



- 22 -
D. Financing
3.16      Financing of Project costs would be shared as follows:
KSh           US$             %
----million ----
IBRD                                215.7          21.5            32
IDA                                 160.0          16.0           23
Total Bank Group                   (375.7)        (37.5)          (55)
Government of Italy                  90.0            9.0           13
Government of Switzerland            76.0            7.6           11
Government of Kenya                 140.7          14.1            21
Total Cost net                      682.4           68.2          100
of taxes and duties
Taxes and Duties                     59.3           5.9
Total Project Cost                  741.7          74.1
The proposed IBRD Loan of US$21.5 million equivalent and the proposed IDA
Credit of SDR 13.6 million (US$16 million equivalent) would be made to the
Government of Kenya, the Loan on terms prevailing at the time of Board
presentation, the Credit on standard IDA terms. Together, the Loan and
Credit would finance about 55% of Project costs, net of taxes and duties,
including 58% of foreign-exchange costs and 53% of local expenditures.
3.17      A grant from the Government of Switzerland for Swiss Francs 15.0
million (about US$7.6 million equivalent) would finance 90% of the costs of
the rural afforestation component on a parallel basis. This would amount to
11% of total Project costs, net of taxes and duties, including 11% of foreign-
exchange costs and 11% of local expenditures.  A loan from the Government of
Italy for US$9.0 million equivalent would finance on a parallel basis most of
the costs, net of taxes and duties, of vehicles, equipment and material,
including their operating costs, to be provided under the Project. This would
amount to 13% of total Project costs, net of taxes and duties, including 31%
of foreign-exchange costs and 3% of local expenditures.  The loan would be for
a period of 13 years, including a two-year grace period, at 2.25% interest.
Effectiveness of both the Swiss grant and the Italian loan would be a condition
of effectiveness for the Bank loan and IDA credit.



- 23 -
3.18      The Kenyan contribution, net of taxes and duties estimated at KSh
59.3 million (US$5.9 million equivalent), is estimated at KSh 140.7 million
(equivalent to US$14.1 million) entirely in local currency, amounting to 2l1%
of total net Project costs and 32% of local expenditures.
3.19      The proceeds of the Loan and Credit, plus Government's gross con-
tribution, would be made available to FD as annual budget allocations.
Government's contribution is estimated at KSh 200 million (US$20 million
equivalent), not counting annual grants to FD of approximately KSh 69.4
million to cover certain other recurrent costs of the Department (para 3.08
and Table 5).  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government would
continue to finance these items.
E. Procurement
3.20      Contracts for purchase of vehicles, equipment and materials of
US$250,000 or more, totalling about US$2.1 million equivalent, would be
awarded after international competitive bidding, in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. To the maximum extent possible, purchases would be grouped for
the purposes of bidding. Qualified domestic manufacturers would be allowed
a preference of 15% of the cif price or the level of applicable import duty,
whichever is the lower, when comparing domestic with foreign bids under
international competitive bidding. Draft tender documents and bid analysis
would be submitted to the Bank for approval before award of the contracts.
Contracts for goods valued between US$100,000 and US$250,000, which would total
about US$1.5 million equivalent, would be awarded under local competitive
bidding in accordance with standard Government procedures which were examined
during appraisal and are satisfactory. Orders of up to US$100,000 equivalent
for other goods would be procured by negotiated purchase, normally on the
basis of at least three suppliers' quotations, up to an aggregate limit of
US$500,000 equivalent. Civil works contracts for construction of buildings
and water supply facilities for FD (US$8.0 million) and forest roads (US$5.5
million) would be individually too small and too dispersed to attract inter-
national contractors and would be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. Locally based contractors exist
in sufficient numbers and are capable of carrying out the required works.
Forest roads and tracks to be built by FD would total about US$2.7 million.
Technical assistants and consultants (estimated cost about US$1.7 million)
would have qualifications, experience and terms of employment satisfactory
to the Bank, and their employment would be made in accordance with principles
and procedures stated in the Bank guidelines on the use of consultants.
Aerial surveys (US$320,000) would be undertaken by specialized firms repre-
sented locally or in neighboring countries in accordance with the above-
mentioned guidelines. Assurances on these arrangements were obtained at
negotiations.
F. Disbursements
3.21      The proceeds of the IDA Credit and of the Bank Loan would be
disbursed over four and one half years to cover, net of taxes and duties:



- 24 -
Category                          Eligible Expenditures             US$'000
(a)  Plantation Establishment           75% of unskilled labor
costs of plantation               8,000
establishment by FD
(b)  Plantation Maintenance             75% of unskilled labor
costs of plantation
maintenance by FD                  7,000
(c)  Civil Works                        70% of civil works expenditures:
(i) FD buildings and water
supply facilities             4,400
(ii) roads to be built or
upgraded under contract      3,100
(iii) roads and tracks to be
built by FD                 1,300
(d)  Vehicles                           100% of foreign expenditures
and 80% of local expenditures    2,000
(e)  Operating Expenses                 70% of expenditures on operation
and maintenance of vehicles
and buildings, and staff travel
allowances                        4,700
(f)  Technical Assistance,              100% of foreign expenditures
Consultant Services,            and 80% of local expenditures    1,400
Surveys and Training
(g)  Unallocated                                                          5,600
Total IDA Credit and Bank Loan  37,500
3.22      All disbursements would be fully documented except local expenditures
under (a), (b), and (e) and force account expenditures under (c) which would
be mLade against statements of expenditure, with the supporting documentation
being retained by FD and made available for inspection by Bank supervision
missions. An estimated schedule of Credit/Loan disbursements is given in
Table 14. Disbursements for all categories would be coordinated with annual
rork plans to be prepared by FD an.d reviewed and epproved by the Bank (para.
4.13).
3.23      Disbursements -For (a), Plantation Establishment, would be made
1n! v    those plantings which ha6 been certified by FD's Chief Coniservator
sts ta have been sat;sfac.torily established0  ?ro.,eet plantings
,d_ r'se sconsi&Kered establ_ _she  approximately three zonths a fter rplanting.
C; ~1. lu2' *3 '>e c-laimed for disb2ursement une ' 1 and . r  'b'  ould be established
'y a_p- - 't-e f_ l lowl nLg re ;-rc..ee may.mu  unit va1 es as well as the dis-
.- rs<<n- rar     gs es-aA i  sh Ed i . cara 3.21 to the w7ork performed by FD.
I :e r_Se_lee maE.Imu  unit valiues represenlt the highest costs t'hat can be
se;?as >-eing at at reas.na2ole for the various operaations and they were



- 25 -
used as the basis for estimating Project costs. The reference maximum
value for Plantation Activity Year 2 (see below) includes an allowance for
the replacement of dead plants, which should cover occasional losses due
to drought and other factors beyond the control of FD. The rate of dis-
bursement (Tables 4 and 5) is based on historical disbursement profiles
for forestry projects in Eastern Africa.
Category (a) Plantation Establishment 1/
Plantation Activity Year         Main Activity      Reference Maximum Value per ha
KSh                 US$
1                    Establishment        3,044                304.0
2                    Weeding                825                 83.0
3                    Weeding                  25                 2.5
4                    Weeding                 470                47.0
Category (b) Plantation Maintenance 2/
Operation                                     Reference Unskilled  Reference Maximum
Labor Input           Value per unit
KSh      US$
1. Pruning                                    19.6 man-days/ha        709       71
2. Marking for thinning                       2.56 man-days/ha         91        9
3. Reducing Coppice                           10.0 man-days/ha        363       36
4. Primary Fire Break Maintenance             20.0 man-days/km        718       72
5. Secondary Fire Break Maintenance           8 man-days/km           289       29
6. Game Moat Maintenance                      242.4 man-days/km    8,737       874
7. Forest Station Upkeep                      1,136.36 man-days/
station/year         40,953   4,095
8. Firetowers:
large                            1,068.2 man-days/
firetower          38,495   3,850
small                            272.7 man-days/
firetower           9,826      983
G. Accounts and Audits
3.24      FD would keep Project accounts and records consistent with sound
accounting practice, adequate to reflect FD's operational and financial
situation. These records should permit proper identification of all the
receipts and payments in respect of the Project as well as the resources
created by Project activities. The responsibility for auditing FD-s accounts
rests with the Auditor General. The audit of FD's accounts has not always
been adequate and there have been significant delays in the past. FD audited
accounts for 1978/79 and 1979/80 and unaudited accounts for 1980/81 hae been
reviewed by Bank staff and are satisfactory.
3.25      FD-s accounting capability would be strengthened under the Project
through provisions for the design of an accounting and costing systems; the
provision of information to management on the performance and costs of the
various activities; the control of assets and liabilities and the preparation
1/   Table 1A.
2/   Table lB.



- 26 -
of budgets (all of these to be part of a management information system, para
4.04). FD would also make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank/IDA, for the
independent audit of expenditures under the Project made on the basis of
statements of expenditure. Such expenditures would consist of FD's incremental
operating costs. The auditor's opinion would certify that (i) goods or
services had been received or work performed; (ii) payment had been made; and
(iii) goods and services had been used solely for the purposes of the Project.
Assurances were obtained from Government during negotiations that:  (i)
separate Project accounts would be kept by FD; (ii) FD's audited accounts
would be submitted to Bank/IDA not later than six months after the closing of
the Government's financial year; and (iii) arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank/IDA would be made for the audit of expenditures for disbursements made
against statements of expenditure.
H. Environmental Significance
3.26      The proposed Project would be expected to have a significant bene-
ficial impact on efforts to preserve and protect forest resources which play
an indispensable role in Kenya's macro-ecology. Project activities contain
provisions to strengthen FD which is the principal planter, manager, and
protector of forests in Kenya. Forests play an important role in regularizing
stream flow by acting as a "sponge" and in protecting the steeper slopes of
catchment areas from erosion. This function is apparently served equally well
by indigenous forest or exotic plantations. At the same time, protection of
forest reserves is less difficult for exotic plantations than for indigenous
forests. Illegal felling of trees is much more easily detected in plantations
than in indigenous forests. Thus, encircling indigenous forests with planta-
tions is a classic method of ensuring their protection. Legislation before
the Kenyan Parliament would extend FD jurisdiction to cover also the forests
which are now under the control of the County Councils, and which are often
inadequately protected.
3.27      The Project would support planting and maintenance of exotic
plantations. Most, if not all, Project-supported plantings would be on land
where exotic softwoods have been previously clearfelled; much of this land
would not be replanted to trees in the absence of the Project but would be
converted to other uses, principally to maize-growing. Kenya's gazetted
forests are predominantly at high altitude and hence at the head of catchment
areas: around Mount Kenya, the Aberdare Mountains, the Western Escarpment and
Nandi Hills, and Mount Elgon. Their replacement by land uses less protective
of the catchment areas below, such as maize culture, could be an ecological
tragedy of major dimensions. Reduction of the Ngong forest, for instance, is
depriving Kajiado, located lower in the watershed, of its water supply.
3.28      The search for fuelwood is the other major factor endangering
Kenya's forestry; Project activities in forestry extension and in improve-
ment of RAES's nurseries would help to augment fuelwood production and
decrease wastage of smallwood, thereby reducing pressure on existing forests.
The industrial plantations have the same effect, and this is the main environ-
mental significance of the Project. In addition, the preservation of
forest preserves has numerous beneficial ecological effects: water quality,
for instance, is maintained through prevention of erosion and siltation.



- 27 -
Finally, the indigenous forests of Kenya have an intrinsic scientific and
cultural value. They serve as a pool of potentially valuable genes which
could be required for future tree breeding. They provide a habitat for
certain species of wildlife; because of this, and because of their role in the
Kenyan landscape, they are important to the tourist industry which is one of
Kenya's main foreign exchange earners.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
General
4.01      All Project activities would be implemented under the authority
and direct supervision of FD. Its parent ministry (MENR) would monitor
Project progress through the Permanent Secretary. FD's management structure,
(Chart 1), is considered adequate for Project implementation purposes.
However, the Project would support a number of proposals aimed at eliminating
the operational constraints met during the implementation of the Second
Forestry Project and improving FD-s managerial performance at all levels.   A
draft implementation schedule is attached (Chart 2).
4.02      The amounts of labor employed by FD per hectare planted and main-
tained or per unit of wood produced are excessive (para 1.20). About 5,600
unskilled laborers would be needed to maintain existing forest plantations and
to sustain the proposed planting program of about 6,400 ha/year; FD emaploys
about 10,500 workers on its plantation activities alone. Nevertheless, it has
been unable to reach its planting target of about 7,700 ha/year during the
Second Project; the shortfall has been of the order of 35%. Moreover, main-
tenance has been inadequate, with many scheduled thinning and pruning opera-
tions never carried out or carried out poorly. With proper management, the
number of workers being paid by FD should have been able to plant and maintain
much larger areas each year. The combination of overmanning and inadequate
management has led to high unit costs and to low cost recovery, a situation
which has increased Government's financial burden and jeopardized the long-
term goal of financially self-supporting plantation establishment and main-
tenance activities. The proposed Project contains specific provisions to
redress this situation, especially the Management Information System (para
3.12a) and the reference maximum values (para. 3.23).
Strengthening FD
4.03      FD is by far MENR's largest department.  With headquarters in
Nairobi, it is headed by a Chief Conservator of Forests (CCF) assistedl by
two Assistant Chief Conservators of Forests (ACCF), one of whom has been
responsible, inter alia, for the implementation of the Second Forestr;y
Project. He deals with all of FD-s technical and administrative matters.
The other ACCF handles annual budgets, financial control and revenue collec-
tion. Twelve Conservators deal with rural afforestation and extension



28 -
fRAES), Research, Management Services, Forest Industrial Development and
the eight field conservancies. A Forest Inspectorate Section, serving as an
Internal Audit Unit, is headed by a Senior Assistant Conservator of Forests
who reports directly to the CCF. There is at present no Kenyan economist at
FD, nor does it have a cost accountant.
4.04      Improved management as well as technical and financial control would
be key elements for the successful implementation of the proposed Project. To
strengthen management by rationalizing operations, FD's managers would need
timely information on how much they are spending and the unit cost of specific
operations. The system to provide this information would include: an analytic
cost accounting systemt to collect and organize the requisite data; it would
also include the capacity to present this information regularly in a simple
and understandable form to all FD managers. The capacity to carry out
these operations, called a Management Information System (MIS), would be
implemented by FD helped by a Finance and Management Analyst to be appointed
under the Project (paras 3.12 and 4.12). Within four months after the Finance
and Management Analyst has taken up his position, FD would submit a report
through MENR to the Bank Group for approval. This report would contain the
proposed basic structure of the FD Management Information System which would
include, inter alia:  (i) design of a cost accounting system, including
internal control procedures; (ii) design of a financial management system;
(iii) design of reporting systems for the FD management, as well as for the
Government and external donors supporting FD's activities; and (iv) an imple-
mentation schedule for the MIS. Not later than December 31, 1982, according
to the terms of reference of the Finance and Management Analyst, the Government
will submit a report based on his work, containing the detailed design for
the MIS which would include, inter alia, reporting forms, charts for informa-
tion flows, a complete description of the process to be used, start-up and
operating cost tables, allocation of manpower and other FD resources per
activity, staff and training requirements and an implementation schedule.
4.05      An internationally-recruited Forest Economist (paras 3.12 and 4.12)
-would be hired for one year to advise FD on all aspects related to FD's
costs and revenues. The Forest Economist would report to the CCF and work in
close coordination with the Finance and Management Analyst.
Z,.06     FD fully appreciates the seriousness of the overmanning problem
para 1.20) and has begun to take corrective action. In line with the main
objective of increasing the efficiency and productivity of field operations,
BD would attempt to reduce its existing excessive unskilled labor force by (i)
-ict  aking on --ne  unskilled peopple; and (ii) not replacing unskilled staff as
Iey left,  In adidtion, TD would study the Possibility of (i) transferring
nasLlled laborers ;Trom _ow to bicigh oroductivity areas: and (il) hiring
a iiorery labor - -pecific proposals dealing with these possibilities would be
inc-zxacec in -he FD's Annual Work Programs and Budgets.  Assurances to
these effects were obtained at negotiations.



- 29 -
Plantation Establishment and Maintenance
4.07      This component would be implemented under the responsibility and
control of the eight Field Conservators of Forests, who are properly qualified
and experienced. The Field Conservators would work under the ACCF (Teschnical)
and would be assisted by 25 District Forest Officers as well as by foresters,
forest assistants and forest guards. In addition, the Field Conservators would
identify areas for forest reservation, nature reserves and water catchments,
and control the exploitation of all forest products. The ACCF (Technical), the
Field Conservators and the District Forest Officers would participate in the
preparation of the Annual Work Programs and Budgets for Plantation Establishment
and Maintenance activities. This is expected to result in a decentraLization
of decisions and control of field operations. Field staff would then become
fully accountable for their actions. FD's Financial Controller would make
regular advisory visits to all conservancies and districts. These arrangements
would also ensure the proper monitoring of the MIS implementation at all
levels.
Rural Afforestation
4.08      This activity would be carried out under the responsibility and
control of the Conservator of Forests (RAES). He would be supervised by the
ACCF (Technical) and assisted by two Assistant Conservators (RAES). About 80
Extension Forest Assistants would be transferred from within FD; they would
be based in the Forest Districts and would report through the Extension
Foresters to the respective Field Conservators. Each nursery would be staffed
with 20 laborers including a Headman. The personnel for the 30 new nurseries
to be established under the Project would, where practicable, be transferred
from other assignments at FD, thus avoiding outside recruitment. An assurance
to this effect was obtained at negotiations.
4.09      The Conservator (RAES) would be assisted by a Rural Afforestation
Adviser, who would be financed by the Government of Switzerland (para. 3.17).
He would advise on: (a) preparation of a training program for RAES staff; (b)
management and organization of nurseries; (c) organization and control of
forestry extension activities; and (d) coordination with the various Kenyan
agencies and foreign donors concerned with extension forestry. The candidate
would be selected by the Government of Switzerland and appointed with the
concurrence of FD and the Bank. An assurance to this effect was obtained
at negotiations.
Road Construction and Maintenance
4.10      Planning and control of road works is the responsibility of the
Conservator for Forest Industrial Development (FID), based in Nairobi. Four
road units would be responsible for implementing the roads program (para.
3.09); there are two of these already, at Londiani and Nyeri, and two more
would be established so that two units would operate west of the Rift Valley
and two east. A typical road unit would operate two bulldozers, one
grader, one shovel and three tippers and would be staffed with one Super-
intendent, one Supervisor (grade 2, Inspector of Roads), main operators and



- 30 -
operators  assistants as per plant numbers, and about 20 casual laborers.
Two Road Unit Superintendents, two Roads Supervisors and 80 casual laborers
would be locally recruited and would have qualifications and experience
accep)table to FD. The existing plant and staff at Londiani and Nyeri would be
re-assigned by FD to the four Road Units so that, with the exception of the
two Road Unit Superintendents and the two Roads Supervisors, no outside
recruitment would be needed. Laborers would be transferred to the road units
from other parts of FD. An assurance to this effect was obtained at
negotiations. To strengthen the programming, implementation and control of
the FD's Road Program, a Roads Programming and Control Expert would be
recruited for a four-year period (para 3.12). He would have line management
responsibilities and report to the Conservator, FID. He would prepare a
detaiLled program including the equipment and staffing of the four Road Units
and the implementation schedule for the construction, upgrading and maintenance
of forest roads. He would provide in-service training to the Road Unit
Superintendents and to the Road Supervisors. In addition, he would prepare a
trainiing program for road operators and operators- assistants (para 3.09). It
would be a condition of disbursement for expenditures to be made by FD on road
construction and maintenance that the Roads Programming and Control Expert had
been appointed and was in post. Not later than December 31, 1982, FD, through
MENR, would submit to the Bank for approval a detailed program including the
equipment and staffing of the four road units as well as the implementation
schedLule for the construction, upgrading and maintenance of forest roads. An
assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations.
4.11      For those forest roads that would be constructed or upgraded by
local contractors to be selected and appointed by the Ministry of Transport
and Communications, FD would provide that Ministry with the following infor-
maticon: (a) the road trace, indicating the approximate road position on a
map; FD would place stakes to mark the road position; and (b) the source of
surface material (murram). An assurance to this effect was obtained at
negotiations.
Staffing
4.12      Provisions related to FD staff who would be internationally recruited
are detailed in para 3.12. Technical assistance staff would not only provide
on-the-job training to local personnel, but would also ensure that senior
local staff were given a thorough grounding in essential management matters,
such as work planning and supervision, budgeting and financial control. These
responsibilities would be clearly defined in the terms of reference of tech-
nical assistance staff, which were discussed and agreed upon during
negotiations. Proposals for the use of the consultants services would be
included in the Project Annual Work Programs and Budgets (para 4.13). It
would be a condition of Credit/Loan effectiveness that the following FD
technical assistance staff had been employed and were in post: (a) the
Finance and Management Analyst; and (b) the Forest Economist. In addition to
technical assistance personnel, the following staff to be recruited locally
would be required by FD: (a) for rural afforestation: two assistant conser-
vators and 80 extension forestry assistants; and (b) for the roads units: two
superintendents and two road supervisors. These posts would be filled by
qualified individuals acceptable to FD.



- 31 -
Annual Work Programs and Budgets
4.13      Basic documents for Project implementation would be annual work
programs and budgets. These would permit a full annual review of progress in
Project implementation by Government and the Bank and make possible technical,
financial and managerial adjustments or modifications to the Project as
implementation proceeds and experience is gained; revenue estimates would
include information on the impact of the adjustments to stumpage rates (para.
5.24). Annual work programs and budgets would be prepared by FD and sub-
mitted through MENR to the Swiss and Italian Governments for information and
to the Bank for review and approval not later than March 30 of each year.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations. Any proposal for
recruitment of new full-time unskilled labor by FD would be included in the
annual plans, i.e. in the programs and budgets. The format for these plans
was agreed during negotiations.
B. Training
4.14      The long-term efficiency of FD's operations would depend on the
technical and managerial competence of staff at all levels. To address
the staffing constraints being experienced by FD, the Project would include
provisions for carrying out of courses, seminars, demonstrations, in-service
programs and training in other countries, provided their experience is relevant
to Kenyan conditions. Provision is made to enable FD staff to visit successful
plantations and nurseries operations elsewhere in Africa.  About three persons
would be sent abroad to study tender/auction systems. For rural afforestation,
scholarships abroad are earmarked for specialization courses, seminars and
tours, and about 36 one-week courses would be organized for nurserymen, exten-
sion foresters and extension forestry assistants. RAES would organizes an
annual national seminar to review technical and managerial matters with the
organizations involved in extension forestry. FD Road Units personneL would
be trained at the Ministry of Transport facilities, mainly on technical
matters related to road construction and maintenance as well as in plant and
equipment maintenance. All training activities would be incorporated in the
Annual Work Programs and Budgets (para 4.13) and therefore subject to review
and approval by the Bank. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations.
C. Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.15      FD would obtain detailed information for monitoring and evaluating
Project implementation through the MIS (para 4.04). This information would
be incorporated into semi-annual reports, summarizing Project progress and
performance, which would be submitted to the Swiss and Italian Governments for
information and to the Bank for review. The format and contents of these
reports would be discussed in detail during the first Bank supervision mission.
Assurances to the above effect were obtained at negotiations. FD would also
prepare a completion report summarizing Project performance and evaluating its



- 32 -
impact. The report would be submitted to the Bank not later than six months
after the closing date. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotia-
tions.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, AND PRICES
A. Production
5.01      Assuming the silvicultural practices and rotations mentioied above
(para 3.03) and a mean anneal increment ranging from a high of 20 m /ha for  3
eucalyptus to a low of 7 m /ha for slow-growing hardwoo s, and averaging 17 m
/ha, ithese plantations would produce about 11 million m of wood over the
period 1989 to 2035. The allocation of this wood between sawlogs, pulpwood
(and fEibre and particle-board), and fuelwood and building poles would depend
on a number of future policy decisions. If the PPM pulpmill did not grow
beyond its presently-authorized expansion, and if the pulpwood working
circle continued to be managed exclusively for pulp, and if integrated harvest-
ing progressed to the point where all smallwood from sawlog working circles
were allocated to meet residual demand of the PPM mill, with the balance used
as fuelwood or construction poles, then production of the new forest plantations
would be allocated as follows (in millions of m):
Category          pre-2000   2000-2010   2011-2020   2030-2035   Total
Sawlogs             0.49        0.74         5.07         0.15       6.45
Pulpwood            1.23        1.29         0.61         0.05       3.18
Fuelwood & poles   0.66         0.36         0.55           -        1.57
Total               2.38        2.39         6.23         0.20      11.20
5.02      Nearly half of the total would be cypress and pine sawlogs maturing
between the years 2010 and 2015, by which time Kenya is expected to be a
timber importer. Most production prior to that date would come from thinnings.
Use of' the smallwood from plantations managed to produce sawlogs would depend
on the spread of integrated harvesting which would insure that this by-product,
most of which is now left to rot in the forest, would be used for pulp or
fuelwood, S-ince wood is likely to be much scarcer and more precious in Kenya
in 2010 than it is now, full use of this smallwood is quite likely. Indeed,
it Ls likely that the pulpwood working circle will have been converted to
anteg,Xate nproduct1on of sawlogs as well as pulpwood well before that date.
The recommended thinning and pruning of existing plantations would
_e -: 'n mar;eting of :rilmed rather than lower-value unpruned logs.  Output
-'d -,  not-  - tncrease significantli  over r hat it .ould have been without thinning
l Punirrl.g, 'but t-he proportlon i3:: larger> more valuable logs would be hligher.
-.nnua3 maretab1e proa&tction from existing plantations (160,000 ha) is esti-
mat,ed as 1.2 mfillion m- Jf salw'cgs, principally cypress and pine, 9.42 million
msf pui-;wood frcm the ;nup-7ood working circle, and 00.7 million m  of small-
food from the sawlog working cir1eis.  Most of this 'ast category is currently
wastecl  Project activities woul" preimote its use as pulp or fuelwood by fostering
-ntegrated harvesting.



- 33 -
5.04      Expansion and improvement in 145 existing RAES nurseries would
increase their average annual seedling production from about 90,000 per
nursery now to 300,000 at full development. In addition, 30 new RAES nur-
series would produce 300,000 seedlings each per year on average. Total
seedling production per year by 1985 would be about 52 million, compared to
expected production in 1981 before the Project of 13 million. Moreove!r, the
work of the Project-initiated and supported forestry extension service and
production of stronger seedlings of varieties better suited to each area, are
expected to lead to a doubling of the survival rate of RAES-distributed
seedlings by 1985. At full development, nearly 21 million fuelwood trees
would be expected to survive annually from RAES-produced and distribut:ed
seedlings.
5.05      Currently, it is estimated ihat each surviving seedling on a fuel-
wood plantation produces about 0.54 m of fuelwood over 33 years in four
harvests before being replanted. RAES-distributed seedlings, however, would
have to survive under much more difficult conditions; many would be planted
around houses and fields and exposed to dangers such as browsing by goats. If
their mean annual increment were half that of similar species on Kenyan
fuelwood plantations, then the fuelwood production from incremental RAES
seedling production and of incremental survival of trees froe the current
level of seedling pr3duction would equal almost 10 million m over 30 y5ars or
about 0.33 million m per Near. This compares with about 1.4 million m over
30 years or 0.05 million m per year under present conditions. This large
increase in fuelwood supply is still a tiny percentage (1-2 1/2%) of current
estimated national fuelwood comsumption of 13-30 million m per year.
B. Markets
Domestic
5.06      Industrial Wood.  Kenya is now self-sufficient in forest products
and exports small amounts to neighboring and Indian Ocean countries. The
dgmestic market now con sumes (on a roundwood equivalent  basis) about 520,000
m of lumber, 325,000 m of paper products, and 80,000 m of panel products.
Population is expected to grow at about 3.4% per year until 1990 and at 3% per
year thereafter. Consumption of wood products per head is growing too.
Consequently, growth in domestic demand is expected to average 4.8%/year for
lumber, 5% per year for paper products, and 4.5% per year for panel products
over the next half century.
5.07      The sustainable cut from Kenya's forests is more than adequate
until early next century at projected growth rates. The purpose of the
Project is first to replace clearfelled plantations, and secondly to allow for
the expected shortfall after the year 2000. Installed or committed capacity
of sawmills and papermills is adequate to meet domestic demand, with some
exportable surplus, for another decade. Presumably, subsequent expansions
(and rehabilitations of dilapidated sawmills) will at least keep woodprocess-
ing abreast of domestic demand, if not enable it to convert surplus wood into



- 34 -
export earnings. Kenya's plywood, particleboard, and fibreboard mills supply
about 75% of domestic demand. Local fibreboard production began only in 1978,
and plywood and particleboard factories have recently been expanded, but
imports still exceed exports. Net imports were about 10,000 m in 1978,
the last year for which reliable statistics are available.
5.08      Fuelwood.  Kenya is self-sufficient in fuelwood too, but demand
requires cutting more than the forest is regenerating, at least near popula-
tion centers. The market for fuelwood that is consumed directly is poorly
organized, since most users cut their own and do not yet have to pay for it.
The high transport cost of fuelwood relative to its weight and value creates
anomalies, such as the rotting of large quantities of smallwood on forest
plantations for lack of demand, while families in wood-short areas burn
dung and crop residues for lack of wood. The shrinking of the resource base
is developing a market, as evidenced by the increasing distances walked to
gather fuelwood, increasing fuelwood collection after logging, and the in-
creasing ability of mills near population centers to sell edgings instead of
burning them. Fuelwood's low value relative to transport costs means that it
pays to convert it to lighter charcoal, when markets are far from the forests
even though 73% of its caloric value is lost during the traditional process.
Even with charcoal exports banned (para 1.26), supply of fuelwood is clearly
far from keeping up with demand; markets are forming and growing and prices
are rising. Whatever fuelwood production resulted from Project activities
would be increasingly likely to find a ready market with the passage of time,
particularly in densely-settled districts.
Export
5.09      Timber.  Timber product exports are small as a percentage of total
output. In recent years, they have clearly been a residual to producers,
less profitable than domestic sales. §awmillers exported lumber with a
roundwood equivalent of about 50,000 m annually for a decade up to 1977,
since which date exports have fallen to only about half that level. The bulk
of Kenya-s sawn timber exports consists of plantation-grown cypress. While
unit values of the Meru oak, camphor, and cedar exported are high, quantities
are not significant. The principal exporters of plantation-grown
softwood timber are Chile and New Zealand. Over the past decade, Kenyan
exports, which are not a significant market factor, have commanded a premium
fob price of 24% over Chile's comparable exports and of 18% over New Zealand's.
Kenya's principal present and potential competition in the Indian Ocean and
the Middle East is Chilean softwood timber. The Kenyan premium stems not from
any freight advantage (para 1.29) but from the quality advantage of Kenyan
pruned cypress over Chile½s unpruned pine. As the volume of Kenyan exports
has decreased, the premium paid for those exports over competing softwood has
increased to around 70%, reflecting the fact that many of Kenya's orders are
either small, specialized and cut to order, or are destined for neighboring
African inland countries, where Kenya's freight advantage is enormous.
5.10      A cursory study of costs for Kenya's sawmillers shows that exporting
larger quantities of lumber, in competition with Chile in the Middle East for
instance, would be profitable. The principal constraint on exports appears to
be the organization of the sawmilling and exporting sector and its willingness
to produce an export-quality product (since the local market will accept a



- 35 -
much lower quality of sawn timber without price discount). Two studies of
wood availability show that, on the basis of existing plantations as well as
projections of Kenyan demand for sawn timber, there will be timber available
for export in significant volumes, considerably in excess of present volumes,
from now until at least 2000. However, it is not at all obvious that Kenyan
sawmillers will take full advantage of this export potential; they have not
done so in the recent past. Exporting requires initiative, organization, and
quality control, which the local market, buoyant until recently, does not. If
millers fail to take full advantage of the export market, it is likely that
wood will be accumulating faster than it is being cut until about 2000 and
that the period of wood surplus will thus be prolonged. The assumption here,
however, is that surplus saw timber will be rationally converted for export.
Thus incremental production will add to exports until 2000 and replace imports
thereafter when Kenyan demand for sawn wood will have caught up with and
surpassed the output of its forests.
5.11      Paper Pulp.  PPM, which produces all of Kenya-s pulp and meets
about 70% of domestic requirements for paper, has recently been exporting
about a 5uarter of its paper production -- 14,521 t in 1980, equivalent to
84,000 m of roundwood. What it cannot sell on the local market, PPM exports,
first to neighboring countries where Kenya enjoys a natural advantage, then to
Asia. Currently, the realized price for sales to neighboring countri,es is
about 90% of that on domestic sales; for sales to Asian countries, it is about
75%. Exports receive a 20% incentive bonus; paper imports are effectively
excluded by a 50% duty and domestic prices are set by Government after consul-
tation with producers.
5.12      Under present conditions, Kenya's pulp and paper producers find a
ready market for their product and their operations are profitable. PPM, the
principal producer and Kenya's largest industrial enterprise, runs at more
than its rated capacity; its expansion is agreed. While PPM pays stumpage
for its wood that is far below the cost of replacing that wood, stumpage is a
minor factor in its cost structure. The stumpage value of the wood in a ton
of paper is currently KSh 245 or 3-4% of the price realized for that paper.
Protection of the local market and export incentives merely reflect the
scarcity value of foreign exchange. Nevertheless, future expansion of the
pulp and paper industry is constrained by the supply of pulpwood and avail-
ability of water. Industry management fears that population pressure will
reduce the forest base, limiting smallwood that will be available within an
economic radius of the pulp mill, and raising costs to the point where Kenyan
paper is no longer competitive on world markets. If Kenya's long-term
ability to export a capital-intensive, land-intensive product like paper is
suspect, the argument applies even more forcefully to pulp exports.  However,
the natural protection that hampers exports also protects the home market and
markets of Kenya's landlocked neighbors. Therefore, looking beyond current
discussions over pulp and paper capacity expansion, it is likely that, over
the next decades, Kenyan pulpmill capacity will keep expanding so as to stay
somewhat ahead of domestic consumption, exporting to the neighboring inland
market and sometimes, immediately after a plant expansion, to Indian Ocean
markets.



- 36 -
C. Price Prospects
5.13      Most prices for wood products are administered, but they are much
more affected by market forces than is generally realized. Prices for the
wood itself have been fixed, for industrial users, following the Second
Forestry Project Credit/Loan Agreement between Government and the Bank
calling for a fixed annual percentage increase. In order to recover FD's
present, admittedly exorbitant, costs of producing plantation softwood,
stumpages would have to be increased to several times what they now are. Even
though the stumpage price of the wood they use is a minor element of forest
industries cost, a significant increase in royalties to permit full FD cost
recovery would obviously provoke major market disruptions. If stumpages
should be related to FD's production costs, both those production costs and
the stumpages should also be related to the market for forest-industrial
products.
5.14      The world market for softwood timber has been buoyant in recent
years and is expected to remain so. The income elasticity of demand is high,
while there is constant pressure on the world supply base, principally in
Canada, the Soviet Union, and Scandanavia, which is expected to continue.
With rising world transport costs, there is little prospect that much of the
northern softwood forested region that is now too remote to be exploited
economically, principally in Canada and the Soviet Union, will be brought
into production, even with rising wood prices.  Southern softwood plantations
furnish only a small proportion of supply; there is no prospect that they
would expand rapidly enough to affect the market. Consequently, the world
price for softwood lumber is expected to continue to rise by about 2.5%/year
through 2000 and by about 3%/year thereafter. Such long-term trends average
out large year-to-year fluctuations in lumber prices stemming from business
and construction cycles.
5.15    3 Average fob lombasa prices for Kenyan lumber are estimated at
US$115/m  or iSh 950/m . In 1980, the average ex-mill price of sawn lumber
was KSh 620/m . Higher export prices are difficult to compare with domestic
prices. However, they represent less a windfall to exporters than a reflec-
tion of the higher quality of3exported lumber, a higher percentage of valuable
species (particularly 4,000 m of camphor in 1980), an additional KSh 80 per
ton of freight cost from Nairobi to Mombasa, and the costs of international
business. Domestic prices are administered in such a way as to remain reason-
ably close to the export-parity price.
5.16      Kenyan plantation-grown softwood is expected to continue to command
a premium over its unpruned competition on export markets. Wage levels in the
countries which compete with Kenya preclude the labor-intensive pruning and
thinning practiced in Kenya. If and when Kenyan exports expand, they may lose
part of their present price advantage that stems from their position close to
African inland markets or their cut-to-order character. However,, whatever
premium they may thus lose ought to be more than recuperated from gains in
better freight rates that would come with greater volume.



- 37 -
5.17      In the 21st century, when local lumber demand is expected to catch
up with supply, there should be no difficulty in selling all of Kenya''s
softwood lumber in the domestic market. Kenya-s considerable economic distance
from other sources of supply would be working for the local producers and
millers. For the nation as a whole, the value of the timber would then be
calculated in terms of import parity instead of the lower export parit:y.
5.18      A large part of the volume of wood production from the forest
plantations will be smallwood unsuitable for sawn timber. The 54,000 ha
of the pulpwood working circle are. currently managed to produce exclusively
pulpwood. It is conservatively estimated that this management of the pulpwood
working circle will continue, although it is likely that demonstration of the
financial and economic advantages of integrated logging resulting from trials
now going on will convince the lessees to change that management in the future
and to grow higher-value buttlogs for sawmills, while accepting more Sawmill
and sawlogging waste for pulping.
5.19      At present, smallwood and mill wastes around settled areas are used
for fuelwood, that within the pulpwood working circle is used for pulp, small
quantities are used to make particle and fibre board, and much smallwood in
remote areas of logging is left to rot. Since fuelwood consumption and even
sawmill intake can only be estimated roughly at best, estimates of present use
of plantation-grown smallwood are necessarily crude.
5.20      If FD followed the stipulated thinning and felling program on
its existing plantations, they would produce somewhat over one million cubic
meters of smallwood annually (para 5.03). Failure to thin and clearfeall on
schedule probably reduces this production by at least 25%, meaning that She
smallwood supplied is about 850,000 m . Of this amount, about 315,000 m
(37%) supplies the PPM pulpmill, about 6,000 m  (less thin 1%) is converted
into particleboard and fibreboard, and perhaps 100,000 m  (12%) of the
eucalyptus is used as poles, principally for building.  The remaining half is
either salvaged by loggers or gleaners for firewood or left to rot   'Probably
the maximum that is being salvaged for firewood is about 180,000 m  (20%),
leaving 250,000 m (29%) as wastage. Obviously, smallwood is a bulky commodity
with low value per unit weight. Value depends largely on location. 'Paper-
making and cooking compete for well-situated smallwood. At present, Eor
equally desirable locations, pulpmills could pay a higher price than Euelwood
users.
5.21      According to all estimates, Kenyan fuelwood consumption is out-
stripping regrowth by several times. As this process continues, distances
women walk to gather firewood will increase and price will start to ration
demand, first of favorably located smallwoood, then of an ever-larger portion
of it, as it ceases to be a free good. The area where smallwood is left to
rot in the forest can be expected to decrease as integrated logging harvests
ever more smallwood, not only for pulp and fibreboard mills but also for fuel.
Increasingly, fuelwood will set the price and pulpwood will follow. It seems
unlikely that, in a fuel-scarce Kenya, the smallwood price will be set by the
export-parity price for pulp or paper. Rather, paper manufacture, an intensive
user of scarce capital, land and power, will be for a protected local market



- 38 -
in order to allow it to pay a price for its pulp that will compete with
fuelwood. Therefore, smallwood will become increasingly easier to sell.
Its value will tend to approach not the export-equivalent for pulp or paper
but the import equivalent for kerosene.
5.22      At present, there are three principal end products from smallwood:
fuelwood, charcoal, and paper. Fuelwood is not much traded yet; some local
markets exist, but prices are not known. Charcoal is banned from interna-
tional trade; there is an administered price, but it is not widely honored.
Prices are locality specific and largely determined by transport costs. Paper
prices, though administered, are set to keep returns from local sales roughly
in line with those on export markets (see para 5.13). PPM-s estimated ex-mill
selling prices in 1981 are estimated at:
Domestic      African Countries    Asian Countries
- US$/ton -
Bleached          1039              1017                   661
Unbleached         676               825                    573
5.23      Because demand for fuelwood far exceeds sustainable supply, markets
for fuelwood and charcoal are expected to consolidate and prices to rise over
the long term. International prices for bleached softwood pulp are also
expected to rise in the long run, though more modestly, at 0.25-0.5% per year
in real terms. In the long run, Kenya is likely to lose its ability to sell
profitably in this market as a result of increasing competition for smallwood
and its transport costs. However, the natural protection of those transport
costs should make it economic to produce paper for self-sufficiency and for
export to inland neighbors for all but specialized grades in the foreseeable
future.
5.24      Stumpage prices.  Government has accepted the principle that FD
should recover the replacement cost from wood users. On the one hand, at
present unit costs, so doing would impose a major shock on the economy and
would radically alter wood use in the economy. Price would certainly ration
demand so that the uncut annual increment in wood would be much greater than
it is now. On the other, present stumpages are clearly so low that they
would not recover costs even if FD were a model of efficiency. Therefore,
simultaneous steps should be taken to (a) control and reduce FD-s unit
production costs (see Chapter IV) and to (b) raise stumpages by some interim
formulas pending the results of a study to determine replacement stumpages
under reasonable management of FD and the users ability to adjust to them.
Stumpage should be lower for thinnings than for clearfellings, to encourage
the demand for thinnings. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a) such a study would be carried out under terms of reference agreed by
the Bank, and that the study would be submitted to the Bank for review
not later than December 31, 1982; (b) that stumpages be raised by at least
12.5% plus the annual increase in the Nairobi cost-of-living index each year
until agreement with the Bank is reached on some other formula following
review of the replacement stumpage study. If, as current licenses



- 39 -
allocating the forest reserves expire, compartments of standing wood are
publicly auctioned or tendered to the highest bidder (see paras 6.07, 3.20),
then the minimum bid would be based on the published stumpage price arLd on FD
estimates of the wood in the compartment. Full implementation of these
provisions would assure that royalties covered reasonable FD costs and would
increase the likelihood of their being received by the Treasury.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
6.01      FD's budgetary situation is shown in Table 7 according to Government
budget categories and, functionally, in Table 8. For 1980/81, the lat:est year
for which figures are complete, revenues, principally from stumpages, amounted
about KSh 37.0 million (US$3.7 million), or to 18% of gross expenditures and
29% of expenditures net of foreign assistance. Wages and salaries were 65% of
gross expenditures.
6.02      FD is not a commercial enterprise and performs many services whose
costs cannot be expected to be recovered from beneficiaries. In the case of
protection forestry, the benefits and beneficiaries are difficult to identify.
However, for its plantation operations, for which FD accepts the principle
of full cost recovery, royalties cover only a small proportion of direct costs.
Allocation of costs by function is rather arbitrary, but plantations account
for about 70-75% when indirect costs are allocated, forestry extension for
about 15%, and protection forestry for 10-15%. Forestry extension is not
usually expected to be commercial, since many of the benefits of farmers
tree planting accrues to people downstream; nevertheless, RAES, FD-s forestry
extension conservancy, currently covers less than 2% of its costs.
6.03      The financial future of FD without the Project and the impact of
the Project are both difficult to predict; so is the total fiscal impact of
forestry, with and without the Project. Table 9 estimates FD-s expenditures
with and without the Project. Tables 10 and 11 project total impact on the
Treasury.
6.04      The impact of Project costs on FDIs budget and on the fisc are
straightforward. Major uncertainties concern the success and particularly
the rate of success of management reforms to be instituted with the Project:
notably (a) the rate at which excessive ancillary labor can be brought into
a reasonable relationship with work performed; (b) the rate at which collec-
tion of royalties for wood cut can be raised from about half to substantially
what it ought to be; and (c) the rate at which integrated harvesting will
spread and, consequently, the rate at which FD will be able to sell smnallwood
from sawlog plantations. Regarding (a), Tables 9-11 assume that FD will have
no success in reducing overmanning without the Project, but that with encour-
agement from external financiers, the labor force would be reduced by 5%
through attrition in Project years 2, 3 and 4. Regarding (b), Tables 10
and 11 assume that, without the Project, there would be no effective incentive
to improve collection of stumpages from the present estimate of 50% of what is
cut; but that with the Project collections will improve from 50% in 1982 to



- 40 -
100% in 1992 by 5% steps, thanks to progressive introduction of public auction
and tendering, increased use of standing volume as a basis for sales, and
improved FD management. Regarding (c), the financial Tables conservatively
assume that the only smallwood that would be sold is pulpwood furnished to PPM
and that PPM would not expand beyond its already-agreed expansion to 71,200
tpa. Moreover, regarding the auction and tendering system, it is assumed that
bidders would not bid more than the established minimum stumpage. Stumpages
woulq be increased by about 12-1/2% from the present weighted average of KSh
90/m for sawlogs at end 1981 with or without the Project, but three subsequent
12-1/2% increases would take place only with the Project.
6.05      The Tables indicate that FD would continue to spend more than the
revenues it generates without the Project; with the Project, its deficit
would narrow, turning into a modest surplus by the turn of the century. Total
fiscal impact is analyzed by adding the effect of taxes and duties and of
financing to FD-s projected budget (Tables 10 and 11). Without the Project,
the total fiscal impact of Government forestry operations would, by the end of
the century, cost two-thirds of what it costs now. Revenues, which now cover
just over one-quarter of costs, would cover half at that time. With the
Project, cost recovery would constantly increase to half by 1987 and to full
recovery by 2000. The summary figures below indicate that, with the Project
and its proposed financing, Government would realize fiscal savings in all
years but three immediately following the Project disbursement period, and
that the annual fiscal costs in these years would be small compared to the
savings that would precede and follow them. Without projected financing, the
Project investments and management reforms are projected to yield a fiscal
return of 20%, but incremental fiscal deficits in 1982-85 would total nearly
KSh 200 million before the Project's fiscal benefits began to be realized.
Proposed Project financing would even out these flows, and there would be
cumulative fiscal savings in every year.
1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010
Net fiscal cost
(million KSh)
Without Project        156  192  148  148  146  145  143  141  140  129  113  105  109
With Project           113  113   86   78  176  156  145  133  121   65    2  (21) (21)
Fiscal saving/cost      43   39   52   70  (30) (11)  (2)   8   19   64  111  126  125
Cost Recovery (%)
Without Project         28   29   31   31   32   33   34   35   35   41   47   51   51
With Project            24   28   35   41   46   52   56   60   65   84  101  110  110
6.06      Most of the improvement in fiscal impact of FD stems from Project-
induced improvements in sawlog revenue, both real increases in stumpage and
improvement in percentage of revenues due that are collected.  If FD could
immediately start collecting all the sawlog royalties that are due to Govern-
ment, it could improve its cost coverage significantly in the short run. As



- 41 -
a fiscal sensitivity test, the results of complete and immediate collection
of sawlog royalties due are shown below.
1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010
Net fiscal cost
with full collection    73   74   94   101   1   18    22   27  32   61   94   109  125
of sawlog royalties
(million KSh)
Cost recovery (%)        36   41   49    54  59   59    66   68  70   84  101   110  110
The Treasury would realize savings over the without-Project situation in every
year according to this hypothesis.
6.07      FD would move to deal with the discrepancies cited above by improv-
ing sawlog stumpage collections. During the first Project year, about three
senior members of FD would make a study tour of a country that now practices
auctioning and tendering of forest compartments. Not later than December 31,
1982, FD would submit to the Bank for review a plan for improving collection
of sawlog stumpages. Full implementation of these provisions would ensure
that royalties would cover reasonable FD costs and would increase the likeli-
hood of their being collected by the Treasury.
6.08      The proposal concerning public auction sales of standing timber
would not preclude the continuation of a licensing system to ensure timber
supplies (concession areas) to bona fide forest industries; the proposed plan
for improving collection of stumpages would review this alternative and any
possible changes in it as well as public auction. The position of PPM vis-a-
vis the saw millers/plymills would also be reviewed. These steps would
probably, but not necessarily, involve auctioning and public tendering of
forest compartments. Such auctioning and tendering would have to respect
existing legal agreements between Government and wood users; consequently, it
could only be applied progressively, starting with wood compartments not yet
allocated to any miller by license. The purpose of the auction/tender system
would be to make wood allocation a public process and, in so doing, improve
FD-s chances of realizing the funds which it is due and facilitate its policing
of logging. As presently conceived, auctions and tenders would start with a
minimum price based on the royalty and FD's estimate of the wood on the
compartment. The purpose of retaining a minimum royalty would be to protect
FD and the Treasury against possible collusion among millers and to facilitate
revenue projections. Revenue projections do not assume that bids will be
higher than the royalty minimum, although they might be so in favored forest
locations.
6.09      By the end of 1981, assuming that FD's rural afforestation program
through RAES is on schedule, even without the Project, RAES will be incurring
net fiscal costs at an annual rate of about KSh 29.5 million (US$3.0 million),



- 42 -
about one sixth of FD's total net fiscal cost to the Treasury.  Simple expan-
slon of4 this program, without either lowering production costs or increasing
the seedling sale price, would lead to considerable fiscal costs in a few
years. Now, recurrent costs of production per RAES seedling are at least KSh
2.5 (U'i$0.25); including capital costs, the figure is over KSh 3.3 (US$0.33).
At 50 mil'lion seedlings instead of the current nine million, the net fiscal
cost would be of the order of KSh 170 million (US$17 million), nearly equal to
the current deficit of all of FD.
6.10      Therefore, in addition to facilitating expanded seedling production,
the Project would help RAES reduce unit costs. These are projected to fall to
recurrent costs of about KSh 0.90 (US$0.09) per seedling by 1985 and KSh 0.80
(US$0.08) by 1986. It is expected that FD would sell seedlings at prices that
would recover not less than 20% by 1985. Adoption of such measures would
increase farmers appreciation for the product they receive, while keeping
seedlings cheap enough not to discourage demand and hence fuelwood planting.
The percentage formula would encourage RAES to curtail its unit prices and
would not cause prices to rise too brusquely. The seedling sale price,
currently KSh 0.06 (US$0.006) per seedling, would rise to KSh 0.51 (US$0.05)
if the 20% rule were applied under present production costs. According to
projections of production costs, production, and to the proposed pricing
formula, the price of RAES seedlings would progress as follows:
1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986
…==----- KSh per Seedling -------
0.06  0.13  0.14  0.17  0.18  0.16
Also according to these projections, the RAES annual deficit at full develop-
ment would be about KSh 30 million (US$3.0 million). Specific proposals for
increasing the recovery of the recurrent production costs of the seedlings
produced and distributed by RAES would be included in the annual plans,
beginning in Project year 2. Such proposals would demonstrate their impact on
reducing the annual financial deficit on RAES operations. An assurance to
this effect was obtained at negotiations.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Benefits
7.01      As discussed in ChaptSr V.A. above, the most tangible benefits of the
Project would be 11.2 million m of wood from planta5ions to be established
between 1982 and 1985 and an additional 10 million m of fuelwood resulting
from the extension forestry program. Thanks to maintenance of existing
plantations, and assuming that maintenance continues until harvest, the
Project would help assure that wood from existing plantations would be saleable
as higher-value, pruned lumber, rather than as the unpruned, lower-diameter



- 43 -
product that would result (in about the same volume) without maintenance. The
Project-s intervention would decrease the rate at which Kenya's forest cover
is being lost both by increasing dramatically the fuelwood tree plantings by
individuals and by reducing the backlog of gazetted forests that have been
logged and not replanted and which, without the Project's support, would
presumably be allocated to non-forest uses.
7.02      Establishment of plantations not only produces wood and saves forest
areas from being allocated to other land uses, it also protects remaining
indigenous forests by reducing the pressure to use them and, often, by physi-
cally protecting them from popular access. It is thought that coverage of
upper catchment areas on Mount Elgon, the Nandi Hills, the Mau, the Aberdares
and Mount Kenya with water-flow-regularizing forest (or some alternatives)
rather than annual-crop farms is vital to the water regime of Kenya's high-
potential farming areas lower in the catchments, as well as for urban water
supply. Moreover, the more than 10,000 forest workers and their families
settled in over 100 forest villages produce a significant quantity of such
agricultural goods as maize and potatoes.
7.03      In supporting FD's accomplishment of the above-mentioned tasks,
the Project would, above all, increase its efficiency, permitting the accom-
plishments at lower cost than would have been the case otherwise. The Project
would be expected to result in major public savings by raising the product-
ivity of workers and also by increasing the share of FD's costs borne by
beneficiaries.
B. Economic Analysis
7.04      Of the above-mentioned economic benefits, only the value of saw and
pulpwood produced by plantations is readily quantifiable. Attempts have been
made to place a value on the fuelwood generated by the extension forestry
component and also on that generated by the plantations and not used as pulp.
In evaluating benefits and costs for economic purposes, the accounting value
of unskilled labor and foreign exchange have been taken into account. For
purposes of economic planning, unskilled labor is accounted at 54% of the
prevailing wage of KSh 15/day in the forest plantation areas, or KSh 8/day.
(Unskilled FD workers actually receive KSh 30/day plus KSh 3 in allowances.)
Foreign exchange is accounted at 105% of the official rate of KSh 10 = US$1,
or KSh 10.5 = US$1. Taxes and other transfer payments have been eliminated
from economic calculations, as have price contingencies, since calculations
are in constant end-1981 Kenya Shillings.
7.05      Standing sawlogs are valued at border-price equivalents at the time
of harvest, those harvested before 2000 at the export-parity because incre-
mental production up to that date will add to exports, and those harvested
after 2000 at the import-parity because incremental production after 2000
will reduce imports.  ThS end-1981 export price of Keny n softwood lumber
is estimated at US$115/m , the import price at US$200/m . Analysis of the
world market for softwood lumber indicated that prices will rise at a rate
of 2.5%/year in real terms through 2000 and at 3%/year thereafter (see para
5.14). Parities have been calculated at Nairobi, since it is by far the
largest consumption center. The average 1981 economic value of standing
sawlogs, therefore, is:



- 44 -
Import Parity            Export Parity
Mombasa price, softwood lumber          US$200/m  Scif)           US$115/m  3(fob)
KSh 2100/m  (cif)         KSh 1207 m  (fob)
Transport:                                      3
Mombasa-to Nairobi                   KSh 80/m                         - 3
Nairobi-to-Mombasa                                             KSh 80/m
Nairobi price                           KSh 21804mr3             KSh 1127 m3
sawmill-to-Nairobi                   KSh 80/m                  KSh 80/m
ex-mill parity price,                             3                         3
softwood lumber                      KSh 2100/m                KSh 1047/m
Production cost (logging, milling,               3                         3
selling, administration, profit)   KSh 620/m                   KSh 620/m
Mill out-turn (saw lumber/
sawlog over bark)                         0.4  3                    0.4  3
Parity value of standing sawlog        KSh 592/m                 Ksh 171/m
7.06      Estimating the economic value of pulpwood is more difficult.  The
prevailing stumpage -- KSh 30/m -- is a negotiated price between the near-
monopoly user (PPM), for whom stumpage is a minor factor in overall costs --
about 5% of variable costs of pulp and 1-2% of realized ex-mill prices of
pulp and paper. Even though the pulpwood user (PPM) is a reasonably profit-
able commercial operation able to compete in world markets (with a 20% export
bonus), it is difficult, but not impossible, to derive the economic stumpage
from the cost structure of the pulp and paper market. In fact, stumpage
is not the residual cost for pulp millers (as it may be for sawmillers).
Moreover, other costs are much more important than stumpage; in Kenya, the
loggingJ and hauling cost in a ton of pulp is six times that of wood itself,
and the electric power cost is ten times as great, and it is, like stumpage,
set by negotiation with a monopolist.
7.07      Kenya now exports one-quarter of its paper production, and imports
some of the pulp needed to make it.  In future, Kenya will tend to lose its
ability to export paper (or pulp) profitably to the world market, but will
continuae to expand production to meet local demand and geographically-protected
neighboring markets (para 5.23>s  Zven though the pulp and paper derived from
pulpwood will become more like non-traded goods, the expansion of capacity to
stay slightly ahead af local demand is the alternative to imports.  Therefore,
pul v3d 5is valiued as a function cf the export value of pulp until 1990 and of
-he import value thereafter. Alt'nough some pulp is now imported, if one
considers the pulp that is exported in the form of paper, there are net pulp
exports.  This will continrue to be the case until Kenyan paper-product demand,
expanding at a rate of 4.5% per year, catches up with PPM and other paper
manufacturers present capacity, plus PPM-s agreed expansion, roughly in 1990.



- 45 -
7.08      The 1980 price of bleached softwood sulphate pulp from temperate
regions cif Germany -- the world pulp price indicator -- is US$540/ton.
Kenya's imports, though bearing a higher freight charge because of the greater
distance from northern sources, contain a high percentage of cheaper mechanical
pulp and average lower quality than the premium indicator. The cif Mombasa
price averages roughly US$500/ton. The hypothetical fob Mombasa export price
can be estimated at US$415/ton. Transport between Mombasa and Webuye of
US$20/ton give a cif Webuye import price of US$520/ton and an ex-Webuye export-
equivalent price of US$395/ton, not counting import duties (@ 60%) or export
bonuses.
7.09      PPM-s estimated variable production costs (excluding stumpage)
for an average ton of pulp reflecting its mix of bleached and unbleached
chemical (and soon-to-be-installed mechanical) production is in the order of
US$300/ton. This includes logging and delivery of wood, power, chemicals,
stores, packing, and some other variable costs. For purposes of economic
calculation (that is, excluding taxes, among others), when a ton of pulp is
produced locally, the difference between the cif Webuye import price and PPM-s
variable production costs (excluding stumpage) may be divided between payments
to the mill for its fixed costs and profits and payments to FD for its wood.
At present, about 10% of this theoretical difference is allocated to FD as
stumpages. By allocating one-third to stumpages, the 1981 national economic
stumpages become: 1/
US$/m3               KSh/m3
Export-equivalent basis                11                   115
Import-equivalent basis                25 1/2               270
These are expected to increase by 0.375% per year over the relevant future.
7.10      Fuelwood is non-foreign-traded; local markets exist in only a
few parts of Kenya. One method of estimating the economic value of fuel-
wood is to assume that incremental production replaces kerosene imports.
One m of fuelwood gives 10,700 megajoules (Mj) of heat when burned. If the
efficiency of the ihree-stone and pot arrangement where it is usually burned
is 12%, then the m has a cooking value of 1,284 Mj. One liter of kerosene
burns to give 38 Mj of heat equivalent to 15 Mj of useful cooking when burned
in a moveable-wick stove of 40% efficiency. Thus, 84 1/2 liters of kerosene
are the cooking equivalent of one m of fuelwood. The current Nairobi kerosene
price is KSh 2.7/liter, or KSh 3.18/liter net of taxes and duties, or KSh
3.85/liter when allowing for the economic value of foreign elchange. At that
rate, the economic value of fuelwood in Nairobi is KSh 325/i . If the cost of
gathering, transporting and selling fuelwood were KSh 165/m , the same as
it costs PPM to log and deliver pulpwood to the mill (it would surely be lower
1/   2.871 m  of pulpwood make 1 t of pulp.



- 46 -
In most instances once labor was shadow-prices), then the notional economic
value of standing fuelwood is still KSh 160/m (cf. sawlog and pulpwood prices
above).
7.11      Because of uncertainty over the economic value of fuelwood, and
because it is uncertain how rapidly the smallwood from sawlog plantations
that is not sold as pulpwood will start being used for fuelwood, the economic
returns to the new plantations component have first been calculated without
assigning any value to smallwood not used for pulp. When use of that wood is
factored into benefits as a sensitivity test, and in calculating returns to
the rural afforestation component, an intuitively reas nable value has been
assigned to fuelwood. From a 1981 value of KSh 85.5 m or half the export-
parity value of standing sawlogs, the average value of standing fuelwood rises
by 5% per year, reflecting rapidly increasing demand from population growth,
and the rapid erosion of the supply base. From below the economic value of
pulpwood, fuelwood's value rises to one higher than that of pulpwood but less
than sawwood. Such a solution may seem to overstate the value of fuelwood,
but it is appropriate to translate the social costs, not of importing kerosene,
but of the real alternative for the vast majority of poor people who burn
fuelwood: burning crop residues and grass, and denuding and eroding their
immediate environment.
7.12      The Project's generalized activities in support of FD, FD's protec-
tion and exploitation of the indigenous forest and its assistance to sawmillers
and loggers have been excluded from the economic analysis. So have exotic-
plantation maintenance activities. There is no acceptable way of quantifying
the benefits from these activities. Activities proposed under the Project,
however, are reasonable and prudent and conform to recognized standards of
professional forestry.
7.13      In comparing the Project new plantation component-s benefits with
its costs, the full direct and indirect costs of establishing and maintaining
these plantations were taken into account. Among the indirect recurrent costs
allocated to new plantations on. a per-hectare basis were: 3/4 of the cost of
purchasing and operating FD vehicles, 1/2 of salaries and allowances for all
FD non-subordinate staff, 1/4 of the cost of all new buildings, and appropriate
allowances for road, firebreak, and game moat maintenance, firefighting and
protection., This allocation of general administrative costs is in line with
the importance of the new plantation program in FD's overall activities.  On
th-s basis, and assuming no benefits for smallwood not converted to pulp,
the economic rate of return to the new plantations comaponent is estimated at
19% Ssee Tab'e 12).  This figure is based on wood values alone and does not
incl ue any non-quantified benefits from watershed protection.
.14       The economic return to the rural afforestation component was cal-
ulateed accordfmg to the economic value assigned to fuelwood (para 7.11),
the assumptions aboout seedling output and success of the fuelwood extension
service described above (see paras 5.04-5), and the costs estimated in Tables
2 and 5. As Table 13 shows, the calculation also took into account the family
labor needed to bring the seedling from purchase at the RAES nursery to the
kitchen fire. The family labor inputs, on a per-lO seedling-basis, are
estimated as follows:



- 47 -
Year     Task                                                Person-days
1       transport from nursery to shamba                         1
1       plant, weed                                              4
2       weed                                                     2
3       weed                                3                    2
9-35     fell, cross-cut, pile (1.5 days/m ) 1/                   0.6
9-35     transport to house (4 km/hour at average         3
distance of 1/2 kl with 30 kg/load = 1 day/m          0.4
9-35     splitting (2 days/m )                                    0.8
On this basis, the economic rate of return to this component is estimated
at 22%.
C. Risks and Sensitivity
7.15      Risks.  The principal economic risk of the Project is that management
reforms will fail and that unit costs will continue to soar out of control and
out of all reasonable relationship to the Projects social value.  The measures
proposed (see Chapter IV) to minimize this risk are conservative, in the sense
that they are designed to build on the organizational strengths of FD and to
introduce the minimal changes consistent with improved managerial and economic
performance leading to acceptable results. Possible disappointing results
in improved revenue collections, also a major objective of management reforms,
are a financial risk (para 6.07).
7.16      A long-term enterprise like forestry always runs agronomic and
catastrophic risks. The Project's provisions for fire and game protection,
and for diagnostic and referral capabilities for diseases are designed to meet
these risks. The mysterious deaths of several thousand hectares of pines in
the Turbo area (para 1.15) is an example of this kind of risk. Since this
inadequately explained phenomenon results, at least in part, from drought
stress, FD will revise upward the lower end of the moisture scale of its
range for planting Pinus patula.
7.17      There is significant risk that, due to poor organization of the
logging, sawmilling, and lumber-marketing subsector, and of the system for
allocating felling permits, Kenya will fail to exploit the full annual har-
vestable growth of its softwood plantations. There is little risk that the
domestic market will not be satisfied, but realizing the export potential
requires better organization and a better product. If the export market is
not adequately exploited, then marketable timber will stand on valuable land,
depriving the country of its use, while it grows very slowly. Finnish Govern-
ment assistance to the logging and sawmilling sector is designed to address
1/   After 8 years, 100 trees will yield about 1 m  of fuelwood/year for
about 27 years. It is assumed that 40% of seedlings will survive to
maturity.



- 48 -
these problems and to turn the substantial over-capacity in the sawmilling
sector to economic advantage. The Finnish missions and the Bank, however,
shares deep concerns, particularly concerning the intractable problems of
organization of the sawmilling sector. The Project does, however, address
the wood allocation problem.
7.18      A concomitant risk of poor organization of wood-products markets
is continued waste of smallwood, especially from plantations. To address the
prob:Lem, FD, with support from FAO and strong encouragement from the Bank, has
started integrated harvesting trials to improve the use of the plantation
smal:Lwood.
7.19      Pressure to convert forest land to family farms is frequently
cited as a risk for Kenyan forestry. Economically, it is an opportunity, as
well as a risk. Under appropriate conditions and management, forest lands
can be converted to higher-value economic uses without ecological danger.
Because farm land is in short supply and because much of Kenya's forest is on
well--watered rich soils that have low erosion-potential because they are quite
flat,, part of Kenya's forest should undoubtedly be converted to farm land. This
is less a risk to the Project, since the immediate problem is helping FD to
keep up with clearfelling in its replanting program, than to the country.
The risk is that such land-use conversions will continue to take place in an
unplanned manner and, consequently, with major risks of adverse ecological
consequences on watershed runoff and erosion.  These problems are too all-
encompassing to be dealt with in the context of the forestry sector alone,
and they will be addressed more explicitly in the context of sectoral and
struc:tural-adjustment discussions.
7.20      Sensitivity.  Economic projections for the new plantation component,
which show a 19% rate of return, assume that all smallwood not sold as pulpwood
will be wasted. If increasing demand for fuelwood and better organization
allowed that wood to be increasingly marketed, starting from roughly zero
marketing today and progressively arriving at 100% marketing by 2002, the rate
of return would be 20%. On the extreme hypothesis that all plantation small-
wood could be used for fuelwood immediately, the new-plantation rate of return
would be 21%.
7.21       If management reforms proposed under the Project failed and worker
productivity in plantation establishment and maintenance continued at its
present, inadequate levels, economic returns to the new-plantation component
would be 10.5% if smallwood not sold as pulpwood were wasted, and 11.5% if
that smallwood were used as fuelwood.
7.22      Although the rural afforestation component is somewhat experimental
and consequently presumably risky, its expected rate of return is high. Major
uvnfavorable variations^ in majjor assumptions, such as seedlings produced per
nursEry and percent surv4 val of seedlings, would not reduce its rate of return
to thte point where its economic viability were questionable.



- 49 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      The following issues were reviewed during Credit/Loan negot:iations:
(a) Grant by the Italian Government for two senior
mechanics for the Forest Department (FD) (para. 3.13);
(b)  terms of reference (terms and conditions of employment) of
technical assistance staff to be employed under the Project
(para 4.12); and
(c) the format for annual work programs and budgets (para 4.13).
8.02      Assurances were obtained during negotiations on the following
subjects:
(a) that the cost of certain FD recurrent items not included in
Project costs (salaries, housing, leave travel and uniform
allowances for non-subordinate staff, wages of subordinate
staff of existing RAES nurseries, postage, electricity,
water and advertising) be supported by Government (para
3.19, Table 5);
(b) procurement arrangements (para 3.20);
(c) accounts and records and auditing arrangements (para 3.25);
(d) that any proposals for (i) recruitment of new full-time
unskilled labor for FD, (ii) transfer or temporary assignment
of any such labor from other Government departments or agencies,
or (iii) replacement of any members of the unskilled labor
force who leave the Forest Department, would be included in
the draft annual plans. Such proposals would include a
detailed analysis of the impact of such measures on FD's
productivity and financial situation (paras 4.02 and 4.06);
(e) that positions for forest assistants and subordinate staff for
new RAES nurseries would be filled by transferring suitably
qualified existing FD staff (para 4.08);
(f) that an adviser to RAES, to be selected by the Government
of Switzerland with the concurrence of FD and the Bank,
would be appointed (para 4.09);



- 50 -
(g) that the 80 unskilled workers to be hired for FD's roads
units would be transferred from other parts of FD, and that
skilled staff for the two new roads units (except the unit
superintendents and roads supervisors) would be transferred
from the two existing roads brigades (para 4.10);
(h) that, not later than December 31, 1982, FD, through
MENR, would submit to the Bank for approval a detailed
program for the four road units, including equipment,
staffing, and an implementation schedule for construction,
upgrading and maintenance of forest roads (para 4.10);
(i) for forest roads that would be constructed or upgraded
by contract, that FD would provide the Ministry of Transport
and Communications with the road trace and the local sources
of surfacing material (para 4.11);
(j) that annual work programs and budgets would be prepared by
FD and submitted through MENR to the Swiss and Italian
Governments for information and to the Bank for review and
approval not later than March 30 of each year (para
4.13);
(k) that the proposed use of consultants (para 4.12) and proposed
training activities (para 4.14) would be included in the
annual work plans;
(1) that semi-annual reports summarizing Project progress
and performance would be submitted to the Swiss and Italian
Governments for information and to the Bank for review, and
that a completion report summarizing Project performance and
evaluating its impact would be submitted to the Bank not
later than six months after the Project's closing date (para
4.15);
(m)  that an economic study to determine stumpages for all wood
use, including sawlogs, pulpwood and fuelwood, under reasonable
forest management and to determine users ability to adjust
to them be carried out by FD under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, and that the results of the study
would be submitted to the Bank by December 31, 1982 (para
5.24);
(n) that FD prepare and submit to the Bank not later than December 31,
1982 a plan for improving collection of sawlog stumpages. The plan
would specifically consider public auctioning or tendering of
cutting rights to forest compartments at prices at or above the
stumpage price and based on FD estimates of wood in each compart-
ment. This system would only be applied as current cutting licenses
expire (para 5.24); and



- 51 -
(o) that until an agreement is reached on a formula to determine
stumpage rates as a result of the study referred to in
paragraph (m) above, the Government would increase stumpage
rates annually for sawlogs and pulpwood, starting with fiscal
year 1982-83, at an average rate of 12.5% in real terms
(para 5.24).
(p) that the annual plans, beginning in the second Project year,
would contain specific proposals for increasing the recovery of
the recurrent production costs of seedlings produced and distri-
buted by RAES. Such proposals would demonstrate their impact on
reducing the annual financial deficit on RAES operations (para 6.10).
8.03       Conditions of Credit/Loan effectiveness would be:
(a) that the Government of Switzerland's grant and the Govern-
ment of Italy's loan in respect of this Project were
effective (para 3.17); and
(b) that the Forest Economist and Finance and Management Analyst were
appointed and in post (para 4.12).
8.04       Conditions of disbursement would be:
(a) for categories (a) plantation establishment and (b) plantation
maintenance, that the basic design and implementation schedule
for FD's management information system had been approved by the
Bank/IDA (para 4.04); and
(b) for the roads construction and maintenance component, that
the Roads Programming and Control Expert had been appointed
and was in post (para 4.10);
8.05       Subject to the above conditions, the Project is suitable for
an IDA Credit of US$16 million (SDR 13.6 million) on standard IDA terms and for
a Bank loan of US$21.5 million on terms prevailing at the time of Board pre-
sentation.
January 15, 1982



- 52 -
KENYA
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
Documents in the Project File
I.   Tables
a)   Output from Industrial Forests Planted Under Project
b)   Plantation Cypress - Per Hectare Model
c)   Plantation Pine - Per Hectare Model
d)   Plantation Eucalyptus - Per Hectare Model
e)   Plantation Pulpwood - Per Hectare Model
f)   Plantation Slow-growing Hardwood - Per Hectare Model
g)   Calculation of Stumpage Rates - Cypress
h)   Calculation of Stumpage Rates - Pine, Pulpwood
i)   Calculation of Average Stumpage Rates - Pine
j)   Calculation of Stumpage Rates - Eucalyptus
k)   Sawlog Stumpage Rates - Pine
1)   Sawlog Stumpage Rates - Pine
m)   Fiscal Analysis
n)   Comparison of Financial and Economic Costs
o)   Economic Values
p)   Extension Forestry:  Seedling Costs, Sale Prices and RAES Revenues
TII. Reports
a)   FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme.  Report of the Kenya Forestry
III Project. Preparation Report. (Report No. 48/80 KEN 12). Rome:
FAO, 15 October 1980, 2 vols.
b)   International Finance Corporation.  Appraisal Report.  Panafrican
Paper Mills (E.A.) Limited, Kenya. (Report No. IFC/T-360).
Washington: IFC, May 4, 1981.
c)   Kenya Second Forestry Project.  Completion Report.  September 21, 1981.
d)   F. Blanz & Co. OY.  Forest Industries Training Centre, Nakuru,
Kenya. Development and Training Plan. (Draft Number 6).
Helsinki, 26 January 1981.
e'   Saw-Start OY.  E¢orest Industries Training Centre, Nakuru, Kenya.
Project Preparation Report. Helsinki, 30 May 1980.
f)   Ristso Juvonen, Reijo Riikonen, Juhani Koskiniemi.  "Report on a
Sawmilling Mission to Kenya in December 1977". (Prepared under
assignment with Finnish Ministry of Foreign Affairs for Kenya
Forest Department). March 1978, 16 pp.



- 53 -
g)   "Agreed Minutes" on annual consultations between Governments
of Finland and Kenya regarding development cooperation.
Nairobi, 30-31 October 1980.
h)   contract between Metex Corporation and the Finnish Ministty
of Foreign Affairs, 29 February 1980, regarding supply of
production sawmill to FITC Nakuru.
i)   USAID, Kenya.  Renewable Energy Development Project.  (Project
Paper 615-0205). Washington: USAID, August 1980.
j)   J.B. Smart.  Report on a Forestry Consultancy in Kenya on Rtural
Afforestation and Extension in the Embu, Meru and Isiolo Districts.
Unpublished report for ODA, 1980.
k)   Beijer Institute.  Work-plan for an Analysis of the Fuelwoocl Cycle
in Kenya and the Feasibility of Expanded Fuelwood Production.
Stockholm: Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, 1980, 2 vols.
1)   Japan International Cooperation Agency.  Report of the Survey
on the Modernization Plan of Wood Processing Industries in t:he
Republic of Kenya. Tokyo, November 1978.
III. Government Documents
a)   "Seedlings Production for Rural Afforestation in Kenya".  Government
paper presented to Appraisal Mission November 1980, pp. 19 and tables.
b)   A.G. Wanene & P.M. Wachiori.  Forest Resources Inventory Report.
Sawlog Availability.  Kitale, Baringo, Londiani, Elburgon, Eldoret
Forest Divisions. Nairobi: Forest Department, Forest Inventory
Branch, August 1980.
c)   B.G. Wamugunda & B. Solberg.  An Economic/Structural Analysis
of Kenya-s Sawmilling Sawlog. Nairobi: MENR, July 1975.
d)   B. Solberg.  A Comparison between Four Different Statistics Regarding
Annual Sawlog Volume Cut in Central Government and County Council
Owned Forests during the Calendar Years 1972 and 1973, and Corres-
ponding Best Estimates. Nairobi: MENR, Forest Department, May 1975.
e)   C.D. Kahuki.  "Business Trends for Wood-based Products".  A paper
presented to Timber Industry Seminar 17-18 April 1980.
f)   "World Bank Phase III Forestry Project".  Government comments on
Preparation Report.



- 54 -
g)   A.H. Chavangi.  "Reasons for Failure to Meet Planned Targets
for the Period 1970-1979". Unpublished paper submitted to
Appraisal Mission, 17 pp.
h)   The Timber Act, 1970  (No. 14 of 1970).
i)   Kenya Exporters Guide on Procedures and Documentation.  Nairobi
Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Kenya External Trade Authority
(1978).
IV. Working Papers
a)   "Rural Afforestation".  12 February 1981, 28 pp.  (Laurent)
b)   "Forest Industries".  13 February 1981, 3 pp. (Laurent)
c)   "Forest Resources (areas, yields per ha,
estimates of future volumes available), 4 pp.
plus tables. (Brouard)
d)   "KENYA:  Forestry III.  Detailed Project Components".
19 April 1981, 24 pp. (Brouard)
e)   "Technical Data on Roads". (Gamba)



KENYA
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES Plantations Component
I. Cost oi New Plantation Establishment
Cypress                        Pine           Eucalyptus    Other
Kind of planting                                       sawlogs        Pulpwood        sawlogs        poles           hardwoods      Total
Manual Dlantings (ha)                                    3200            1800           850              300            250          6400
Share of total                                            I .5                .281         .133              .047          .039          1.0
Composite            Tax &
Costs (KSh/ha)                  Unit    Unit Cost-  Units  Costs  Units  Costs  Units  Costs  Units  Costs  Units  Costs  Units Cost   FE%   duty 7.   u
Year 1:
unskilled labor            man days         33      84 1/2  2789  84 1/2  2789  84 1/2  2789  84 1/2  2789  84 1/2  2789  84 1/2 2789   0                 0
Polythene tubes, tools       KSh/ha       451        1        451   1         451   1        451   1         451   1        451   1        451  65      18
transport Plants             KSh/ha       400   (Included in_COST ESTIMATE_SForest Department; IVB vehicle operations)                    _-
Total                                                        3240            3240           3240            3240           3240           3240
Year 2:
unskilled labor            man days         33      23        759  23         759  23        759  23         759  23        759  23        759   0        0
Year 3:
unskilled labor            man days         33                                                                    20        660   0.8       26   0        0
Year 4:
unskilled labor            man days         33      25        825                                                  15       495  13        432   0        0
Aggregation of Establishment Costs
(million KSh)
Project year                                            1         2         3         4        Total
1982 Plantings             20. 7S6    4.858   0.166    2.765
1983 plantings                       20.736   4.858    0.166
1984 olantings                                20.736    4.858
1985 plantings                                20.6    42.8536
To-tal             20.736   25.594  25.760   28.525           10u.615                                                      2
october 30, 1981                                                                                                                                                   H
>
(D



KENYA
THIR) FORESTRY PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES: Plantations Component
II. Maintenance of All Plantations
Year I           Year 2-4          Total
Costs                                      Units      Unit Cost     Units    Cost   Units    Cost    Units    Cost    FE%   Tax & Duty %
(KSh)               (million         (million          (million
KSh)             KSh)              KSh)
Pruning, marking for thinning, &
reducing coppice, unskilled labor       man years      7,500      1373    10,298   1373    10.298   5492   41.190    0              0
Forest station unpkeep
unskilled labor                          man years    7,500         625     4.688    625      4.688   2500   18.750    0            0
Firebreak maintenance
unskilled labor                          man years    7,500         368     2.760    368      2.760   1472   11.040    0            0
Fire Control equipment                        set   8,285,000           1     8.285       -          -      1    8.285   65          18
Fire Towers
unskilled labor                          man years    7,500          18      .135      18       .135     72      .540    0          0
materials                                  set       407,000          1       .407      1       .407      4    1.628   45          14
Fire Fighting
unskilled labor                          man years    7,500         164     1.230    164      1.230    656    4.920    0            0
Game moat construction 1/
unskilled contract labor                  km          40,000         25     1.000      25     1.000    100    4.000    0            0
Game moat maintenance
unskilled labor 2/                        km           8,000         50      .400      50       .400    200    1.600    0           0
Entomological & pathological support 3/   set        1,025,000          1     1.025       1     1.025       4    4.100   14          12
YEAR                                                                        1              2           3           4         Total    FE%  Tax & Duty T
TOTAL                                                                     30.228        21.943      21.943     21.943      96.057      7        2
1/ 5.33   man years/km or 133.33 man years/year, equivalent to 533.33 man years for disbursement period.
2/ 1.07   man years/km or  53.33 man years/year, equivalent to 213.33 man years for disbursement period.
3/ Forestry Research Unit does not carry out basic research, but provides support on silvicultural, entymological and pathological
problems affecting plantations.  This support alone and not total cost of unit is included as cost.  Expense is estimated at
80l skilled labor and 207. materials (with 657. FE component and 18% taxes and duties).
October 30, 1981



KENYA
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES: Rural Afforeststion(RAES) Component
Year 1              Year 2               Year 3              Year 4              Total
Unit               Unit Cost       Unit      Cost      Unit       Cost      Unit      Cost       Unit      Cost      Unit       Cost   FE%.   Taxes & Duties
INVESTMENT COSTS                                            (KSh)                (mill KSh)          (mill KSh)           (mill KSh)           (mill KSh)          (mill KSh)           (M)
New nurseries                       unit                 154000          10       1540       10       1.540       10       1.540        -         -        30       4.620  30            12
ExDansion, existing nurseries   unit                      77000         40        3.080      30       2.310       30       2.310      25        1.925     125       9.625  30            12
Housing                             unit                 109000          10       1.090      10       1.090       10       1.090      10        1.090      40       4.363  47            16
Motorcycles                         unit                  14900          20        .298      20        .298       20        .298      20         .298      80        1.192  74           17
4-wheel drive vehicles              unit                 230000           2        .460                                                                     2         .460  74           17
Training
Scholarships abroad              3-month course    102000                                   1        ,tO2       1        .102        1        .102        3         306  100           0
6-day course for nursery          person trained          720        135         .097     115        .083      95         .068      75         .054    420         .302   0             0
headmen
6-day course for EFAs             person trained         1020         20         .020      40        .041      60         .061      80         .082     "00        .204   0             0
6-day course for EFs              person trained        1320          40         .053     40         .053      40         .053      40         .053     160        .212   0             0
Coordination seminar             unit                 100000           1        .100        1        .100       1         .100       1        .100        4        .400   0             0
Technical assistance
short-term consultants           man/month              88000          2         .176                           1         ,Cf88                           3        .2 64  83            0
adviser                          man/year             97 000           1         .970       1        .970       1         .970       1         .970       4       3.880  83             0
Research                            annual grant                                   .103                 .206                .206                 .206                 .721  14           12
Total                                                                             7.987               6.193                6.286                4.P80              26.546  41            11
OPERATING COSTS
Salaries & Allowances
Assistant conservators            man years             55000          2         .110       2        .110        2        .110       2         .110       8         .440   0           10
Extension forest assistants   man years                17600 1/       20         .352      40        .704      60        1.056      80       1.408      200       3.520   0            10
Vehicle Operating Costs
4-wheel-drive vehicles            vehicle years        69000           2         .138       2        .138        2        .138       2         .138       8         .552  74           17
New nursery operating costs         nursery years        199000          10       1.990      20       3.980       30       5.970       30       5.970      90      17.910   9              3
Existing nursery incremental  nursery years            40000          40       1.960       70       3.430     100       4.900      125        6.125    335       16.415  i5            10
operating costs
RAES nursery Prizes 2/            annual              100000                     .100                .100                 .100                 .100                 .400   0            0
Extension materials               annual                                         .110                .220                 .220                 .220                 .770  45           14
Total                                                                          4.760                8.682              12.494               14.071               40.007  20             7
GRAND TOTAL                                                                        12.747              15.475               19.380               18.951               66.553  29             8
1/ Includes allowance for motorcycle operating cost.
2/ Annual award to best RAES nurseries based on quantity and quality of seedlings raised.
October 30, 1981



- 58 -
Table 3
lCFbYA.
TH10D FORESTRY PROJECT
COST', 213ATES: Forest Dfeparttnt Coneesent
Year I             Year 2              Year 3             Year 4             Total
INVESTMENT CCGTS                            Unit       Unit Cm t  Unit      Cost      Unit      Cent      Unit     Cent      Unit    Ctet       Unit      Cast   ME.  T-aes & Duties
(-toh)           (mill FSh)        (.ill ISh)          (mill KSh)         (mill xSh)          (.ill iSh)
I. Technical Assistance
Long-term enperts
Finance & Nnagemeet Analyst    Rln year    970,000           1       .970        1       .970      1        .970                .970       4
onadn Frongracmig &i                                                                                                   1                          3,880   83
Costrol lpert                   man yer    900100          1       .970        1      .970                .970      1        .970        4     3,880   83
Forest Economist                  nan year    970,000              -        -         -                     .970       -t -                         970   83           -
Sheet-term consultanta
Forestry                          man mneth    8B,000       14      1,234      14      1234        3        .264      3        .264       34      2.996   83
Auctio- & Tendering erpert        ran month    88,000        1       .088        1      .                   '088      1        .088                .352   83           -
Tstal                                                               3,262              3.262               3.262              2.292        4    12.078   83            -
IIA. Roads
Contracted read conseruction            km        225,000      40      9.000       40     9.000       40      9.000       40     9MOo  160        36.000    64           9
Contracted road opgrading 1/            km         88,000      12      1.056       12     1.056       12      1.056       12     1.056    48        4.224    64           9
Graders 2/                             snit     1,153,000       4      4.612              4.162                                             4       4.612    76          13
Tetal                                                               14.668             10.056              10.056             10.056             44.836   i 66 
IIIA. 8uildings
Class-5 houses (foresters)             snit       234,000        3      .702        3       .702        3      .702        3      .702    12         2.808    34          9
Class-9 heuses (sobordinate            snit       105,000       25     2.625       25     2.625        25     2.625       25     2.625   tOO        10.308    29         10
staff)
Forest g.ard hosses                    .nit         25,000      40     1.000       40     1.000        40     1.000       40     1.000   160         4.000    23         10
Forest workers houses                  omit         18,000    500      9.000      500     9.000      500      9.000      500     9.0o0  2000        36.000    17         10
Forest station office & st-re          snit        154,009       2      .308        2       .308        2      .308        2       .308     8        1.33      3          9
Forest  station water sp eply          omit        108,000       3      .324        3       .324        3      ,324        3       .324    12        1.296    44          14
Replace wvater nopoly, eoistieg        omit         46,000      15      .690       15       .690       15      .690       15       .690    60        2.760    74          17
forest statio-ns__
Tft    si                                                           14.649             14.649              14.649             14.649              58.596    24         10
IYA. Vehicles 2/
4-wheel-dri_e pink-ops                 moit        230,00       20      4.60C       20    4.600        20     4.600       20     4.600      80       18.400   76          13
Trscks (7-ten)                         oit         288,000      11      3.168       11     3.168       11     3,168        11     3.168    44        12.67t   76          13
Tract-rs ('10-65 hp)                   mit         237,00       16      3.792       16    3.792        16     3.792        16     3.792     64       15.168   89           0
Trailers (S-ton, tipping)              omit         52,000      11        .572      11      .572       11      .572        11      .572    44         2.288   76           13
4-wheel-dr-ve station wagon            ..it        225,000       1        .225       1      .225        1       .225        1      .225      4          900   64          27
Salses cars                            soit        170,000       2        .340                                                               2          .340   64         27
W.ater trailer                         omit         29,000        1       .029       1      .029         1      .029        1      .029      4          .116   76         13
minIa                                                                12.726            12.386              12.386             12.386               49.884   79          9
V. Aerial sor-eys
Annual aerial sorvey of                onit        575,000        1        .575      1      .575         1      .575        1      .575      4         2.300   74         13
Preje-t area
VI. Stody Tlors
Tcpother AfiriQaaeounerres           man day            910     200       .182                                                             200           182   100
To ReQrAfri-an eeontries             man day         2,475       84       .208                                                               84         .208   tOO
Total                                                                   .390                                                                          .3908   000
TOTAL INVESTMOIrN  ClOSTS4620.0   i
TOTAL4i.27STNBb^P C08TS  390  403838  40.928             39.958             168.084    57          9
OPERATnIC COSTS
I1B. Roads
Vehicle oporating costs                         3                        4.400            4.400               4.400               4.400              17.600   65         18
Inc-enenl 0 salaries &
allowances:
U-skilled labor                   nan years        5,000      80       .400      80        .400      80        .400     80        .400  320         1.600    °          0
Reads snits heads (sopor-
intendent grade)                  man years       40,000       2        .080      2        .080       2        .080      2        .080    8          .320    0         10
Roads' s-pe-rvi-r                   man years       25,003        2       .050       2        i050       2       .050       2        .050    8         .700    °          '°
Total1 I -                                                                                  _2                                        05 _              2__      
I1IB. fl27 di01n                                                               4.930               4.930              4.930               4.930            19.720   58          16
Incremental maintenance             27 of valor                                               .295               .590                .886             1.771   18         10
of news constroction
IV3. vehicles
Trucks (7-ten)                  ep. onsts per y7   79,003       92       7.268      84      6.636      76       6.004      68       5.372  320       25.280    65        18
4-wheel-drive vehicles          no. eosts pe- yr   68,000    123         8.364    126        8.568    129       8.772    132       8.976  500        34.680    65        18
Tractors (60-65 hp)             ep. nests pet yr   79,000       70       5.530      70      53530      70       5.530      70       5.530  280       22.120    65        18
llnc  cats                      op. cents pnr yr   56,003         8       .448       4        .336      4        .224                .112   20        1.120    65        48
Land treisecs                   op. costs per yr   68,003        4        .272       4        .272      4        .272      -4        .272   16        1.088    65        18
Total                                                                 21.882             21.342              20.802             20.262             84.288    65        18
VII. Staff Allowances
Itisoton travel allowancss               Annual 4J                         .800               .800               .800                .860             3.200      0        0
TOTAL OiPEATING (OSM                                                          27.612              22.367            27.122              26.878           108,979      61        17
G003D T1 TAL                                                                  73.882              68.295            68.050              66.836           277.063      58        12
I/ To permit elesocflling.
_2 /It is ass-ued thit vehicles in IVA will he used 1/2 on road maintena-ce, 1/4 or new plantati-on, and 1/4 on enisting plantotiess.
/ F., 4 rod units cach cmprising 2 bulldo-ers, I grader, I shovel and 3 tippors, each to he used 900 hrsyr and tohavo 10 years of useful life.  Drivers end ep-rrterc are
alreidy no Foost Dsrr-tmcnt staff (see Essentisl Non-PFoject Ctets).  Units s-eId upg-ade for thinning (26.5 kh/yr), open forest trac-s (65 kl/ye), end maictain plantation
reads (1200 kl/py).  Fuel, oil acd materials costed at KSh 80/hr.  Ins 0ranoe: 0.42/yr en equip-ent costs, Iparos aed cepaics rquivalent to 101 of equipment cost per year
(KSh 4.6 millios per .oit), cooprisrd 7/. of spares, 307. of labor.
4/ nosed on cre00t actual oxpendituces.
Decmober 21, 1981



KENYA
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES: Summary
(millions KSh)
Component                                       Year 1    Year 2       Year 3    Year 4      Total    Foreign Exchange 7,,   Taxes & Duties %
Plantation
New Plantation Establishment                  20.736    25.594       25.760    28.525      100.615           7                      2
Plantation Maintenance                        30.228    21.943       21.943    21.943       96.057           7                      2
Total                                         50.964    47.537       47.703    50.468      196.672           7                      2
Rural Afforestation (RAES)                       12.747    15.475      19.380    18.951        66.553         29                      8
Forest Department
Technical Assistance                           3.262      3.262       3.262      2.292       12.078         83                      0
Roads                                         19.598    14.986       14.986    14.986        64.556         63                     11
Buildings                                     14.649    14.944       15.239    15.535        60.637         24                     10
Vehicles                                      34.608    33.728       33.188    32.648       134.172         70                     15
Aerial surveys                                   .575      .575        .575       .575        2.300         74                     13
Study tours                                     .390          -           -          -         .390        100                      0
Staff allowances                                .800       .800        .800       .800        3.200          0                      0
Total                                         73.882    68.295       68.050    66.836       277.063         58                     12
TOTAL BASE COST                                137.593   131.307    135.133   136.255         540.288         35                      8
Physical Contingencies                          13.759    13.131       13.513    13.626        54.029         35                      8
Price Contingencies                              17.508    29.283      43.081    57.515       147.387         27                      8
TOTAL PROJECT COST                             168.860   173.721    191.727   207.396         741.704         33                      8
of which taxes                                  13.509    13.898       15.338    16.592        59.336          0                    100
Total Cost net of taxes                         155.351   159.823    176.389   190.804        682.368         36                      0
October 30, 1981
0m



KENYA
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
Essential Non-Prolect Costs 1/
Year 1             Year 2             Year 3              Year 4             Total              Taxes &
Unit      Unit Cost      Unit      Cost      Unit      Cost     Unit      Cost      Unit     Cost      Unit      Coat   FE%   Duties
FOREST DEPARTMENT STAFF SALARIES & ALLOWANCES
l-N grade (Chief Conservator, Deputies,
Conservators)                          man year       75,000         15    1.125         15    1.125        15    1.125         15    1.125        60    4.500    0        10
K gradc(Asst. Conservators, Accountants)             man year       50,000         42    2.100         42    2.100        42    2.100        42    2.100        168    8.400    0        10
G-K grade (Survey Assistant, Road
Superintendant)                        man year       40,000         14      .560        14     .560        14      .560        14     .560        56    2.240    0        10
G-L grade (Forester, Executive Officer)              man year       30,000        220    6.600        220    6.600       220    6.600        220    6.600       880   26,400    0        10
D-G grade (Cartographer, S.M. Typist,
Accounts Asst., Priv. Sec.)            man year       20,000         34      .680        34      .680       34      .680        34     .680       136    2.720    0        10
E-grade (Forest Assistant)                           man year       16,000        290    4.640        290    4.640       290    4.640       290    4.640       1160   18.560    0        10
D-E grade (clerical staff, Storeman)                 man year       15,000        330    4.950        330    4.950       330    4.950       330    4.950       1320   19.800    0        10
D-grade (Artisan, Mechanic, Driver, Mason)           man year       13,000        331    4.303        331    4.303       331    4.303       331    4.303       1324   17.212    0        10
C-grade (CoPy Typist)                                man year       10,000         89      .890        89     .890        89      .890       89      .890       356    3.560    0        10
B-grade (Forest Guard)                               man year        8,000       1270   10.160       1270   10.160      1270   10.160      1270   10.160       9080   40.640    0        10
Housing Allowance                                10-/ of salaries                         3.278              3.278              3.278               3.278              13.112    0        -
Passages & leave travelling allowance                                                      .600               .600                .600               .600               2.400    0        -
Uniforms & clothing                                                                        .8t7               .817                .817               .817               3.268   12       10
Total                                                                                 37. T8              37.478             37.478              37.478            149.912    0         9
WAGES: SUBORDINATE STAFF. EXISTING EXTENSION
(RAES) NURSERIES
Unskilled labor 2/                                  man years       7,500       3500   26.250      3500   26.250       3500   26.250      3500   26.250    14000  105.000    0           0
OTHER OPERATING COSTS
Maintenance of existing buildings              2% of estimated value                1    4.000          1    4.000         1    4.000          1    4.000         4   16.000
of KSh 200 million
Postage                                                  3/                                .900               .900                .900               .900               3.600    0        0
Electricity & water                                       3/                               .400               .400                .400               .400               1.600    0        0
Advertising                                               3/                               .200               .200                .2b0               .200                .800    0       10
Miscellaneous                                            3/                                .200               .200                .200               .200                .800    0       10
TOTAL                                                                                     69.428             69.428             69.428              69.428             277.717    0        5
1/ It is assumed that items listed here are normal, recurrent expenditures of Forest Department that would occur with or without the Project. However, since they are
essential to the implementation of the Project, assurances have been obtained that they will be financed by the Borrower.
2/ 175 nurseries @ 20 subordinate workers/nursery.
3/ Estimates based on recent actual expenditures.
October 30, 1981



KENYA
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
Base Cost Estimates by Cateo
Year 1               Yesr 2              Year 3                 Yoar 4                   Total                      Tax and
Finanace 1/  Compoxent         Category of Popondictre                 Unit        Unit Cast    Units        Cost    Units        Cost    Units        Cost       Units       Cost         DLTts    Cast    FEY            Duty y
(Ksh)               (mill Ksh)           (mill Ksh)           (mill Ksh)              (xill Ksh)             (mill Kth)
J. Equipment sod Materials
A.  Vehicles
S             Ext                   Motorcyles                         ulit           14,900       20         .298      20         .298      20        .298        20          .298          80      1.192       74           17
S            Ext                    4 Wheel drive vehicles             ulit          230.000        2         .460       -        -           -        -            -          -              2       .460       74           17
B             FD                     Graders                           unit        1,153,000        4       4.612        -        -           -         -           -          -              4      4.612       76           13
B             FD                    4 Wheel drive pickup               .uit          230,000       20       4.600       'O       4.600       20       4.600        20        4.600           80     18.400       76           13
T             FD                    Trucks (7-too)                     unit          288,000       11       3.168       11       3.168       11       3.168        11        3.168           44     12.672       76           13
I             FD                    Tractors (60-65 hp)                u.it          237,000       16       3.792       16       3.792       16       3.792        16        3.792           64     15.168       89            0
B             FD                     Trailers (5 ton, tipping)         unit           52,000       11         .572      11         .572      11         .572       11          .572          44      2.288       76           13
B             FD                    4 Wheel drice station  -ag-m uit                 225,000        1         .225       1        .225        1        .225         1          .225           4       .900       64           27
I             FD                     Saloon cars                       u-it          170,000        2         .340       -        -           -        -            -          -              2       .340       64           27
B             FD                    Water trailer                      .uit           29,000        1         .029       1         .029       1         .029        1          .029           4        .116      76           13
Subtotal                                                         18.096               12..684               2.684                  12.684                 56.148
B.  Other
I            Plat, New              Polythene tubes. tools                                                 2.886                2.886                2.886                   2.886                 11.544       65           18
I             Plant, Maist           Fire controt equipen-t            set         8,285,000        1       8.285             -         -          -          -                -              1      8.285       65           18
I            Plant, Maint            Firc towers, materials            tet           407,000        1         .407       1        .407        1         .407        1          .407           4      1.628       45           14
I            Plant, Maist            Research materials                set           225,000        1         .225       1        .225        1         .225        1          .225           4      1.000       65           18
Ext                    Exteunion materials         annual grant                                 .110                 .220                 .220                   .220                  .770        45           14
S             Ext                   Research materials           annual grant                                 .023                 .046                 .046                   .046                  .161        65           20
TOTAL                                                             30.032               16.468              16.468                  16.468                 79.436
II.  Persouxel                                                                                                                                                                                          a'
A.  U.skillcd labor
B             Plant, New            Unskilled labor              man years             7,500   2380        17,850   3027        22.708    3050       22.874      3419       25.640      11,876      89.072        0            0
B             Plant, Maint           Unskilled labor             man years              7,500    2601.5   19.511    2601.5   19.511    2601.5   19.511           2601.5    19.511       10,406      78.044        0            0
B             FD                    Unskilled labor              man years             5,000       80         .400      80         .400      80         .400       80          .400         320      1.600        0            0
Sabtloal                                                          37.761              42.619               42.785                  45.551                168.716
B.  Local skilled labor
B             Plant, Maint           Research                                                                 .800                 .800                 .800                   .800                  3.200        0           10
B             FD                     Road units heads            man years            40,000        2         .080       2         .080       2         .080        2          .080           8        .320       0           10
B             FD                    Roads' supervisors           man years            25,000        2         .050       2         .050       2         .050        2          .050           8       .200        0           10
S             Ext                    Assistant conserva-ors   man years               55,000        2         .110       2         .110       2         .110        2          .110           8        .440       0           10
S             Ext                   Extension forest asstt.  man years                17,600       20         .352      40         .704      60       1.056        80         1.408         200      3.520        0           10
S             Ext                   Research                     annual grant                                 .080                 .160                 .160                   .160                   .560        0           10
Subtotal                                                           1.472                1.904                2.256                  2.608                 08.240
C.    ertcs
S            Ext                     Short ter. c-ossltant    man mooth               88.000        2         .176       -        -           1         .088        -          -              3       .264       83            0
S             Eat                   Adviser                      man year            970,000        1         .970       1         .970       1         .970        1          .970           4      3.880       83            0
B             FD                     FiP. & Mgt. Analyit         san year            970,000        1         .970       1         .970       1         .970        1          .970           4      3.880       83            0
B             FD                     Forest economiot            man year            970,000        -            -       -            -       1         .970        -          -              1        .970      83            0
B             FD                     Forestry consultanlts       man month            88,000       18        1.234      14        1.234       3         .264        3          .264          34      2.996       83            0
B             FD                     Roads' program  and
control expert            man year            970,000        1        .970        1        .970        1        .970         1          .970         4        3.880      83             0
B             FD                     Auctioning & tendering
expert                    ma,n month           88,000        1        .088        1.       .088        1        .088         1          .088         4         .352      83             0
Subtotal                                                           4.408                4.232                4.320                  3.262                 16.222
TOTAL                                                                 43.641               48.755               49.361                51.421                  193.178
I/    B = World Bank
S = Switzerland
I - Italy
December 22,1981



KENYA
THIRO FORESTRY PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES: Su=ary (cnnt'd.)
Main Source                                                                                              Year I              Year  2             Year  3             Year  4                Total               Fore tgn        T.. and
a,dlnoucg  io,oponent  Cq~eauyyEoedtr                               Unit      Unit Cost      UJnit      Cot       Elt       otEit    Cost Unit            Coot                 Unit       CootExhange I                 eiy7
(KSh)               (mill KSh)          (mill KSh)          (mill KSh)           (mill KSh)            (mill KSh)
TII. Civil Wocks
A. Buildings
B             FD                   Clues-S hoss.o                       unit       234,000         3        .702       3        .702       3       .702        3        .702        12       2.808             34             9
B             FD                   Claus-9 houses                       unit       105,000        25       2.625      25      2.625       25      2.625       25       2.625       100      10.500             29            10
B             FD                   Forest Guard houses                  unit        25,000        40       1.000     40       1.000       40      1.000       40       1.000       160       4.000             23            10
B             FT)                  Frest Workers houses                 unit        18,000       500       9.000    500       9.000      500      9.000      500       9.000      2000      36.000             17            10
B             FD                   Forest Station OMue & Store          unit       154,000         2        .308       2        .308       2       ,308        2        .308         8       1.232             34             9
B             l;'D                 Forest Station Water Supply          unit       108,000         3        .324       3        .324       3       .324        3        .324        12       1.296             44            14
B             FD                   Replace Wator Supply                 unit        46,000        15        .690      15        .690      15       .690       15        .690        60       2.760             70            20
S             Eot                 New nurseries                        unit        154,000        10       1.540     10       1.540       10      1.540        -           -        30       4.620             30            12
S             Eot                  Expanuion, Existing nurseries        unit        77,000        40       3.080     30       2.310       30      2.310       25       1.925       125       9.625             30            12
S             F,t                 Housing                              unit        109,000        10       1.090      10      1.090       10      1.090       10       1.090        40       4.360             47            16
subtotal                                                            20.359              19.589              19.589               17.664                77.201
B. Roads
B               ~FD                Contrasted road construction         km         225,000        40       9.000      40      9.000       40      9.000       40       9.000       160      36.000             64             9
B             FD                   Contracted rood upgrading           Icm          88,000        12       1.056      12      1.056       12      1.056       12       1.056        48       4.224             64             9
Sobtotal                                                            10.056              10.056              10.056               10.056                40.224
C. Other
B5     Plant, Maintenance          Gane moot construction              ki           40,000        25       1.000      25      1.000       25      1.000       25       1.000       100       4.000              0             0
TOTAL                                                                     21143e              30.645             30 643               28e720               1214
IV. Opercting Costs
A. Vehicles
S             Ext                    4-wheel drive vehicles       vehicle yes.    69,000           2        .138      2         .138       2       .138        2        .138         8        .552             74            17
B/I          FPD                     Roads vehicles                                                        4.400              4.400               4.400                4.400                13.600             60            20
B/I           FD                     OCLet vehicles                                                       21.882             21.342              20.802               20.262                84.288             65            18
Subtotal                                                          26.420              25.880             25.340               24.800               102.440
B. Nurseries
S             Ext                    Nov nursery operating scust   nursery yr.  199,000           10       1.990     20       3.980       30      5,970       30       5.970        90      17.910              9             3
S I           Ext                    Existing user--y               nursery yr.   49,000          40       1.960     70       3.430      100      4,900      125       6.125       335      16.415             35            10
S             Eut                    RAES nursery price             annual         100,000                  .100               .100                .100                 .100                  .400              0             0
Subtotal                                                           4.050               7.510             10.970               12.193                 34.725
C. Other
B             Fl)                    increueutal Bldng. maint.  2% of value                        -           -                .295               .590                 .886                 1.771             18            10
B             FC                     Mission travel allowance         annual                                .800                .800               .800                 .800                 3.200              0             0
B             PD                     Annual aerial survey            unit          575,000         1        .575       1        .575       1       .575        1        .575         4       2.300             70            15
Subtotal                                                           1.375               1.670              1.965                2.261                  7.271
TOTAL                                                                   31.845             35.060              38.275               39.256               144.436
V. Training
S             EPt                6-day course                  person trained          720       135        .097    111         .083      95       .068       75        .054       420        .302              0             0
S             Ext                Scholarships abroad           3-month co-s-e    102,000           -           -       1        .102       1       .102        1        .102         3        .306            100             0
S             EPt                6-day course for EFAs         person trained        1,020        20        .020     40         .041      60       .061       80        .082       200        .204              0             0
S             Ext                6-day course for EFs          person trained        1,320        40        .053     40         .053      40       .053       40        .053       160        .212              0             0
S             Ext                 Coordination seminer         unit                100,000         1        ,100       1        .100       1       .100        1        .100         4        .400              0             0
B             FD                  Study tour (Africa)          man-day                 910       200        .182                       -              -        -           -       200        .182            100             0
B             FD                  Study tour (-on-Afrioae)   man-day                 2,475        84        .208       -           -       -          -        -           -        84        .208            100             0
TOTAL                                                                0,660               0.379               0.384                0,391                 1.814
GCANS TOTAL                                                              137.593            131.307             135.133              136.255               540.288
October 30, 1901                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X 1



- 63 -                            Table 7
page 1 of 2
KENYA
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
Forest Department Budget
(K Sh '000)
1979/80          1980/81
Revenues
Timber and fuelwood royalties                     34,300          37,100
Miscellaneous forest receipts                      5,000           4,800
Total revenues                                      39,300          41,900
Expenditures
Development
Forest plantation development
Personal emoluments                           94,082          95,168
Others                                        30,295          39,828
Total                                        124,377         135,006
Local afforestation schemes
Personal emoluments                            3,951           6,599
Others                                           188           5,456
Total                                          4,139          12,055
Rural afforestation
extension schemes
Personal emoluments                           10,604          15,980
Others                                         8,947           9,58(6
Total                                         19,551          25,486
Road constructions units
Personal emoluments                            1,770           2,275
Others                                         4,880           4,058
Total                                          6,650           6,333
Sawmill industry                                   542             352
Machakos and UNDP projects                       2,861           2,559



- 64 -                          Table 7
-                    ~~~~~~Page 2 of 2
Miscellaneous
Masai forest development, Turbo
afforestation schemes, marginal land
research                                       1,036           6,476
Total                                          1,036           6,476
Total development                                 174,636         188,267
(of which personal)                              113,370 (65%)  120,022 (64%)
Recurrent Budget
FD Headquarters                                   7,786           9,325
FITC                                              8,140           4,770
Forest research and others                       4,105            3,539
Total recurrent                                    20,031          17,634
(of which personal)                                9,535 (48%)   13,333 (75.6%)
Tat,al Expenditures                                 194,667         205,901
(of which personal)                                 122,905 (63%)  133,355 (65%)
Deficit Before External Aid                        (155,637)       (164,001)
External Aid
World Bank (Phase II disb.)                        36,150          12,525
UNDP                                                  570             446
FETC                                                3,300           5,000
Miscellaneous                                         212             204
Total                                                40,232          18,175
Def:icit After External Aid                        (115,135)       (145,826)



- 65 -                             Table 8
KENYA
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
Functional Breakdown of Recent Forest Department Expenditures
(KSh'000)
1981/82
1979/80         1980/81        Estimates
By budget:
Recurrent budget             20,031 (10%)   17,634  (9%)   18,314
Development budget          174,636 (90%)  188,267 (91%)  189,208
By uses:
Personal emoluments         130,966 (67%)  134,551 (65%)  154,91S
(including housing and
clothing allowances)
Maintenance (buildings,
plants, roads)             3,407  (2%)    2,723  (1%)    2,797
operating costs:
(transportation)         12,372  (6%)   16,600  (8%) '
(water, electricity)      3,312  (1%)    3,808  (2%) f 18,64'5
(postal, other)           5,802  (3%)    3,086  (2%) )
Equipment:
(transportation)         14,837  (8%)   17,889  (9%)    1,826
(others)                      2,025  (1%)    5,396  (3%)    5,535
Staff housing and
building                  15,820  (9%)   17,312  (8%)   16,372
Others (Road construc-
tion, land purchase,
regional surveys, etc)   6,126  (3%)    7,636  (4%)    7,423
Total                              194,667          205,901         207,522
September 2, 1981



KENYA
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
Forest Department Expenditure Projections
(December 1981 - KSh'000)
Without Project3/                                                              With Project ---------------------
All years                                          1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87
Personnel Costs
155,000      Personnel emoluments 1/               165,000   170,000   165,000   160,000   152,000   152,000
(including housing and
other allowances)
-        Tecniical assistance and                2,000      5,000      4,000     4,000      2,000
training
155,000         Subtotal                           167,000   175,000   169,000   164,000   154,000   152,000
22,000      0 & M Costs 2/                         38,000    55,000    59,000    61,000    61,000    42,000
Capital Costs
8,000      Equipment and transport                23,000    30,000    24,000    24,000    16,000    16,000
16,000      Building and staff housing             21,000    21,000    21,000    21,000    21,000    21,000
9,000      Other capital costs                    17,000    17,000    17,000    17,000    14,000    11,000
(Road construction, land
______  purchase etc.)
33,000         Subtotal                            61,000    68,000    62,000    62,000    51,000    48,000
210,000      Total Costs                           266,000   298,000   290,000   287,000   266,000   242,000
Incremental Expenditure
With Project                        56,000    88,000    80,000    77,000    56,000    32,000
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1/ Existing personnel costs as of Dec. 31, 1981; additional skilled labor added; unskilled labor decrease
of 5% p.a. during the 4 project years.
2/ 1981/82 operating and maintenance costs + incremental operating costs until 1985/86; 1981 operating costs +
50% of incremental operating costs thereafter.
3/ Based on FD 1981/82 annual budget estimates.



KENYA
211RD FORESTRY PROJECT                                                                                                             Tuhie 10
-o.rnet Cash Flow without froj-ct
(tod 1981 prIces             K hLe   Sh)
1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2081   2002   2003   2004   2065   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012
Sources of Fords
R.Ya1ti.s:
.awwood                               35.2   36.7   38.3   34.8   36.4   37.9   39.7   41.4   43.4   45.3   47.4   49.6   51.8   56.2   56.9   59.3   62.1I  65.0   68.9   71.    745    74*5    74.5   74:5   7451   741   74.                         745      4.5   745       4.
pulp .. d                             13.2   15.1   17.4   25.2   22.1   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6   212.6   2'2.6   22.6   22.6   20.    22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.
Tota1                              4 8.4   51.8-  3-,5,  56.0   TB        60.5   62.2   640       66.0    7.9   700 7.    7.             68   Z29 4 81.9   84.7   &.    96.O6   93.7   87.1                 7 1         7 2.   97.1   97.    97.1   97.1   9 7.1   97.1 9.
Soe  f eeodlie                         .6      .6       6      .6      6      .6.l6                  .6.o6.:.                                6      .       .       6      .6  6 10.6                     .6      .60    .6      .6 .I.6          6      .6       6      .6      6
TSOeS awd duties                       10.25  10.56  10.5   10.65  10.5   105   10.5   10.              5   105   105   105    05   165   105   105   105   265   185   10.5   105   105   185   18.    15   105   185   105   1.5   10.    105
Oses of Foods                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     3   0   218.    0  2782   0.2782T82782 O
Forest Dept. hbdgeteduciite            210.0  210,0  210.0  210.0  210.0  210.0  210.0  210,0  216.0  210.0  210.0  210.0  215.0  210.0  210.0  210.0   210.0 210.0  218.0  210.0  210.0  210.0  210.0  210.0  210,0  210.0  210.0  210.0  210.0  210.0  210.0                               *-,
lobt Ser-icee, First .nd So....d         5.6    5.8    2.0    5.1    6.0    6.2    6.5    6.5    6.9    7.1    6.9    6.8    6.5    6.4    5.9    5.7    5.6    5.3    5.1    4.9    4.4    4.1    3.7    2.9    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.5    2.5    2.5
5-35ct los.  cre-dits
Total USee                       215.1  215.0  215.0  215.1  216.0  216.2  216.5  226.5  216.9  21.    1,    16.8  265  264  215.  211. 2                       12.615.3  21.         14.   214.4  261        13.   21.    12226  212.6  212.6  212.6  n2125   12225212.5
7. ToE1 uses                            28      29      31     31      32      33      34      35     35      36      32     38      39      41      42       43      44    46      47      49      50       50    51      51      51      51      51       51    51      51      51



I               &



- 68 -
TE4TND FORESTRY PROJECLT
Gove.nme-t la-h Flos vi        - rolot
(Ead 1981 pvlcs-alll1Oon K01.5
19 82   1783   1984   0 985   1986   1987   1989   1989   1090   1991   1902   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001    2002   2003   2004   2009    2006    2007   2000    2009   2010    2011   2012
WITIOCOT EXTERNAI. FINANCINGC
Seance of Fends
Royaties
sa-oo   /                         71.2   4r, 4   60,7   68.8   77.4   86.4   96.7  107.3  116.7  131.0  144.2  010.0  127.7  105.0  122.7  160,4  100.8  197.6  206,7  216.4  226.3  226.1  229.9  226.0  226.1  226.5  228.9  226.9  220.9  226. 9  226..T
pupoo    /                        13.2   11.1   17.4   29.2   22.1   22.6   22.8   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6   22,6   22,6   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6   22,6   22.6   22.6   22.6   22.6
Total                                   48.4   60.     28.S1   90.0   99.5  109.0  119.3  129.   141.3  15 3,6  166.   173.  180.3  1876   19.323. 214  202   22,                             23. 241 291291091  249.                          491 2.1         4.1  249.1  240.    249.1
Sole of  -odlisge                          1.6    3.6    6.0    8.2    8,2    8.2    8.2    8.2    8.2    6.2    8.2    6.2    6.2    0.2    8.2    0.2    8.2    8.2    8.2    0.2    9.2    8.2    8.2    8.2    8.2    6.2    6.2    8.2    6,2    8.2                                  8.2
Tae  an ~.d dutie-n  Project Costs    1-2.1   21.6   11.9   12.0
Taxe  and dotla- 00  ogol- Foret
Oapart-et Activiele-                      7.1    8.8      2.5    6.8   12.7   12.1   12.1   32.1   12.1   37.0   12.1   12.1   12.1   12.1   12.1   42.1   12.1   12.1   12.1   17.1   12.1   17.1   12.1   32.1   12.1   42,1   12.1   12.1   12.1   12.1   12.1
Total Soor-   before Fisa..edee          68.2    64,7  183.5             128.4  129_3  139.6  130.2  161.6  073.9  287. 193.7  200.6  207.9  205.6  22J.3  231.7  243.5  249.6  259.3  269.4  269.4  269.d  269.R  260.4  269.4  269 .4  269.4  218 .4  769.4  269.4
E'ses of Fosds
Foret Dex-t-et fetivities
o,t onde- Third Foretry Froje-t  142.2  109.2  149.5  136.1  256.6  242.6  242.2  242.6  242.0  042.0  242.0  742.0  247.0  242.0  242.8  242.0  742.0  242.0  242.0  242.6  242.0  242.0  242.6  242.0  242.0  242.0  2472.0  242.0  242.0  242.0  242.0
Thr   oetry Feej-t Ceato         139.8  134.8  139.0  140.4
Debt Se-eea
First Peojaet Coo ..r. eia               0.0    0.8    8.8    0.9    1.0    1.1    1.2    2.2    1.3    3.4             1.1     1.6    1.2    1.9
1Ossserat        1.2    1.1    0.0    1.0    0.-    0.8    0.8    0.7    0.6    0.3              2.4    0.3    0.1
Sec-d P-olet Lo ..          ocoa                                        0.7    0.9      0.7    1.0      1.6    1.5--1:  0.9    1.9      1.9    1.9    1.4    1.9    1.9         1.9     1.9    1.8      1.4    1.2    0.9    0.3
~istereet       2.5    2.5      7.0    2.5    2.5    2.4    2.41   2.3          2,1     2.0    1.8       I17    1.      1.3    1.2    1.0    2.9    0,7    0.           8.04    0.3    0.2    0.1
eensd Project C-editt,pri-il                                            0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8        0.8    0.8      0.6    0.8    0.0       v.02.3  2.3             2.3    2.3      2.3    2.3      2.3    2.3    2.3    2.3    2.3         2.3    2.3    2.3    2.03    2.3         2.3
Ineare..t      0.6    0.8      0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.3          0.5    0.5      0.5    0.3      0.5    0.3    0.9    0.3        1.0     0.4    0.4    0.4    0,4    0.4    0.4    0.3    0.              0.3    0.3      0.3    0.2    0.2    0.2
Tetol dobt  -erf-                       0.1    5.-O T0    3     7Q51    6.0    6.2    6.5    6.0       6. 9    2.1     8.9    6.8    6.5    6.4    3.9    5.7    5.6    5.              .       .9    4.4    4.1    3.7    2.9    2.   .6          2.6      2.6  26 .5    2.3           2.5
Toa   ssbfe   teec  6.   2902..    8.    6.    4.    48.   248.   2 48.9  249.    2 48.9  248.8  746.3  28.4  24.7.0  27.7  247.   247.3  247.1  246.    246.4  246.1  25.7  244.9  744.9  244.   244.6   214.   244.   2445 24.
Deficit Witho-t Fiso...ieg              -217.9 -214.3 -290.0  4464.6 -139. 6 -128.9 -168.9  -96.3  -87.3  -7.2  461.8   -5.1  -47.   -42   -3.   -24.4  -12.9   -6.8                       2.    12.0   23.0   23.3   23.7   24.5   24.8  .74.8   2.               48     2.       49     2.
WTTH EXTRNFhAL FINANCTNO
antt-na   9ouce-  et Foeds
088025.    72.8   74.0
IDA                                      75.1   44.9
Soe  Oooe-nee-                          11.5   14.3   18.8   17.0
itaina Go---snet                       .2,9.    18 0  ..2&..f   16.0
Tot.l                                  104.6  105.0  I08.8  109.0
Deht  a-ice 00 1o-c-setal Entersl
Third Project Coos   principal            ~~~~ ~~~~1.3    4.9    8.6    8.6    8.6    6.6    6.6    8.6    0.6    8.6     8.6   10.6       .  8.6         3.0S-   6.6    0.6    8.6       es.,    s.6    2.3    5.2
sisst-et                          3.0   11.2   19.3   18.3   17.3   16.3   15.4   14.4   13.4   12.1   11.5   20.5    9.5    8.9    7.4    6.4    3 .5    4.3    3 .4,    2.2    0.4    0.4
Tb6rd P-o300t Creditsori-eiool                                                                                                  1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2           1.7    1.2      1.2-   3.01    3.3    3.9       31.    3.3       3.5     3.5    3.5      3.3     3.5
ieteets                  0.6    0.9    0.9       2.9    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9         0.0    0.9    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0     0.08   0.80   8,    6.6         0.6    0.       0.2    0.2      0.7      0.0     0.6    0.6    0.6    0.3        0.5
S.I-T~~t~~l   ~G~Q6    2io                    70   3Q,3   F ___    7__    23 8   249   73  9   279    232   ____                                                                                             -93 -42T                            I                 
1104900 Losses pclosalpal                ~~~~ ~~~~1.8    3.6    5.4    7.2    2.2    7.2    7.2    7.7    7.2    7.2    5.9    3,6    1.08
--    - rlss±etes~it                        0.7    1.3    1.9    7.4    2.2    1.0    2.6    7.3    0.0    0.7    0.4               0.9    7 .1
wiatci  sitsFnaaa73                  -113.3 -12.6  -8.4-7.1-16.  -560  14.  -329  12.0-17.                             9262850T736   653    942-4.3-3.9-2.8-1.6                               -.0       9.      83    4.       1.2     206      07      0.     2.7 240          0.     3.
1/ lw-wedsCOb10h~   asof  ee,31,198  - thnReroc   12147 d-l.rg the 4 Peee-                 per c-eltsss   16    svoy-ha   91vSetsodct  spidfet  18,35   o193-R.  x101                                                   94in19tadalin19  adteratr
-    1o....ods Esh, 44/e  0of De.-  31, 1981 - th ye inessao   21   oiEte4  Elc   er   ero   es
27Net ap-tLetiari     iro  Tre -oy.
De-enha 21, 1981



I
I



966                  92      963      1664    195       1966     299      5996    19998   99 199       99     999      19999    1999     6299     1996    099       296       99        90      100      29        23      294      20        0622              206     22099-0    201      0012    201        2024    290       2096    202-3        103      201      24       29
969616                          2       3        4        5        6        7                 9        19      211           11  15        4        15       26       207      2        20      :2        32       02       23      24 25              12       99       1-20        30       39       02       93        30      35        36-5       52       52       335
.3,E2      .,,                                                                                                           46       46       49       23.5    29.9   224.5   024          02.2   092, 1    39.5   030        -9       -0       61.        5         5                1269   0168.5  12669.3  1966.9                                       225      3.25              3.
s6393206)                                                                                                                299      2936     24       24       254      692      29       679      225     2024    91 4      22264    1090      290    2264      269                  9900     2299     2290     2432                                    2425459                    20
261062661694                                                                                                                   20.0    09.5    00.6    22.2         6.      30.6    39.2    06.0       2.        36.4    -421    929.    922.2110.0            3.       6.0              0661.2  1201.0  1299.2  290.0                                        0.       91       3.000
-d9102222  029.                                                                                                   9        05      154      190      66       094        05     124       950      996     9132      93       023       39       92       32        3        2                  152      232      292      292                                     129      0.         25      0.
p6866~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9029~~~~~~~~~~~~~9                                          3~~~~~~~280  291  281      06       290      195      25       468      069      29       621      09       273       294     09       096      16        201                 305      303      904      90                                      321     349        ',       "9I
2600.66.911 6849                                                                  ~~~~     ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                        ~~4.1  0.2    50.9    52.0    09.0    32.4  1.3    353.27    92.2    66. 994  65.  50.  09.9  9.4  6.2  2.2  09  45.6    46.1    46.5    45.4                                      4.1       I.,      4.0      I.0
906162099990 969o*4,)                                              ~~~      ~~~      ~~~      ~~~      ~~~      ~~~~~~            ~~49  49  59  99  9  59  40  30  56  20  02  00  29     00       26       26       52       57        2        290                        22       262       230       36       36
,-960169/                                                                                 0196     133      939      046      094      060      963      92       262      099      109      229      292      239      45        205     220      09       904      302                  320      926      402      429       416      1722
6069.0020                                                                             9.0      6.4      6.        .1      9.2      8.0      9.9       6.925,294.926.0                   21.6    10.9        5.1      9.3      4.6    252       0.         .       9.                 22.1    32.       9.2       49.      09.2     9.
it                                                                                   4.1      4.2    62.9    69.4    59          20.9    22.6.   672.9   0909    214.9   220.9   16.9   05.0   046.2   1222.2    29.6                 6.2      4.9              1707,6  0250.2  1606.4  1662.9    16.2    02.2                       95.9    329      910      0212
561- o6,9.1   662) 2                                                                        6.6      2.6      2.2      2.4    62.1    69.2    60.0    26.9    16.           22.4   99.2   114.9         4 91.27   140.9   161.9   696.0   0419.   240.0        2.3      2.3              2249.4  124.5  192.2  009.9             6.      02.2                 029      9.       0.0.
30                                                                 9.       9.4    02.9    12.2    20.9    99.5    99,4    29.3    02.6    92,4   13.                146.2243.9030.2    19.2   256.2   035.0   240.9                  2.9      2.0              0245.0  029.5  2265.2  6929.3    29.2    12.0                        23.5     52      03.       040
2991 lIs  699            29.9    25.9      22.96      0.      12.0      6.2       .       9.9     6.0    10.02        9.7      .2     00.6      9,6      9.3      6.4      9.2      9.       8.9      6,2      2.6       2.0     6.9       6.3      6.0     3.9      .9.      5 .9        3.9      4.6      3.9      7*,      4.5      24        0.34.00                       0240
11-22.3   -25.5   -22.9   -60.90       1.       -9.8    -9.9    .6.1    -9.9    -9.0    -2.3    53.2    52,9    2.0.             60.3       0,4    592      122,5   2262    019.9   9227.2   12.0   045.4   474.720.                  09       6.0     -.9.     020.2.  0117972 20.   18692.2           5.      06.9     '.2.        05.9     9.      404       24.
860 69569596110 2294924-22.9   .25.5   -22.    -316.0   -0.         8.       91       -20      -.7. 19                    2.        24      5.        95       95      2.       4.    192        244      269      949       000     099      040         14       16      -.      0299.0   2267   2944.:9  19~19.         092      0.7059.2                      9.       4.       0.
3222.9   -22.5   .229    .90.0  19.9    .9.9    -~~~~~9.9    .9.1l    -11  -2.0  3.0I    69.91    60.2:    59.     20.2     01       242    242.5   232   235.2 :    030.7       28,9   1   20.2ll,   929.9   190.0~   0.4      096    .5.       224.   123.   9919 90.6                4.         69      -020,                 60      3.       0.
504,602666611  .00.6166o2 0029  6,2  566 916 2666   19969 l   166.  002,29   o -d6o  io 093, IM10   19o  9, ..994 Oo 600  262 olO     2009
904A ....    .19  6I-692I,06261                      -d61    61626056266166....






111-
1          4           1          6                           I                                 2          11                                 1                     1                                 11                                 21          11                                                                                            31          1          11          1          11                     11         11          41
083  -4  1-    -6  1                                      M-  111.                               191  I",                         1-   I-   I'll  I-   1-                                                           M.   2-    ,,4                                2-   2-   2-   211.  1-                                                                       -4   1-    I-    .11
1.2                   2.1                                 1,         1,                                                                                 4.         4.1         1.4        1.4         I.,
146        51         M                                                                                                                                           .1          114                   "I          I-- I                                          41.
M)                                                                                                                                                                       11-    -.1                         -.1  14-    1- 1  4-    1                                                                                                                 121LI -1.4 -.l Ill 1.1                                                                                    2 11
... ........
U
4-  Nl'-                                                                                                                                                                               .4.                                                                                                                                         :4.                                                                                                                                          :4".
1--= 
J
:q,9
':N,                                                                                                                                       ':N,
1:11       1:41         1:11       1:1                    1-41,        1:11                                          1:41        1:,        1]41        1.41
1:41                               1-1        1:4         1    1                                                                1.41        -1        1:11        1,            11       1:.l                                 l,         .I'       1:41        2:4                                             :4,'
1.4       4.98                               1:4
:4
21                                                          2
.1.                                                 t.          W
2
9                   .19                                 .9             .1        .0           "Ill                    .11        .11            ,                                                                                          :,
IE . - - --l - --                                                                                                                -"' -
lo  _.B.                           11 4. -    3                                                                                     UAI                     _.37 LZ_l LI_Rl l 31 1 11                                                                  _-1                                                                   11
2-Bl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        !Llz
14.   M    2-                                    IM    IM                                        I..,   3M                                                 IM                                 1-          11.1                                                      I-    3-                I..,   .j    I..,                             IM           .,I                               31.1
5-2-                                                                              ZL                 _EL_  _                                                                                                                                                     2
a;E  F,_._   __                                                                                                                                                                      11                          I  Ill 1                     -.3  -.1                     I  1-                                                                                                            __  !KA  M2    2 4
9   F,.,               Ea:  7,.                                                               ZW_  12L   ZLL-                                                                                                                                                             141,1                                          "I                      10
3..7   39.U    4.Il                             41.l   M    4..Il                                        -3                     .-I   -0                                                            119-    11M,  .,.7  11-1  1- - 11  111-91                                        -.11 lll.3  -.11                                                                                         'M13  2-'  2..Il 114.11
-X    -1-1 -31.U  -0.11                                       -41.11 -41.11                                     IM,  -11                          I.."                               -.41                                          -,11 431.!                                                            -.1, "6 ... ...                                                                                                    M%ll 1--  2411.11 211,11
m






- 71 -
KENYA                               Table 14
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements -/
Fiscal Year                                          By End of Quarter    Cumulative
and Quarter                                          -----------…US$000-------------
1983
September 30, 1982                                      500                500
December 31. 1982                                       700              1.200
March 31, 1983                                        1.200              2.400
June 30, 1983                                         1.300              3.700
1984
September 30, 1983                                    1.300              5.000
December 31, 1983                                     2.100               7.100
March 31, 1984                                        2.100               9.200
June 30, 1984                                         2.150             11.350
1985
September 30, 1984                                    2.150             13.500
December 31, 1984                                     2.700             16.200
March 31, 1985                                        2.700             18.900
June 30, 1985                                         2.550             21.450
1986
September 30, 1985                                    2.550             24.000
December 31, 1985                                     2.550             26.550
March 31, 1986                                        2.550             29.100
June 30, 1986                                         2.700             31.800
1987
September 30, 1986                                    2.700             34.500
December 31, 1986                                     3.000             37.500
1/  Expected dates:   (i)  Effectiveness: June 30, 1982
(ii) Completion: June 30, 1986
(iii) Closing: December 31, 1986



KENYA
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
Forest Department Organization Chart
Minister of Environment and Natural Resources
Permanent Secretary
-     Forest Economics                     Chief Conservator of Forests                    Public Relations
-  -  - IAssistant CCF (Technical)
L      Accounting and                      Assistant CCF (Administration)                   Inspectorate
t ~~~~~~Financial Contrl1
N~~ ~~~~ ~~~~~ I                                               1l
_~~I ___                                                                                       _,__________________  _  _
Rural Afforestation             F a d Conservancies           Management Services              Forest Industrial                     Research
anId Extension Service]s |    L          (8)          l       l                      |       L Development
-|  Nurseries ~0 a   Dsrcts (251                         Fire Control                      Roads                           U tiization
2   Extenson Servies   |  |  orest Sttions   l 2  Inventry      l    _4Marketing               l        ,Silviculture
-| Surveys            |    -|  Timber Grading                    Entomology
Forest Management               Forest Industrial               Pathology
Training Center
-| Kenya Forestry Colr  Bak   2
World Bank -23087



-  73 -                                                       CHART  II
KENYA
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Project Year    Pre-Project         Pyl              PY2               PY3              PY4               PY5
Fiscal Year       FY82              FY83             FY84             FY85              FY868Y8
1981/82          1982/83           1983/84          1984/85           1985/86           1986/87
Quarter      1   2   3   4   1   2    3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3|4   1   2   3   4
1. Bank/IDA
1.1   Negotiations                     __
1.2   Board Presentation                     S
1.3  Effectiveness Date
1 4   Completion Date                                       .                                                               J u 2
1.5   Closing Date                                                                                                          Junece0e 198    8
2. Project Implementation                                                                                                        D
2.1   Agreement on Design and 
Implementation Schedule
for FD's MIS
2.2  Study on Increasing Sawlog
Stumpage Collection Submitted                     December 31, 1982
2.3   Study on Cost Basis of Plantation                     I        I
Stumpage Submitted                                December 31,1982
2.4   Agreement on Steps for Improving
Stumpage Collections                                             June 30 ,1983
2.5  Staff Appointments
-Financial Controller
-Forest Economist
-Roads' Specialist
-Extension Forestry Advisor
2.6   Work Programs and Budgets
-Submitted to Bank                                    |   | *
2.7   Reports
-Semi-Annual                                                                                                                
-Completion
2.8  Procurement
-Vehicles, Equipment and
Materials
2.9   Civil Works
-Houses (No.)                                              568.              568    I         5618    1         568I
-Offices and Stores (No.)                                   2                 2                2                 2
-Water Supply (No.)                                        1_8               18                18                18
2.10  Roads
-By Contractors:
-Construction (km)                                          40               40                40               40
-Upgrading (km)                                             12               121               12 I I12
-By FD:                                                                                       2.12.
-Upgrading (km)                                            26.5              26.5               652.
-Tracks Ikm\                                                65                65               65                65
-Maintenance (km)                                     |   1,200    |        1,200             1,2C0
2.11 Plantations                                                  K             I    I
-Establishment (ha)                                        6,400            6,400        |   6,400             6,400
-Maintenance (ha)                                     | 160,000           1 600             160,000          160,000
2.12  Extension Forestry
-New Nurseries (No.)                                        10                10               10                10
- Expansion of Nurseries (No.)                              40                33               30                25
-Houses (No.)                                               10                10                0                1 0
2.13  Aerial Surveys                        -        | |
2.14  Study Tours                                             S
July 16. 1981                                                                                                                   World Bank - 23100



I



SUDAN                              I
A     I                                           ETHIOPIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S    ,A    
,J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  of Ah -, 5e 18- -z590
N                                        I                               'N                                            -                    
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, ./                                                           4aAd--As', 
lk A'                                      A                        N                         " A E
1                  LodwOr OOoR>a, .d,/.  
N~~~~
g   \                                 9                    io~~~~~~~®Marsaos>                                              SOM0AL IA
UGAN9DA   ?                                                       N                                                      WOHj
0   SN    ?};    ;                                For deial/of ,hz~~~~~~~~~~Ss area see /8O 590i 
Ib PR-   1  Sd                                      I                        .'"Ii
Kakamega  -                                                                                                                        - -
I%fac(                > it                             Naec °<Qi. *- l   '-.@-f
X    Ktum                   K-' i.3   vNnU    4       
k-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K
j, '<,                                             /' -"-    \st                                                                                \
(A$s""  P>  Nf                        r              Garissa
j  K's I   7                          o                                            -                                      I
N'A     K                 IA I                                                                                                              _
'N                             0         *~~~~~I 
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
KENYA                  N         Mgd                        _ _ _
THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT  N                                           'Go"se. 
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-- Arotectio- forests                      N                          o Ki  z*
tForest pofatatians                                              K,bea                                                    A \'> aj /
J~,Ar,'ta             -A         \      VN
r_                  pIaefor st lotioes                     N r To4vh                          N.                                     "s"',  r     .hEO.w/3.+W
I                   bCocnrsdases rc                                     -       -m _o         *
D'st,ct forest Office bouedar-es                           5'            .               '             aisd
!   a Fo-est stcr~;ors           ;Twva                                                 s//f/i//ts.pzwP+  z£BJ.J
|o-st ard RA E.S. staho,,~Tr ri' 9i -                                                               rr
Rair roads                          T A NJ Z A N  I A             N                        \/ 
P a/lroads                                                                                             ,~                               5     t-a  
|®vi3 Notiorcl c-pitaF                                                                        1, N  KVs/AEC.jvt9 filitocnnbos r FN              A
-.'  Praisnc,et capirals-                                                                              -               ,.-         z                  f_
|t'-9raviec,aI £-ocsida,ries                   |                                           '>    2 4sX4o  
_taer-,aticpal bo-dfories                                                             NC '           -      i ,/     -                        a
1-1-   41)  L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--                         '    S                     I
i                                   hilie~~5,st0    20   40   60   80   10U0                                   I       "'A'b                        | 
t~~~~~~~~~ ___.__._________      _.__                             _     .     _           .__z_                  32                     rN_]r






____________  ___________________________  _____________________________________                           ______________                                                                                  IBRO 15901BRD 1590
/ To Lodwor                                                                o.                                                              ~~~~~~~~KENYA
\    r.1: 0        q.,    Ot/A//i   ,,   i                                                                                                                   j ol~f,Morvob,igK      NY                                                       JULY 1981
UGANDA                                        - ---                                                                             -'                                                                                                          THIRD FORESTRY PROJECT
APENGUIRIA'
0i   : 4   iir/0    IRIAtt                                                                                 ® A- i   ........................................   L -SAMBLJRQ   [;Protection forests
Ki aIe0                                        A ? (I                                                                 .1/%Forest plantations
: I                                                                                                                                                                     ; P r ; S > lec5° y ! X; ei9, / t 2 /\1 ^.} .( i { i, / ', ; 4 C a ., B i , ;1 r -t t| Fu ture   forest plantations
0;  0"7.l~ i-4--<      -t f_o      & 8ez                    °e  S  0   - c   , s ¢? 0 V er /7 I  J                                      ,          *>,;    , ,,,;,,,; >>5                                                               Conservancy boundaries
$4          f        b 0/Cf  lJ(/fi*iAO/',                                     .8oeGW                                               -                                 *                                                 ,e  _                           -    District Forest Office boundaries
D f    0, M16  A,-                              TEN 
/'0tO/, rMniba                Web  u                                                                                                                         . yI                                         e                                      m      Forest stations
o                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0~nuu,9, ~     ~    R.A.E.S. stations
Z, ~  ~~0 
/                          BUNGQMA                               0 ' Eldore                    BARINGO                                                                                                                                            ®       Forest and Rf.A.EE   stations
S.       C oC /7O s e iv r  V  CR. O  C                                                                                                                                                          C'-'    } d"  -.; S ,-   , ' 1- ,-r; } f~  f  s  4,  0 f   I SIOLO  -  Main  roads
b~~~~ t  ' .e  i, vI  > ¢0 ,1 c                                                    r  -                                                                                                                0   '" 
~I ney~n¼           KakomegtO                                                                                                                                                       ¼[C.                                                                alod
D/u~~~~~~~i  NANDI     Bogor'o                                                                                                   r7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~National capital
Y tzz    .   KALAInCCAY   4Ki,                   ,.  *     , '                                                                                                   /t;    /.                                                    @       Provincial capita1 ';     vc ls 
/[  '  '' 'Ct ''4°2    6, >   2              0   !   5'                        , _,                 i                h                                            I ' .' ' L (>                     -*-- Provincial boundaies
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y                                                                          urut                                     .. Nanyu.....\. i   * -;./ "Xwz - ~/^   
SA IA Y                                                      a A                                                                                                                                                                            In.,  a  o u  \   n l-ternational boundar ies
N,ircs noc           - oKisumu4'  
JARS                a                                               - --    Londiani                    Fu       0       U     /                                                                -                           K,Ioe,et-erdie.,    0  20      40        60        80
k{~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j ~~~~~~~~~~milei 0                                                                                                                   10      20      30      40      5'0
DiR/A. /t .                                                                                                                                                                     ': *> lAekr<  5,>  iYANORCJA    n.N.0                                 '                       AD
Sf C.i..c4  ansJhgm ntoatnP/:elspru  KKeri                       ho                             li                                                 N yeri oF                                    - v-
CeWl up-                                                                        U{C OXlit/ete,/                                            t4(                         i_i  .. . 
fF, roArusfRo  _          \ .                                                              11  sr'  9  s                 Eto,
V  Conserv~OAncCI/a d
DiNOAA ~Y                                                                                                                                                                              F ~ U-~Tia    C'/U F 100(1
12. F. 0. HOM ASA  ~ ~~~~~~~i) 0.i-U A'                                                                                                                                                                iu                                                     OA
N~~~~~~~~~oo
N,                                                                                                                       U.      S            -                               swetos'1       -KIAMB
N,          "if                                                                                                     '   2                   N 'SiiUDfA                                 vdoiN                     ID
N.                                                                        .                  I                                    -  TAN//AlMA                      OCEAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETIOt
rnoovi,oonimn-udsrie  Woidit,',,, etnoin,olnn ionerrur,en/r.,  NN A Mogod'1) 
0' >0nOfli0'! 0 toe'esenoeio,r'er'iououovonincoere  0,,~Kajiao                                                               ~                                                                                  Loogouy&a 
Coo,dsnie ei,e,nrru One o,v do oil re/i on tie 500 ii iii Wniioiionroodoe~~~~KituiZF-k-                                                                                                                                                     /SO,4LI
sit0,- ,.ie,o ii Co 000(1 ii 0,n,,, i, eno,ined The Se,nn,,ioioo n dent One  N  ~Uj~J~Magad- 0                                                                                                                    KENYA
e.-einennv.onohQnoovoei                           ne                                                                                    ',~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o acaks                                    AI5        U0
T A Ni Z A N 1 A ~      ~           ~           ~          ~          N                                                                foroo\,¾Tooeio                                        



