Document of
The World Bank   FILE COpy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3308-IN
INDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF THE
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
PHASE II
April 1, 1981
Education and Agricultural Institutions Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00     =     8.0 Rupees (Rs)                               *
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ADA       -  Additional Director of Agriculture
AEO       -   Agricultural Extension Officer
APC       -   Agricultural Production Commissioner
Asst. DA  -   Assistant Director of Agriculture
BDO       -   Block Development Officer
CDD       -   Community Development Department
CEO       -   Cooperative Extension Officer
DOE       -   Directorate of Agricultural Extension
DAO       -   District Agricultural Officer
DDA       -   Deputy Director of Agriculture
DEA       -   Department of Economic Affairs
DOA       -  Department of Agriculture
GOI       -   Government of India
GOMP      -   Government of Madhya Pradesh
HYV       -   High Yielding Varieties
ICAR      -   Indian Council of Agricultural Research
JDA       -   Joint Director of Agriculture
JNKVV     -   Jawaharlal Nehru Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya
RBI       -   Reserve Bank of India
RPC       -   Regional Planning Committee
SDAO      -   Subdivisional Agricultural Officer
SMS       -   Subject Matter Specialist
SPC       -   State Planning Committee
T&V       -   Training and Visit System of Agricultural Extension
TO        -   Training Officer
VEW       -   Village Extension Worker(s)
VLW       -   Village Level Worker(s)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT: PHASE II
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND ...........................................  1
Introduction ..........................................                     1
Agriculture in India ......................................    1
Agricultural Extension . ...................................   2
Existing State Projects  .         .................................    4
II.    THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH              ..............................   8
General ...........................................  8
The Economy ...........................................  8
Socio Economic Conditions ................................   8
Agricultural Supporting Services ..........................   9
Administration and Infrastructure ....... .         ................  12
The Project Area ................................... 13
III.    THE PROJECT ................................                               13
A.    General Description ................................   13
B.    Detailed Features  ................................    14
Extension Methodology ..............................   14
Incremental Staff Requirement  ........... ............  15
Training  ..............................   16
Monitoring and Evaluation ...........................  18
Civil Works  .........             .....................   18
Transport .................                                         19
Equipment .................  19
Operating Expenses  .................   19
IV.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING .............. ...............  19
A.    Cost Estimates  ...........             ..................   19
B. Proposed Financing .                                                    20
C. Procurement .                                                          21
D.    Disbursement and Audit  ..............................  21
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .                                                 22
Extension Service ................ 22
Input Supplies .                                                          23
State Level Coordination .                                 .              23
Linkages Between Extension and Research .                                  23
VI.    BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISK .........................  25
VII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...................  27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ANNEXES
1.   Progress of Phase-I Project
2.   Cost Table
Table 1     -   Summary of Project Costs
Table 2     -   Civil Works
Table 3     -   Vehicles and Equipment
Table 4     -   Training Costs
Table 5(a)  -   Incremental Staff Salaries and Incentives
Table 5(b)  -   Unit Cost of Support Staff
Table 5(c)  -   Monitoring and Evaluation - Incremental Staff
Salaries
Table 6     -   Incremental Operating Costs
Table 7     -   Requirement and Availability of Extension Staff
by Districts
Table 8     -   Requirement of Staff by Year
3.   Table l(a)  -   Economic Analysis
Table l(b)  -   Economic Prices for Paddy
Table l(c)  -   Economic Price for Wheat
4.   Table 1     -   Implementation Schedule:  All Components
Table 2     -   Estimated IDA Disbursements
CHART                      World Bank - 22286
MAP                        IBRD - 15427



INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT - PHASE II
I. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.01     The proposed project would be the eleventh in a series of IDA assist-
ed projects designed to reorganize and strengthen agricultural extension in
India. 1/ Under the project, the Government of Madhya Pradesh (GOMP) would
comrl-Rte the reorganization of its extension service to provide farmers, on
a regular and systematic basis, with up to date advice on farming practices
best suited to their specific conditions and capable of having an immediate
impact on production and income. This would be achieved by strictly pro-
grammed visits from regularly trained field staf-f, supported by professional
advice from the Department of Agriculture (DOA) and from research institutions
2/ .  The project was prepared by GOMP with assistance of staff of the Bank's
Resident Mission in India. Appraisal took place in October 1980. This report
is based on the findings of the appraisal mission consisting of Messrs.
C.P.R. Nottidge, R.J.G. Le Breton and C.M. Mathur (IDA), T. Lohavisapanich
(FAO/CP), and G.R. Galgali, and R. Dutta (Consultants).
Agriculture in India
1.02     india has a population of about 650 M which is growing at an annual
rate of about 2%. Since 1960, per capita income has grown at an annual rate
of 1.4% and reached US$190 in 1979. Although the average per capita income
has increased (albeit slLghtly) and access to public services has improved,
in general, there has been little change in the living conditions of the vast
masses of urban and rural poor, who comprise about 50% of the total population.
Accordingly, GOI's development plans give priority to alleviating poverty and
creating employment, especially in rural areas.
I/ The ten previous projects are described in the following appraisal reports:
Assam Agricultural Development Project, Cr. 728-IN
West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project, Cr. 690-IN
Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project, Cr. 737-IN
Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project, Cr. 712-IN
Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project, Cr. 761-IN
Orissa Agricultural Development Project, Cr. 682-IN
Composite Agricultural Extension Project (Haryana, Gujarat and
Karnataka), Cr. 862-IN
Kerala Agricultural Extension Project, Cr. 1028-IN
Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Project (appraised October 1980)
Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project (appraised October 1980)
2/ The main principles of the proposed extension reform are described in
Agricultural Extension: The Training and Visit System (World Bank,
1977).



- 2 -
1.03      Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Indian economy and contri-
butes about 40% of GNP. It engages about 70% of the labor force and provides
the base for about 60% of Indiats exports. During the last decade, GOI devel-
opment plans have emphasized agriculture and sought to raise food production
by increasing the use of fertilizers, plant protection chemicals, and seed
of improved varieties.  In support of this, GOI has modernized and expanded
its agricultural credit institutions and accelerated the development of irri-
gation. More recently, increased attention has been given to the establish-
ment of improved extension services and upgrading the research capabilities
needed to support this extension effort.
1.04      These efforts appear to be bringing significant results.  Over the
past decade foodgrain production has grown at about 2.75% p.a., sufficient to
meet consumer demand, eliminate imports (which had averaged nearly 5 million
tons per year for the 15 years preceeding 1976) and lower real foodgrain prices
to consumers. At the same time India was able to build up sufficient buffer
stocks of rice and wheat to cope with the 1979/80 drought with comparative
ease, and to export about 0.5-0.6 million tons of rice in 1980/81. While these
developments are very encouraging, great efforts will be required to maintain
this pace. However, per capita production of a number of other important
crops, including cotton and oil seed, has fallen during the period. Further-
more, India's agriculture is particularly susceptible to the vagaries of
weather and foodgrain production can vary as much as 20% between successive
years. Although expansion of irrigation facilities to reduce this variation
remains a priority, GOI recognizes that the bulk of India's cropped area and
over half of its farmers cannot, in the foreseeable future, benefit from the
water-intensive agricultural technologies emphasized since the 1960s. More-
over, although much appropriate research is available, yields under rainfed
conditions have shown relatively little improvement over this period--a fact
which prompts this project's emphasis on rainfed as well as irrigated farming.
Agricultural Extension
1.05      State Governments have direct responsibility for agricultural exten-
sion in India; they operate through their Departments of Agriculture (DOA),
generally with the cooperation of other state departments, including the
Community Development Department. While organization varies between states,
in states where extension services have not been refined through the type of
project appraised in this report, the extension service is generally headed
by the Director of Agriculture who reports to the Secretary of Agriculture.
He is assisted by staff located at state, zonal and district levels.  The
Collector (the senior representative of the civil administration at the
district level) coordinates activities between the various agencies of
government, with the District Agricultural Officer (DAO) representing DOA.
Below the district level, Agricultural Extension Officers (AEO) generally
report on routine matters to the Block Development Officer (BDO), an official
of the state Community Development Department. In some states, locally elect-
ed councils (panchayats) also play a role and the BDO are responsible to
these bodies. Given the multitude of local activities and lack of direct
administrative control by DOA, AEO are often diverted to non-agricultural
activities. The Village Level Worker (VLW), a multipurpose worker and gen-
erally an employee of the Community Development Department, is supposed to



-3 -
spend 75-80% of his time on agricultural extension under the direction of the
AEO. However, the VLW is administratively responsible to the BDO and the
lack of a well-defined agricultural program, combined with the demands of his
other activities, generally result in his spending very little time on agri-
cultural extension. What little extension work is done is neither planned
systematically nor supervised adequately.
1.06     Over the years, dissatisfaction with the effectiveness of the multi-
purpose worker for increasing agricultural production has led to the develop-
ment Df a variety of special programs focusing on particular crops, areas or
techniques. Staff employed under these schemes are usually under the admin-
istrative control of various subject matter departments of DOA. In a given
state, such schemes usually cover only a few districts and only part (e.g.,
one crop) of the farmers' operations. These schemes have tended to dissipate
extension efforts in many uncoordinated directions and divert attention and
resou:rces from the need to reform the main line extension agency.
1.07     There are usually too few extension staff to cover the farming
community adequately and they lack sufficient mobility to reach farmers sys-
tematically and regularly.   In addition to the organizational problems
mentioned above, the extension service often suffers from inadequate and out-
dated staff training and government housing is scarce and rented accommoda-
tion hard to come by. Furthermore, linkages with research have been tenuous
and irregulari All these factors have hampered effective extension work.
They have contributed to a general stagnation in agricultural production with
most extension personnel having low status, low pay and poor morale.
1.08     With yields in irrigated and rainfed areas remaining at levels well
below potential, GOI has become increasingly concerned with improving agri-
cultural extension. A new system of extension--the Training and Visit System
(T&V)--based on frequent and regular farm visits by full-time and adequately
trained extension personnel--was developed in 1974 with IDA assistance. Un-
der this approach, a substantial portion of the multipurpose VLW is trans-
ferred from the Community Development Department to DOA to work exclusively
on agricultural extension. The results from the Chambal Irrigation Scheme
in Rajasthan, where the system was first applied in India were so encouraging
that the approach has been subsequently adopted in ten states under projects
discussed below. In Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, similar projects have recent-
Ly been appraised.
'Existing State Extension Projects
1.09     The Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 737-
IN, US$13 M, effective in February 1978), was an outgrowth of the favorable
results obtained with the new approach to agricultural extension pioneered
umder the Chambal Command Area Development Project (Cr. 562-IN, effective
September 1975) and the Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project
(Cr. 502-IN, effective December 1974). The Government of Rajasthan is
presently reorganizing and strengthening extension and supporting adaptive
research to serve 2.9 M of the state's 3.7 M farm families in 17 districts



where an immediate potential for improving agricultural production exists.
Project implementation has picked up rapidly.  Farmers have responded
favorably to the system, and adopted new practices like seed treatment, basal
dressing with fertilizers, and intercropping with kharif pulses which have
helped them to grow a good crop even under drought conditions. There is now
a need for more intensive work by researchers to develop more sophisticated
technological packages since farmers have developed confidence in the ex-
tension staff and are highly receptive to new techniques and skills.
1.10     Eastern India, including Assam, Bihar, Orissa and West Bengal, is
the country's "rice bowl". Despite its high potential, foodgrain yields are
low and production has barely kept pace with population growth. The stagna-
tion of agricultural production has been partly due to the inability of the
extension service to give meaningful advice to farmers; similarly, research
has failed to focus on the majority need for simple, low cost means of im-
proving production. Orissa was the first state to reorganize its agricultural
extension service throughout the entire state (Cr. 682-IN, for US$20 M,
effective June 1977). Virtually all of the state's 3.4 M farmers are now
covered by the program and according to the most recent supervision mission,
good progress has been made and farmers have responded well and have accepted,
on a widespread basis, new practices for increasing production, e.g., intro-
duction of mustard as a new crop, seed treatment, and use of manually operated
seed drills. In addition, the latest supervision mission has reported favor-
ably on the way extension messages are reaching even the remotest villages.
1.11     During the preparation and appraisal of the West Bengal Agricultural
Development Project (Cr. 541-IN, effective August 1975), which supports minor
irrigation development in a portion of the state, one of the major constraints
was identified as a lack of effective agricultural extension. Consequently,
the project included a component to strengthen extension in six districts
along the principles established in the Chambal and Rajasthan Canal Areas.
The initial impact of extension reorganization was so favorable that the
state decided to expand the coverage. This was provided in Cr. 960-IN, for
US$12 M, effective August 1977. Initially, the project was highly promising:
2,400 multipurpose workers were transferred from the Community Development
Department to the control of DOA and were trained in the dissemination of
specific messages for farmers and, together with DOA technical staff, worked
with farmers in identifying and solving field problems. In the latter part
of 1977, a new Government of West Bengal (GOWB) suspended the earlier
government's decision to place the Village Extension Worker (VEW) under the
administrative control of DOA pending a thorough review. This drastically
reduced the ability of VEWs to visit farmers regularly, and extension
operations came to a virtual halt in most of the state. In October 1980,
however, GOWB re-established the single line of command, placing all ex-
tension staff under DOA, thus removing the major obstacle to project imple-
mentation. Although recruitment and training of new VEW has started, the
tempo of work has not yet reached former levels due to an injunction being
brought against the government by some staff transferred from the Community
Development Department. The injunction was partly lifted in January 1981,
allowing newly recruited VEW to start field work.



-5-
1.12     Under the Assam Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 728-IN, for
US$8.0 M, effective September 1977), Assam became the third state in the
eastern region to reorganize its extension service. The project now covers
all of the approximately 1.9 M farm families in Assam's plains districts.
In the first districts covered, improved farm practices such as line trans-
planting of paddy, use of HYV paddy, increased area and higher yields of HYV
wheat and increased consumption of fertilizers resulted. In the more recent-
ly covered districts, the effects of extension work are starting to be seen.
In view of political unrest in Assam, however, it has not been possible to
supzr--ise the project since November 1979.
1.13     Under the Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr.
761-IN for US$8.0 M, effective May 1978), through a reorganization of exist-
ing staff, some 9,000 VEW were to reach all of Bihar's 7.6 M farm families.
However, very little progress has been made so far with the reorganization.
The posts of Director of Agriculture and Additional Director of Agriculture
(Extension) remain vacant and the extension system is operating in only 5 of
31 districts. The persistent delay by the Government of Bihar in filling
key posts and its general commitment to the project are of great concern.
More recently, Government has expressed a willingness to implement the
project and key staff have been appointed. IDA and GOI are following the
situation closely. The state government has been alerted that unless sig-
nificant progress is made by March 31, 1981, IDA will have to reassess its
involvement in the project.
1.14     The Composite Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 862-IN for US$25.0
M) became effective in December 1979. Under this project, the Governments of
Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka have undertaken the reorganization of extension
services in their states. The project also includes strengthening the capa-
bility of the Directorate of Agricultural Extension (DOE) of the Government
of India (GOI) in order that it may assist all states in the implementation
and operation of the reorganized extension system. Extension activities are
going well in Haryana and Karnataka. In Gujarat, quality of extension work
is not uniform. While in some districts its impact is highly effective, in
other districts it has suffered from inadequate supervision by DOA. The
State Government has been urged to remedy the situation.
1.15     The most recent extension project, the Kerala Agricultural Extension
Project (Cr. 1028-IN for US$10.0 M),became effective in June 1980. Recently,
there have been changes at the top administrative and political levels in
agriculture with the result that project implementation has made little pro-
gress. A recent supervision mission discussed project proposals with the new
officials and agreed on a modified program for implementation. Field work
has begun in three districts and will start in the remaining districts in
May 1981.
1.16     The Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project
(Phase I), with total project costs of US$20.0 M (Cr. 712-TN, for US$10.0 M)
'became effective on September 2, 1977. The project is essentially designed
to reorganize and strengthen the agricultural extension service in 15 of 45
administrative districts of the state and improve and reorient applied and
adaptive research carried out in five regional research stations and at seven



-6-
associated research substations. In addition, facilities and staff have been
provided to monitor and evaluate project progress. Five districts were to be
covered in the first project year and the remaining ten in the second year.
Progress was good in the early stages of the project, but slowed down later
due to frequent changes in project management. The major problems noted by
various supervision missions were staff shortages, slow construction of
building and houses, inadequate liaison between research and the extension
organization and slow implementation of the T&V system, although phasing
has proceeded as planned.  The districts covered contain some 7 M ha of
cultivated area.
1.17     Despite the slow start, there has been considerable improvement
during the past year. The project is now almost on schedule in respect of
staff recruitment. Having overcome cumbersome tendering procedures, build-
ing programs are picking up momentum. Liaison between research and exten-
sion has been well established, resulting in the full involvement of
research workers in training of extension staff and greater emphasis being
given to resolving farm-related problems within the overall research program.
In addition, as a result of the intensification of extension work in the
field, the benefits are becoming more apparent. Results of a recent moni-
toring study to determine the effectiveness of field visits by VEW show that
the awareness among contact and other farmers of the day of visit of VEW has
increased (75% know of his visit) and practically all contact farmers are
able to identify the VEW. About 81% of contact farmers have adopted at
least one of the recommended practices.
1.18     The quality of extension messages in Madhya Pradesh has gradually
improved with emphasis on low-cost techniques such as the adoption of im-
proved cultural practices, use of clean and graded seed, and seed treatment.
In project districts, there has been 300% increase in use of clean and graded
seed, a 35% increase in planting of improved varieties, and a 28% increase in
planting chemically treated seed. The increase in fertilizer use in 1978/79
in project districts, under rainfed and irrigated conditions, was 66% over
1976/77 levels as compared to 48% in the rest of the state. Use of soil
testing facilities has increased by 69% in project districts over the same
period. Further details are given in Annex 1.
1.19     It can be seen from the above that the beneficial results of the
system are not being achieved with equal success in all states due to local
problems. The decision to transfer control of considerable numbers of mul-
tipurpose village level workers to the Department of Agriculture and assign
them to work exclusively on agriculture requires a major political commitment
and reorganizational effort. It has been difficult for some state governments
to make this decision and maintain it once made. In addition, the absence of
timely financial sanctions, tardy staff recruitment, and protracted procure-
ment of vehicles and equipment have sometimes slowed progress, although these
problems have now been overcome in most states. Encouraged by the impact
which the T&V system of extension is having in areas where it has been success-
fully o-petating, GOI is seeking to bring about similar reorganization through-
out all states in India.  The GOI Directorate of Xgriculture Stension )as
taken the initiative to help states overcome initial difficulties. Although
these projects are demanding in terms of IDA supervision, their great po-
tential for sustained increases in food production and improved incomes for
the rural sector justifies continued IDA participation.



- 7 -
II. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH
General
2.01      Madhya Pradesh (MP) is India's largest state, covering an area of
44.3 M ha, and has a population of about 52 M (1980). Although Madhya
Pradesh is rich in natural resources (minerals, fuel, timber, iron ore, etc.),
they are as yet relatively undeveloped. The economy is largely dependent on
a stagnant, low-productivity agricultural sector; the removal of constraints
to agriculturalgrowth is thus a precondition for economic progress. By most
indicators, Madhya Pradesh is one of the poorest: states in India.
The Economy
2.02      The per capita income of Madhya Pradesh was Rs 896 in 1977/78
current prices, compared with Rs 1,189 for the country as a whole. The
economic growth of Madhya Pradesh is largely dependent on agriculture; between
1970/71-1977/78, real State income grew at an arLnual rate of 2.9%, which was
much lower than the real growth of the Indian economy (3.5% p.a.).
While in the period 1968/69-1978/79, the total area under foodgrains
increased by 1.2 M ha from 16.3 M to 17.5 M, yields remained stagnant and
are about 35% below the national average; fertilizer use in the State is
about one-fourth of the national average.
Socio-Economic Conditions
2.03      Population.  Madhya Pradesh has one of the highest birth rates in
India and its estimated population of 52 M (1980) is growing at about
2.6% p.a. The population density of 94 persons per square kilometer is
low compared with the national average of 167. The population is pre-
dominantly rural (84%) and is scattered in small villages with average
population of some 430 persons per village.
2.04      Just over 20% of the population is tribal, giving Madhya
Pradesh the largest concentration of tribal people in India. Thirty-three
percent of the State's inhabitants belong to the so-called "backward
classes" which include scheduled castes and tribes.
2.05      Rural Incomes and Wealth.  Rural areas of Madhya Pradesh are
characterized by a relatively equal distribution of income. In a normal
year, about 66% of the population has incomes below the poverty line
(US$80). However, there are large regional variations in the incidence
of poverty. In the eastern and southern parts of the State, about 90% of
the population live below the poverty line, while the proportion in the
western region is about one-half.
2.06      Farm Size and Land Tenure.  The large number of small farmers
and tribal people and complex tenancy arrangements pose great difficulties
for modernizing the agricultural sector. The average farm size in Madhya
Pradesh has decreased from 4.0 ha in 1970/71 to 3.6 ha in 1976/77, ranging
from 1.8 ha in Bilaspur District to 7.0 ha in Vidisha District.



-8-
2.07      Agricultural Performance.  The agricultural sector dominates the
State economy, yet much potential remains to be developed. The State's
water resources have yet to be fully exploited (currently only 30% of the
potential is utilized). In 1977/78 the net area sown amounted to 18.8 M
ha, 84% of cultivable area, mostly single-cropped during the kharif
season or planted to rabi crops grown on stored soil moisture following a
monsoon fallow. Only 16% of the total cropped area is at present irrigated.
2.08      Between 1970/71 and 1978/79, the production of foodgrains
increased at the rate of 0.5% p.a., while the average Indian rate was
2.4% p.a.   Production levels for other crops in Madhya Pradesh have
remained almost constant. The foodgrain increases have been due almost
entirely to small increases in area sown. Yield levels of all crops have
fluctuated widely year by year, but with no significant trend upward for
any major crop with the exception of wheat, where yields increased over
the same period at a rate of about 2.9% p.a.
2.09      Yields of most major food crops in Madhya Pradesh are significantly
below India's already low average. The discrepancy is most marked in the
two major foodgrains, rice and wheat. For both rice and wheat, the Indian
average is roughly 50% higher than the Madhya Pradesh yields. This
reflects the relatively high proportion of rainfed agriculture and unimproved
varieties of wheat and rice grown, and the low consumption of fertilizers,
at one-fourth the national average. The yields of coarse grains (sorghum,
maize, pearl millet and barley) are more in line with all-India averages;
this is not surprising since these crops are characteristically grown as
subsistence crops in most parts of India. Oilseed yields are also low, at
60% of the all-India average.
2.10      Fertilizer use in Madhya Pradesh, although recently accelerated,
presently averages less than 7 kg nutrient per ha. From 1968 to 1972,
which in Madhya Pradesh was a period of relatively rapid growth in
irrigated area accompanied by increased use of HYV seed, fertilizer use
increased at a rate exceeding 50% per year. The increase occurred almost
entirely for rabi season use and now more than 70% of annual requirements
are distributed for that season.
Agricultural Supporting Services
2.11      Agricultural Research.  The Jawaharlal Nehru Krishi Vishwa
Vidyalaya (JNKVV) has been responsible for agricultural research since 1964.
Six agricultural colleges in different regions of the State are under the
control of the University and are located at Jabalpur, Raipur, Indore,
Gwalior, Rewa and Sehore. They act as regional research stations and, in
association with 16 research substations, provide coverage of all the main
agricultural zones of the State.



- 9 -
2.12      Under the Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project,l/
five college stations (Jabalpur, Indore, Gwalior, Rewa and Sehore) are
being developed as regional research stations along with seven substations.
These stations cover the major agroclimatic variations found in these
project districts and concentrate on applied and adaptive research to
provide practical answers to farmers' problems. Support (Rs 48.84 M)
under the first Project consists of increases in professional and support
staff, building of laboratories, offices and housing, provision of equipment
and farm development. JNKVV is also receiving assistance under the IDA-
assisted National Agricultural Research Project: (Cr. 855-IN). One research
subproject (Rs 18.28 M) has been approved to develop the Raipur college
station as a regional station and Jagdalpur research station (Bastar
district) as a substation. JNKVV is preparing more subprojects to develop
other new substations.
2.13      Efforts made to decentralize research under the Agricultural
Extension and Research Project have started producing results. Coordination
between research and extension has improved considerably in terms of mutual
exchange of information for formulation of seasonal programs, training of
extension staff (especially SMS) by research workers, and frequency of
field visits by research workers to discuss problems with farmers and
extension staff.
2.14      Agricultural Inputs.  Until recently, provision of improved seed
has been mainly from 121 statewide government agricultural farms having
a total cultivated area of 3,800 ha. These have been unable to meet the
requirement. A State Seed and Farm Corporation is currently being set up
with an authorized share capital of Rs 100 M. This corporation will
gradually take over the seed farms from DOA and an additional laboratory will be
constructed at Indore. Fertilizers are distributed through cooperatives
and private channels. In 1978/79, the share of the cooperatives was 58%.
Cooperatives have established 3,200 distribution points and private
traders 2,600 outlets. There are 412 buffer stock storage centers. In
spite of this wide distribution network, farmers in many districts have
difficulty in obtaining timely supplies of fertilizers. One of the major
constraints in popularizing use of fertilizers has been reluctance of
cooperatives to procure stocks from suppliers in advance of the sowing
season for fear of increasing losses due to uncertain sales and long
storage. To help overcome this problem, GONP proposes to subsidize
transport and storage of fertilizers (with provision of Rs 22.5 M during the
Sixth Plan period).
2.15      Marketing of pest control chemicals is handled by the Agro
Industries Development Corporation and a network of private dealers. During
the Sixth Plan, GOMP proposes to subsidize interest rates and storage
charges on agro-chemicals and to increase the stock of spraying equipment
held by the Department of Agriculture.
1/ Credit 712-IN for US$10.0 M.



- 10 -
2.16      Marketing.  Marketing of agricultural produce is less developed
in Madhya Pradesh than in many other Indian states. Only half of all
markets which accept produce are regulated, and of these, only 15-20%
are improved markets with modern handling facilities. So far, 250
regulated markets and 69 submarkets have been established. Out of 457
community development blocks in the State, 357 are within reach of regulated
markets or submarkets. During the Sixth Plan period, it has been decided
to have a regulated market, or at least a market yard in every block, by
establishment of an additional 50 markets and 100 submarkets.
2.17      Agricultural Credit.  The organization of institutional credit
to farmers in Madhya Pradesh follows the usual pattern in India. The
cooperative banks provide short (up to one year) and medium term credit
to farmers through primary cooperative societies at an interest rate of
12 to 12 1/2%. They are organized on a three-tier basis with the Madhya
Pradesh State Cooperative Bank at State level, 44 central cooperative banks
at district level and 6,525 primary credit societies with 29 M members at
the village level. About 44% of farmers are cooperative members. Loan
advances increased from Rs 556 M in 1973/74 to Rs 891 M in 1978/79. At
the end of 1979, a total of Rs 1,341 M was outstanding, of which 41%
was overdue. Repayment rates are lower than in earlier years, but still
permit the extending of loans to farmers. Rescheduling procedures exist
and are practised in the event of cooperative society or crop failures.
2.18      The Madhya Pradesh State Cooperative Land Development Bank
disburses long term loans to farmers and has 45 affiliated District Land
Development Banks (DLDB) with 260 branches all over the State.   Loans
are advanced mainly for dugwells, tubewells and pumping equipment, but
also cover land development for irrigation, purchase of farm machinery and
establishment of orchards. Lending increased from Rs 1.25 M in 1961/62
to Rs 227 M in 1976/77, but declined to Rs 117 M in 1978/79 due to the
inability of DLDBs to improve their debt recovery performance. The
proportion of overdues has increased steadily in recent years and reached
56% at the end of 1978/79.
2.19      The commercial banks have been steadily increasing their lending
to agriculture and now have over 1,200 branches in rural and semi-urban
areas. Under the Reserve Bank's (RBI) program for financing of primary
agricultural cooperative societies by commercial banks, 204 societies
were transferred to them in 1978/79 of which 150 received loans.  Total
agricultural loans outstanding at the end of 1978/79 amounted to Rs 1,081 M.
The commerical banks also have a serious problem of recoveries, but are
better able than the cooperative banks to absorb overdues.



- 11 -
Administration and Infrastructure
2.20       Organization.  Madhya Pradesh is divided into 45 Administrative
Districts, each headed by a Collector, and subdivided into 456 Development
Blocks, the smallest rural administrative unit, administered by a Block
Development Officer (BDO). Local participation in government-sponsored
development programs is ensured through popularly, elected local government
bodies: Panchayats at village level, Panchayat Samities at the Block and
the Zilla Parishad at district level, all of which are under the control of
the Collector.  The Department of Agriculture (DOA), headed by a Director
answerable to the Agricultural Production Commissioner, is principally
responsible for agricultural extension and for providing farmers with seed,
fertilizer, pesticides, minor irrigation and credit. DOA seeks to ensure
timely provision of these inputs by compiling anticipated farmer demands before
each cropping season. In addition to extension and all the above activities,
the Department undertakes a statewide program of soil and water conservation
and is responsible for implementation of special development schemes. To
carry out these programs, the Director of Agriculture is assisted at head-
quarters by an Additional Director (ADA), 19 Joint Directors (JDA) and several
Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) of the rank of Deputy Director (DDA) and
Assistant Director (Asst. DA). Organizational arrangements are shown
in Chart 22286 - World Bank. The 45 Districts are grouped into 11 Divisions.
2.21       Agricultural programs are coordinated by 11 divisional JDA
(assisted by SMS), each JDA controls a number of districts, each headed by
a DDA. The reorganized extension system now operates in 15 of the 45 districts.
In the remaining districts, at block level, there is one Agricultural Extension
Officer(AEO) who supervises the work of some 10 Village Level Workers (VLW)
each responsible for some 1,500 - 2,000 families. Both AEO and VEW are
employed by the Rural Development Department. Some districts are designated
Intensive Agriculture Development Districts where staffing levels are doubled.
Under some centrally sponsored development schemes(e.g. vegetable, sugarcane
and drought prone area projects),additional staff are also provided. VLW
are responsible for agricultural extension, but their effect is small because
of the large number of farmers each worker is expected to reach and the
considerable time spent on regulatory and statistic-gathering functions and
collection of farm input and credit requirements. In addition, poor supervision,
training and technical support and absence of transportation contribute
further to the VLW's ineffectiveness. This has resulted in few and sporadic
farm level contacts and low impact on yields, particularly on those of
small farmers.
2.22       Training of Agricultural Staff.  AEO are usually direct recruits
from agricultural college who subsequently receive minimal in-service
training. VLW are generally secondary school leavers, recruited after
completion of a two-year pre-service course given at one of the Department of
Agriculture's five Extension Training Centers.  There is very limited
subsequent in-service training for VLW and many older AEO and VLW,who have
received their basic training before many of the more recent technological
advances,are now technically out of date.



- 12 -
The Project Area
2.23      Because of the vast size of Madhya Pradesh and its limited financial
resources, the Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project covered
only 15 of the state's 45 administrative districts. The proposed project would
cover the remaining 30 administrative districts. Because of their size and to
ensure good management, Raipur, Sarguja and Bastar districts would each be
divided into two project districts to give a total of 33 project districts.
The project districts are distributed all over the state and fall in line with
the general description of socio-economic and agricultural conditions described
earlier.  In view of limitations in availability of trained staff, the 33 pro-
ject districts would be covered by intensive extension activities over a period
of five years--five in the first year, eight each in the second, third and
fourth years, and four in the fifth year. For details see Map IBRD 15477 and
Annex 2, Table 7.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The project seeks to achieve early and sustained increases in agri-
cultural production in 33 project districts through the reorganization and
strengthening of the extension service of DOA. The project would support
this reorganization over a five year period by:
(a)  establishing a single line of command between full-time
Village Extension Workers (VEW) and extension headquarters;
(b)  consolidating staff from the special crop schemes into a
single unified service and strengthening the linkage between
agricultural research and extension;
(c)  incorporating regular inservice training as an integral
part of extension activities;
(d)  introducing a systematic fixed schedule for regular and
frequent visits by VEW to farmers' fields;
(e)  strengthening of extension (VEW) training centers;
(f)  developing regular monitoring and evaluation procedures;
(g)  strengthening arrangements for coordination of input
supplies and credit requirements; and
(h)  providing additional staff, operating expenses, equipment,
vehicles, training facilities, housing and office buildings
required to implement these reforms.



- 13 -
B. Detailed Features
Extension Methodology
3.02     Under the project the agricultural extension service would be re-
organized and intensified in 30 administrative districts (33 project districts)
of Madhya Pradesh, following the Training and Visit pattern adopted in 15 other
districts of the state over the past three years. The project would systemat-
ically and regularly provide farmers with up-to-date advice on farm practices
best suited to their specific conditions and which would emphasize proven
practices which have an immediate impact on income. This would be accomplished
by organizing extension field staff so that they visit farmers regularly and
receive systematic training and technical support from DOA and from research
institutions. Each VEW would be assigned to work with a certain number of
farm families. In project districts which have a predominance of tribal
population sparsely distributed and in areas where medium and major irrigation
projects are in operation, one VEW would cover about 500 farm families to pro-
vide for more intensive coverage. In the remaining areas, one VEW would cover
about 700 farm families. Contingency provision is made for 500 additional VEW
if in the course of project implementation GOMP and IDA determine that more
intensive coverage by VEW is warranted. An assturance was obtained that GOMP
and IDA would jointly review progress of project implementation by March 31,
1984 to determine if the number of field staff should be increased.
3.03     To reach his farmers systematically, the VEW would divide them into
8 groups each of about 60-90. He would visit each group regularly on a fixed
day once each fortnight. During his visit, the VEW would concentrate his
efforts on about 10 contact farmers selected from each group, involving as
many other farmers as possible. By the concrete results he achieves with
contact farmers, the VEW can spread his recommendations more effectively to
all farmers. During each visit, the VEW would concentrate on only a few
strategically-selected recommendations relevant for that particular phase in
the crop cycle. Initially, the emphasis would be on low cost improvements
which the majority of farmers can afford. The VEW would be supervised and
helped in his work by an Agricultural Extension Officer (AEO), who would
usually hold a B.Sc. degree in agriculture. One AEO would normally be re-
sponsible for about 5-7 VEWs and would spend at least four days a week
visiting them in the field. Once in every two weeks VEW would receive a
full day of intensive training from SMS in recommendations for the following
fortnight. Thus, every two weeks VEW would spend eight days in visiting
each of his eight groups and one day in training. One additional day might
be spent by the AEO meeting all his VEW in the field to review progress and
identify topics to be raised at the next training session. The remaining
working days, in a two-week period,would be devoted to field trials, making
up missed visits and occasional but limited office work.
3.04     To provide regular training, continuous technical guidance and
supervision of field work, three or four agricultural subdivisions would be
established in each district under the charge of a Subdivisional Agricul-
tural Officer (SDAO), who would have full time responsibility for supervising



14 -
10-13 AEOs in his area and for ensuring effective extension operations. The
SDAO would have a technical staff of three Subject Matter Specialists (one
each in agronomy of field crops, plant protection, and training/communications).
SMS would spend one third of their time in training groups of VEWs once each
fortnight (para 3.08), one third in field visits providing technical support
and guidance to VEWs, and one-third in building their own stock of knowledge
through conducting a regular dialogue with research workers, carrying out
simple field trials in farmers' fields, and attending short training courses.
At the district level, a team of four SMS would be established to provide
greater depth of support to subdivisional SMS teams and/or to handle special-
izations not covered by subdivisional SMS. They would also divide their work
between teaching, field visits and gathering knowledge. The Deputy Director
of Agriculture (DDA) in charge of a district would have direct responsibility
for extension operations throughout his district.
3.05     The extension service would be directed in its day-to-day operations
by a full time Additional Director of Agriculture (ADA), who would work ex-
clusively on this job and be assisted by five DDA. The ADA and three DDA are
already in position under the first Extension Project. The proposed project
would provide for two more. Provision also has been made for incremental
support staff at state, division, district and subdivisional levels.
3.06     To be fully effective, extension staff should not be involved in co-
ordinating input supplies and credit requirements, nor associated with the
administrative and regulatory duties of DOA. To handle these tasks, a
separate unit consisting of one senior AEO and three VLW would be located in
each block and linked directly with the district DDA. The post of senior AEO
already exists and the project would provide funds for the three VLW in each
block. The project would also provide for a Cooperative Extension Officer
(CEO) in each subdivision to ensure coordination with credit and input or-
ganizations and for quick processing of loan applications. One Supply Officer
of the status of Asst. DA would be provided at the district level to be re-
sponsible for regulatory functions and input arrangements. This additional
staff would free DDA for frequent field visits so necessary to review exten-
sion operations effectively. At headquarters (DOA), provision would be made
for one Joint Director (JDA) to coordinate input and credit needs and to
supervise regulatory functions of the Department. It is expected that these
arrangements would free extension staff from non-extension activities and
enable them to concentrate all their efforts on extension.
Incremental Staff Requirements
3.07     Staff required to implement this reform would be met by redeploying
staff already with DOA, transferring VLW from the Rural Development
Department, and hiring new staff. A detailed breakdown of staff requirements
indicating availability by year and district is given at Annex 2, Tables 7
and 8. The table below summarizes staff available and required. The re-
quirement of 7,690 VEW would be met by transferring 3,540 VLW from
the Rural Development Department to DOA and recruiting 4,150 new persons.
As condition of invitation to negotiations GOMP issued a government order
transferring 3,54L  VLN ftorQ  thxe Bural De elopaent Department.



- 15 -
Extension Staff Requirements
Total            Number           Incremental
Position                 Required         Available           Requirement
VEW                     7,690              3,540               4,150
AEO                     1,114                317                 797
SDAO                       81                 -                   81
SMS (Sub. Div.)           243                 -                  243
DDA (District)             33                 31                   2
SMS (District)            134                 32                102
DDA (HQ)                     2                -                    2
JDA (Supply)                1                                      1 l
Asst. DA (Supply)          33                 -                   33
CEO                        81                 -                   81
VLW (Supply)              939                 -                  939
Dist. Ext. Agronomists    33                  -                   33
A number of new posts would have to be created and filled by GOMP.  Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that all incremental staff positions would
be created by July 1, 1981 and filled in accordance with the phasing given in
Annex 2, Table 8. Assurances were also obtained that all VEW and other exten-
sion staff would be used exclusively for agricultural extension and that their
emolument would not be adversely affected as a result of the reorganization.
Training
3.08      The project would support a variety of inservice and preservice
training programs for extension staff. Central to the entire extension
approach and an integral part of it is the fortnightly training session during
which VEW would be trained in groups of about 30 by subdivisional SMS, assisted
by the AEO and drawing on the district SMS as well as specialists from nearby
research stations. The entire training effort would be focused on making
these fortnightly sessions as effective as possible. Training would be
practical and concentrate only on the few specific recommendations relevant to
farming operations in the coming fortnight. Ample time would be provided for
VEW to practise the recommendations and to rehearse how they would convince
farmers to adopt them. They would also be expected to raise and
discuss problems encountered in their field work during the past two weeks.  On
alternate weeks VEW would meet with their AEO to review proRress. Other in-
service training courses for VEW would include a preseason workshop/training
session for each major season and about one special short course per year on a
particular technical topic.
3.09      Newly recruited VEW would receive an intensive six month preservice
training course in the five Extension Training Centers currently under DOA and at
one additional center to be transferred from the Development Department. Each
center would be able to train 100 newly recruited VEW at one time or 200 per
year. Thus, the six centers would be able to train 1,200 newly recruited VEW
each year.  This would be sufficient to fill new posts created each vear rnd
fill vacancies arising from retirement, promotion, etc.



- 16-
3.10       To be effective in meeting the requirements of the large training
program, facilities at one training center would be improved. The project
would provide for additional hostel accommodation, classrooms and housing;
equipment and furniture for hostels, classrooms and offices. In addition,
transport (one minibus and a four-wheel drive vehicle) would be made availa-
ble for each center; and additional staff - two Principals (DDA) (for Satrati
and Waraseoni training centers) and 16 Instructors for other centers. The
training cell at DOA headquarters would also be strengthened by adding one
JDA (Training).
3.11       Higher level staff would require a range of training programs as
well. In addition, each month SDAO would meet with SMS and AEO for a one-
day training and planning session during which the main points of emphasis and
schedule of activities for the coming two fortnights would be determined.
Before preseason training of VEW, similar sessions would be held at the
district level for AEO. Also, before each season there would be a workshop
at the regional research station that would be attended by DDA, SDAO and SMS.
During this session research workers at the regional station, together
with DOA staff, would review the previous season's results, specify
recommendations, and plan the coming season's research and field trials
programs (paras 5.05-5.11).
3.12       Improving the training of SMS is crucial to the success of the
project. One primary vehicle for this would be a monthly workshop held at
the regional research station designated in each zone for this purpose.
The workshop would be attended by all SMS in the zone together with JNKVV
staff and headquarters SMS. The main objective is to review results
achieved, modify recommendations,as necessary,to suit prevailing field
conditions, review findings and progress of field trials and develop
suggestions for future research topics and field trials. in addition, special
short-term courses in production technology and extension methods would
be organized for SMS both at JNKVV and at other institutions. A limited
number of scholarships at JNKVV would be provided for DOA staff who perform
well. Before the introduction of the extension system in a given district,
an orientation course of three to four days duration would be organized by
senior DOA staff. This would explain the new system and its procedures,
assist district staff in designating geographic areas of responsibility for
VEW, demonstrate (by example) how contact farmers should be selected, and
outline major initial impact points.  Further details are given in Annex 2,
Table 4.
3.13       The Directorate of Extension of JNKVV, in conjunction with DOA,
would be responsible for organizing subject matter training for all
categories of extension staff, including training in particular crop
production technology, as well as the monthly workshop for SMS. The
project would provide funds for strengthening the Directorate of Extension
at JNKVV and at five agricultural colleges through the provision of one
Senior Training Specialist at JNKVV and five Training Specialists at
Gwalior, Rewa, Raipur, Sehore and Indore Colleges. To provide better liaison
between district level extension staff and research workers, a 1Tistrict Exten-
sion Agronomist would be appointed by JNKVV in each district. They would
assist in monthly training of SMS and be responsible for the adaptive trials
program in the district.



- 17 -
3.14      The incremental staff requirements for strengthening training
programs of DOA and JNKVV are summarized below:
Incremental Staff (Training)
JDA (Training)                              1
Principal (DDA)                             2
Instructor (Asst. DA)                     10
Instructor (AAUD)                           6
Senior Training Specialist (Research)    1
Training Specialists (Research)             5
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that all incremental training
positions would be created and filled in accordance with phasing given in
Annex 2, Table 8.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.15      A monitoring and evaluation unit has been established under the first
Extension Project. Under the proposed project, the existing unit in DOA would be
strengthened and additional staff and equipment provided to the Commissioner of
Land Records,who is responsible for carrying out surveys to determine area
sown under different crops and for crop cutting experiments to estimate yields and
overall production. Details of staffing are given in Annex 2, Table 5 (c).
3.16      Monitoring and evaluation would be the responsibility of the Joint
Director of Agriculture (Statistics) in DOA working directly under the Director
of Agriculture. The responsibility of this unit would be to:
(a)  carry out short term management oriented studies for deter-
mining (i) the extent to which organizational innovations
and improvements envisaged under the T&V system are being
followed, and (ii) the adequacy and suitability of recom-
mendations being propagated by the extension service; and
(b)  coordinate with the Commissioner of Land Records to
obtain, collate, and compile on an annual basis, relevant
data on areas under different crops, yields and total
production.
An assurance was obtained during negotiations that GOMP would undertake
monitoring and evaluation in a form acceptable to IDA and that results would
be forwarded (through DOE) to the Association at least once a year.
Civil Works
3.17      The reorganized extension service requires extension staff to make
regular and frequent visits to their farmers' groups. Consequently, it is
necessary for them to live in or near their areas of work. GOMP provided
assurances at negotiations that VEW and AEO would live in or near their areas
of work. Since rural housing in many areas of Madhya Pradesh is limited,



- 18 -
the project would provide funds for construction of 3,000 houses for VEW and
500 houses for AEO (about 45% of total VEW and AEO). Housing would also be
provided for SDAO (81), DDA (3) and at Extension Training Centers (18). New
office facilities would be provided for 81 subdivisions and 3 districts, and
hostel and classroom facilities at 6 Extension Training Centers. An assurance
was obtained at negotiations that GOMP would furnish to IDA at regular inter-
vals (through DOE), information on progress in locating sites for housing and
office buildings to be financed under the credit. Details are given in Annex
2, Table 2.
Transport
3.18      Effective extension requires a high degree of mobility both to
enable field level staff to meet farmers regularly and to enable technical and
supervisory staff to make frequent field visits in order to provide the direct
guidance needed by the staff. The system depends on a high degree of personal
contact between all levels of the extension hierarchy. To facilitate this, the
project would provide various modes of transDort for different levels of
staff. VEW would be provided loans to purchase bicycles (5,000). Similar
loans would be provided to AEO and SMS to purchase motorcycles (1,071).
Assurances were obtained from GOMP that loan terms and conditions for
purchase of bicycles and motorcycles, and travelling and mileage allowances
would be sufficient to ensure the purchase and use of these vehicles. The
project would also provide for 4-WD vehicles at subdivisional and district
levels (116); cinema vans (33); minibuses (6) and 4-WD vehicles (6) for
training centers; and 4-WD vehicles (3) and 1 car for the monitoring and
evaluation unit. Details are given in Annex 2, Table 3.
Equipment
3.19      The project provides funds for audio-visual aids to support exten-
sion operations as well as office furniture and equipment required for expanded
extension activities and for training. Details of these items are at Annex 2,
Table 3.
Operating Expenses
3.20      GOMP's operating expenses would increase with the implementation of
this project. Of particular importance would be the availability of funds and
materials for printing diaries, field notebooks, charts and instructional
materials, materials for practical demonstrations at training sessions, seeds,
and other inputs for field trials and materials for preparing simple visual
aids. Details are at Annex 2, Table 6.
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01      Detailed cost estimates, based on incremental costs for carrying
out the project over a five year period, are given in Annex 2, Tables 1 to 6.
The following table summarizes the costs:



- 19 -
Foreign
Category              Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
-------- Rs M -------   ------ US$ M /a -----    ()
Incremental Staff Costs   155.2       -      155.2   19.4       -      19.4
Civil Works                102.6      -      102.6   12.8       -      12.8
Equipment and Vehicles       23.2    8.9      32.1    2.9      1.1      4.0      28
T'raining                    10.6    0.9      11.5    1.3      0.1       1.4      8
Incremental Operating
Costs                     41.8   21.5      63.3    5.2       2.7      7.9      34
Total Base Cost       333.4   31.3    364.7   41.6       3.9      45.5
Physical Contingencies       15.1    1.3      16.4    1.9      0.2      2.1
Price Contingencies         91.2    8.0       99.2   11.4      1.0     12.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST   439.7   40.6    480.3   54.9        5.1      60.0       8.5
/a   Converted at the rate of US$1 = Rs 8.0.
These costs include about US$7.4 M in duties and taxes and an estimated
US$5.1 M in foreign costs. Physical contingencies of 5% have been applied to
civil works, equipment and vehicles, training, incremental operating costs,
and to meet the possible future need of 500 VEW (para 3.02) to readjust the
farm families: VEW ratio. Price contingencies have been applied cumulatively
at the following rates: 1980, 10%; 1981-83, 7% per annum; 1984 and onwards,
5% and compounded accordingly.
B. Proposed Financing
4.02     Finance to cover total project costs of Rs 420.8 M (US$52.6 M) in-
cluding contingencies, but net of taxes and duties, would be provided as follows:
Source           Amount           Percentage
(us$ M)
IDA              37.0                 70.0
GOMP/GOI         15.6                 30.0
Total         52.6                100.0
The proposed IDA Credit of US$37.0 M would be to GOI on standard terms and
conditions and would finance about 70% of project costs, net of taxes
and duties, including estimated foreign exchange costs of US$5.1 M. IDA funds
would be channeled through GOI standard arrangements for IDA assisted state
government projects. The balance of project financing would come from state
government sources and GOI.



- 20 -
C.   Procurement
4.03       The main items to be financed are: vehicles, including cycles and
motorcycles; equipment, houses, classrooms, offices and hostels; training,
project monitoring; incremental staff; and incremental operating costs.
Civil works contracts (US$12.8 M) for 3,602 houses, 6 hostels and 84 offices
would be small and dispersed, both geographically and over time; therefore,
they would not be suitable for international competitive bidding. Contracts
would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding following local advertise-
ment. There are numerous qualified local contractors to carry out such work.
All contracts for civil works, equipment and furniture estimated to cost
US$100,000 or more would be reviewed by IDA both before bids are invited and
contracts awarded.
4.04       One hundred and seventy motor vehicles (US$1.9 M) of various types
would be required under the project. They would be purchased in small
quantities over five years and would be widely dispersed in rural areas.
As adequate maintenance and availability of spare parts would be of
paramount importance, this would necessitate purchase of locally made
vehicles of types already used by government departments. Thus, procurement
would be according to existing government procedures, which are satisfactory
to IDA. Motorcycles and bicycles (US$1.3 M) would be purchased by individual
staff from loan funds provided by the state government and refinanced under the
project.
4.05       Orders for purchase of minor equipment and furniture (US$0.8 M)
would be bulked wherever possible and purchased according to established local
bidding procedures, except where valued at less than US$50,000 when they
would be purchased by prudent shopping through normal trade channels.
Assurances on procurement procedures mentioned in paras 4.03-4.05 were
obtained during negotiations.
4.06       The balance of project costs (US$28.7 M) would consist of local
training and fellowships (US$1.4 M), incremental salaries and allowances
(US$19.4 M), and incremental operating expenditures for offices and vehicles
(US$7.9 M) and would not involve procurement. All of the figures given
in paras 4.03-4.06 exclude contingencies which amount to US$14.5 M.
D. Disbursement and Audit
4.07       Disbursement under the Credit would extend over six years and
would be made against:
(a) 100% of the cost of training;
(b) 80% of the cost of civil works, equipment and vehicles; and



- 21 -
(c)  47% of the total eligible staff costs-.  The percentage is
calculated to bring total IDA disbursements to about 70%
of the project cost.
4.08       Disbursements against staff costs, training, payments for locally
procured vehicles and equipment of Rs 150,000 or :Less, and payments under civil
works contracts not exceeding Rs 300,000 under item (b) above, would be
against a certified statement of expenditures, the documentation for which
would not be submitted to IDA for review but would be retained by GOMP and
DOE.  TiLis  documentation would be available for inspection by IDA during the
course of project review missions. Disbursement against all other items
would be fully documented. Certificates of expenditures would be audited
by GOMP independent auditors at least once every year and a report submitted
to IDA promptly thereafter. All disbursement applications would be forwarded
and processed through the Department of Economic Affairs (GOI). Schedules
of implementation and project disbursements are presented in Annex 4, Tables
1 and 2.
4.09       The project would be subject to  normal governmental control and
auditing procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. However, to ensure
appropriate financial reporting to IDA in a format that would relate expendi-
ture to cost estimates of components, assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that GOMP would: (a) maintain separate accounts for the purpose of
identification of project-related expenditures; (b) furnish to IDA certified
copies of project related accounts within nine months of the end of each
fiscal year; (c) have DOA's accounts and financial statements related to the
project audited annually, in accordance with sound accounting principles;
and (d) furnish to IDA as soon as available, copies of the resulting audit
report.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Extension Service
5.01       The project would introduce fundamental improvements in the
organization and management of extension operations in 30 administrative
districts of Madhya Pradesh. By establishing a single line of control from
extension headquarters to VEW, field level extension staff become directly
accountable to their supervisors both technically and administratively.
Each would follow a fixed schedule of visits to specific groups of
farmers and which is known to farmers. Each AEO would supervise 5 to 7
VEW, spending at least four days a week in the field
assisting and guiding them. The 81 SDAO provided under the
1/   Total extension staff costs eligible for partial reimbursement would
be the following staff: VEW, AEO, SDAO, SMS, DDA and JDA at village,
subdivision, district and state levels; input staff; and District
Extension Agronomists and incremental staff of the monitoring and
evaluation unit.



- 22 -
project would each be responsible for ensuring that 10-13 AEO in their re-
spective subdivisions are working effectively. To do this, SDAO need to spend
about five days a week in the field, including attending fortnightly training
sessions. SMS at the subdivision provide essential technical support. SDAO
are directly responsible to the District DDA. Normally, a DDA would have
about three SDAO in his charge.
5.02      Overall responsibility for general agricultural development in the
State rests with the Agricultural Production Commissioner and the Director of
Agriculture.  Under the Agricultural Extension and Research Project, DOA head-
quarters organization has been streamlined to provide effective management and
technical support to the extension service as a whole. The Additional Director
of Agriculture (Extension) is already in position and is responsible for day-
to-day operations and management of the extension service, both technically and
administratively. He is assisted by three DDA (one each for administration, ex-
tension and technical guidance). The project would strengthen the existing arrange-
ments by providing two more DDA, who would act as SMS, and related support staff.
The five DDA at headquarters would thus be responsible for administration, ex-
tension, and special crops (3). The DDA for extension and special crops would
be responsible for improving the technical quality of the extension service in
their areas of specialization. They would help improve the existing linkages
between extension SMS and research work being carried out in the state and in-
terpret results of field trials in their area of specialization. The DOA training
cell would be strengthened by the addition of a JDA (Training), who would have
responsibility for planning and organizing preservice training of VEW.
Input Supplies
5.03      The project provides  at headquarters for a JDA (Inputs) responsible
for regulatory functions, input supply and coordination with credit institutions.
He would be supported by 33 Assistant Directors of Agriculture (Supply Officers)
at district level, 81 Cooperative Extension Officers at subdivisional level,
313 senior AEO and 939 VLW at block level (para 3.06) to ensure systematic
planning and timely supply of agricultural inputs (seed, fertilizer, pesticides
and credit). This public sector network would supplement the already substan-
tial network of private and cooperative input supply points.
State Level Coordination
5.04      Coordination at State level between extension, research, and allied
agencies would be ensured through the existing Project Coordination Committee
set up under the Agricultural Extension and Research Project. The Committee is
chaired by the Agricultural Production Commissioner and includes the Vice
Chancellor of JNKVV, and representatives of concerned government departments, and
other agencies (Departments of Finance, Irrigation and Cooperation and input
agencies). The Additional Director of Agriculture (Extension) is the Secretary
of this Committee. The Committee meets at least twice a year to review pro-
gress in project implementation and would meet the needs of the proposed project.
Linkages Between Extension and Research
5.05      As neither research nor extension can function without close coop-
eration, efforts havebeen made under the Agricultural Extension and Research
Project to formalize these responsibilities. A clear definition of responsi-



- 23 -
bilities has emerged wherein JNKW is fully respcnsible for the development of
suitable new technology, while DOA is responsible for transfer of technology
to farmers, including testing of research recommendations on farmers' fields.
The inclusion of JNKW for assistance under the National Agricultural Research
Project has helped expand the network of applied research stations and
furthered the cause of increased linkages with extension. JNKVV staff would
continue to work closely with district and subdivisional extension staff,
especially SMS, as much of the work at regional stations would be in response
to the needs of local extension staff and farmers. The extension staff would
work with research workers and the District Extension Agronomist in carrying
out a program of field trials and analyzing and interpreting the results.
Research workers would be responsible for monthly training of SMS to prepare
them for fortnightly training of VEW and AEO.
5.06       The Senior Training Specialist, JNKVV, and the five Training
Specialists located at five agricultural colleges para 3.13) would be
responsible, in consultation with DOA, for planning and coordinating all
training programs organized by JNKVV (mainly for SMS).
5.07       Strengthening of arrangements for close coordination between JNKW
and DOA would also be prompted through state and regional level planning
committees (paras 5.08 and 5.09).
5.08       The State Planning Committee (SPC).  The State Planning Committee
has been set up under the Agricultural Extension and Research Project and is
chaired by the Director of Agriculture and comprises senior officers of
JNKVV and DOA. The Additional Director of Agriculture is the Secretary.
SPC would continue to meet twice every year and provide a formal mechanism for
review of university research, future research programs and extension
recommendations passed up from Regional Planning Committees.
5.09       Regional Planning Committees (RPC).  These Regional Planning
Committees have been set up under the Agricultural Extension and Research
Project at regional research stations which cover the ongoing project
districts. More such Committees would be set up at regional research stations
to cover the needs of other districts in the proposed project. Each Committee
(there would be six to cover the State) would be chaired by the Divisional
Joint Director of Agriculture and comprise the Associate Director of
Research, District Deputy Directors of Agriculture, District Agronomists from
JNKVV and District Subject Matter Specialists. The RPC meet at least twice
yearly to review and formulate recommended agricultural practices, including
the identification of research priorities and adaptive research needs for
transmission to the State Planning Committee. Assurances were obtained
that the new RPC would be established and hold their first meeting by
September 30, 1981.
5.10       Regional Workshops.  Seasonal regional workshops would be chaired
by the Associate Director of Research of JNKVV and meet twice a year (before
the kharif and rabi cropping seasons). The workshop would include
representatives from JNKVV and extension staff of DOA, and would discuss
implications of various extension recommendations to be made to RPC and
finalize them after considering research data and field exDerience.



- 24 -
5.11     In sum, the formulation of extension recommendations would be:
Regional Planning Committee               Reviews adaptive research and trials,
Divisional Joint Director                 proposes recommendations to SPC, and
Associate Director of Research (JNKVV)   suggests field trial program, based
Deputy Dir. of Agriculture                 among other things on findings of
District Agronomists/SMS                  monthly district workshops.  Meets
at least twice per year.
Regional Seasonal Workshop                Assembles proposed recommendations
for RPC. Frames recommendations
JNKVV/Extension Staff of Region           after consideration of research data
and economic constraints. Meets
twice per year.
State Planning Committee                  Reviews proposed recommendations
Director of Agriculture (Chairman)         developed by regional seasonal work-
ADA Extension (Secretary)                  shops.  Approves or suggests modi-
Director of Research (JNKVV)               fications before returning to RPC
Director of Extension (JNKVV)              for implementation.  Meets twice per
Senior Staff (DOA)                        year.
Regional Planning Comittee                Adopts or rejects modifications
suggested by SPC. Formulates
specific fortnightly recommendations.
These will form the basis of fort-
nightly training sessions after
suitable modifications by SMS at
the monthly regional workshops.
Monthly Workshops                         Monthly workshops will modify
recommendations made at preseason
JNKVV Research Staff/SMS/SDAO/DDA         training to suit prevailing field
conditions and converts them into
specific recommendations, reviews
findings and progress of field
trials, reviews training techniques
and prepares lesson plans for fort-
nightly training.
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
6.01      Total project costs over the five year development period, excluding
price contingencies, amount to US$47.6 M which is US$4.3 per ha of cropped
land or US$12.5 per farm family, assuming 3.8 M farm families. Incremental
costs after the project development period, to be met from state budget
sources, would be about US$8.5 M per annum or US$2.2 per farm family. Incre-
mental costs would be partly recovered through market levies on agricultural
produce entering commercial markets. Stimulation of demand for agricultural
inputs would also increase state revenues from sales taxes.
6.02      Economic Benefits.  Attributing a precise level of benefits to this
type of project is difficult since it is not possible to determine what



- 25 -
proportion of benefits are due to extension alone and what are due to addit-
ional purchased inputs and other factors. In practice, it is the combination
of a number of factors, with extension playing the role of catalyst, that
brings the desired benefits. It is also difficult to estimate acceptance
rates of recommended practices. However, since the project relies primarily
on reorganization and strengthening of an existing extension structure, the
incremental cost is low per hectare covered and farm family. Hence, even very
small and slow production increases in the project area generate a high rate
of return. This project would be able to generate a 50% rate of return if by
1988 yields of foodgrains increase by only 30 kg/ha or about 2%.
Yield increases have far exceeded this level elsewhere in India where the
extension system is operating effectively for a few years. One significant
feature of the system is that the practices initially stressed by the exten-
sion service focus on improving cultural practices (e.g. timely operations,
good land preparation, proper seed rates, line sowing and weeding) to maintain
an adequate and healthy plant population. As these operations usually involve
more work and little cash outlay, they are particularly well suited to the
needs of many small farmers. Details are in Annex 3.
6.03      Project Risks.  The transfer of multipurpose field workers and es-
tablishment of a single, unified professional extension service marks a major
departure from past practice in India. The fact that such a reform has taken
place in 15 districts of the state reflects a willingness to develop an ex-
tension system capable of serving all farmers well. Nevertheless, it is
difficult for governments to make and maintain such decisions. The main risk,
therefore, is that the state government would find it difficult to maintain a
single line of command from extension headquarters to the VEW who would work
exclusively on agriculture. To reduce these risks further, efforts were made
during project preparation and appraisal to ensure full understanding of the
importance of this by the Madhya Pradesh State Government. An assurance was
obtained during negotiations,. that VEW would remain as full-time agricultural
extension workers under the Department of Agriculture throughout the project
period, and that their emoluments and other benefits would be protected.
6.04      Experience has shown other risks to be minimal.  Farmers responsive-
ness to recommendations has been generally excellent wherever visits are made
systematically. In addition, VEW have gained confidence in their own profes-
sional ability to introduce small innovations. The ability of the service to
develop and disseminate recommendations leading to yield increases well above
the level needed for a 50% return has been demonstrated adequately. In most
situations, availability of suitable technology for different conditions has
not been a constraint as there is a backlog of research findings as yet not
widely adopted. Major yield increases are possible even in the process of
bringing the production level of average farmers to that of best farmers. To
reduce the risk of technological constraints lowering anticipated project
benefits, the project supports programs of field testing of research results
and development of good working relationships with Jawaharlal Nehru Krishi
Viswa Vidyalaya. A separate project, National Agricultural Research Project
(Cr. 855-IN), is directed at strengthening research facilities at the agri-
cultural university to ensure a continuous flow of recommendations adapted to
specific regional problems.



- 26 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
of India and the Government of Madhya Pradesh on the following:
(a)  By March 31, 1984 GOMP and IDA would jointly review progress
of project implementation to determine if the number of
field staff should be increased (para 3.02);
(b)  GOMP would create by July 1, 1981 all new positions and fill
incremental staff positions according to or earlier than
the schedules shown in Annex 2,Table 8 (para 3.07);
(c)  GOMP would ensure that staff assigned to work under the
project would be used exclusively for agricultural
extension, retained in DOA throughout the project period,
and that their emolument would not be adversely affected
as a result of the reorganization (para 3.07);
(d)  GOMP would fill all incremental training positions
according to or earlier than the schedule shown in
Annex 2, Table 8 (para 3.14);
(e)  GOMP would undertake monitoring and evaluation of the
project in the form already agreed with GOI/IDA.
Further, GOMP would forward to IDA (through DOE) a
yearly summary of results in a form acceptable to IDA
(para 3.16);
(f)  GOMP would ensure that VEW and AEO would live in or
near the area assigned for their operations (para 3.17);
and
(g)  GOMP would establish Regional Planning Committees to cover
all the regions in the proposed project and hold their first
meeting by September 30, 1981 (para 5.09).
7.02      With these conditions and assurances the project would be suitable
for a credit of US$37.0 M to GOI on standard IDA terms.



- 27 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT : PHASE II
PROGRESS OF PHASE-I PROJECT
A. Staff Position
Total
reqd.                                Vacant as at
at full Exist- Incre-
Particulars                 dev.      ing      mental  6/78 12/78 6/79 9/79 3/80 6/80
A,  State Level:
1. Addl. Dir. Agr. Extn.          1       -           1      1   -    -    -        -    -
2. Dy. Dir. Agr.                  3       -           3      -   -    -    -        1    1
3. Research Assts. (UD)           1       -          1        -       -             -    -
B,  Field Level:
1. Dy. Dir. Agr.                 16       15          1      1   -    -    -        -    2
2. SMS (Dist. level)             80       27        53       -   -    45   27    4    4
3. SDAO                          50       25        25       -   31   21   12    4    -
4. SMS (Sub-Div. level)         150       65        85      75   70   46   19   13    5
5. AEO                          730      425       305    285  232  138   76   91   41
6. VEW                         3951    2699       1252   1202  948  710  543   18    -
C.  Monitoring &
Evaluation Unit:
1. Dy. Dir. Agr. (Stat.)          1       -           1      1   -    -    -        1    -
2. Dy. Dir. Agr. (Econ.)          1       -           1      1   -    -    -        1    1
3. Rural Sociologist              2       _          2       2   -    -    -        2    2
4. Asst. Dir. Agr. (Stat.)        1       -           1      1   -    -    -        1    -
5. Asst. Dir. Agr. (F.M.)         1       -           1      1   -    -    -        1    1
6. Research Assts.               13       -         13       -   -    -    -        2    2
7. Statistical Assts.           107       -        107    107   81   -    43   23    8
D. Agr. University:
1. Assoc. Dir. Res.               5       -           5      -   -    -       5    5    -
2. Sr. Res. Staff                85       59        26       -   -    -    70   70    1
3. Jr. Res. Staff               128       87        41       -   -    -       3    5    2
4. Dist. Res. Agronomists        16       -         16       -   -    -       -    -    -
5. Sr. Res. Assts.              191      147        44       -   -    -    25   30    2
6. Support Staff                 41       -         41       -   -    -    21   24   20
B.  Civil Works
Building                   Target                Completed by 6/30/80
VLW quarters                      700                           119
AEO Quarters                     100                              8
ADAO offices                       50                             4
DDA offices                         2                             1
DDA residence                       2                             -
Soil Testing Lab.                   4                             1
Renovations to GTC                  5                             2
Total Cost                Ks. 24,096 miliLorn            Rs. 3,394 maillion



- 28 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
C. Results of Monitoring Study to Determine
Effectiveness of Visits by VEW
Rabi Season
Kharif Season 1979-80    1979-80
3rd round   4th round!'  1st round
1.  (a)  No. of districts covered             6           13              12
(b)  No. of contact cultivators
interviewed                     650         1306            1108
2.  % of contact cultivators who
(a)  could identify VEW                 89 (87)1/   88 (68)           91 (63)
(b)  knew the day of VEW's visit        69 (56)      75 (13)          63 (13)
(c)  Number of VEW visits:
(i)   None                 )       34 (72)      13 (42)         16
(ii)  One or22                                                  15
(iii) Two or more                  66 (28)      65 (41)         69
(d)  participated in meetings
with VEW and other farmers
(i)   One                           -           26              21
(ii)  Two or more      f25                                      28
(e)  adopted at least one of the
recommended practices             -            -              81
Notes:-  1.  Figures in brackets are the lowest percentage figure recovered
except for item 2(c) (i) for which it is the highest.
2. During the 4th round survey is Kharif 1979/80 243 non-contact
farmers in two districts were also included, 89% of them knew
the VEW and 78% knew his day of visit.



- 29 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
D. Area Planted to Clean and Graded Seed
(Area in ha.)
District                1977-78            1978-79           1979-80
Bhind                          1900             48200              N.A.
Khandwa                        7540              8686             10350
Narsinghpur                    6401             16969             31364
Jhabua                         6401              2795             38000
Bari (Raisen)                  5000             12000             20000
E. Area Planted with Chemically Treated Seed
(Area in ha.)
District                1977-78            1978-79           1979-80
Bhind                           -               25461             27714
Sehore                          -               19820             25000
Balaghat                       9146             12215             21176
Jhabua                        62000              9545             35067
Morena                        24008             35115             36793
Mandsaur                        -               29800             42742
Khandwa                       93150             98480            133267
Narsinghpur                    5524             10835             19857
Bari (Raisen)                  1020              2050              2400
Sagar                          8901              9500             13407



- 30 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
F. Area Planted with Improved Varieties
(Area in ha.)
District                1977-78           1978-79           1979-80
Khandwa        Sorghum          30823             32777             38890
Maize              126               253               331
Paddy              438               415               548
Soybean           1063              2022              4368
Narsinghpur   Gram              20903             55347             32437
Jhabua         Sorghum           1530              2373              3580
Maize             4419              5930              6192
Soybean           1335              1991              6101
Bhind         Mexican
Wheat            77803             92724              N.A.
Sehore        Hybrid
Sorghum            -                5000              N.A.
Soybean          12152             20447              N.A.
Mandsaur       Sorghum          77145             84368             85000
Maize            48341             53507             54000
Soybean           2590              9027             30000



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
G. Trends of N P K use in Project Districts
(In Kg/Ha.)
District                1976-77            1977--78          1978-79
Balaghat                        3.34              5.94              6.36
Bhind                          18.21             18.21             18.87
Morena                         18.17             24.30             25.10
Sehore                         4.34               5.69              5.54
Bari (Raisen)                   5.97              6.60              8.06
Bilaspur                        6.47              7.31              8.35
Chhatarpur                      4.12              4.45              5.86
Chhindwara                      3.50              4.45              4.51
Gwalior                        20.34             17.22             19.83
Jhabua                          1.84              2.77              3.90
Khandwa                         9.34             12.80             12.97
Mandsaur                       15.22             12.00             20.81
Narsinghpur                    12.27              8.76              7.92
Sagar                           2.88              3.48              4.21
Satna                           4.78              6.98              7.03
Note:   Increase in fertilizer consumption in Project districts over
1976-77 level is 66% as compared to other districts of MP at
48%.



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6
J. Disbursements
Disbursements as of        Actual       Appraisal Estimate        (2) as % of (3)
(1)                    (2)               (3)                      (4)
US$ M              US$ M
June 30, 1979               0.3                 3.3                      9
September 30, 1979          0.3                 4.4                      7
December 31, 1979           0.7                 5.6                     12
March 31, 1980              0.9                 6.2                     14
June 30, 1980               2.3                 6.7                      34



3 33 
ANNEX 2
Table 1
INDIA
T:AD:1YA PRADESH EXTENSION PROJECT - PIIASE II
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(Rs' 000)
Foreign Exchange
-Cost Category                          Year 1      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5       Total         _         Cost
INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTS
- Base Coat            a/                9,073.5    20,896.0       32,336.5   43,048.4    49,845.7    155,200.1
- Physical ContingeBp-                      -           -             -         2,950.0      2,950.0       5,900.0
- Pri_e Contingency-                       817.1      3,342.3       7,761.8   14,717.1    20,063.6        46,701.9
TOTAL                                  9,890.6    24,238.3      40,098.3   60,715.5    72,859.3    207,802.0
CIVIL WORKS
- Base Cost                             16,541.6    19,219.2       24,567.8   24,376.6    17,914.4    102,619.6
- Physical Contingen5iy/                   827.1        960.9       1,228.4    1,218.8         895.7      5,130.9
- Price Contingency-                     1,488.7      3,075.1       5,896.3    7,800.5      6,807.5      25,068.9
TOTAL                                18,857.4    23,255.2       31,692.5   33,395.9    25,617.6    132.818.4
EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES
- Base Cost           /               8,318.1       7,855.2       7,954.4    7,993.0         -         32,121.0
- Physical Continge 5/                     415.9        392.8         397.7       3907         _          1,606.1
- Price Contingency-                       748.6      1,256.8       1,909.1    2,557.8          -         6 472-3
TOTAL                                 9,482.6      9,504.8      10,261.2   10,950.5          -         40,199.4      28/rA1   t,255.7
INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS
- Bat.e Cost                             3,461.4      8,634.1      13,246.7   18,582.6    19,361.4       63,286.2
- Physical Contingeg-/                     172.8        431.7         662.3       929.1        968.1      3,164.0
- Price Contingency-                       311.5      1,381.5       3,179.2    5,946.4      7,357.3      18 1759
TOTAL                                  3,945.7    10,447.3      17,088.2   25,458.1    27,686.8        84,626.1      34%      28,772.9
TRAINING
Bas e Cost                             1,771.3      2,482.8       2,646.8    2,677.7      1,966.5      11,545.1
- Physical Continge c/                      88.5        124.1         132.3       133.8         98.3         577.0
- Price Contingency-                       159.4        397.2         635.2       856.9        747.3       2 796 0
TOTAL                                  2,019.2      3,004.1       3,414.3    3,668.4       2,812.1     14,918.1       8%       1,193.5
TOTAL
- Base Cost                             39,171.5    59,081.1       80,756.6   96,671.1    89,091.4    364,772.0
- Physical Contingencies                 1,504.3      1,909.5       2,420.7    5,631.4       4,912.1     16,378.0
- Price Contingencies                    3525.3       9,452.9      19,381.6   31,878.7    34,975.7        99,214.2
GRtND TOTAL                          44,201.1    70,443.5    102,558.9  134,181.2   128.979.2    480,364.2            8.5%   41,222.1
a/ Calc-lated as staff salary of 500 VEW in last two years only for additional VEW if needed after a mid cerm review.
bI Inflated rate:  applied cumulatively at 97., 16%, 24'!., 327o and 387. respectively for project years 1 through 5
(estirmated date of effectiveness of loan by July 1981).
cl Physical contingency calculated at 5%.
d/ Weighted average of vehicle (25%) and equipment (40%).



INDIA
MADAYA PRADESH EXTENSION PROJECT - PHASE II
CIVIL WORKS
(Rs' 000)
Ar=2a     Cost2                          Year I              Year 2               Year 3              Year 4              Year 5
Quantity      (N )     (Rs/M )    Unit Cost         (No.)     Cost      (No.)    Cost       (N..)      Cost     (No.)      Cost      (No.)    Cost    Total Cost
Housing
VEBW /                                              3,00O       32.5      670.0           22.0        (300)  6,600.0    (600) 13,200.0   (750) 16,500.0    (750) 16,500.0    (600) 13,200.0                 66,000.0
I/t500                                                      55.8       670.0          37.4         (50)  1,870.0    (100)  3,740.0   (125)  4,675.0    (125)  4,675.0    (100)  3,740.0                  18.700.0
SDAE2                                                  81       92.9      670.0           62.2         (13)     808.6      (15)     933.0    (23)  1,430.6          (23)  1,430.6        (7)    435.4         5,038.2
DDA-                                                     3      92.9      670.0           62.2          (1)      62.2       (1)      62.2       (1)       62.2                -                    -            186.6
Off ice
Subdivis3 n/                                           81    115.1        670.0           77.0         (13)  1, 01.0       (15)  1,155.0    (23)  1,771.0    (23)  1,771.0               (7)     539.0       6,237.0
District-s                                              3    192.4        670.0         129.0           (1)     129.0       (1)     129.0       (1)      129.0                -                    -            387.0
S11B-TOTAL                                                                                                  10,470.8             t9                  24,567.8            24,376.6             17,914.4      96,548.8
Training Center
Housing - DDA                                           2      92.9       670.0           62.2          (2)    124.4                 -                    -                   -                   -             124.4
- ADA                                         10      92.9      670.0           62.2         (10)    622.0                  -                   -                   -                    -            622.0
- AA                                           6      55.8  7/ 670.07/          37 4          (6)     224.4                 .                   -                   -                    -            224.4
Hostcl.6/                                               6       14.0  -    60.7-        850.0           (6)  5,100.0                 -                    -                   -                   -          5,100.0
SUB-TOTAL                                                                                                    6,070.8                 -                   -                    -                   -          6,070.8
Total (Excluding contingencies                                                                              16,541.6            19,219.2            24,567.8             24,376.6            17,914.4   102,619.6
Physical contingencies (5%)                                                                                     827.1               960.9            1,228.4              1,218.8                895.7       5 130.9
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                                 17,368.7            20,180.1            25,796.2             25,595.4            18,810.1    107,750.5
1/ 20% VEWs and AEO in the non-tribal area and 100% for VEWs and EOs in the tribal area.
2/ Housing for 100/. SDAO (Total 92 subdivisions).
/ Housing for 3 DDA, 30 already available.
4/ Office for 92 subdivision (non existing).
5/ Office for 3 district units, 30 district units already available.
6/ One hostel for 100 students (10,0003q. ft) plus 2 classrooms of 20 x 20 x 20 sq. ft. for 50 students for each classroom
plus use common hall of 80 a 40 sq. ft.
7/ In sq. ft.



- 33 -
ANNEX 2
INDIA                                                             Table 3
HDAMYA PRADESH EXTENSION PROJECT - PHASE 11
VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
(as, 000)
Year 1            Year 2              Year 3           Year 4            Year 5         Total
TVP     Quantity    Unit Cost    (No.)    Coat    (No.)    Cost    (No.)    Cost    (No.)    Cost    (No.)    Coat    Cost
Vehicle
Headquarters (DiA)-                            4-WD           5         75.0         (3)    225.0    (2)       150.0          -                   _                 -          375.0
District  c- Cinemaan                          V-an         33         100 0         (5)    500.0    (9)       900.0   (9)        900.0    (10)  1,O00.0            -        3,300.0
i   DDA                              4-WD           2         85.0W-       (1)      85.0    (1)       85.0          -                   -                  -         170.0
- sMs                                4-WD         33          85.0         (5)    425.0    (9)       765.0   (9)        765.0    (10)    850.0            -        2,805.0
Subdirlsic- - SDAO                             4-WD         81          85.0        (13)  1,105.0   (19)   1,615.0  (20)    1,700.0    (29)  2,465.0                -        6,885.0
a                                                        Car           1          90.0         (1)      90.0         -                  -                   -                 -           90.0
M & E Unit                                     4-WD          2          75.0         (I)      75.0    (i)       75.0          -                   -                 -          130.0
Coamiasioar of Land Record                     4-HD          1          75.0         (1)      75.0         -                  -                   -                 -           75.0
Training Center                                4-RD          6          75.0         (6)    450.0          -                  -                   -                 -          450.0
Bos           6         225.0        (6)  1,350.0          -                   -                  -                  -       1,350.0
Staff Owned      VEW 3/                             Cyola    5,000             0.5       923      461.5 1,344       672.0  1,441       720.5  1,292      646.0           -        2,500.0
AECSMB 4/                          M.Cycle  1,071            7.0        200   1,400.0   300    2,100.0    385   2,695.0    186   1,302.0                -        7,497.0
SUB-TOTAL                                                                                 6,241.5            6,362.0           6,780.            6,263.0            -       25,647.0
Office Equipi-st & Furniture
and Aadic Visual Aids
State L-evl 5/                                                           8.0         (1)      9.0         -                   -                  -                  -            9.0
H.adq..".-r 6/                                                          60.0         (1)     60.0         -                   -                  -                  -           60.0
Division  7/                                                           121.5         (4)    486.0    (3)       364.5              -         (2)    243.0            -       1,093.5
District 87                                                             54.5         (5)    272.5    (9)       490.5   (9)       490.5    (10)    543.0             -       1,798.5
Sobdiviwi.n  9/                                                         30.0        (03)    390.0    (9)       570.0  (20)       600.0    (29)    870.0             -       2,430.0
M & E Unit - ieadquarter-  1O/                                                              126.2                6.2              15.2               21.0           -         168.7
- Division 11S                                                                   40.5               14.0              14.0      -        -             -           68.5
- District 12/                                                                    6.0               12.2              13.2               14.0           -          45.4
- Subdivision 13/                                                                11.7               23.8              29.0               24.4           -          88.9
Ctasissioner of Land Records 04/                                                                 38.0              12.0              12.0                              -           74.5
Training CeniSr (DDA)
- Training Staff  I5/                                                            20.2         -                   -             -                      -           20.2
- Clasaresnes 16/                                           21.0         (6)    126.0         --                                                       -          126.0
- Hostel 17/                                                31.3        (6)    187.8          -         -                       -                      -          187.8
- Dining Nail I8/                                           32.5         (6)    195.0         -         -                       -                      -          195.0
- Comsnon Sail  19/                                         10.0        (6)      60.0         -                  -             -                       -           60.0
Training Staff (JNKVV)                                           6          8.0 20/   (6)        48.0         -                  -             -                       -           48.0
SUB-TOTAL                                                                                 2,076.9           1,493.2           1,173.9            1.730.0           -        6,474.0
Total (E:ccludingcc-tingencies)                                                           8,318.4           7,855.2            7,954.4           7,993.0           -       32,121.0
Physical contingencies  (57.)                                                               415.9             392.8              397.7             399.7           _        1,606.1
GRAND ToTAi                                                                               5,734.3           8,248.0           5,352.1            9,392.7           -       33.727.1
1/ Two for 2 JDA, two for 2 DDA aed one for Asaistant Director Agricult-re (Chief Artist Visoalization).
7/ Thirty one 4-WD already available (DDA), price of 4-WD and one trailer.
S/ Including cycle far VEW and VEW (inputs) at block level (Rs. 500 per cycle).
4/  Motor cycle for AEO, SMS at subdivisona1 and district level, and staffs of M & E Unit (Rs. 7000 per  otor cycle).
7/ 2 typewriters  t Rs. 4000 and one calculator at RN. 100.
Table  nd chairs total R.. 14,000, four typesriters @ Rs. 4000 and one electronic cyclostyling  -ach-ne at Rs. 30,000.
7/ One electronic cyclostyling machine at RB. 30,000 for each audit unit, table and chairs totally at RE. 5,000, one letter
prean at Ra. 60,000, one slide pro-jctor at Rs. 6,500 and  oret of chibiti-n at Rs. 20,000 far  ach Press Unit.
8/ Ra. 54,5CO/diatrict, co-ptising chair and tables at RB. 15,000, 2 typewriters at 8,000, one duplicator at 2,000, one
caera with dark coom and  quipment at RB. 15,000, one tape recordr at Rs. 2,000, one  t P.A. sy6tra at Rs. 2,500 and one 16 M.M.
projector at Rn. 10,000.
9/ Rs. 30,000/subdivision, cosprlsing chairs and tables at Rs. 10,000, two typewriters at Rs. 8,000, one duplicator at Re. 2,000, other
office equipment at RE. 3,000, MtaNM   Rs. 3,000 and other traieing equipment ot Re. 4,000.
IO/ Sis typewriters in year I and 2 and year 4 @ RE. 4,000, one duplicator in year 1 @ Rs. 25,000, record cabinets at Rs. 5,000 in yer 1
Rg. 5,00(1 is year 2, Ra. 10,000 in year 3 ad 4,  ight ca-lcultor at RE. 400 in yeac 1 and year 3. Table and chairs at Rs. 1,050 in
year  , its. 1,200 in year 2, Ra. 2,000 in year 3 end Rs. 3,050 in year 4.
II/ oid  type-riter at Rs. 4,000 in yer 1, 2 in year 2 and year 3, tabls and chairs at Rn. 8,700 in year 1, Rs. 2,900 in year 2 ad year 3,
twelve c-lculators at RE. 400 in year 1, four in year 2 and year 3, r cord cabinets at RN. 3,000 in year I and Ra. 1,300 in yr 2 ad yer 3.
12/ Chairs and tables at RN. 2,000, 3,600, 3,600 and 4,000 in year I to 4 respectively, calculator at Rs. 400 each, 3 calculators in year 1, 9,
9 and 10 in year 2, 3 and 4 re;pactively, record cabinets at RB. 2,000, 5,000, 6,000 and 6,000 in year 1, 2, 3 and 4.
13/ Tables anld chairs at Rs. 5,200, 10,400, 12,000 and 9,200 in year 1, 2, 3, and 4 reapectively, thirteen calculator at Rs. 400 in year 1, 26,
30 and 23 iS year 2, 3 and 4 r-sp-ctivaly, and record cahbieta at RN. 1,500, 3,000, 5,000 and 6,000 respectively.
141 Tables ated chairs at Rs. 10,000, 20,000 and 20,000 in year 1, 2 and year 3, seven calculators in year 1 at Rs. 2,25), two typewriters in
year 1 at Rs. 9J000 each and crop cuttirg equipments which needed for 750 Pat-aries at Rs. 50 per set at totally Rs. 5,000, 10,000, 10,000 and
12,500 is year 1, 2, 3 and 4 respectively.
13/    ADArnir, two tables, 4 chairs  one erned cahiret sod 2 atools for ech DDA, two tables, 2 chairs, (cicklRs. 1,400), 1 c-binet and one stool for
each ADA, and 3 tables, I cabinet and 2 chairs for e-ch AA (UD), (total RE. 900).
16/ Furniture for sash rester at RB. 21,000 per 2 clas.rocms. One clasrooas comprises of 50 .a.tings at Ra. 200 per seating, tables and cbhirs
at Rs. 500/clasaroas.
17/ Furnitufe foe one hostel at Rs. 31,250, conprise-  of bedding at Rs. 150 fr 100 atudents, S-tables at RB. 500/table, 50 chairs at RB. 75/chair
and 150 lockers at R.. 100/loch.
18/ Re. 32,500 per one dining hall in each center, csmpriaes of set of ute-tils and cooking vessel at RB. 20,000/center, 25 sets of dining table at
RE. 250/set, and 25 arts of benches at Rs. 250.
19/ Folding chairs with tables and other furniture fsr 100 aets per center at RB. 100/art.
2if Office furniture and equipment at Rs. 8,000/acientiat.



INDIA
MADJYA PRADESH EXTENSION PROJECT - PHASE IJ
TRAINING COSTS
(Rs' 000)
Year 1             Year 2             Year 3             Year 4             Year 5          Total
Unit Cost    (No.)    Cost    (No.)    Cost    (No.)    Cost    (No.)    Cost    (No.)    Cost    Cost
Pre-Service Training (VEW)                             0 45i:         729   328.1        958   431.1        529   238.1      1,310   589.5        624   280.8   1,867.6
Short Course Refresher (VEW)                           0.151'       1,509   226.4    1,509   226.4    1,509   226.4    1,509   226.4    1,509   226.4   1,132.0
Special Course (VEW)                                   030_'        2,160    -         2,160    -         2,160    -         2,160    -         2,160    -           -
Pre-Season (SDAO)                                      0.251-'        184    46.0        184    46.0        184    46.0        184    46.0        184    46.0       230.0
Orientation (VFW)                                      0.202k          92    18.4         92    18.4         92    18.4         92    18.4         92    18.4        92.0
In-Service Forthnightly (VEW) On(W.                                 8,138   406.9    8,138   406.9    8,138   406.9    8,138   406.9    8,138   406.9   2,034.5
Deputation to Graduate Course (VEW)                    4.8/           80   320.0        160   640.0        245   980.0        165   660.0         85   340.0   2,940.0
Refresher Training (AEO)                              0o5              18    90.0         18    90.0         18    90.0         18    90.0         18    90.0       450.0
Special Training (AEO)                                 0-51-/          18    90.0         18    90.0         18    90.0         18    90.0         18    90.0       450.0
DeputatlOlt to post Graduate (AEO)                    5so1_"           30   150.0         60   300.0         60   300.0         60   300.0         60   300.0   1,350.0
DeputatiOn to post Graduate (SMS)                      5 Ol-           10    50.0         20   100.0         20   100.0         20   100.0         20   100.0       450.0
Deputation National or International                      12/
in-service Course (SMS)                               3 0C34           5    15.0         5    15.0           5    15.0         5    15.0           5    15.0        75.0
Specialized Training for Senior Officers               5: -13/         -      -            8    40.0          6    30.0          6    30.0          -      -        100.0
(Administration, Management and Planning)
Seminar and Workshop (T & V)
- Sub-Division                                     1.0154         13    13.0        39      39.0        56    56.0         53    53.0         23    23.0       184.0
- District                                         2 5-            5    12.5        14      35.0        18    45.0         19    47.5         10    25.0       165.0
- State Level                                      5 0             1      5.0        1       5.0         1      5.0         1      5.0          1     5.0        25.0
Total (Excluding contingencies)                                           1,771.3            2,482.8            2,646.8            2,677.7            1,966.5  11,545.1
Physical contingencies (571)                                                 88.5              124.1              132.3              133.8                98.3      577.0
GRAND TOTAL                                                               1,859.8            2,606.9            2,779.1            2,811.5            2,064.8  12,122.1
1/ Rs. 75/M/VEW for six months.
2/ Rs. 75/M/VEW for 2 months.
3/ Rs. 5/day/VEY for daily allowance for 2 months (provided in salary).
4/ Rs. 250/course (two courses/year for SDAO, 92 SDAO/course).
5/ Rs. 200/50 VOW batch/year/92 Sub Divisions
6/ Rs. 50/forthllightly (26 forthnights in a year in 313 blocks).
7/ Rs. 4000/VEW course/3 years.
8/ Rs. 500 per batch of 35 AEO for 15 days at 3 batches per center/year.
9/ Rs. 500 per batch of 30 AEO for 15 days at 3 batches per center/year.
10/ Rs. 5000/AEO/2 years.
11/ Rs. 5000/sms52 years.                                                                                                                                                           ,
12/ Rs. 3000/SMS/year.
13/ Rs. 5000/office/year.
14/ Rs. o1o0 workshop or seminar (2 seminars/subdivision/year).
15/ Rs. 2500/workshop or seminar (2 seminars/district/year).
176/ Rs. 5000/workshop or seminar/year.
a X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
Table 5(a)
INDIA
MADRYA_P8ADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT:  PHASE II
Incrementoal Staff Salaries and Incentives
(Rs '000)
Unit Cost        Year I             Year 2              Year 3              Year 4               Year 5
Rs '000       (N o)     Cost    (No.)    Cost         (No.)    Coat      (No.)    Coat        (No.)      Cost     Total Cost
INCREMENTAL EXTENSION STAyF
Headquarters       - JDA                   21.8          (2)       43.6     (2)       43.6       (2)      43.6       (2)      43.6       (2)        43.6         218.0
- DDA                  16.7          (2)       33.4      (2)      33.4       (2)       33.4      (2)       33.4       (2)       33.4         167.0
District           - DDA                   16.7          (1)       16.7     (2)       33.4       (2)       33.4      (2)      33.4       (2)        33.4         150.3
- SM8                  12.0          (3)       36.0    (33)      396.0      (56)      672.0    (88)   1,056.0    (102)    1,224.0          3,384.0
Subdivision        - SDA0                  12.0         (13)      156.0    (32)      384.0      (53)     636.0    (71)       852.0      (81)       972.0       3,000.0
- SM5                   9.4         (39)      366.6    (96)      902.4    (159)   1,494.6   (213)   2,002.2    (243)    2,284.2            7,050.0
Field Level        - AED                    8.2       (131)   1,074.2   (301)   2,465.2    (511)   4,185.8   (683)   5,594.2    (797)    6,528.4             19,847.8
-VEW                    5.9        (729)   4,301.1  (1687)   9,953.3   (2611)  15,404.9  (5526)  20,803.4   (4150)   24,485.0             74,947.7
Sub Total                                                      6,e27.6            14,311.3            22,503.7            30,418.2             35,604.0    108,764.8
INCREMENTAL SUPPORT STAFF
Headquartersl      - State                 2a.s 28.5               28.5               28.5                 28.5                                                  142.5
- DDA                 269.3 1/                269.3               269.3               269.3               269.3                269.3       1,546.5
Division                                   23.5 T/       (4)       94.0     (7)      164.5       (9)      211.5      (9)     211.5       (9)       211.5         893.0
Disvrict           - New                  149.011        (1)      149.0      (2)     298.0       (2)      298.0      (2)     298.0       (2)       298.0       1,341.0
E Existing             25.3 T/       (4)      101.2    (11)       278,3     (19)      480.7    (27)      683.1      (31)       784.3       2,327.6
Subdivision                                41.6  l/    (13)      540.8    (32)   1,331.2        (53)   2,204.8    (71)   2,953.6        (81)    3,369.6       10,400.0
District - Supply Officer (ADA)            12.0          (5)       60.0    (13)      156.0      (21)      252.0    (29)      348.0      (33)       396.0       1,212.0
Subdivision        - CEO                    9.4         (13)     122.2    (32)       300.8      (53)     498.2    (71)       667.4      (81)       761.4       2,350.0
Block              - VEW Inputs             5.9        (135)      796.5   (402)   2,371.8    (608)   3,587.2   (810)   4,779.0    (939)    5,540.1            17,074.6
Sub Total                                                      2.161.5             5,198.4             7,830.2            10.238.4              11,658.7      37.087.2
TZRAINING CENTER STAFF (DOA)
Principal          - DDA                   16.7          (2)       33.4     (2)       33.4       (2)       33.4      (2)      33.4       (2)        33.4        167.0
Instructor         - ADA                   12.0         (10)     120.0    (10)       120.0      (10)     120.0    (10)       120.0      (10)       120.0        600.0
- AA(uuD)               9.4          (6)       56.4      (6)       56.4      (6)       56.4      (6)       56.4      (6)        56.4        282.0
Sub-Total                                                         709.8              209.8                209.8              209.8                 209.8      1,049.0
TRAINING STAFF (JN1KVV)
Senior Training Specialist                 35.0          (1)      35.0      (1)       35.0       (L)       35.0      (1)      35.0       (1)        35.0        175.0
Training Specialist                        30.0          (5)     150.0       (5)     1500        (5)       150.0     (5)     L.50.0      (5)       150.0        750.0
Dist. Ext. Agronomist                      14.6          (5)       73.0    (13)      189.8      (21)      306.6    (29)      423.4      (33)       481.8      1,474.6
Sub-Total                                                        258.0               374.8                491.6              608.4                 666.8      2,399.6
I83NITOPRING  AND EVALUATION 2/                                   416.6              901.7              1,301.2            1,573.6               1,706.4      5,899.5
TOTAL                                                          9,073.5            20,896.0             32,336.5           43,048.4              49,845.7   155,200.1
Physical Contingencies 3                                           -                  -                   -        (500)   2,950.0    (500)    2,950.0        5,900.0
GRAND TOTAL                                                     9,073.5           20,896.0             32,336.5           45.998.4              52,795.7   161.100.1
AJ Details are at Annex 2, Table 5(b).
i/ Details are at Annex 2, Table 5(c).
Calculated as staff salary of 500 VEW in last two years only for
additional VEW if needed after raid-term review.



- 38 -
INDIA                                    ANNEX 2
Table 5(b)
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
UNIT COST OF SUPPORT STAFF
No.          Annual Salary
1. State Level
Senior Clerk                          2              15,624
Statistical Assistant                 1               8,256
Clerk Typist                          2               4,596
28,476
2. Headquarters (DOA)
Assistant Superintendent              1                8,256
Stenographer                         2               16,512
Agricultural Assistant (UD)           1                9,420
Senior Clerk                          1                7,812
Auditor                               4              27,600
Sub-auditor                          4               24,528
Junior Clerk                          5              30,660
Clerk-Typist                          7               32,172
Peon                                  8              30,624
ADA                                   4               48,000
Driver                                3              15,012
Assistant Accountant                  3              12,000
Accountant                            1                6,696
269,292
3. Divisional Level
a)  Press Unit
Press Overator             1                7,812
Compositor                 1                5,004
Helper                     1                3,828
16,644
b) Audit Unit
Auditor                    1                6,900
Total (a+b) 23,544
4. Existing District
Cinema & Photo Unit
Cinema Operator                       1               4,596
Photographer                          1               6,900
Driver                               2               10,008
Helper                                1                3,828
25,332
5. New District
ADA (Tech.)                          1               12,000
Senior Technical Assistant           1                9,420
Junior Technical Assitant             3              24,768
Head Clerk                            1               7,812
Stenographer                         1                8,256
Accountant                            1               6,696
Junior Clerk                          4              24,528
Clerk/Typist                         6               27,576
Peon                                 t               22,968
Driver                               1                5,004
149,028
6. Sub-givision
Statistical Assistant                 1               8,256
Itnmor Cflerk                         2               12,246
Clerk/Typist                          1               4,596
Peon                                  3              11,484
Driver                                1               5,004
41,586



INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT: PHASE II
Monitoring and Evaluation - Incremental Staff Salaries
(Rs '000)
Annual
Unit Cost       Year 1          Year 2           Year 3       Year 4         Year 5
(Rs '000)   (No.)   Cost   (No.)  Cost        (No.)  Cost  (No.)  Cost (No.)   Cost           Total Cost
HEADQUARTER STAFF (DOA)
Joint Director                      21.8       (1)      21.8   (1)       21.8   (1)    21.8  (1)    21.8  (1)    21.8               109.0
Rural Sociologist                   16.7                   -   (1)       16.7   (1)    16.7  (1)    16.7  (1)    16.7                66.8
ADA-Statistics                      12.0                    -   (1)      12.0   (1)    12.0  (1)    12.0  (1)    12.0                48.0
ADA-Farm Management                 12.0                    -   (1)      12.0   (1)    12.0  (1)    12.0  (1)    12.0                48.0
Research Assistant                   9.4                    -   (2)      18.8   (4)    37.6  (4)    37.6  (4)    37.6               131.6
Statistical Assistant                8.3                   -   (2)       16.6   (4)    33.2  (6)    49.8  (6)    49.8               149.4
Key Punch Operator                   6.1                    -   (2)      12.2   (2)    12.2  (3)    18.3  (3)    18.3                61.0
Computer Operator                    6.1                   -   (4)       24.4   (6)    36.6  (8)    48.8  (10)   61.0               170.8
Stenographer                         8.3                   -   (3)       24.9   (3)    24.9  (4)    33.2  (4)    33.2               116.2
Typist                               4.6                    -   (3)      18.8   (3)    13.8  (4)    18.4  (4)    18.4                64.4 *
Peon                                 3.8        (4)     15.2   (6)       22.8   (6)    22.8  (6)    22.8  (6)    22.8               106.4            w
Sub-Total                                              37.0            196.0          243.6          291.4          303.6       1,071.6
DIVISIONAL STAFF (DOA)
ADA - Statistics                    12.0       (6)      72.0   (8)       96.0  (10)   120.0  (10)  120.0 (10)   120.0               528.0
Computer                             6.1       (6)      36.6   (8)       48.8  (10)    61.0  (10)   61.0 (10)    61.0               268.4
Typist                               4.6       (6)      27.6   (8)       36.8  (10)    46.0  (10)   46.0 (10)         46.0          202.4
Peon                                 3.8       (6)      22.8   (8)       30.4  (10)    38.0  (10)   38.0 (10)         38.0          167.2
Sub-Total                                             159.0           212.0           265.0          265.0          265.0       1,166.0
District - Research Assistant         9.4       (5)      47.0  (13)    122.2  (21)   197.4  (29)  272.6 (33)   310.2                 949.4
Subdivision - Statistical Ass.        8.3       (13)   107.9  (32)    265.6  (53)   439.9  (71)  589.3 (81)   672.3               2,075.0
CONMISSIONER-LAND RECORDS
Deputy Commissioner                 13.5       (1)      13.5  (1)        13.5  (1)       13.5  (10    13.5 (1)        13.5           67.5
Assistant Commissioner              12.0       (1)      12.0  (1)        12.0  (1)       12.0  (1)    12.0 (1)        12.0           60.0
Senior Stat. Assistant               9.4       (2)      18.8  (4)        37.6  (6)      56.4  (6)    56.4 (6)         56.4          225.6
Computer                             6.1       (2)      12.2  (4)        24.4  (6)      36.6  (6)    36.6 (6)         36.6          146.4
Clerk/Typist                         4.6       (2)       9.2  (4)        18.4  (8)      36.8  (8)    36.8 (8)         36.8          138.0
Sub-Total                                              65.7           105.9           155.3          155.3          155.3         637.5      C D
GRAND TOTAL                                           416.6           901.7         1,301.2        1,573.6        1,706.4       5,899.5        X
U, >
0.



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
INDIA                                                            Table 6
MADHYA PRADESE EXTENSION PROJECT - PHASE II
INCREMENTAL OPERATING COST
(Re' 000)
Annual          Year 1              Year 2             Year 3              Ye-r 4              Year 5          Total
Unit Cost    (No.)       Cost    (No.)      Cost    (No.)       Cost    (No.)       Cost    (No.)      Cost    Cost
OPERATIC EXPENSES AND EXTENSION MATERIAL
VEW/AEO                                                     0.51!  (1,755)       438.8 (3,483)   1,741.5 (5,041)   2,520.5 (7,800)   3,900.0 (9,010)   4,505.0  13,105.8
Other St 2ff2/                                              1.0-      (128)       64.0, (380)        285.0   (652)      652.0   (919)       919.0   (919)      919.0   2,839.0
Other Ep-  3/                                              10.0        (18)      180.0    (46)      460.0    (75)       750.0   (114)   1,140.0   (114)   1,140.0   3,670.0
State Level                                                 1.0                    1.0                 1.0                1.0                 1.0                 1.0        5.0
-eadquar-,rc                                               10.0                   10.0                10.0               10.O                10.0                10.0       50.0
Division-                                                  51.0         (4)      204.0      (7)      357.0      (7)     357.0      (9)      459.0      (9)     459.0  1,36.0
Block Level                                                 0.5       (135)       67.5   (402)      201.0   (708)       354.0   (939)       469.5   (939)      469.5   1,561.5
M & E Unit   H Headquarj,rs                                                       15.0                50.0               55.0                60.0                60.0      240.0
- Divisioni,                                                          45.0               60.0                75.0                75.0                75.0     330.0
- District-,            .                                             20.0               56.0                92.0               132.0              132.0      432.0
- Subdiviioo-9/                                                       32.5               97.5               172.5               230.5               230.5      763.5
CoGi..in of L9d R...Record-                                                       29.0               46.0                67. 5               67.5                67.5      277.5
Training Center-                                            7.0         (6)       42.0      (6)      42.0      (6)       42.0      (6)       42.0      (6)      42.0       210.0
SUB-TOTAL                                                                     1,148.8             3,407.0             5,143.5             7,505.5            8,110.5  25,329.3
INCREhENTAL TRAVEL ALLOWANCE AND EXPENSES
VEW-/             II/                                       1.0       (923)      923.0 (2,267)   2,267.0 (3,708)   3,708.0 (5,127)   5,127.0 (5,127)   5,127.0  17,152.0
AEO N/C All   /nc-                                          7.6       (162)      259.2   (405)      648.0   (697)   1,115.2   (826)   1,321.6   (954)   1,526.4   4,870.4
District Supply Officer                                     1.5         (5)        7.5    (14)        21.0    (23)       34.5    (33)        49.5    (33)       49.5       162.0
Subdivsiaonal CEO  12/                                      1.0        (13)       13.0    (32)       32.0    (52)        52.0    (71)        71.0    (81)       85.0      249.0
Subdivisional Staff-13.                                    10.5        (13)      136.5    (32)      336.0    (52)       546.0    (61)       850.5    (81)      850.5   2,719.5
District Staff                                              4.8         (1)        4.8      (1)       4.8      (1)        4.8      (1)        4.8      (1)       4.8        24.0
1ivisio?5/                                         2.7         (5)       13.5    (36)        97.2    (70)      189.0    (90)       243.0   (110)       297.0     639.7
Headquarter 16/                                             4.0         (4)       16.0      (7)      28.0      (7)       28.0      (9)       36.0      (9)      36.0      144.0
Raadqvarter_-   171                                                               56.4                56.4               56.4                56.4               56.4      282.0
Secretarial Level-             181                          1.0                    1.0                 1.0                1.0                 1.0                 1.0        5.0
Un & E Unit     - be-dquarjjf                              12.0                   12.0                12.0               12.0                12.0                12.0       6. 0
_ District-'                                1.5         (5)        7.5    (14)       21.0    (23)        34.5    (33)       49.5    (33)        49.5      162.0
_ Subdi iti 2                               1.0       (13)       13.0    (32)        32.0    (52)        52.0    (81)       81.0    (81)        81.0      259.0
- Divistac-'                                2.5         (4)      10.0      (7)       17.5      (7)       17.5      (9)      22.5      (9)       22.5       90.0
-    IUI4WM.                    _                                                   1,473.4             3,573.9             5,850.9            7,925.8             8,194.6  27,018.6
VENICLE OPEIATING COST
Hleadquarters   - 4-WD (diesel/                            30.0         (3)       90.0      (5)      150.0      (5)     150.0      (5)      150.0      (5)     150.0      690.0
District        - Van (diesel..)24                         29.8         (5)      149.0    (14)      417.2    (23)       685.4    (33)       983.4    (33)      983.4   3,218.4
4-WD (die... f24/                       20.1         (6)      120.6    (16)       321.6    (25)       502.5    (35)      703.5    (35)       703.5   2,351.7
S44(dieselt                        10.0        (13)      130.0    (32)      320.0    (52)       520.0    (81)       810.0    (81)      810.0   2,590.0
M 6 E Unit   - - Car (diesel) -6                           30.0         (1)       30.0      (1)       30.0      (1)       30.0     (1)       30.0      (1)       30.0      150.0
- 4-WN  (diesel)                           29.8         (1)       29.8     (2)       59.6      (2)       59.6      (2)       59.6     (2)       59.6      268.2
Comeission of
Land Record    - 4-WD (diesel 27'                          29.8         (1)       29.8      (1)       29.8      (1)      29.8      (12       29.8      (1)     :29.8      149.0
Training Center- 4-WD (diesel)2                            10.0         (6)       60.0      (6)       60.0      (6)      60.0      (6)       60.0      (6)      60.0      300.0
- Bus (diesel)                             30.0         (6)     180.0       (6)     180.0      (6)      180.0      (6)     180.0      (6)      180.0      900.0
Ad hoc Studies and External Evaluation (11 & E)                                   15.0                85.0               35.0               145.0               50.0      330.0
S0B-TOTAL                                                                        834.2            1,653.2             2,252.3            3,151.3             3,056.3  10,947.3
Total (Excluding contingencie&)                                                3,461.4            8,634.1            13,246.7           18,582.6            19,361.4  63,286.2
Physicl, contingencies (5%)                                                      172.8              431.7               662.3               929.1              968.1   3,164.0
GRAND TOTAL                                                                    3,634.2            9,065.8            13,909.0           19,511.7            20,329.5  66,450.2
1/ Includes printing of diaries, ch-rts and instructional naterials, ample of small implements, seeds, pesticides etc. for field trials and
training damonstration, poster paper and paints for simple visual aids.  Taken at 50%, of unit cost in year 1, 75% in year 2 end 1001
thereafter. (Includes VEW inputs at block level).
2/ Include SMIS at diattict and subdivision, SDAO and DDA.
3/ Calculated at Re. 10,000 per annum for each subdivisional district office.
4/ Bs. 50,000 per annu. for each press unit and Rs. 1,000 per annum for each audit unit.
1/ Office running costs at Ra. 15,000, 20,000, 25,000, 30,000 and 30,000 in year 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 respectively, office rental at Rs. 30,000 in
year 2, 3, 4 and 5 respectively.
Office cent at RB. 9,000 per annum, 12,000, 15,000, 15,000 end 15,000 in year 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 respectively.  Office running costs at
Is. 36,000 per annum, 48,000, 60,000, 60,000 and R.. 60,000 in year 1, 2, 3, 4 and year 5 respectively.
7/ Office running costs.
1/ To cover costs of employing temporary enumertors, consultants, etc.
Tl Office running costs at Re. 20,00Q, 30,000, 40,000, 40,000, and 40,000, Nonorarium to Patwaries at RB. S,O00, 10,000, 19,500, 19,500, and
19,500 labor compensatton charges at Re. 4,000, 6,000, 8,000, 8,000 and 8,900 in yer 1, 2, 3, 4 and year 5 respectIveLy.
9a/ Office operating cost for library at each canter at Ra. 2,000 per annum, aed office operating for e.ch training center st R. 5,000 per ennum.
10/ FiPed PTA and vehicle (cycle) alownce at RB. 85/month including VEW (inputs) at block level.
11/ Rs. 85/month for PTA end Re. 50/month for motorcycle mileage allowance.
Ii/ PTA Rs. 160/aonth for SDAO plus one driver at Rs. 100/month and three SMSo' PTA at Rs. 384/month plus one driver at RB. 100/month and one
statistical assistant's PTA of Re. 128/month.
13  PTA and transportation and allowance for DDA at Re. 300/month plus one driver's PTA at RB. l00/month.
NE Se15. PTA at R.. 128/month plus one driver PTA at Ra. IOO/month.
15/PTA and public transport allowance for artist at RB 2,000/ye-r and PTA for auditor at R.. 2,000/year.
IT/ PTA of Re. 1,500/m.onth for two DDA and RB. 1,200/month for 2 ADA (including travel allowance by public transport, PTA for two joint Director at R.. 2,000/month.
Pta and transport allowance by public transport for Statistic-l Assistant at state level.
fL/ TA and tr-nsport allowance by public transport for JDA at Rs. 1,000/month.
191 PTA and transport allowance 6pr-resesrch assistant at Rs. 1,500/yaar.
a PTA nd transport allowance for etatiatical assistant at RB. 1,000/ye-r.
Di  PTX an& ttxnepoct    o,aence fin  B   (etatAttL toe  for crop cutting unrk.
22  40,000 km/year at Ra. 0.75/km.
241 35,000 km/year at Re. 0.85/km.
24/ 30,000 ku/year*tR.06/a
2/  25,900 km/year at Re. 0.40/km.
v Carat 30,000 km/year at RB. 1.0/km (benzil); 4-WD (diesel) at 35,000 kh/year at Ra. 0.85/km.
71 4-UD (diesel) at 35,080 km/year at Rs. 0.85/km.
E1 4-WD (diesel) at 25,000 km/year at Rs. 0.40/km; Bus tdMaesa) at 40,000 kh/year at Re. 0.75/km.
bed



tbs4   < v  <<1   'oN ''vt44   So 1              ''''                    ''''                      '  ' /'vF<s14w< 
O_._.,-I                          -I                        -1                     -   iI...|        
-l-1
-             3I
_ - !>g~r 88v     41                                                                                             1                      --    Z>>k N4     l
7  gN  r  rl  NoN i  o 1                                                                                                                       4   1, tN| 1nNH>     1r   I 
l~~    ~    ~~~           4,44,-            4,,,>44.4                 4  ,a 4,4,,  N_   V  |4   ,4 -,N       N-      N ,rna-
_ 6~~~ -|                                                         N,                                ,  4 , 4 4           _                     4,  oNNNNb      Ho      |X  e1
D .4,4,O074-,<X C                     4 ,8           ONGoH4 74,O O 4,o<'4.4444  4,,4   4,.4        00,fx l'44C     o    4   4
4,074,-     *04,4,4,4,4,4,4-4,~~~~~~~~~~~4,4,          4,e 
si                                                                                                                          = '-'t
|~~~~~~-                                   -   -                                                                     4,4,4,  u      NSa^N<       x_o.  
E  |o  N  esD  N| So m ' a> >51 a  < ~  K  rNo o > ss G > O  o} < o  -Is.C 
A      Rl,N           -4444-447                                  I      4,fb'C,,4 e4 O             )I4   ,o       4,I   4   ,Xu 



-42 -
ANNEX 2
INDIA                                        Table 8
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT: PHASE II
Requirement of Staff by Year
Year 1        Year 2         Year 3         Year 4       Year 5
VEW
Existing           Yearly                         611           708            1,238          584           399
Cumulative                                1,319            2,557        3,141          3,540
New                Yearly                         729           958              924          915            624
Cumulative                                1,687            2,611        3,526          4,150
AEO
Existing           Yearly                          59            71              105           46             36
Cumulative                                   130             235          281            317
New                Yearly                         131            170             210          172            114
Cumulative                                   301             511          683            797
Subdivision
New SDAO           Yearly                          13             19              21           18             10
Cumulative                      -             32              53            71            81
New SMS            Yearly                          39             57              63           54             30
Cumulative                      -             96             159          213            243
District
DDA-Existing       Yearly                           4              7               8             8             4
Cumulative                      -             11              19            27            31
New            Yearly                           1             1                -            -             -
Cumulative                                     2               2             2             2
SMS-Existing       Yearly                          17              2              10            1              2
Cumulative                                    19              29            30            32
New            Yearly                           3            30               23           32            14
Cumulative                                    33              56            88           102
lHeadquarters
JDA - New          Yearly                           2              -               -            -              -
Cumulative                                     2               2             2             2
DDA - New          Yearly                           2              -               -            -              -
Cumulative                                     2               2             2             2
Inputs
VEW - New          Yearly                         135            267             206          202            129
Cumulative                                   402             608          810            939
ADA (supply)        Yearly                           5              8               8            8             4
New         Cumulative                                    13              21            29            33
C.E.O. - New       Yearly                          13             19              21           18             10
Cumulative                                    32              53            71            81
Training (DOA)
DDA - New          Yearly                           2              -               -            -              -
Cumulative                                     2               2             2             2
ADA - New          Yearly                          10              -               -            -              -
Cumulative                                    10              10            10            10
AA(UD) - New       Yearly                            6             -               -            -              _
Cumulative                                     6               6             6             6
Training (JNKVV)
Training Specia-
lists New         Yearly                           6              -               -            -              -
Cumulative                                     6               6             6             6
Research (JNKVV)
Dist. Ext.
Agronomists       Yearly                           5              8               8            8             4
- New       Cumulative                       5            13              21           29             33



- 43 -
INDIA                                                      ANNEX 3
Table 1(a)
MADHYA PRADESH EXTENSION PROJECT - PHASE II
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
--------------------- Costs Rs' 000 ------------------Benefits------
Incremental                               Total Cost      % UCt.   Discount
Extensioa       Incremental    Total   discounted   Benefits    Factor    Present Value
Year                Ccsts _   Training Costs*  Cost            at 50%    Achieved    at 50%        of Benefits
1               27,535           10,033        37,568      25,020           -        0.666             -
2               57,013            3,004        60,017      26,647          10        0.444           0,444
3               76,503            3,414        79,917      23,655          30        0.296           0.088
4               95,877            3,668        99,545      19,610          60        0.197           0.118
5               87,676            2,812        90,488      11,853          80        0.131           0.105
6               69,762            1,622        71,384       6,210         90         0.087           0.078
7-20             69,762            1,622        71,384      12,400         100        0.170            .170
125,395                                   0.603
The annual incremental value of crops (1980 prices) required from year 7 onwards to achieve a 50%
rate of return is Rs. 125.49 M. or Rs. 208 M.
0.603
Present Yearly   Prices of   Present Yearly
Area     Present Yields       Production        crops      Value of crops
(M. Ha)       ( t/ha)            (M. ton)       Rs/tc           (Rs' 000)
Paddy          3.56         0.63?              2.25          2,000            4,500
Wheat          2.20         0.879               1.93          2,232           4,308
Other Crops   3.15          0.897              2.83             970 -         2,745
11,553
208
To obtain Rs 208 M all yields must increase by 11,553 or 1.8% on all cropped land
or 3.6% on 50% of cropped area. Yield increases required would thus be:
Paddy          23 kg/ha
Wheat          31 kg/ha
Other crops   32 kg/ha
February 1981.
1/ See Table l(b) and l(c).
2/ Average farngate price has been used as these crops are not traded.
* Includes Research costs.



44 -                       ~~~~~~~ANNEX 3
- 44 -                               Table 1e(b)
IND1A
MADHYA PRADESH EXTENSION PROJECT - PHASE II
ECONOMIC PRICES FOR PADDY
1.  Milled Rice - Bombay                                     US$
Price milled rice 25-35%  broken
fob Bangkok                                          35 3-
Add cif to Bombay and Handling
to wholesale outlet                                   48                   2/
$ 406 ton or Rs. 3,248-
Bombay wholesale
outlet.
2. Cost of Milling and Handling Rice from
Madhya Pradesh (Farmgate to Bombay)
Paddy - Farm to mill, transport, in-store
handling and storage charges
Rs/ton
Transport                                            20.C 3/
Milling and Handling                                  37.0 4/
57.0 ton/paddy
86.36 ton/milled rice.
Milled Rice - Transport, storage and
handling to wholesale market
Rs/ton
Transport, mill to railhead5/                         32.5
Rail to Bombay                                       60.0
Handling to wholesale market/                         80.00
172.5 ton/milled rice.
Financial cost of Rs 259/ton adjusted by SCF = 0.8 to give
economic cost of Rs 207/ton.
3. Economic Prices for Paddy at Farmgate
Imported rice Bombay wholesale market (Rs 3,248/ton) less milling and
handling charges Madhya Pradesh to Bombay of Rs 207/ton and converted to
paddy at 66% = Rs 2,000/ton.
1/ From Bank Commodity Price Forecast, October 1979.  199G Forecast for ..il'aa
rice 5% brokens at US$ 551/ton x 0.65 for price of 25-35% broken.
2/ At exchange rate of US$ 1.0 = Rs 8.0.
3/ Transport farm to millhead Rs 2/Qtl.
4/ Milling cost Rs 2.7/Qtl + Rs l.u/Qqtl commission and
and other charges for 66% outturn.
5/ Say 50 km haul at Rs l.O0/Qtl for 15 km plus Rs 0.50/Qtl/km over.
H/ Handling charges and commission.
7/ Milling percentage.



- 45 -                               ANNEX 3
Table l(c)
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH EXTENSION PROJECT - PHASE II
ECONOMIC PRICE FOR WHEAT
1.  Wheat--Bombay                                                US$
Price of wheat fob Canada                               236-/
kdd cif to Bombay and handling to
wholesale outlet                                          60
$296/ton in Bombay
wholesale market
Rs 2,368/ton.2/
2. Cost of Handling Wheat from Madhya Pradesh
(Farmgate to Bombay)
Rs/ton
Transport and handling up to railroad3/                  30.0
Rail to Bombay                                          60.0
Handling to wholesale market-4/                         80.0
170.0
Financial cost of Rs 170/ton adjusted by SCF =0.8           -
to give economic cost of Rs 136/ton
3. Economic Price of Wheat at Farmgate
Imported wheat Bombay wholesale market (Rs 2,368/ton less handling
charges from Madhya Pradesh to Bombay, Rs 136/ton = Rs 2,232/ton.
1/ From Bank Commodity Price Forecast (October 1979) ----
2/ At official exchange rate of US$ 1 = Rs 8.0.
3/ Transport and handling from farm to railhead Rs-3/Qtl.
4/ Handling charges and commission.



- 46 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT : PHASE II
Implementation Schedule   All Components
Pre-effec-              Months after Effectiveness
Item                tiveness       1  3  6   9  12  18  24  30  36  42  48  54  60
Civil Works
Site Selection                            -           -        -
Prepare Tenders                                       -        -
Construction
VLW Quarters                                 300    600      750     750      600
AEO Quarters                                  50    100      125     125      100
Other Quarters                                32     16       24      23        7
Office & Training                             20     16       24      23        7
Vehicles and Equipment
Prepare Tenders              -            -           -        -
Purchase Vehicles                               42     41       38      49
Purchase Equipment                                   -       -           -
Staff
Select/Appoint JDA                        2
Select/Appoint DDA                        2
Select/Appoint SMS                       42            87    86       85        44
Select/Appoint SDAO                      13            19    21       18        10
Select/Appoint AEO                      131           170   210      172       114
Select/Appoint VEW
New                                   729           958   924      915       624
Existing                              611           708  1238      584       399
Appoint Supply Staff                    163           294   235      228       143
Appoint Trg. Staff                       24
Training
Orientation
All Other
Project Monitoring
Select fkppoint Staff
Studies/Evaluation



- 47 -
ANNEX 4
Table 2
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT : PHASE II
Estimated IDA Disbursements
US$ M
Disbursements                       Semester             Cumulative
IDA FY
1982     lst                           0.1                   _
2nd                          0.4                  0.5
1983     1st                           1.0                  1.5
2nd                          2.0                  3.5
1984     lst                           2.0                  5.5
2nd                          4.0                  9.5
1.985    1st                           4.5                 14.0
2nd                          5.5                 19.5
1986     1st                           6.5                 26.0
2nd                          6.5                 32.5
1987     lst                           2.0                 34.5
2nd                          2 .5                37.0
lNote:   Estimated effectiveness date September 30, 1981
Estimated closing date June 30, 1987



- 48 -
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT - PHASE TWO
ORGANIZATION CHART
COORDINATYVE                                                                                                                  LEVEL OF
RESEARCH                                BODIES                                                         EXTENSION                                               ADMIN STR.T'ON
VICE CHANCELLOR                           POJECTAGRICULTURAL                                                                                                               STATE
AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY  -                CCORD COMMITTEE -                                             PRODUCTION COMMISSIONER
----- ..__-- --------_D                                                COIO      G   ___LT .E-                                           STATE
DIRECTOR OF RESEARCH                                                                    DIRECOR OOA A     L                             DDA
CENTRAL
PLANNING
_ . .. .... ... - ~~~~COMMITTEE                                   ---______..___ ............ AODITIONAL                                                       STATE
DIRECTOR OF PGRICULTURE (EXTI
REGIONAL           STATISTICS & PLANNING
ECO   C A              ASSOCIATE EOR               COMMITTEE              (M7NITORING UNAI)                        DIVISIONAL OINT                       T A          TECIO
~NT       OF RESEARCH IS).DIRECTOR OF AGRICULTLRE                                                                                                                     DIVISION
FARM MANAGEMENT------
IEVALUATION STUDIES   IREGIONAL RESEARCHCTATIONSI
---- --- --- --- --- ---  -- --- -   - --- --- --- --- --- -  " DISTRICT   133)  DEPUTE                       ITR C
- 4  DC8TOR OF AGRICULTURE  l   l  |  l  l  l  l                    DISTR CT
RESEARCH SUB-STATIONS 1) ---ISTS . I--
RESEARCH       SE ED        GURIC
AGRONOMIST   SPECIALIST   ECONOMIST                           SUBDIVISIONAL H92)                                                  SIB.IV'S ON
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION     |, tTAINING) (I RONMI Py,LANT              3LC
OFFICER (S89R (AEO)                             P ECAION          ROC1
ADAI TIVE                                            L   ViLLAGE LEVEL EATENSION                                                 VILLAGE
(FARMERS FIELOSI                                         |      WORKER AlSOD) IVLWI      |                                 IINPUTS)
3FARMER GNITSPERVLW
10CONTACT FARMERS PER UNITPEL
WA- UH - 122286



IBRD) 15427
BHIND    3
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~
MTORENA    GWA$ IOR
N  /                         A~~~~~jTIA5 ~~~U   T  T  A   R                 
60                               ~~~~~~~~SHFRIJR  Qu 
V,~~~~~~~~~~~~~E,
TIKAMGARH   0                   6
~~ MANUEL/JR  ~~~~~~~~'0                  68 ~~~SATNA                                                    )6
(  (~~/~/  65     @6~ 60       V,DISAA          SAGAS       DAMOH
1   .SHAJAPUR  RAJGARHO*,0                                                                                                          N     -
~~66  ,Jj,AIM  @62         @666, ~~~~~~~~~~~~SHAHDO                                                        SUROGA
6   '                        ~~~~~~~SEHORE                    NARE MAHAPUR
'-JHASUA          @0WA
GRAS       166     -'       ~~~~HOSHANGABAD)     '-                                                                             R AI GA R H
6    -     -    6                 ,~~~~~~~~ S E ONI,
-        ,* ~CHHINDWARA -,             6-SIAPR ,
SHASOON  - -                              96666          ,'  S~~~~~~~ ~ ~~ALAGHAT  0   
EAST
NIMARS             <8I                                -~/~                               ,*~
A/                                                                                        R A PUR~~~~~~~~~~~DUO
INDIA 
MADHYA PRADESH EXTENSION PROJECT                                   'r'6
PHASE I
pl-I~~~~~~~~~~ 
19962923                              ,-'  ~~~BASTAR
0   Dw  Hod','-l
A,-Il- Al-  R ~    ~       ~      "60 
Ag,,  I'6~~~~~~,A,0'666606o~~~~~~~ 8,6006       /-                      TEI
8.   B,'4,  6'                                             ~                   ~     0  6
j~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~  2S                                                                       68 



