Document ot
The World Bank                  FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3012-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT Of' THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT - PHASE II
April 6, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(As of March 27, 1981)
Rs 1.00         =        Paise 100
Rs 1.00         =        US$0.120783
US$1.00         =        Rs 8.279257
Rs 1 million    =        US$120,783
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at
US$1 to Rs 8.0, which represents the projected exchange
rate over the disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADA     -       Additional Director of Agriculture
AEO     -       Agricultural Extension Officer
DDA     -       Deputy Director of Agriculture
DOA     -       Department of Agriculture
GOI     -       Government of India
GOMP    -       Government of Madhya Pradesh
ha      -       hectare
JNKVV   -       Jawaharlal Nehru Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya
RDD     -       Rural Development Department
SDAO    -       Subdivisional Agricultural Officer
SMS     -       Subject Matter Specialist
T&V     -       Training and Visit System of Agricultural Extension
VEW     -       Village Extension Worker
VLW     -       Village-Level Worker



INDIA            FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT - PHASE II
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                India, acting by its President (GOI).
Beneficiary:             The State of Madhya Pradesh (GOMP).
Amount:                  SDR 30.3 million (US$37 million equivalent).
Terms:                   Standard.
Relending Terms:         From GOI to GOMP:  As part of Central assistance
for State development projects on terms and
conditions applicable at the time.
Project Description:    The project would reorganize and strengthen
agricultural extension services in thirty
districts of Madhya Pradesh along the lines
of the Training and Visit System of extension,
which is based on frequent in-service training
of extension workers and regular, scheduled
visits by extension workers to farmers' fields.
The T&V System has already been introduced in
15 of the State's districts under an earlier
IDA-supported project. The project faces no
special risks, although realization of the
expected benefits will depend heavily on the
State Government's ability to effectively manage
the reorganized extension system, maintaining a
single line of command from extension headquarters
to the field-level workers.
Estimated Project                                             (US$ Millions)
Cost: a/                                             Local    Foreign    Total
Incremental Staff             19.4         -        19.4
incremental Operating Costs   5.2         2.7        7.-
Civil Works                   12.8         -        12.
Vehicles and Equipment         2.9        1.1        4.0
Training                        1.3       0.1        1.4
Subtotal                   41.6        3.9      45.5
Physical Contingencies         1.9        0.2        2.1
Price Contingencies           11.4        1.0       12.4
Total Project Cost         54.9        5.1      60.0
a/ Including an estimated US$7.4 million in taxes and duties.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii--
Financing Plan:                                                (US$ Millions)
Local    Foreign    Total
IDA                            31.9        5.1       37.0
GOI/GOMP                       23.0         -        23.0
Total                      54.9        5.1       60.0
Estimated                                            (US$ Millions)
Disbursement: a/                   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87
Annual        0.5    3.0    6.0    9.0   12.0    6.5
Cumulative   0.5    3.5    9.5   18.5   30.5   37.0
Rate of Return:           At least 50%.
Appraisal Report:         No. 3308-IN, dated April 1, 1981.
a/ According to IDA's fiscal, year.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA FOR THE
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT - PHASE II
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India for SDR 30.3 million (US$37.0 million equivalent)
on standard IDA terms to help finance a project to reorganize and strengthen
the agricultural extension service in 30 districts of the State of Madhya
Pradesh. The Government of India (GOI) would channel the proceeds of the
credit to the Government of Madhya Pradesh (GOMP) in accordance with GOI's
standard terms and arrangements for financing State development projects.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2933-IN, dated May 1, 1980), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 14, 1980. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of 672 million
(in mid-1980) and an annual per capita income of US$190. Agriculture contin-
ues to dominate India's economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor
force. However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate
livelihood to all those engaged in agricultural activities, especially the
landless or nearly landless who have only an insecure grasp on the means of
existence. The share of agriculture in GDP at factor cost (measured in
1970/71 prices) has declined from 60% in 1950/51 to about 40% in 1978/79.
The share of industry has increased over the same period from 15% to 23%.
But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing labor
force, nor to bring about the substantial economic transformation that has
led to higher productivity and rapid urbanization in some other developing
countries. The urban population was 18% of the tot, 1. in 1960, and is about
21% now.
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I
and II of the President's Report for the Maharashtra Agricultural Ex-
tension Project (No. P-3002-IN), dated March 30, 1981.



-2-
4.       Economic growth has been slow in the past, averaging about 3.5% per
annum over the past 30 years. Slow growth in agriculture -- 2.5% per annum
over the same period -- has constrained overall growth, not only because of
the high share of agriculture in GDP but also because scarce foreign exchange
has often been required to import food. Industrial value-added has grown
more rapidly, at 5.4% per annum between 1950/51 and 1978/79, but this growth
has not been as high as in many other countries, nor as high as required.
Gross domestic savings more than doubled from 10% of GDP in 1950/51 to 24% in
1978/79. Similarly, gross domestic investment as a fraction of GDP rose from
10% in 1950/51 to just over 24% in 1978/79. Foreign savings have never
financed a large portion of domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was
reached during the early 1960s; by the end of the 1970s, the proportion had
returned to much lower levels. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external assistance has never
risen above 3% of GDP.
5.      Except during periods of balance of payments crisis, exports have
received relatively little emphasis in India, which has primarily pursued a
strategy of import substitution. The volume growth of exports between
1950/51 and 1978/79 averaged only 3.0 per annum. The volume growth of
imports over the same period has slightly exceeded that of exports. During
the early 1970s, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant
during the 1960s, deteriorated drastically. In response, the Government
introduced many policy measures designed to stimulate exports. The volume of
India's exports grew on average over 10% per annum between 1972 and 1977,
demonstrating that sustained rapid growth was possible. While expanding
world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, contributed to this
process, liberalized access to imported inputs, and improvements in incen-
tives designed to increase the profitability of exports played a major role.
Recent Trends
6.        Over the period 1975/76 to 1978/79, growth in real GDP (at factor
cost), agricultural value-added and industrial value-added averaged 4.7%,
2.8% and 7.3% per annum, respectively. These trends represent a marginally
better growth performance than the long-term trends from 1950/51 to 1975/76.
However, GDP declined by about 4.5% in 1979/80 as a result of the drought-
induced decrease in agricultural production and input constraints in other
sectors, bringing recent trends back in line with the long-term picture.
Industrial production stagnated in 1979/80, largely due to shortfalls in the
production of major inputs such as coal, steel and cement, as well as infras-
tructural constraints, notably in power and transportation. As a consequence
of these developments, the remarkable price stability that characterized the
Indian economy after 1975 came to an abrupt end at the close of fiscal year
1978/79. During the spring and summer of 1980 the price index continued to
rise sharply, so that by September it stood at 19.1% above that of the previ-
ous September. Foodgrain prices rose over the summer and fall of 1980 but
more slowly than the drop in 1979/80 production would have suggested so that
in most markets grain prices remained close to the Goverment's ration prices.
Low income groups in urban areas were assured adequate supplies of grain at
stable prices through the public distribution system. The substantial stocks
of foodgrains also provided resources for a large-scale drought relief



-3-
employment program for low income groups in rural areas. In 1980/81, the
economy recovered, aided by a normal monsoon, so that real GDP growth for the
year should be about 7 to 8%. During the summer of 1980, GOl raised prices
of petroleum products and fertilizers, reflecting the growing cost of imports
of these items and the GOI efforts to encourage efficiency in their use.
Recently the growth in prices has slowed so that by January 1981 the whole-
sale price index was 15% above its level a year earlier.
7.        In agriculture the positive results of large investments and
appropriate policies in the past years are becoming increasingly apparent.
The rate of expansion of irrigation has increased significantly from 1.3 mil-
lion ha per year in the early 1970s to about 2.3 million ha in 1978/79. Fer-
tilizer use reached 5.2 million tons of nutrients in 1979/80, more than dou-
ble 1974/75 levels. Over the decade before 1979/80, foodgrain production
grew at about 2.75% per annum -- sufficient to meet consumer demand, to elim-
inate imports (which had averaged nearly 5 million tons per year for the 15
years preceding 1976), and to lower real foodgrain prices for consumers. At
the same time, India was able to build up substantial foodgrain buffer stocks
which made it possible to weather the effects of 1979/80 drought with com-
parative ease, and to export about half a million tons of grain in 1980.
While the management of the foodgrain economy after the drought was a signi-
ficant achievement, the effect of the drought on production re-emphasized the
continued importance of the monsoon in India's agriculture. The need to
expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient use of
other inputs continues.
8.        As the new decade begins, the Indian economy is shifting from a
situation of resource surplus, which had been a temporary phenomenon of the
late 1970s, to one of resource scarcity. Investment has again overtaken
domestic savings, and the scope for further increases in the latter appears
limited. Marginal savings rates have recently been well above 30% in the
household sector. Future increases in savings will depend largely on
enhanced profitability of public sector enterprises. Impending resource
scarcity is even more apparent in the foreign sector. Between 1975/76 and
1978/79 India's current account deficit had remained comfortably small in
relation both to GDP and to a growing pipeline of aid commitments. This was
primarily due to favorable terms of trade movements and rapidly growing net
invisibles which masked adverse underlying trends in the volume of exports,
the growth of which has slowed since 1977. One area of concern is the
apparent decline in the growth rate of manufactured exports which had contri-
buted much to the export growth of the first half of the decade. A combina-
tion of strong domestic and slack international demand, exacerbated by severe
infrastructural and supply constraints and apparent lessened interest in
export promotion during the resource surplus period were the major causal
factors. Recently, signs of improvement in the availability of power, the
main constraint facing exporters, and the adoption of several new export pol-
icy measures have improved the prospects for accelerating export growth,
though continued attention to both these areas will be required.
9.        In contrast, imports have grown rapidly in volume terms and there
have been important changes in composition. As a result of the accumulation
and maintenance of foodgrain stocks, foodgrain imports -- which had tradi-
tionally been a large item in the balance of payments -- have been eliminated
since 1978 and, for the past few years, India has been a marginal net



-4-
exporter of grain. The rise in other imports, however, has more than offset
this development. Reflecting the impact of the liberalized import policy
adopted by thle Government, non-foodgrain imports increased sharply, so that
their level in 1978/79 was over 80% higher than in 1975/76. In large part,
the liberalization in import policy and increase in imports were limited to
raw materials, basic commodities and intermediate goods; most consumer goods
remained banned and capital goods imports were permitted only on a selective
basis. Strong new pressures on the balance of payments have developed during
1980/81. The terms of trade again deteriorated markedly as a consequence of
unexpectedly large increases in petroleum prices, which caused the oil import
bill to increase by over 75% in 1980/81 after doubling the year before.
India's foreign resource deficit as a proportion of GDP reached the unpre-
cedentedly high level of 3.0% in 1980/81. India was able to finance this gap
through a substantial draft drawing on IMF resources (the Trust Fund and Com-
pensatory Financing Facility), and through an increase in aid and a drawdown
in reserves, both of modest proportions. Petroleum imports as a proportion
of merchandise exports now exceed 75%.
Development Prospects
10.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large
in absolute terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufac-
turing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure --
irrigation, railways, telecommunications, the power grid, roads and ports --
is extensive compared to many countries, although there is considerable scope
for expansion as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity.
India is also well-endowed with human resources and with institutional
infrastructure for development. Finally, India has an extensive natural
resource base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and fer-
rous ores, but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and sufficient
access to foreign savings, India has the capability for managing these con-
siderable resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
11.     The new Indian Government elected in January 1980 formulated a new
Sixth Five-Year Plan for the period 1980-85. The Plan was approved in Febru-
ary 1981. The new Plan continues to assign priority to agriculture and
power. Furthermore, the Plan reflects recent developments in India and in
the world economy which have brought to the surface the need for urgent
action in several areas. These include: (i) expansion of exports and an
investment program directed toward containing the growth of imports in the
face of a deteriorating balance of payments situation; (ii) an investment
program and policy framework for more efficient use and development of energy
sources; (iii) removal of bottlenecks in infrastructure and related con-
straints on production of basic industrial inputs, and (iv) continuing
emphasis on the development of agriculture.
12.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, there are signs that, relative to exist-
ing demands, the past programs and policies have led to disproportionally low
growth in certain crucial sectors, namely power, coal, transport services,
steel and cement. Potential output growth in sectors which have benefitted
from large investments in the recent past may not materialize unless these



-5-
input bottlenecks are alleviated. In the case of coal, steel and cement,
domestic production appears to be clearly justified on grounds of comparative
advantage, indicating an a priori case for policies to promote further
investment.   All these are tradeable commodities.  Although in 1980/81 they
were not imported in sufficient amounts to eliminate the shortages, increased
short-term reliance on imports may be necessary to alleviate slowdowns and
dislocation in using industries. In the case of sectors in which there is no
option to import the final product --power and transportation-- the planning
of capacity expansion becomes even more crucial. Although there is scope for
improvement in the shortrun performance of these sectors, major investments
in balancing and modernization programs as well as in new capacity are essen-
tial for adequate and growth in the medium term. The presence of infrastruc-
tural constraints and shortages of basic industrial inputs demonstrates that
the expansion of industrial output leads to competing claims on scarce
resources with significant implications for public versus private and short
versus long-term investments.
13.     Despite the relatively large investment programs for the development
of domestic energy resources such as coal and hydroelectricity, and the
recent development of offshore petroleum resources, India has not been able
to narrow the gap between its total energy demand and domestic production.
During the past year, India continued to face power and coal shortages.
Growing demand for petroleum products, disrupted production from the Assam
oilfields, and recent oil price increases, have boosted India's oil import
bill to US$7 billion, equivalent to about 78% of total exports of goods.
India is entering the Sixth Plan period with an ambitious energy production
program backed by substantial financial commitment. In the oil sector, GOI
is now accelerating its oil exploration capabilities and is opening up pros-
pective areas for exploration by foreign firms. India is now committed to an
expanded power program that emphasizes exploitation of its large hydro poten-
tial and development of the transmission and distribution system. In the
coal sector, a policy decision in favor of mechanization has been made in
order to achieve more rapid growth of coal production.
14.     Despite the 1979 drought, agricultural policies, development programs
and secular trends all seem favorable for sustaining the past growth rate
during the 1980s. India ended 1980 with grain stocks of about 12 million
tons, without having imported foodgrains during the year. This is partly due
to the bumper crop of 1978/79 and good management of the foodgrain stocks
following the 1979 drought, but also reflects the trends of the last decade
which point to an improvement in foodgrain availability in the economy. In
view of the acceleration in the use of agricultural inputs and the projected
fall in the population growth rate, the long-run prospects for foodgrain sup-
ply and demand balances look favorable. If the efforts to develop agricul-
ture over the past decade are sustained and intensified, as suggested in the
new Plan, persistent shortage seems unlikely, and it is probable that a wide
range of policy options will become much more practical. These options
include a slowly falling real price of foodgrains to increase the affordabil-
ity of foodgrains to low-income families, further rationalization of domestic
markets and prices, foodgrain exports and diversification to the production
of other, higher value crops.
15.     Foreign exchange reserves still provide some cushion that can help
the Government of India in short-term supply management, but this situation



-6-
is likely to be short-lived. Rising import prices and uncertainties in the
prospects for exports and invisible receipts have led to a serious and rapid
deterioration in India's balance of payments prospects. Reserves were only
marginally higher in March 1980 than the level of a year earlier and, in
terms of import coverage, fell below the 8-month level for the first time
since 1977. A very sharp decline in the reserve level would have occurred in
1980/81 had IMF Trust Fund and Compensatory Financing Facilities amounting to
over US$1 billion not been available to India. At best, India's reserves may
provide a cushion for two more years, and even that depends on improved
export performance, on the maintenance of aid flows and workers' remittances
and on moderation in oil price rises.
16.     India's medium-term development prospects are mixed.  Considerable
progress continues to be made, particularly in agriculture, but the economy
faces a period of difficult adjustments in the coming years. Investments
required to relieve short-term supply constraints must compete with longer-
term programs to accelerate growth and to develop India's considerable physi-
cal and human resources. The balancing of these objectives will place a dif-
ficult burden on those implementing India's Sixth Five-Year Plan. The pri-
mary focus must be on the implementation of appropriate domestic adjustment
policies, although the aid community can and should play an important role in
ensuring that India's efforts do not fail due to inadequate foreign
resources.
17.     The annual population growth rate declined from 2.3% in the late
1960s to about 2% at present and is expected to continue falling to around
1.8% by the first half of the 1990s. Despite the declining trend in the rate
of population increase, a net reproduction rate of one (replacement level)
will be achieved only around the year 2020. At that time, the population of
India is estimated to reach 1.2 billion persons, an increase of about 79%
over the mid-1980 level of 672 million. Family planning has played an impor-
tant role in achieving the fertility decline in the past decade, and the
extent of a further decline will be greatly influenced by the continuation of
a successful official family planning program. The family planning perfor-
mance data for 1978/79 and 1979/80 clearly indicate a comeback from the sharp
decline observed in virtually all major contraceptive methods during 1977/78.
Except for male sterilizations, the number of acceptors for all contraceptive
methods surpassed the 1974/75 levels in 1978/79. While the increase in the
total acceptors of IUD and conventional contraceptives was modest, female
sterilizations increased by about 40% between 1977/78 and 1978/79. Recent
data confirm a secular upward trend in overall performance. For the past
several years the family planning program has emphasized measures that would
yield relatively modest but sustainable results with increased emphasis on
reversible methods.
18.     Beyond the effects of overall economic growth and constrained popula-
tion growth, the reduction of poverty in India requires special attention to
ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More than
one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than 80% of the Indian
poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small farmers.
In addition to having inadequate physical assets, the poor are ill-endowed
with human resources, being disproportionately represented among the illi-
terate, the hungry and the sick. Improvements in the living standards of the
poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the economy,



-7-
mainly on increases in agricultural production and employment, in non-farm
rural employment, and also in employment opportunities in urban areas. These
developments will have to stem largely from market forces which, however, can
be reinforced by appropriate government policies and investment priorities.
The declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1979 reflects
such developments. There is also a role for direct government action in fas-
ter implementation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction
in poverty through redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing
the supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans and
finally in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human
capital of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are
elements of the Minimum Needs Program which has been an integral part of
Indian planning for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in
the expansion of primary education, the extension of rural health facilities
and the provision of secure village water supplies. Innovations such as the
community health volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign,
provide encouraging evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost pro-
grams can lead to enhanced prospects for India's poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 61 loans and 134 development
credits to India totalling US$2,833 million and US$8,672 million (both net of
cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,133 million had been
repaid, and US$4,107 million was still undisbursed as of January 31, 1981.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through January
31, 1981, totalled US$373 million, representing an increase of about 20% over
the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of dis-
bursements as of January 31, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing pro-
jects.
20.     Since 1959, IFC has made 19 commitments in India totalling US$110.6
million, of which US$20.8 million has been repaid, US$27.6 million sold and
US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$54.7 million, US$46.2 million
represents loans and US$8.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of January 31, 1981, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
21.     In recent years, Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture.  The
Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor irrigation and
other on-farm investments through agricultural credit operations and in pro-
viding direct support to major and medium irrigation. Marketing, seed
development, agricultural extension, and dairying are other agricultural
activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group has been active
in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector and, through
its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in a wide range
of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises.
IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for selected prior-
ity sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capacity utilization
in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in supporting infrastruc-
ture development for power, telecommunications, and railways. Family plan-
ning, water supply development, urban investments and the development of oil
and natural gas have also received Bank Group support in recent years.



-8-
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Goverment's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, power, water supply and other infrastructure
sectors remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs, particularly water and
credit for on-farm investments, will continue to receive emphasis.   Improved
water management and intensification and streamlining of extension systems
form an important institution-building aspect of the Bank Group's program for
the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefit-
ting small farmers. The Bank Group's continuing role in the fertilizer sec-
tor also assists India in the more efficient provision of another key input
in the agricultural growth process. Projects supporting water supply, sewer-
age, urban development and investments in the petroleum sector also form an
integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on those subsectors which have recently emerged as key constraints on
India's overall growth, primarily power and transportation.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However,
there is now a need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even
greater deterioration in balance of payments anticipated during the 1980s by
augmenting domestic resources and stimulating investment. As in the past,
Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include the financ-
ing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in
most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors
as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
24.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue
to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reason-
ably be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for
external support. Therefore, India should be eligible and regarded as
creditworthy for some supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt
service to the level of exports was 12% in 1978/79 and is projected to remain
below 20% through 1995/96. As of January 31, 1981, outstanding loans to
India held by the Bank totalled US$1,766 million, of which US$561 million
remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$1,206 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and
12% of net disbursements as compared with 46%, 37% and 48%, respectively, in
1979/80. On March 31, 1980, India's outstanding and disbursed external pub-
lic debt was US$15.6 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was US$5.2 bil-
lion or 34% (IDA's US$4.5 billion and IBRD's US$0.7 billion). Because Bank
Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form of IDA credits, debt
service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1979/80, about 18.0% of
India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-9-
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION IN MADHYA PRADESH
26.     Madhya Pradesh, located in central India, is the largest State in the
country in terms of land area, covering 442,841 km2 (44.3 million hectares),
and the sixth largest in population, with an estimated 52 million inhabi-
tants.  A relatively poor State, Madhya Pradesh had an estimated per capita
income of Rs 896 in 1977/78, relative to the all-India average of Rs 1,189.
The State's economy is dominated by the agricultural sector, which accounts
for about half of the State's income and employs roughly 80% of the working
population.
27.     While Madhya Pradesh is one of the largest foodgrain producers among
India's States, per hectare yields are very low. Per hectare yields of rice
and wheat in Madhya Pradesh, for example, are roughly 60% of the all-India
average. 1/ This reflects the relatively high proportion of rainfed farming
in the State (only 16% of the net sown area in the State is under irrigation)
as well as the low standard of agricultural practices. Fertilizer use in
Madhya Pradesh is roughly one-fourth the national per hectare average, the
use of seed of high-yielding varieties is limited, and agricultural practices
are still very traditional, particularly among the tribal groups which make
up just over 20% of the State's population. Foodgrain production in Madhya
Pradesh has grown very slowly (averaging 0.9% p.a. between 1960 and 1979),
with most of the growth in production accounted for by increases in cropped
area rather than improved yields.
28.     In an effort to improve the State's agricultural performance, the
Government of Madhya Pradesh (GOMP) has focussed on improving and extending
the State's irrigation network and strengthening the system of agricultural
extension and research. In the irrigation sector, the Bank Group has
assisted Madhya Pradesh through the Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area
Development Project (Cr. 562-IN, US$24 million, approved June 17, 1975), now
nearly complete, and plans to continue this assistance through the recently-
approved Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project (Cr. 1108-IN, US$140 mil-
lion, approved March 17, 1981) and the proposed Madhya Pradesh Major Irriga-
tion Project and Second Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development
Project, both appraised in November/December 1980. The Bank Group has also
supported Madhya Pradesh's reform of the agricultural extension and research
system in 15 of the State's 45 districts through the Madhya Pradesh Agricul-
tural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 712-IN, US$10 million, approved
May 12, 1977).
29.     Until 1965, agricultural extension in Madhya Pradesh, as in most of
India's States, was carried out at the field level by multi-purpose village-
level workers (VLWs) employed by the State's Rural Development Department.
Spread very thinly among many duties and a large client population, these
workers could not, in fact, offer adequate technical assistance to farmers.
In recognition of this, GOMP, in 1965, instructed the Department of
1/   Yields of coarse grains and pulses in Madhya Pradesh are, however,
more in line with national averages.



-10-
Agriculture (DOA) to take direct responsibility for agricultural extension.
Although this was a positive step, DOA's extension effort was handicapped by
a number of factors. Field workers were assigned to cover far too many
(1,500-2,000) farm families to permit the close contact required for effec-
tive extension work. Poor transport facilities and a shortage of rural hous-
ing for extension staff further hindered frequent contact between extension
workers and farmers. Field workers visited farm families randomly, rather
than according to any systematic schedule, and were often required to devote
time to statistical and regulatory tasks or to coordinating input supply and
credit operations. In addition, little attention was devoted to continued
training of extension personnel after their initial recruitment, supervision
of their activities was insufficient, and links between extension staff and
agricultural research institutions were weak. Finally, specialized crop or
area schemes were introduced, each with its own field staff, which often led
to a duplication of services at farm level and forced many farmers to seek
advice on their crops from several different sources.
30.     The Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project
addressed these problems by strengthening the State's agricultural research
network and introducing the Training and Visit (T&V) System of agricultural
extension in 15 of the State's 45 districts. The T&V System, which is based
on frequent (bi-weekly) in-service training of field extension workers and
regular, scheduled visits by field workers to farmers, is now in operation in
all 15 project districts. While the project has experienced some delays, due
to senior staff turnover, field staff vacancies, and cumbersome civil works
tendering procedures, these initial problems have now been resolved. Few
staff vacancies remain and the construction program is proceeding satisfac-
torily. Critical links between research and extension staff have been well-
established, with research workers involved in training extension staff and
greater emphasis being given in the overall research program to problems
identified by extension workers in their contacts with farmers. Monitoring
surveys show that extension workers are, for the most part, making their
scheduled visits, that awareness of the identity of the extension worker and
the day of his visit is high, that about 81% of contact farmers surveyed have
adopted at least one of the extension workers' recommendations, and that the
use of clean and graded seed, seed of high-yielding varieties, fertilizer and
soil testing facilities has increased significantly in project districts.
While GOMP is still working to improve the quality of field worker training
and extension recommendations, a good basis has been established for the
development of a technically competent and highly motivated extension service
which is in close contact with the farming community. On the basis of its
experience in the 15 districts now under the T&V System, GOMP has decided to
extend the system to cover the rest of the State.
Bank Group Activities in Agricultural Extension I/
31.     The weaknesses evident in Madhya Pradesh's past extension efforts
have been identified in many States of India. Since 1977, the Bank Group has
1/   This section is substantially the same as the corresponding
section of the President's Report for the Maharashtra Agricultural
Extension Project (Report No. P-3002-IN), dated March 30, 1981.



-11-
assisted efforts to reorganize and strengthen agricultural extension in nine
Indian States, in addition to Madhya Pradesh, through the introduction in
each of these States of the Training and Visit System. 1/ Introduction of the
T&V System has not been easy. In the nine States other than Madhya Pradesh,
agricultural extension prior to project inception was still the responsibil-
ity of multi-purpose village level workers employed by the State Community
Development Department. The shift from a system based on multi-purpose func-
tionaries to a system of professional extension carried out by single-purpose
extension workers under the Department of Agriculture involves a major admin-
istrative and conceptual reform which inevitably encounters bureaucratic,
political and logistical hurdles. Informed and motivated leadership being of
paramount importance during the introduction of the system, senior staff
turnover is particularly troublesome. Moreover, even in the best of cir-
cumstances, several years are required for the system, once initiated, to
fully mature and become institutionalized. Despite these unavoidable chal-
lenges, the system has been very successfully initiated in Orissa, Rajasthan,
Karnataka, Haryana, and Assam. Field visits have shown that farmers have
responded favorably to extension efforts, adopting recommended practices such
as weeding, line transplanting of paddy, seed treatment, inter-cropping with
pulses, and basal dressing of fertilizer. Continued care will be required in
all States to see that vacated posts are quickly filled, extension workers
are adequately supervised, and extension messages continue to be appropriate.
But the basis has been laid for a strong, professional extension system and
results are visible in the fields.
32.     In Gujarat, while the system is in place and operating fairly well,
the quality of field work is somewhat uneven. The State Government has been
alerted to IDA's concerns by recent supervision missions, and efforts are
underway to ensure that extension workers understand the messages they are to
deliver, that they keep to their schedule of visits, and that farmers are
made aware of the visit schedule in their area.
33.     In Bihar and West Bengal, the effort to introduce the T&V System has
encountered more serious delays. A change in the State Government in West
Bengal, following the initially very promising introduction of the T&V Sys-
tem, led to a re-evaluation of the system and its merits by the incoming
administration. While this resulted in a lengthy period of backsliding in
1/   The on-going projects, in addition to that in Madhya Pradesh,
include: the Orissa Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 682-IN);
April 1, 1977); the West Bengal Agricultural Extension and
Research Project (Cr. 690-IN; June 1, 1977); the Assam Agricultur-
al Development Project (Cr. 728-IN; June 30, 1977); the Rajasthan
Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 737-IN; No-
vember 14, 1977); the Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research
Project (Cr. 761-IN; January 6, 1978); the Composite Agricultural
Extension Project (Cr. 862-IN; February 16, 1979); and the Kerala
Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1028-IN; June 25, 1980). In
addition to the proposed project, two further new extension pro-
jects have been appraised and negotiated: the Maharashtra Agricul-
tural Extension Project and the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension
Project.



-12-
terms of project implementation, the Government of West Bengal has now reaf-
firmed its commitment to the T&V System and begun taking the critical steps
required to expedite project implementation (e.g., recruitment and training
of field staff, identification of farmer groups and selection of contact
farmers). A court-imposed injunction in response to a suit brought by field
staff transferred from the Community Development Department to the Department
of Agriculture for extension work has prevented the project from regaining
full momentum. However, that injunction has now been partially lifted, with
the result that field work (with new recruits) has resumed. Moreover, this
is a problem that has been met and overcome in several States, 1/ and it is
expected that the tempo of project implementation will soon pick up. In the
case of Bihar, project implementation has been seriously hampered by vacan-
cies in the posts of Director of Agriculture and Additional Director of Agri-
culture (Extension). IDA and GOI have been very concerned about the lack of
progress in Bihar and are discussing with the State Government the con-
straints facing the project and the administrative and budgetary steps which
must be taken if Bihar is to implement the project as expeditiously as possi-
ble.
34.     Finally, in Kerala, the most recently approved of our extension pro-
jects, project initiation has been slowed by staff changeovers at all levels
(ministerial and administrative). However, field work has now begun in three
districts, with the remaining eight districts to come on stream in May 1981.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.     The project was prepared by the Government of Madhya Pradesh with the
assistance of Bank Group staff. It was appraised in October 1980. A report
entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Pro-
ject - Phase II" (No. 3308-IN) is being distributed separately to the Execu-
tive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in March 1981.
The Governments of India and Madhya Pradesh were represented by a delegation
coordinated by Mr. G. Ranga Rao, Director, Department of Economic Affairs,
GOI. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Description
36.     The project is designed to achieve early and sustained increases in
agricultural production in 30 districts of Madhya Pradesh through the exten-
sion to these districts of the Training and Visit System of agricultural
extension, already introduced elsewhere in the State. Existing extension
activities in these districts would be reorganized and strengthened to
achieve:
1/   VLW associations in several States have initially filed suit
to ensure that their compensation, benefits, and promotional pros-
pects will not be endangered as a result of their transfer to the
Department of Agriculture for extension work. In each case, the
suit has been satisfactorily settled and VLWs' conditions of em-
ployment safeguarded (see para 43(a)).



-13-
(a) establishment of a single line of command between full-time
field-level extension workers and extension headquarters in the Department of
Agriculture;
(b) consolidation of staff from existing special crop and area
development schemes into a single, unified extension service;
(c) initiation of regular, in-service training as an integral part
of extension activities;
(d) introduction of a systematic, fixed schedule for regular and
frequent visits by extension workers to farmers' fields;
(e) improved linkages between extension operations and agricultural
research activities;
(f) improved coordination of input supply and agricultural credit
programs; and
(g) regular monitoring and evaluation of extension activities.
The project would provide additional staff, vehicles, housing and offices,
operating funds, training and training facilities to achieve these reforms.
37.     The proposed project would be based on the deployment, at field
level, of about 7,700 Village Extension Workers (VEWs) responsible only for
agricultural extension. Each VEW would be assigned to work with an identi-
fied group of farm families, varying in number depending on local conditions,
population density, accessibility and cropping pattern. One VEW would cover
about 500 farm families in sparsely populated tribal districts and in irri-
gated areas, while in the remaining areas one VEW would cover about 700 fami-
lies. A contingency provision has been made for an additional 500 VEWs, if
that proves necessary. The Government of Madhya Pradesh would, by March 31,
1984, in consultation with IDA, carry out a review of VEW staffing strength
and make any adjustments in the VEW:farm family ratio required for effective
operation (Section 2.11, Project Agreement).
38.     To reach his farmers systematically, the VEW would divide the fami-
lies in his jurisdiction into eight smaller groups of about 60-90 each. He
would visit each group regularly on a fixed day of the week in a two-week
cycle. During his visit the VEW would go to contact farmers selected from
each group, involving as many other farmers as possible in the discussions
and demonstrations. During each visit the VEW would concentrate his efforts
on a few strategically selected recommendations relevant for that particular
phase of the crop cycle. The extension messages to be communicated to farm-
ers at the initial stage would be simple, concentrating on the few important
crops in the locality and the most important aspects of crop production at
that time. Initially, the emphasis would be on low-cost improvements which
the majority of farmers can afford.



-14-
39.     The VEW would be assisted, guided and supervised in his work by an
Agricultural Extension Officer (AEO), normally a graduate in agriculture.
One AEO would be responsible for five to seven VEWs and would spend at least
four days a week visiting them in the field. Once in every two-week period,
VEWs would receive a full day of intensive training in the recommendations
for that period (relevant for the coming two weeks). The AEO would also par-
ticipate in this training session. Thus, every two weeks the VEW would spend
eight days in visiting each of his eight groups and one day in training. On
one other day, as the situation might demand, the AEO would meet all his VEWs
in the field or at the headquarters to review progress, reinforce practical
skills, and identify topics to be raised at the next training session. The
remaining two to three working days would be devoted to farm trials, making
up missed visits, and occasional office work.
40.     The AEO would, in turn, be guided and supervised by a Subdivisional
Agricultural Officer (SDAO), 1/ who would have full-time responsibility for
supervising the 10-13 AEOs in his subdivision. The SDAO would have on his
staff three Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) -- one each specializing in
Agronomy, Plant Protection and Training/Communications -- who would spend
one-third of their time on fortnightly training sessions for VEWs, one-third
of their time providing technical support to VEWs and AEOs through field
visits, and the remainder of their time in training, execution of field tri-
als, and collaboration with researchers at the State's agricultural univer-
sity and research stations.
41.     At the district level, the extension service would be overseen by the
Deputy Director of Agriculture (DDA) in charge of the district. The DDA
would be assisted by four SMSs, who would provide support to subdivisional
SMS teams and in some cases cover specializations not represented at the sub-
divisional level. Finally, district-level staff would report, through the
Divisional 2/ Joint Director of Agriculture, to the Additional Director of
Agriculture for Extension (ADA (Extension)) at the State level, who is
directly and solely responsible for extension activities in the State and
would visit project districts (along with the districts covered under the
first project) frequently to supervise extension operations. The
ADA (Extension) would be assisted by five Deputy Directors of Agriculture at
DOA headquarters 3/ who would be responsible inter alia for improving the
technical quality of the extension service in the area of their specializa-
tion, developing and interpreting farm trials, promoting linkages with input
1/   Each district would be divided into three to four subdivi-
sions.
2/   The State is divided into 11 divisions.  The Joint Director
of Agriculture at the division level, while a link in the exten-
sion chain of command, also has responsibility for non-extension
duties of DOA.
3/   One each for administration and extension (i.e., liaison with
other agencies) and three (acting basically as senior SMSs) for
special crops. Three DDAs are already in place; two more would be
added under the project.



-15-
agencies and with research carried out in the State and elsewhere in the
country, and serving as a clearing house for technical information.
42.     In order to ensure that extension staff are free to devote their full
attention to field work, training, and supervision, a separate unit consist-
ing of three village-level workers and one senior AEG would be located in
each block 1/ to coordinate input supply, identify credit requirements, and
carry out the regulatory, administrative, and statistical duties of DOA.
This staff would be supervised at the subdivision level by a Cooperative
Extension Officer, at the district level by a Supply Officer (of the rank of
Assistant Director of Agriculture), and at State-level by a Joint
Director (Supply) at DOA headquarters.
43.     The specific expenditures to be financed under the project are sum-
marized below.
(a) Incremental Staff. Staff required to extend the reorganized
extension system would be made available partially through new recruitment
and partially through reassignment of existing staff, i.e., VLWs currently
with the Rural Development Department (RDD) 2/ and staff already with DOA.
Orders have already been issued transferring from RDD to DOA all VLW posi-
tions to be assigned to DOA for extension work under the project. Additional
orders would be issued by July 1, 1981 creating all new posts required for
the project (Section 2.08, Project Agreement). Project costs have been cal-
culated to include the cost of salaries and allowances for the incremental
positions required to extend the T&V System to the 30 remaining districts.
GOMP would ensure that incremental and reassigned staff positions to be used
for extension would be filled in accordance with a time schedule satisfactory
to IDA, that all such positions would be used exclusively for agricultural
extension and retained under the control of DOA throughout the project
period, and that staff reassigned to work on extension under the project
would not be adversely affected in terms of salaries and benefits as a result
of their reassignment (Section 2.09, Project Agreement).
(b) Staff Training. The project would support a wide variety of
pre-service and in-service training programs for extension staff. These
would include induction training for all VEWs (orientation to the system);
pre-service training for new recruits; special short courses and pre-season
training for VEWs, AEOs and SMSs; monthly training of AEOs by SDAOs and SMSs;
fortnightly training of VEWs by subdivisional SMSs assisted by AEOs, district
SMSs and research staff; monthly workshops for SMSs; and special workshops
and advanced training for research personnel. Pre-service training for VEWs
would be carried out at six existing Extension Training Centers, which would
be provided with additional classrooms, offices, hostel accommodation and
staff housing, as well as staff, furniture, equipment, and vehicles under the
project to accommodate the expanded training program. The Directorate of
1/   Each subdivision is divided into three to four blocks.
2/   In districts not covered under the first IDA-supported exten-
sion project, extension work was reassigned to the Rural Develop-
ment Department (from DOA; see para 29) in 1978.



-16-
Extension at the Jawaharlal Nehru Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya (JNKVV), the
State's agricultural university, would organize special subject matter train-
ing courses for all categories of extension staff, training in crop produc-
tion technology and the monthly workshops for SMSs. These courses would be
conducted at JNKVV and at five agricultural colleges, each of which would be
strengthened through the provision of an additional training specialist under
the project. The remaining training courses would be carried out at various
field offices and research stations throughout the project area. In order to
ensure proper supervision and coordination of training programs supported by
the project, GOMP would appoint a separate Joint Director of Agriculture for
Training to oversee DOA's headquarters training cell.
(c) Housing and Offices. As the new extension methodology is based
on regular and frequent farm visits by field staff, it is essential that
field staff and their supervisors live in or near their areas of work. GOMP
would ensure that all VEWs and AEOs live in or near the areas assigned to
them (Section 2.10, Project Agreement). While GOMP would continue to
encourage the use of rental housing where possible, it would be necessary to
construct low-cost housing in areas where rental accommodation is not avail-
able. It is anticipated that new housing would be required for about 40% of
the VEWs and AEOs. In addition to VEW/AEO housing, houses and offices would
be provided as required for SDAOs and for DDAs at the district level. GOMP
would provide IDA with regular information on progress in locating sites for
houses and offices financed under the project (Section 2.05(b), Project
Agreement).
(d) Vehicles. To enable field extension staff to maintain fixed
schedules of visits and supervisory staff to reach the field easily and fre-
quently, adequate transport is essential. The project would provide addi-
tional motor vehicles at headquarters, district, and subdivisional levels and
at Extension Training Centers (para 43(b)), as well as loans for field staff
for the purchase of motorcycles (SMSs, AEOs) and bicycles (VEWs). Loan terms
and travel allowances would be set so as to encourage the purchase and
optimal use of vehicles by field staff (Section 2.12, Project Agreement).
(e) Equipment and Incremental Operating Costs. The project would
provide GOMP with funds for travel allowances and incremental vehicle operat-
ing costs, for the printing of materials for VEWs (e.g., field notebooks,
charts, etc.), and for the purchase of small samples of seeds and other
inputs for farmer training and field trials, simple audio-visual aids to sup-
port field operations and training, and required office, hostel, and class-
room equipment and furniture.
(f) Monitoring and Evaluation. The project would provide incremen-
tal staff, vehicles, and operating funds for the expansion of the monitoring
and evaluation unit set up under the first project and for the office of the
Commissioner of Land Records, who is responsible for carrying out crop area,
yield, and production surveys which form an important input to the monitoring
and evaluation system. The monitoring and evaluation methodology used would
be similar to that utilized in on-going extension projects and would supple-
ment direct personal supervision by each level of project management. GOMP
would ensure that monitoring and evaluation would be undertaken in accordance
with procedures acceptable to IDA and that annual summaries of the results of



-17-
monitoring and evaluation surveys would be forwarded to the Association (Sec-
tion 2.07, Project Agreement).
Project Implementation and Coordination With Related Agencies
44.     The extension system would be implemented by DOA in accordance with
the organizational structure outlined in paras 37-42 above. Project-
supported training would be carried out jointly by DOA (through its super-
visory staff and Extension Training Centers) and by*the JNKVV and the five
associated agricultural colleges. Monitoring and evaluation would be the
responsibility of the monitoring and evaluation unit set up under the Joint
Director of Agriculture (Statistics) at DOA headquarters.
45.     Overall coordination at the State level between extension and
research staff and allied agencies would be the responsibilty of the Project
Coordination Committee established under the first phase project. This com-
mittee is chaired by the Agricultural Production Commissioner (the senior-
most civil servant in the Ministry of Agriculture) and includes the Vice
Chancellor of JNKVV and representatives of relevant government departments
and agencies (i.e., the Departments of Agriculture, Finance, Irrigation, and
Cooperation and various input supply agencies). It would continue to meet at
least twice yearly to review project implementation and ensure proper coordi-
nation of the programs of the agencies represented on the Committee.
46.     Coordination between extension and research staff at the State level
and below would be promoted further through regional and State planning com-
mittees and workshops. A Regional Seasonal Workshop, including representa-
tives of JNKVV and DOA, would be held twice a year in each region (of which
there are six in the State) to review past extension recommendations, formu-
late prospective recommendations, and identify related research priorities.
The recommendations of these workshops would be reviewed and evaluated by
Regional Planning Committees, which would be chaired by the Divisional Joint
Director of Agriculture and include representatives of both extension and
research staff. Regional Planning Committees would meet twice a year, and
would make recommendations to the State Planning Committee (composed of
senior officers of DOA and JNKVV, chaired by the Director of Agriculture)
which would approve or modify the programs proposed by the regional commit-
tees.  In addition, monthlJy workshops would be held&at the regional level to<>
make any adaptations to the agreed seasonal programwhich may be required to-,
suit prevailing field conditions and to review field trials, training experi-
ence, and actual lesson plans. JNKVV would appoint a District Extension
Agronomist for each project district to participate along with extension
staff in these monthly workshops and to facilitate research/extension
cooperation at the operational level. The State Planning Committee is
already in existence, as are Regional Planning Comm?ttees in the areas now '>
covered by the T&V System. GOMP would establish new Regional Planning Com-
mittees in the regionsto be covered by the proposed project and ensure tITat
these committees hold their first meetings by September 30, 1981 and meet at
least twice annually thereafter (Section 2.03, Project Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
47.     The estimated cost of the proposed project is about US$60.0 million,
including about US$7.4 million in taxes and duties and US$5.1 million in



-18-
foreign exchange costs. Physical contingencies of 5% have been applied to
civil works, vehicles and equipment, training, and operating costs and to
meet the possible need for readjustment of the VEW:farm family ratio (see
para 37). Price contingencies of 10% for 1980, 7% for 1981-83, and 5% for
1984-86 have been applied and total 21% of total project cost (US$12.4 mil-
lion). The components of project cost, net of contingencies, are: incremen-
tal staff (US$19.4 million); civil works (US$12.8 million); incremental
operating costs (US$7.9 million); vehicles and equipment (US$4.0 million);
and staff training (US$1.4 million).
48.     The proposed IDA credit of US$37 million would finance about 70% of
project cost net of taxes and duties and would cover all foreign exchange
costs and US$31.9 million in local costs. The balance of the funds required
for the project would be made available from State Government sources and
GOI.
Procurement and Disbursement
49.     Civil works contracts (US$12.8 million) 1/ would be small and
dispersed, both geographically and over time, and would therefore not be
suitable for international competitive bidding. Contracts would be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding following local advertisement. About 170
motor vehicles (US$1.9 million) of various types would be required under the
project. They would be purchased in small quantities over five years and
would be widely dispersed in rural areas. In the interest of ensuring ade-
quate maintenance and spare parts supply, they would be procured under exist-
ing government procedures, which are based on local competitive bidding and
are satisfactory to IDA. Motorcycles and bicycles (US$1.3 million) would be
purchased by individual staff according to their preference from loan funds
provided by GOMP. Orders for purchase of minor equipment and furniture
(US$0.8 million) would be bulked wherever possible and purchased according to
established local bidding procedures, except where valued at less than
US$50,000, when they would be purchased by prudent shopping through normal
trade channels. The balance of project costs (US$28.7 million) would consist
of training, incremental salaries and allowances, and incremental operating
expenditures for offices and vehicles, which would not involve procurement.
50.     The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed over six years against:
100% of the cost of training; 80% of the cost of civil works, vehicles, and
equipment; and 47% of total eligible staff costs. 2/ Disbursements against
staff costs, training, payments less than Rs 300,000 under civil works con-
tracts, and payments under Rs 150,000 for locally procured vehicles and
equipment would be made against certificates of expenditure. These certifi-
cates of expenditure would be audited at least once a year by Government
auditors and the audit reports submitted to IDA as soon as available. Sup-
porting documentation for these expenditures would be retained by the State
1/ All figures in this paragraph are net of contingencies.
2/   Staff costs eligible for reimbursement are basically profes-
sional positions (i.e., VEW and above) at village, block, subdivi-
sion, district, and State levels.



-19-
Government for inspection in the course of project review missions. Dis-
bursements against expenditures for all other items would be fully docu-
mented.
Benefits and Risks
51.     The principal benefit of the proposed project would be to increase
crop production and thus farm incomes as a result of providing improved
extension services to farm families. Approximately 3.8 million farm families
living in the project area would be served by the reformed extension system.
Total project costs over the five-year development period, excluding price
contingencies, amount to US$47.6 million, approximately US$12.5 per farm fam-
ily served and US$4.3 per hectare of cropped land. Recurring incremental
costs after the project development period, which would be met from GOI/State
budget sources, would be approximately US$8.5 million per annum, or approxi-
mately US$2.2 per farm family per annum. These recurring costs would be par-
tially recovered through market levies on agricultural goods entering commer-
cial markets and through sales taxes levied on agricultural inputs, the con-
sumption of which is expected to rise as a result of improved farm practices.
52.     Attributing a precise level of economic benefits to this type of pro-
ject is difficult, since it is impossible to determine precisely what propor-
tion of the benefits expected from improved agricultural practices is due to
extension alone and what is due to past research efforts, additional pur-
chased inputs, or more work by the farmer. In practice, it is often the com-
bination of all these, with extension acting as the catalyst, that brings the
desired benefits. However, since the incremental cost of the project is low
per hectare and per farm family, even small and slow production increases
generate a high rate of return. The proposed project, for example, would
generate a 50% rate of return if, by 1988, yields of foodgrains increase by
only about 2% over current yield levels. In areas where the new extension
system has already been applied, yield increases have far exceeded these lev-
els. Moreover, the practices initially stressed by the extension service
usually focus on improved agricultural practices (timely operations, good
land preparation, proper seed rates, weeding, line sowing) which involve
additional labor but require little incremental cash outlay. They are thus
particularly well suited to the needs of the small cultivator.
53.     The establishment of a single, unified, professional agricultural
extension service, through the transfer and training of staff from a number
of formerly separate programs, marks a major departure from past practice in
India. The fact that such a significant reform is already underway in one-
third of Madhya Pradesh's districts reflects a strong commitment to develop-
ing an extension system capable of serving all farmers well. Nevertheless,
it is not easy for governments to carry out such major reforms. The main
risk, therefore, is that the State Government will find it difficult to
integrate staff from various sources under an effective single line of com-
mand from extension headquarters to full-time VEWs who work exclusively on
agriculture. In an effort to reduce this risk, substantial efforts were made
during project preparation and appraisal to re-emphasize, in discussions with
the State Government, the importance of an integrated and unified extension
service fully under DOA control. In addition, during negotiations assurances
were obtained from GOMP that the extension posts assigned to and created in
DOA under the project would be retained by the Department throughout the



-20-
project execution period and utilized solely for agricultural extension (para
43(a)). While this obligation extends only through the project implementa-
tion period, it is clearly the Government's intention that the extension
reform will be a lasting one. Moreover, the merits of the system should be
sufficiently apparent to the Government and to client farmers to ensure its
continuation. Indeed, it was favorable experience under the on-going exten-
sion project which led the State Government to take the decision to expand
the T & V System to cover the entire State. Staff changes in the upper ranks
of government are frequent, and thus there is the additional risk of a lack
of sustained, informed and motivated leadership, so crucial during the ini-
tial stages of the extension reform. Once again, the importance of con-
tinuity at the management level has been impressed upon State officials, who
are well aware of the delays experienced in the first project as a result of
management vacancies.
54.     Experience with the T&V extension system in other States has shown
other potential risks to be minimal. Farmer responsiveness to recommenda-
tions has been excellent wherever visits are made systematically. The abil-
ity of the service to develop and disseminate recommendations leading to
yield increases well above that needed to generate a 50% rate of return has
also been demonstrated. Initially, at least in most situations, technology
has not been a major constraint as there is a backlog of research findings as
yet not widely adopted at the farm level. Just bringing the production of
the average farmer up to that of the best farmer brings major yield
increases. In order to further reduce the possibility of declining benefits
due to stagnation in crop research or inadequate dissemination of research
findings, the project supports programs of field trials (executed by VEWs in
cooperation with researchers) and promotes a close relationship between the
extension service and the State agricultural university. Moreover, Madhya
Pradesh has now qualified for assistance under a separate IDA-supported pro-
ject, the National Agricultural Research Project (Credit 855-IN), which is
directed at strengthening research capabilities to ensure a continuous flow
of research results adapted to specific regional requirements.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Associa-
tion, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the State of
Madhya Pradesh, and the Recommendations of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
58.     Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
59.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Arti-
cles of Agreement of the Association.



-21-
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
April 6, 1981






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV jAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                      MOST RECENT ESTIMATE'
TOTAL           3287.6
ACRICULTURAL    1824.0                                 MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOIE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (VS )                   60.0       100.0     190.0             212.4                  1114.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     108.0/c      141./Oc   176.OA            166.0                   842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    434.9        547.6     643.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9         19.7      21.7              20.8                    39.1
POPULATION PRO.IECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      974.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       1645.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 10.                       132.0       167.0     196.0             193.2                  376.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0       308.0      353.0             409.6                 2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.0         42.5      41.4              42.0                    40.4
15-64 YRS.                         56.5        54.6       55.6              55.0                   56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3. 5        2.9        3.0               3. 0                   3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9         2.5       2.0               2.2                     2.4
UlRBAN                             2.5/d        3. 3      3.3               3. 9                    4. 1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     43.0         40.0      35.0              37.4                    28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     21.0         17.0      14.0              14.6                     7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2         2.9       2.4               2.6                     1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     64.0       3782.0    4714.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          12.0      16.9              15.6                  - 39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          98.0       102.0      103.0             101.4                  116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREHENTS)                   93.0        92.0       91.0              92.4                   108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          52.0         51.0      50.0              49.8                   60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.0         15.0      13.0              12.0                    18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     28.0         22.0      18.0              17.9                     5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    43.0         48.0      51.0              50.8                    63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..        134.0        ..                ..                    52. 
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         17.0      33.0              30.2                    42.4
URBAN                               ..         60.0      83.0              66.0                    62.1
RURAL                               ..          6. 0     20.0              20. 0                   29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         18.0      20.0              17.7                    52.8
URBAN                               ..         85.0      87.0              71.3                    71.1
RURAL                               ..          1.0       2.0                ..                    42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          5800.0/e    4890.0    3617.0             6322.7                 4120.1
POPULATION PEB NURSING PERSON     9630.S/e    5220.0    5675.0             9459.0                  2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2149.0/f    1629.0    1289.0             1758.4                   819.4
URBAN                               ..          ..
RIJRAL                              ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..                 ..                   28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.2                    5.2
URBAN                              5. 2                   4.8
RURAL                              5.2          ..        5.3
AVERAGE NSMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOIAL                              2. 6        2.B
URBAN
RURAL
ACCESS TO ELECTRICIT'Y (PERCENT
OF DWEILINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
'5BAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



A4NNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA - SnCIAl. INDITCArORS DATA S1CIL :T
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WET:fHTED AVE   CES
- 95ST RFCFNT ESTIMATE)
HOST RECENT        LOW INCOME              MIDDLE I ricaMF
1960  L     1970 lb ESTIMATE Lb   ASIA & PACIFIC               ASIA   PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENIkOLLMENT RATIOS
PRlHARY;      TOTAL                  61.0         72. 0     80.0                80.9                    98.6
HALE                  80.0          87.0      95. 0               94. 3                   99. 2
FEMALE                40.0         55. 0      6/. 0               66. 7                   97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   20.0         29.0       28.0               26.6                    55.5
HALE                  30.0          39.0      30.0                34.8                    60. 7
FEMALE                 10.0         17.0      18. 0               18.2                    49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (7 OF SECONDARY)   8.0             6. O/R      **                9.9                     13. 7
PUPIL-TEAChER RATIO
PRIMARY                              29.0         40.0      42.0                41. 1                   34. 6
SECONDARY                            16. 0        17.0         ..               20.5                    28. 5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          28. 0        33.0       36.0               40. 9                    b5.8
CONSUFHPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            0. 7         1.0       1. 3                1.8                     9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            5.0         21.0      24.0                25.8                   118. 9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..          0.1       0. 5                2. 4                   39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    11.0         16.0       16.0               13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER0 CAPITA  4. 0           6. 3       3. 8                ..                     4. 9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)  19761.4    220670.5  252235.8                         .                       -
FEIALE (PERCENT)                    31. 3         32. 6     32.0                29.4                    36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                74.0         74. 0      74. 0              70.5                    51. 9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   11.0         11.0      11.0                11.6                    21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  43.0         40. 2      39.2               37.9                     39.1
MALE                                   57.1         52.3       51. 3              51.3                    48.5
FEMALE                                 27. 9        27.1       26.2               23.7                    29.6
ECONOMIC DEFENDENCY RATIO                 1.0          1. 1       1. 1                1.2                     1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEOLDS   26.7            26. 3/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51. 7           48. 9/1      .
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS    4. 1            6. 7!h
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6            17.2/h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       88.0              107.8                      .
RURAL                                  ..          ..        76.0               86.5                   192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..                  ..                   182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..          ..        40. 7              46.2
RURAL                                  ..          ..        47.9               51.7                    33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
The Eroup averages 'or each Indicator                               -th-tore p.prlatin-wehced rlthnetlc  oans..  Coverage of countries
amaong the Indicators depends on availabilSty of d.ata and Is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 snd 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Rreet Estmlate, betwen 1974 snd 1978.
/c   Solid fuel conversion f.ctors revised, /d 1951-60;  Le 1962; Lf 195f;  ft 1967;  /h 1964-65.
Most recent estinate of CSP per capita is for 1979, all other dstn ore as of April 19PO.
October, 1980



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
IEFINIIIIN7 OF SOCIAL, IND~ICATORS
bots  1Alhough the Co-  are det I- Iu souce  gee.al -dgod the most auhoritaiv   and reiaIble, it should also be noted that theY maY not be Eaten-
naloel  coparble becus  of the lack of ntaodai-od defioiloon  and lorptep     used by 11ff-er-t --ttele-  cmoetn   the IIna   The dataI are, none-
theles .. se.ful to de..t Ih  ctdt-  of magel nue, icd icto treo   atod ca         -iteeecetin oJo  dill eretosb. h..a.e  I.oti
thetetrnnt  cops  teIllth  sa-  toooteY grouP tf the -nut)           e .tt.ntrY and 17) atou-try troll  octEsomsb    highe,aerg  intone than the s-try g..up
of the su        _.ct .mty (e_opo for "Capisal  urplun oil Empoote-s'  gn-pwheee "Middle Int-n  Noerthfti c  ad Middle tEat"  is ohbm..  b.t...e at stronge
amoo-cltualffiitlnl.      Inhe rude..eno.  group data the a           "Iso    ar   opiinwightod urInhzeetit nears  foe e-h  oodite-  and ehot-  enip when.a
insetbait  f th  deuhrlee  t a Rou   a   aefrthnIIctr                icehe orvereg  of cett ten unong tht indi.tasmy  depends on the aeilahility Ie
dens and'i.oot..if.on   tatnme   b-e.e teed No toatogaerge   f u.. indiItaro  to  vth                             Those senge  ar ...Id y ...efu1i  Is npaeisg the value
of on  indictor atatha  amon  lbth IIyalre  rne   eua
Totl    Tosi srt oe  eeno-priislg mad soo dnd inod  wtr.nota    ulfd                                          enamdtlohaatuiosenty  lenni.
forcry Ipasies  maret  ad h..he  garden  ortoli  feica; 1977 daa                        eeadlmisgnunsee,pre1nia. l aursee,                          -b  and peneta t mca..
GNP P.I I.Pit.   It    ~ ~       ~      ~     ~     oplatonlee NItopt    Ed -toa,   ubn   n   oa   Peaaten  (eta.t.
tu'It'd by tam   coce inmthod as ifold luob Asian  ff97-I9a  ub   90                           avalaleIn puh1)ifo and  bnaegoeladeelledheia   n   n
1971.1and  1979 data.6                                                                        habill1,te tionoebore    ffniasaeenaiednepemnel   nf
by  t bat  nephytoln.tetba'         en   protli dIng pedanipajy  osfnodi
ENERGYl lONSltPTIhN PER CAPITA -Aon  co         Ineu   f on_ mtcla  enegy  bomat tare  are oa   ltl ded   -ea hE apdtlin,t hoevr,innigde health11  andtdisal
aad ligoite, pescolen-, 'Intr"  gas an  ode-                   Idert  geotherml-Ino-           Ienee00  pr dnslyd          sfedb a- h phyt inin  (hanby    mhdi1th aaeidnan
trloihiy) in  'ilu~gram   of .oa .euialntperopl;90   910, and iN7                              tun,adoe   m)vlhofri-ptet   snedsn   n   evd
dens,                                                                  l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i.ited rang  a f .edina1 fanilitiee.  For statietisal ptaepen  ache hepi-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                        ~~~~~~tale inniade WTHO- Printipel fesen. and  peniallned hanpinals, and caca
To1  Pa1~1pulatioo, Mid-Your leillione   - An of Jaly 1; 1960, l9T0, and 1978                 dmPisloos ae ..e.oIIta  bed   pTtal. eahe  ofi.l alimin toit odiemtarge
Urbas P-oiatio- Ccren f toai  -tuol  of urh   t.n total ypuplatios;th                                                               b. fbd.
diferntlefehios  f uha  aea  ma pffect  -oeprbhllty of data                    HOUSING
Populooo in yar 2000 - lurnt PoPulationpricoem              br .a.nd at 19ff         and their malt al.A bearde  or lodge  may on may eon he inoludd in
total popalatic by aged sea I'ld thei  aertaliecyen  fertility r-ten                      tI oueol   o   _tietioel ruogoeea.
PIoeoIo pcateafrmralyrtscpis ofdI ts.hee   oo.nnm..eaotme ofl peronape  rom -eael.afas,andrati  bIIaeIah.
level,  rd fenle liteeanscenoy ntallinlo  an 7.1 Years.  The .ar-.de...g    re..                 osvey.    aillgs seclude  e-emmn  eroae   n
meer  for feriliYty-an  nln  have three lacel  enuaming declise  It                        vnuioopcs
f-teil loy uo-tding to inoa-   h-d  and pans family plnigpefraoe                         asnto E P.tr,Irolenn   fdeloa      oa,abn   e   aa
fEnh.c..nrr, is the ..e..igoed one of then. nine oomht-tiuoa of  -oenalipty                   votoa    wll eat  sleenciotyin Ivnqure apaetig
mted fertiiltac  Lieda for peajeo-io  porpoem.                                             of total, utyeeIendirural dwellngs renpeonicely
utuosonay Ppoulno io-_ .II ttraionar   paPul esi- ther  is no groth since
the bIrh rt  is equal to lbs death rt,ad also  theag                                  EDUtaere sCAoTION
maInncotan.hsi  achIeve   only af,teefrIiyrtsIcicto                                    Al         noletOee
the r-pla-eet leve  of om  net r-prod-ite  rate, oh, eeah ge...estion                     PrIaysGI -ntl   ae  n   eae                     -Crs  tonal, mn sad famal
of a-mee-pluce   itsef o-ctly.  The nn Iesr  population sire  -a                              eointo   l   gna   h   omaylvla   enmee freete
esimated  on..    hnl fte  rjce   ohaoonrrstcIof  heIppulaion                                prin-tyohol-age  popaletias;   -1r1ly inniudee rhilde agd -l
in te yar  Oll  ae  th  rue o  delin  offeriliy  ots  o rplas-       earbha  adluned fardifferent I-agthe of primacy  dusaios; foe
moot level.                                                          caas~~~~~~~~.utrie i    .. Invra  Idat..nitn enolmet may eanced 111 poe.tem
ales baa bone reenhed.                                              Secon....daroshtm  -'totl malad femal  - Computd an anVe; ..... d.ey
Porulatlon Desaity                                                    educative requires~lg   at .~leant" foo  Yor   f eppeavd prtmaey inetatution;
Pe ks . . -eid-year population Per IqI         kilamter (ID0 hec-ro) of                   provide.s geora.  vncroa,  r             hcobe  training ineroin   frpa
total area.                                                                         usualb..  .IgIIlIl.   IId...ly If 12 so 17 yearn of agelnreneoeoceare  ar  gmeely
only.                                                                                    tor 111      ..I,,klg..(1- Vcatooi .. nro..ilmeut Ipres   f nenoada-yf    V .o.etioma  isetinutiane
Poulatio   g  tutr    orer       hlrn1-4yas mrigeeI                                             i-olde teoh.ito.1  leduetrial, or otherI prgm   ehioh operene idlepe-
latton; 1960, 1970, and 1978 dana.                                                           Pti-ete   ato-piay   ndnnoey-lta.                           eaet   soldi
Patulalos Grwth ~.tsireoens)   total - .A'e 9r-nh rates of tote1 Old-                pImaye  aeaodt n   Ie-el  divided by nnbece of  oahern  Jis the
ye-  populantoas f m  1950-60. 1960-70, and 1970-78.                                           oore-peeddng level.
Gous nIron'b Onto  eroni- urban - Aes.ual 9rowh rate  of arhas PtpO.                     Aut1  to         oe oret    Ltneran   edo1ts fable to road end s-itne)
1ati-ns for 1950-b, 1960-70, cod 1970-76.
Crude ireb ate lot thoceadl- Aosoalihoe births per th...a.d of mid-peer... aey                 tcerge of tonal adult  poplation aged 19 yearn and ovo.
Cpopulattos; 1960, 1970, cad 1978 data.                                                  CONStIRTIIN
Crde Dsath 10t1 lo,r thousand  - Aa...I dethe Per thaunnd of nid-yea                        Psene Care fret thounad noepla-ion   - P.....egee care  empeie meter
populatio; 1960, 1970, aed 197f data..II    .tgI..h.ihp...; .ld                                                                                        -    .-,hI.     d
Green tocofutleROtn -Averagesamber  of deaghtors a   -ma  aill hear is                    nilile veices
he  tralcerdu-tivo perio d if she soperie....s present uge-npeoific  Fer           Onl  esvv   vriocn   aaair                         l  Ype  atrI       lnegred
tilloy  raten;  uauely five-year avraeso dngt  1960.  970  aoIl 1977.                        hratsnt   eea               loprten Allof  Pop tlan            ...en . amldo     ml-1
Pamil", PI ...anto-p-lcet-r, ocAD l   utdaaan    -   vve  -umb-  yr O-Ptor                      enorevr  in p           Pare -n   s  er   hnrgatotsa   ni   e
of birt-h-.tantrl davicro uader ...pi,.. of nIilo..aI family pla..niog pragrm.               snis effoon; data for I..e.t peers may sot he ompnrblo sLtemet
Pamolc Plaonina-esea loercos of earnd   -owoo  - P-tcatafo  of -soeld                t-toins abolis hed liteoiog.
all earned oonvu in same ago group.                                   feeoeal...  puhlio  Per- thoansd populaties; noldo I.unllnna..ed TVP .. caivccs
PFOOD 001    TRITINI                                                                             ioo ...trles uad in    . per  when rgiatratian of TV mo te ens is effeet,
Indro of Poo Prodattiot ro Carita 1169-71110) -lode  of Pee vepita Inui         te   f"al g.....1              2!tea Ieeapr.  eindanapIIdta.p
cooductian of all food cotoaodite.  Pruductio  enclads nee..d and feel and                  licotico  devted primarily ra ceourdieggen            I          J.ee.Iti  nomed-e
is_tclna   or bais.    C-ondit ioncae  prter  gond  (e.g                ..ars       toh  "aly' "if it appears at leas.t fou  timeaek
botuctoo -1"  ohich areedbleen  cOatalnnutr i-etIf .g1. toffe  and                   'it.oba "d-to   nedooprCes   e Sie-Bsdo  h   ubr
tea oc  noclueil .   ggregae predctloui f socotty  aho00tl Ickt, sold daring the yer,lold iog admisetan  ta driv-in   iea
ati-oa  ...ag  pro ducer price ooiahta; 19t1-65, 1970, and1916 data.                         aodoblk      ul
Per IndIa sunoly of oslories (perceen of reoulteneets I ~~~~~~~~~- Canpated franbi.uIi.
-teg   equivabot of non food supple    vila I          e countr-y per tpits           LABOR FORCE1
yP_lpYuaiabl  suPple  tomprise'   d             Imoaicpoction         'tpen  lon        ITa'lbr ot ltbusadr   -  oooetlyanieprm,ialdg
euoa,  a   hnget in stok,  Iot suple      .ealde animalfeed, ande,                 _ LWlF                t.ad
.Id                                                         I_,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and, forces.sd uemlyed hut euc lading h..e.ie  arudet,ea
quanlt en  nol  n fol  r         Iolln,  n  loscen ;is dinteihotioa.  Require-      -ott otI   aioh    oan-nae  o sparebi1o;'1960, '1976 'td
cens re  -nimaned by PAt bone d on phytiologl.J nedo for narma   -ci-                  1970 data.
city Ill heltlh co..sideliog e..vieomest  temperture, body -etghtnu, age                cmle 0--cotl   F,en    labor farc  as pcoetge ofd tona  labor foete.
ho ...n hl  1-lbolo  of61   op5lat970,   sod 197dlloi. 1   ecottrmssa                   Age icuar  ps       ol- Labor frein  amig  fo.e.ry,I hasting cml
household  lvel; 1961-6    1910, sod1977 dato.hiuLog anpec-tuge of t-ta  lebnr faeoe; 1960, 1970 and 197f deta.
Pt  ueooPdl floet(ca                 rde       rti   oto  ofprhapt                    Idar Ioonr        a or fcrnr Is peluf,toostrI orin,1  manbfrtt9cin
coot sply of food perlap.  Net supply of food Osdfodeabcr    o                              ndontii  ,  ae   n   aae   eonae   fttllbo   ae   90
qoc_ntsOc   llSot         eta   nablco   by           I0174  peRIe  toe  slia           P1977 and 1978 data..-tlpi
alloanc  01-b  fonth       ftoa  protein5 ,-    par day and 20:l free  of etgmul.   and  Pet!icotyoa tare (pereend - tatel, male, ae   femle-  PndIpeiso
peoa   potli  as aaoag   far the weeld,  Ipeap..ed by FAD On the TRied                 Pencaeofte.mleeleaepputinfslagcsetie;
rell d ...   eve.y:; 1961 -65,        d 197 7 III 19P   dataCish .1970, and 1975 datad,these are lIt'L                                      atnpta   ae   elnle
Pee~cooryypoteasopricfrom aammi andruim   -Pro-tot  suPPLY of food dn          a esaenutr   f the      . po     taino, cad lon  time trend   A fey  mti-
etu-o from  atliua  and pulses in grams Per day; 1961-65, 19Sf aol 191  data.    Scamt Deedst   aio-Rtio of popolation aer 11 ad61 andsee
Chill lagec 1-4) tfcriallty iste Irer thoocand) ~~~~~~~~~-IAcnua l_ootbhpe  tbotaeh.dt0t 
ago ge,up h-u crots, to ohildlee      ati  aegopfemst develping00-
Itela  boa I. ceced from  life  talsIN191nd1977 daa.INCOME DISTIT BUTION
HEALTH  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~  pret rcetP-deoot, p--reet Pt potet, owlporet4 10aen
an bieth; 1960, 1970 sad 1976 dota.
latuat1 cfoetulity  Nae  pa  ohausasdt.  A- Ia de-tis of -ufacts under aeYo    POyERTY TAXRGT 1ROUPb
ofag  pr   huadifte lOtthe.                                                                Entimeied Aalt  oet  noeLvlIN   r   n                           urban and  -ara1-
Accos to lade Waer IP-ecent of pooainl.   onl  ta, o  ual-N                                    Ioouepvet          tcom   os l-    o tha  (oUa$   leve ..Pit.)      ba  inm
Number of profle  (total, urban, aolrural) mith seonomabloaocemnooaofreatfib ionail..    adequate diet plust etl otia.....-. om..   requiremea ie in so
usocnppIplncueetrtedsrfal    atr  c  ctre     bt  nosaio-dt              A         P affordable
cotuleto  sa  ettasitbt enoaopd l.tma-  od tha bh,u.   Roca   ra
reasoato aces  uald..p.  thntehoso  e  rd              too  cteocnhl                   evloo   ajsmn  lee laIer coa  of lvin I               In arhes eas,        it
f-dt.i.  rl.,dp..t                            I....      b.         fto   pdcoultceteo   usoae ovry acm lne  retet -aea
do eon have toapIhd adIT bepotico.t1p i10d the ca  If toth.en-to
familyn outer ooe       .........and-.ecril  d re-noo   of pYhlaioo  faha   ulatI                                                            iwh   ee"ueueioo"
F--   di PP.1."..   .    Gb bber -1900.
ofhma   oreoanFate'an         fh outer-doa  cyte  o   h  uec
puceceto       P.nln   ts baatio.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
EOuW6C DEYUSMDT
00 PER CAPITA II 1978: U0  180
GROSS NLTION4L PRODUCT 1N 1978/79                                                         AINIUAL RATr OF GRT    (%  contant prces)
USS Bin.       %                 1955/56-1959/60   1960/61-1964/65   1965/66-1969/70   1970/71-1974/75   1975/76-1977/78
GNP at Karket Prices               117.08      100.0                     3.7               3.6               3.7               2.8               5.6
Gross Doinsstic Inv etect           28.28       24.2
Grogs lational saving               28.11       24.0
Courent Account Nleence              0.50        0.4
94=. LAIOIL MM AIp PJDDUCT1VTY 1IN 1971
Value Ad    (at factor cost)         Labor Fore-            V.A. Per Worker
US Sin.             2ijL                     *             Us8        % of National Avaraxe
Agriculture                        24.5            46.6            130.0      72.1           198               64
Industry                          11.8             22.3             20.2      11.2           582              199
Services                          16.3             31.1             32        167            542              186
Total/average                     52.6            100.0            180.4    100.0            292              100
COVER4NT FINAIICE                                            1/
Genarl Gomat                                               Central Coveromnt
Rs   ~~~~~ of                           16.1141 ~~~~~~Iof GDP
~~~~~~127J/79 .197/5-1979                 197/7 1974/75-1978/79
Current Recaipta                 183.65       19.1         18.3                              107.71      11.2         10.6
Current Expenditures             177.26       18.4         16.7                              108.99      fl5QJ
Currant Surplua/O)ficit            6.41        0.7          1.6                              - 1.28      -0.1          0.5
Capital Expaditures V/            78.41        8.1          7.2                               57.34       6.0          5.1
External Assistance (nt) Al        8.15        0.8          1.4                                8.15       0.8          1.4
OMIT, CUDIT AND RCES            1970/71     1975/74     1974/75     1975/76    1476/77      1977/78     1978/79   Septs.x 1978   S-otmber 1979
(Rs Eillion outstanding at ad of period)
Money ad Quai MOney              121.4       198.4       220.3       254.7       308.9       370.4       445.6        398.5          473.7
Dank Credit to Goveresant (nat)   52.6        87.3        95.3       101.1       110.2       134.7       153.9        139.5         161.7
dank Credit to Ccercial Sector   64.6        107.0       126.7       153.9       185.1       212.2       253.3        225.8          273.8
(Percentage or Id.% Nuab.rs)                                          January 1979   January 1980
ossy snd Quasi Money as S
of GP                          30.1        33.5        31.5        34.5        38.8        41.5        46.3
.bol.al. Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                100.0       139.7       174.9       173.0       176.6       185.8       185.8       185.3          224.0
A:nual percentage changea in:
Mbolesala Price Index              7.7        20.2        25.2       - 1.1         2.1         5.2          -           0.4          20.9
Dank Credit to Governawnt (not)   10.8        12.3         9.2         6.1         9.0        22.2        14.3         16.9          15.9
lank Credit to Coercial Sector   19.4         22.6        18.4        21.5        20.3        14.6        19.4         15.6          21.3
A/ ?be per capita GM estimat  iO at market prices, clculated by the conversion technique used in the Morld lank Atlas. 1979.
All other convrsions to dollars in this table are at the average exchewg  rate prevailing during the period covered.
/ Quick Estimtes.
/ Comt d fro, trend line of GM at factor coat series, including one observati-n before first ya-r and on observation
after last yer of listed period.
d/ Vorld anek astimte; not necessarily  onsistnt .ith official figures.
.1  Transfers betmn Centre snd States hav been natted out.
g/All loans and advances to third parties have bean netted out.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of S
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                    1976/77    1977t78    1978/79 h  1979180            M NERCh'ANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975/76 - 1978/79)
Exports of Goods                        5,753       6,315      6,976       7,8C0           Engineering Goods             671         11
Imports of Goods                       -5,928     -7,188      -8,488    -11,000            Tea                           420          7
Trade Balance                          -  175      -  873     -1,512      -3,200           Gea                            499         8
NFS (net)                                 379         692         882      1,050           Clothing                       378         6
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                          204       - 181      - 630      -2,15D                   Products               319         5
Jute Manufactures              251         4
Interest Payments (net)  1/              -182      -  89         130         400           Iron Ore                       270         5
Other Factor Payments (net)                -           -           -         -             Cotton Textiles                248         4
Net Transfers   J/                        695       1,077      1,000       1,000           Sugar                          224         4
Others                      2,649         45
Balance on Current Account                717         807        500        -750
-                                  ~~~~~            ~~~~~Total   5.929        100
Official Aid
Disbursements                        1,955      1,628       1,695       1,870          EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31. 1979
Am,ortization                         -560        -645       -702    -   687                                                US$ billion
Transactions with IMF                    -337        -330       -158         -             outstanding and Disbursed                 15.5
All Other Items                          -200         616         199    - -183            Undisbursed                                5.2
Outstanding, including                    20.7
Increase in Reserves (-)               -1,575      -2,076     -1,534    -   250                Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)               3,747       5,823      7,357       7,607                                            h/l/
Net Reserves (end year)  _/             3,276       5,668      7,357       7,607           DEBT SERVICR RATIO FOR 1978/79        15.0  percent
Fuel  nd Related Materials                                                                 IBiD/IDA LENDING. DECEMBER 31. 1979
Imports                                 1,581       1,811      2,043       4,050                                                USS million
of which: Petrolaum                  1,581      1,811       2,043      4,050                                            IBRD            IDA
Exports                                    37          32         24         -             Outstanding and Disbursed       689             4,286
of which: Petroleum                     21          18        n.a.        -            Undisbursed                      614             2,621
Outstanding, including        1,303             6,907
Undisbursed
RATE OF KECHANGE
June 1966 to mid-Dacesber 1971             US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Ra 1.00 - US$0.133333
Kid-December 1971 to end-June 1972         US$1.00 - Re 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - USS0.137376
After end-June 1972                        Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1978                US$1.00 - Re 8,188
Rs 1.00 - US$0.122
Ind-December 1979                          US$1.00 - Rs 7.907
Re 1.00 - US$O.126
h/  Estimated.
i/ Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
3/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
i Excludes net use of IMF credit.
1/  Aortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of merchandise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 20
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of January 31, 1981)
US$ million
Loan or                                                    (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year Borrower         Purpose              Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
43 Loans/                                          1,313.2
65 Credits fully disbursed                                    3,807.4
342-IN    1972  India   Education                    --         12.0       4.47
378-IN    1973  India   Karnataka Agricultural
Markets                   --          8.0      1.12
390-IN    1973  India   Bombay Water Supply I        --         55.0       1.87
456-IN    1974  India   HP Apple Processing
& Marketing              --         13.0       6.43
1011-IN    1974  India   Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD   52.0          --        14.83
482-IN    1974  India   Karnataka Dairy              --         30.0      19.56
502-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Canal CAD          --         83.0      31.32
521-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Dairy              --         27.7      14.36
522-IN    1974  India   Madhya Pradesh Dairy         --         16.4       6.17
526-IN    1975  India   Drought Prone Areas          --         35.0       2.29
1079-IN    1975  IFFCO   IFFCO Fertilizer            109.0       --         1.24
1097-IN    1975  ICICI   Industry DFC XI               94.8      --         1.32
532-IN    1975  India   Godavari Barrage
Irrigation               --         45.0       4.81
541-IN    1975  India   West Bengal Agric.
Development              --         34.0       9.22
562-IN    1975  India   Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD             --         24.0       2.05
572-IN    1975  India   Rural
Electrification I        --         57.0        .04
585-IN    1975  India   Uttar Pradesh Water
Supply                   --         40.0      17.37
598-IN    1975  India   Fertilizer Industry          --        105.0      35.16
604-IN    1976  India   Power Transmission IV        --        150.0      60.16



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 20
US$ million
Loan or                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower       Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
609-IN    1976      India   Madhya Pradesh
Forestry T.A.           --       4.0     1.71
610-IN    1976      India   Integrated Cotton
Development             --      18.0    11.61
1251-IN    1976      India   Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation             145.0    --      90.34
1260-IN    1976      India   IDBI II                    40.0    --      16.13
1273-IN    1976      India   National Seeds I           25.0    --      23.14
1313-IN    1976      India   Telecommunications VI    80.0    --        21.98
1335-IN    1976      India   Bombay Urban Transport   25.0    --         8.25
680-IN    1977      India   Kerala Agric.
Development             --       30.0   25.15
682-IN    1977      India   Orissa Agric.
Development             --       20.0   12.00
685-IN    1977      India   Singrauli Thermal
Power                   --      150.0   67.31
687-IN    1977      India   Madras Urban
Development             --       24.0    9.47
690-IN    1977      India   WB Agric. Exten-
sion & Research         --       12.0   12.00
1394-IN    1977      India   Gujarat Fisheries          14.0    --      11.18
712-IN    1977      India   Madhya Pradesh
Agric. Dev.             --       10.0    6.94
720-IN    1977      India   Periyar Vaigai
Irrigation              --       23.0   14.68
728-IN    1977      India   Assam Agricultural
Development             --        8.0    6.87
736-IN    1977      India   Maharashtra
Irrigation              --       70.0   39.26
737-IN    1977      India   Rajasthan Agricul-
tural Extension         --       13.0    9.49
740-IN    1977      India   Orissa Irrigation          --      58.0   39.11
1475-IN    1977      ICICI   Industry DFC XII           80.0    --      15.27
747-IN    1978      India   Second Foodgrain
Storage                 --      107.0   85.53
756-IN    1978      India   Calcutta Urban
Development II          --       87.0   37.29
761-IN    1978      India   Bihar Agric.
Extension &
Research                --        8.0    7.33



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 20
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellatlons)
Credit No. Year   Borrower       Purpose                Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
1511-IN    1978      India  IDBI Joint/Public
Sector                  25.0   --           21.17
1549-IN    1978      TEC    Third Trombay
Thermal Power          105.0   --           79.66
788-IN    1978      India  Karnataka Irrigation       --    117.6         88.01
793-IN    1978      India  Korba Thermal Power        --    200.0        161.27
806-IN    1978      India  Jammu-Kashmir
Horticulture            --      14.0        13.79
808-IN    1978      India  Gujarat Irrigation         --      85.0        73.23
815-IN    1978      India  Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries               --      17.5        16.08
816-IN    1978      India  National Seeds II          --      16.0        15.58
1592-IN    1978      India  Telecommunications VII  120.0   --             56.35
824-IN    1978      India  National Dairy             --    150.0        135.44
842-IN    1979      India  Bombay Water
Supply II               --    196.0        189.33
843-IN    1979      India  Haryana Irrigation         --    111.0         59.81
844-IN    1979      India  Railway Modernization
& Maintenance           --    190.0        154.33
848-IN    1979      India  Punjab Water Supply
& Sewerage              --      38.0        27.12
855-IN    1979      India  National Agricultural
Research                --      27.0        26.21
862-IN    1979      India  Composite Agricultural
Extension               --      25.0        20.47
871-IN    1979      India  NCDC                       --      30.0        19.90
1648-IN    1979      India  Ramagundam Thermal
Power                   50.0   --         --50.00
874-IN    1979      India  Ramagundam Thermal
Power                   --    200.0        176.70
889-IN    1979      India  Punjab Irrigation          --    129.0        112.29
899-IN    1979      India  Maharashtra Water
Supply                  --      48.0        47.21
911-IN    1979      India  Rural Electrification
Corp. II                --    175.0        151.91
925-IN    1979      India  Uttar Pradesh Social
Forestry                --      23.0        21.32



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 20
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower        Purpose                Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
947-IN    1979       India   ARDC III                   --     250.0      145.98
963-IN    1979      India   Inland Fisheries           --       20.0       20.00
954-IN    1979      India   Maharashtra
Irrigation II          --      210.0      192.52
961-IN    1979      India   Gujarat Community
Forestry                --       37.0       34.03
981-IN    1980      India   Population II               --      46.0       45.97
1003-IN    1980       India   Tamil Nadu Nutrition    --         32.0        32.00
1004-IN    1980       India   U.P. Tubewells             --      18.0       17.52
1011-IN    1980       India   Gujarat Irrigation II   --        175.0      175.00
1027-IN    1980       India   Singrauli Thermal II    --        300.0      289.17
1012-IN    1980       India   Cashewnut                  --      22.0       21.95
1028-IN    1980       India   Kerala Agricultural
Extension               --       10.0       10.00
1033-IN    1980       India   Calcutta Urban
Transport               --      56.0        56.00
1034-IN    1980      India   Karnataka Sericulture   --          54.0       54.00
1046-IN    1980       India   Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage            --      80.0        79.88
1843-IN    1980       ICICI   Industry DFC XIII         100.0    --         94.87
1887-IN    1980       India   Farakka Thermal
Power                   25.0    --          25.00
1053-IN    1980       India   Farakka Thermal
Power                   --     225.0      225.00
1897-IN    1980      India   Kandi Watershed and
Area Development        30.0    --          30.00
1072-IN    1980       India   Bihar Rural Roads          --      35.0       35.0
1078-IN    1980       India   Mahanadi Barrages          --      83.0       83.00
1925-IN*   1980      India   Bombay High Offshore
Development            400.0    --        400.0
1082-IN    1981      India   Madras Urban Dev. II    --          42.0       42.0
Total                                             2,833.0 8,671.6
of which has been repaid                        1,060.9    71.7
Total now outstanding                             1,772.0 8,599.9
Amount Sold                           133.8
of which has been repaid            128.1           5.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                 1,766.3 8,599.9
Total undisbursed (excluding*)                      560.7 3,546.2
* Not yet effective
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 20
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of January 31, 1981)
Amount (US$ million)
Fiscal
Year                     Company                        Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.              1.5        -         1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.               0.9        -         0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                   1.4        -         1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                        0.2        -         0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.            0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.             0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.           11.8        1.3      13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.               1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                  1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                   8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.               15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                          6.6        -         6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0         1.2       5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.          7.5        1.1       8.6
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0            -        38.0
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS           99.1       11.5    110.6
Less:   Sold                            25.9        1.7      27.6
Repaid                         20.8         -       20.8
Cancelled                       6.2        1.3       7.5
Now Held                       46.2        8.5      54.7
Undisbursed                    44.5        1.1      45.6



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 20
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was US$729 million in FY80, compared to
US$538 million in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal
year through January 31, 1981 totalled US$373 million, representing an
increase of about 20% over the same period last year. The undisbursed
pipeline of US$4,107 million as of January 31, 1981, reflects the lead
time which would be expected given the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing
projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097  Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975; Effective
Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1475  Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843  Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-
scale industries, which often employ high technology and are export-
oriented. Loan 1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly
ahead of schedule. Disbursements under Loans 1475 and 1843 are also ahead
of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors
regarding the progress of projects in execution, and in particular
to report any problems which are being encountered and the action
being taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and
with the understanding that they do not purport to present a bal-
anced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 20
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
the State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to
encourage the pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint
ventures. The project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector
investment studies and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing
with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 947   Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been progressing very well.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Satisfactory progress is being made in the construction of bag
storage warehouses, despite problems of land acquisition at some sites.
However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and port silos is not
expected to be completed until 1985, as a result of delays in the employ-
ment of consultants and the longer time required for the preparation of
technical specifications and tenders and the construction itself. The
project is currently under review by the Government of India and some
changes to its scope may be made in April 1981.
Cr. No. 456   Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but
construction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe
winter conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in
the last two seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is
scheduled for completion by December 1981.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 20
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress
has been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The
project's research activities, however, are behind the original schedule
due to poor organization.
Ln. No. 1313  Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Ln. No. 1592  Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
July 1980, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment for the sixth project were behind schedule, resulting in a
reduced growth rate for the installation of direct exchange lines. Insti-
tutional improvements envisaged under the projects have been achieved, and
the financial situation of the Posts and Telegraphs Department remains
sound.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing
fertilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in
sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the Government.
Further, some of the sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize
because of reconsideration by the Central and State governments. IDA has
agreed to a list of sub-projects to replace the ones that are likely to be
dropped. Because of the above, the project is likely to be delayed by
about 18 months.
Cr. No. 378   Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 million
credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Progress is satisfactory. As of December 1980, construction of the 39
markets originally envisaged under the project was almost completed, and
trade had shifted to more than half of these. An additional eight markets
have been included in the project at the request of the State government,
and these are expected to be completed by June 1981. The credit is
expected to be fully disbursed by the closing date of June 30, 1981.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 20
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves the development of the agricultural universi-
ties in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum
of their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure
to enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development.
Considerable progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but
achieving educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by
traditional attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership
falters. Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The
Project Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and
are supporting efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 390   Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046 Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: September 31, 1985
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns
caused by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975),
redesign of major project components and the addition of a supplementary
study on sewage disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing satisfactorily.
All works have been successfully completed except for the projects sewege
pumping stations. Financial performance of the project entity is satis-
factory. Implementation of Credit 842, a second stage of the ongoing
Credit 390, is proceeding to schedule. Preliminary work in connection
with implementation of Credit 848 is progressing satisfactorily. Imple-
mentation of Credit 1046-is proceeding satisfactorily. Detailed



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 20
construction programs have been prepared for rural schemes, and prepara-
tion of tender documents for urban schemes have been completed.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the phy-
sical execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag
so that disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at
the time of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements
have been made to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
country-wide materials shortages and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consul-
tants' services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts.
Staff shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although
more extensive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this
problem.
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
With respect to the first Madras project, physical progress is
generally satisfactory and costs are within appraisal estimates on most
components. However, land acquisition problems and consequent delays in
construction on one of the three sites and service areas will result in
about 15 months delay in the completion of the final sections of these
areas. Increased attention should be turned to the financial analysis and
marketing strategies required to ensure that anticipated cost recovery in
the sites and services and slum upgrading components and thus replicabil-
ity is actually achieved. Technical assistance is being sought to
strengthen financial management and analysis.
Cr. No. 1082 Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42.0 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effectiveness Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 20
With respect to the second project, only recently signed and
declared effective, early project implementation is proceeding satisfac-
torily, with evidence that the lessons learned under the first project are
being heeded.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL
dairy cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy coopera-
tive societies (DCS) have been established under the three state projects
(Karnataka-923, Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response has
been excellent and project authorities are under considerable producer
pressure to speed up the establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost
all of the DCS is good and construction of dairy and feed plants is now
proceeding at a satisfactory pace. Limited milk processing capacity has
been the major constraint to DCS formation in all three projects. Under
the National Dairy Project, three subprojects with an estimated total cost
of approximately Rs 1,000 million have been appraised by the Indian Dairy
Corporation and a further eight subprojects are in various stages of
preparation and appraisal. Advance procurement of dairy equipment is well
underway though disbursements have been slow, mainly as a result in the
start of project operations.
Cr. No. 532   Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is proceeding satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 20
Ln. No. 1011  Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 1078  Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562   Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251  Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)        CompDsite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of July 17
1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 20
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011 Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possi-
ble, to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation.
Canal lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shap-
ing are prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions
have been made to increase agricultural production and marketing by
reforming and upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing
processing and storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of
these projects is generally satisfactory with the exception of the Periyar
Vaigai Project (Cr. 720-IN) where cost overruns have occurred due to sub-
stantial increases of both quantities and unit cost over the original
engineers' estimates. Specific efforts are now underway to redesign this
project so that it can still achieve its original objectives. Difficul-
ties had also arisen earlier in connection with the Nagarjunasagar com-
ponent of Loan 1251, where water losses proved to be higher than antici-
pated. Additional assurances have been obtained from the State Government
concerned, regarding the enforcement of cropping patterns and the sequence
and timing of main canal construction and lining, which should ensure that
this project will also achieve its objectives.
Cr. No. 541   West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The progress of shallow tubewells is well ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but progress in all other areas is slow. The project is not
expected to be fully disbursed by the closing date, and GOI's request for
an extension is expected.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 20
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028  Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
These eight credits finance the reorganization and strengthening
of agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive
research capabilities in nine States in India. In areas where the
reformed extension system is in full operation, field results have been
very good, both in terms of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of
increased crop yields. In Rajasthan, Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa, in
particular, significant gains have been made under the projects. In West
Bengal, where a change in government brought a review of the organiza-
tional principles underlying the new extension system and an accompanying
hiatus in project implementation, a Cabinet decision has reaffirmed the
State Government's commitment to the project, revised implementation plans
have been prepared, and project activities are resuming. In Bihar, staff
shortages, particularly in supervisory and managerial posts, have hampered
project implementation, although progress in areas where regular extension
visits are being made attests to the efficacy of the system itself. In
Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered under the Composite Agricul-
tural Extension Project, important early administrative and financial
steps have been taken to pave the way for effective operation of the reor-
ganized extension system and field work is off to a good start. In
Kerala, project implementation has just begun.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 20
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Com-
mitment of funds to research subprojects is proceeding satisfactorily,
although corresponding disbursements may lag somewhat behind the original
estimates. Additions to the staff of the Project Unit have been made to
expedite further progress under the project.
Cr. No. 526   Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dry-
land farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone
areas.
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting
operations, which were one season behind original schedule, have been
rephased to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
As of October 1980, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion of godowns was progressing well in the States of Haryana and Uttar
Pradesh, although some delays had occurred in the State of Orissa. Con-
sultants had been recruited to assist NCDC and State Cooperative Banks in
strengthening their institutions, although some consultants were yet to be
recruited in Haryana. Disbursements have been progressing well and are
now ahead of the appraisal targets.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 20
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce
manufacturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and
to. improve their performance and availability. The project is still at an
early stage of implementation but is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for
sawnwood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-
based industry in Bastar district.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These projects, designed to expand the social forestry program in
Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages,
and to supply raw materials to cottage industries, are proceeding well.
The projects provide for large-scale tree plantations on public lands,
primarily along roads, rails and canals, on village common lands and on
degraded forest reserves.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas
until the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to
renewed interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to
progress well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new pro-
cessing units are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant
protection activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273  National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
Closing Date: December 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 20
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by Cr. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organiza-
tional difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in
the second project States is more satisfactory. The role of various
organizations (National and State) in the production and processing of
seed is being reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335 Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033 Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: January 31, 1981 (expected);
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The bus procurement program supported by the Bombay project
(Ln. 1335) has proceeded on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies
having been ordered and 672 already in service. Total fleet strength has
increased from 1,530 buses at the inception of the project to 1,935 buses
in September 1980, in accordance with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity
expansion has lagged somewhat behind fleet expansion, but caught up in
November 1980. However, delays in construction of new workshop facilities
have been more substantial and will not be fully recoverable. As a
result, the loan closing date has been extended by three years. Traffic
management civil works are also somewhat behind schedule, although now
proceeding satisfactorily. Project implementation under Cr. 1033 is
proceeding satisfactorily, a good start having been made on the important
early procurement steps.
Cr. No. 1072  Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35.0 million credit of December 5
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
Construction is scheduled to begin in May 1981 on the firsts
phase of this project designed to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of
rural roads and to improve maintenance of the rural road network in Bihar
as part of the State's overall rural development efforts.
Ln. No. 1394 Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and      million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 20
As of October 1980 when these projects were last reviewed, the
harbor construction works at Mangrol and Veraval in Gujarat had encoun-
tered delays, although the problem with shortages of cement supplies had
been overcome. In Andhra Pradesh, the harbor works at Visakhapatnam, Kak-
inada and Nizampatnam were under way and the pace of implementation had
increased at all three sites.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed
to increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa,
Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries,
improvements to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the
establishment of training centers. The project became effective in
May 1980. The initial implementation tasks, primarily involving the
establishment of State Fish Seed Development Corporations and Central and
State project monitoring units, are progressing satisfactorily. Site
selection and hatchery design work is under way.
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of May 12,
1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr. 874   US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 20
Ln. No. 1887 Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and        US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053  December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feed-
ing power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793 supports the construc-
tion of the first three 200 MW generating units at the second such sta-
tion, at Korba, together with related facilities and associated transmis-
sion. Loan 1648/Credit 874 support similar investments at Ramagundam, and
Loan 1887/Credit 1053, at Farakka. The National Thermal Power Corporation
(NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation of these power
stations. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW extension
of the Tata Electric Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area. All these large-scale ther-
mal power projects are progressing satisfactorily. For Singrauli and
Korba, construction works are on or ahead of schedule, although some slip-
page has occurred in the implementation schedule for the Ramagundam pro-
ject.
Cr. No. 911   Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
This project provides continued support to the Rural Electrifica-
tion Corporation's lending program, and is helping to finance about 1,700
rural electrification schemes in fourteen State Electricity Boards (SEB),
including the newly participating Uttar Pradesh SEB. The project is pro-
gressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400.0 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Expected Effectiveness Date:
March 13, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of
mothers and children and the lowering of fertility. Implementation works
have started in both project States--Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 20
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Implementation has started on this project which is designed to
expand cashewnut production in the States of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra
Pradesh and Orissa.
Cr. No. 1003 Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block is proceeding
according to schedule.
Cr. No. 1004 Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily on this project.
Ln. No. 1897 Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30.0 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Contract for the construction of Dholbaha dam has been awarded.
Progress in other components are satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is proceeding well with encouraging pro-
gress in all components.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT - PHASE II
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project
Six months.
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project
The Government of Madhya Pradesh assisted by Bank
Group staff.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project
June 1980; August 1980.
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission
September 1980.
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations
March 23, 1981.
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness
August 15, 1981.
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) GOMP to review adequacy of field staff deployed and
to increase field staff, if necessary, by March 31,
1984 (para 37).



-2-
(b) GOMP to create all new positions required for the
project by July 1, 1981 (para 43(a)).
(c) GOMP to deploy staff for the project in accordance
with a schedule acceptable to IDA, to ensure that
agreed extension staff positions would be utilized
only for extension and would remain with DOA
throughout the project period, and to ensure that the
emoluments and benefits of extension staff would not
be adversely affected by reason of the reorganization
(para 43(a)).
(d) GOMP to ensure that extension field staff-live in or
near the areas to which they are assigned
(para 43(c)).
(e)  GOMP to set up Regional Planning Committees, these
committees to meet by September 30, 1981 and at least
twice annually thereafter (para 46).






C    =te^:vooF  St~~~~~~~~~~> 
Pa        !   .X  -    
)  .  , ,, a~~~~~~-  al >~<Z  *fS,4W
m           ,  3_. o            > A ,
:X;t,'  C,lAt'.i}  s;X%a:'S fXi001  0  01N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
I_  X  X  .r  9  :   '  >   Q '  ,.,.--.  r  +~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



