Report No. PIC4422
Project Name                   Indonesia-Maluku Regional Development...
Project
Region                         East Asia and Pacific
Sector                         Urban Development
Project ID                     IDPA37095
Borrower                       Republic of Indonesia
Executing Agencies             Directorate General of Regional
Development, Ministry of Home
Affairs (DG BANGDA) and Maluku BAPPEDA
Estimated Project Cost         US$ 45 million
Date PID Prepared              November 5, 1996
Proposed Appraisal Date        March 15, 1997
Proposed Negotiations Date     April 15, 1997
Background:
The majority of Maluku's population of about two million is
concentrated in two geophysical areas: small islands of historical
significance which were chosen as naval strongholds (Ternate, Tidore,
Ambon, Kai Kecil) and which remain as key municipal and administrative
centers; and lightly populated coastal areas tracing the circumference
of the larger islands. The importance of the sea is captured by the
statistic that nearly 90t of all villages are categorized as being
coastal. These villages are primarily engaged in estate crops,
subsistence farming and fishing. The population density is low at
persons per km2 and drops further with the exclusion of small, highly-
populated islands. This population distribution presents two challenges
for development: (1) many normal rural/urban linkages are broken by the
sea; and (2) populations are not compact both because of the widely-
scattered distribution of the islands in the province and because
settlements are arranged around the circumference of the islands. These
features raise costs of providing services and inputs, and of collecting
and marketing production. Seram in Central Maluku has the highest island
population at 350,000 (1990 census) followed by Ambon island (222,000)
and Haahera (183,000).
The Gross Regional Domestic Product (GRDP) per capita in Maluku was
about 77T of the national average and grew at about 5.8w during most of
the last decade. The sectoral distribution of GRDP is approximately 34t
agriculture (including fisheries); 20t trade; 17t other services; and
13t manufacturing and industry.   About 68t of the labor force were
engaged in agriculture and fisheries versus 13t in public services and
8t in trade.  Trend projections over the next few years show only a few
percentage points drop in labor in agriculture, picked up by
manufacturing and trade.
Coconuts account for 55t of planted area--double the area planted



in food crops and double the area in all other estate (cloves, cacao,
nutmeg, coffee and cashew)--and a similar share of the value of
agriculture production. The total coconut area in Maluku has expanded
31- over the six years ending in 1994.   Production has fallen 5t over
the same period since most recent plantings have not begun producing at
their potential and older trees are tapering off in yield.     Copra
generates two-thirds of cash crop income.
Maluku has a well-endowed marine and agriculture resource base with
rich soils and adequate rainfall. The major constraint is the
geographic distribution of the population which is spread around the
circumference of islands which are themselves widely-scattered. These
features affect the concentration of markets and effective demand, the
efficiency of service delivery and the diffusion of technology. The
approach to surmount this obstacle is interventions tied to processing
and higher-valued commodities through targeting specific markets and a
fairly narrow band of outputs. The productivity of inputs must be high
relative to transportation costs and the value of off-island exports
must also be high relative to transportation. Remote areas do have a
comparative advantage in supplying local demand for some staple
commodities.
Sector Issues and Government Strategy:
The Government's five-year development plan for Eastern Indonesia,
as set out in REPELITA VI (1994/95 - 1998/99), emphasizes:
agricultural development including improved productivity,
irrigation development, and enhanced services;
infrastructure development including inter-island transport;
human resource development;
industrial development, with agro-processing being highlighted; and
deconcentration and decentralization of planning, administration,
and implementation.
The strategy supports much higher development expenditure (the
development budgets for the Eastern Provinces (APBD) tripled during the
early 1990s) and targets higher growth rates for Eastern Indonesia than
for the rest of the country. It is intended to advance objectives of
regional equity, a more spatially-balanced growth pattern, improved
rural/urban linkages, and strengthened national unity.
The leading sectoral challenges are to:
raise agricultural productivity through technology creation and
dissemination, particularly in treecrops; and through semi-
technical irrigation development and completion of some schemes;
overcome constraints in input availability, information, and credit
which block technology adoption;
- 2-



raise value-added processing of agricultural and fisheries
commodities;
reduce trade restrictions and increase trade linkages to transmit
consumer prices of higher-valued commodities upstream to farmgate;
increase beneficiary participation in project design and
implementation; and
decentralize government activities, decision-making and service
provision.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations:
Imperatives from the experience with area development projects
outside Indonesia are: avoid complex designs; resist establishing
specialized, new administrative structures; and avoid the diffusion of
implementation responsibility. The capacity for mid-course corrections
raises the probability of success as demonstrated in the Indonesian
portfolio and internationally. OED's study of area development projects
(September, 1993) reiterated these themes and stressed the importance of
a process approach rather than specifying a priori targets.
Lessons from the Upland Projects emphasize the need for diversified
farming systems research; access to credit (and the utility of initial
subsidization of new inputs in selected circumstances); political
commitment to and policy support for rural development; capable inter-
agency coordination without too many layers and agencies involved; and
simple, flexible designs which can evolve and be re-evaluated. The Tree
Crops Small Holder Project illustrates the importance of quality
planting material, support for nurseries, the value of perennial
undercrops, and the capacity for cost recovery except when plantings are
substandard.
The proposed project should incorporate these lessons by:
having relatively few, focused components with a capacity to adapt;
having early community involvement in design, beginning with the
social assessment stage;
having strong links to agro-ecological area research early in the
implementation cycle;
front-loading attention to financing, marketing and infrastructure;
creating awareness and incentives for diffusion of technology
beyond immediate beneficiaries;
adjusting credit and payment terms for tree crops and addressing
land tenure concerns if necessary;
screening irrigation development sites for water availability,
adequate population, andexisting paddy cultivation, and imposing
cost control ceilings.
-3-



Project Objectives and Description:
The objectives of the project are to:
raise productivity in food crops, tree crops, and improve
management of village level fisheries;
raise the value of transported commodities through credit and
technical support
for improved processing; credit for and public investment in
storage/warehouses; and market linkages;
satisfy village demand for water supply, agricultural pest and
disease control, and credit;
institutional strengthening of farmer self-help groups; NGOs;
research institutes, local and regional governments; and
technical agencies.
The four project components would be:
1.   Agricultural Productivity:    (a)  Semi-technical irrigation
development of about 6,000 hectares in north Seram; northeast Buru; and
around Wasile Bay in HALTENG. (b) Technology diffusion for coconuts
(both traditional and hybrid varieties on up to 30,000 hectares, mostly
on Seram and in Maluku Utara; some improved pruning and pest control
for cacao.   (c)  Technology diffusion for food crops.   (d)   Improved
fisheries management.
2.   Value-Added Processing, Storage and Transportation.
3.   Village Based Initiatives and Credit.   Village-determined
investment is expected to be for water supply; goat and chicken
vaccination; pest control; specialized commodities (kemiri, chilies,
trepang); and revolving credit for processing and other infrastructure.
4.   Institutional Strengthening.   (Government and non-government   NGOs;
farmer & community self-help groups; AIAT research substations at
Makariki (Seram) and possibly Kao (Haahera Utara); local governments;
local technical agencies; and project management.
Institutional Framework:
BANGDA in the Ministry of Home Affairs would be the lead central
agency. The Governor has already appointed an inter-departmental Task
Force (Pokja) for preparation with BAPPEDA as Secretariat. The project
would be managed by a Provincial Coordination Committee
(PCC) chaired by BAPPEDA I at the provincial level, responsible for
coordination, planning, supervision, monitoring, and technical support.
The committee would include the Water Resources Management Kanwil,
Agriculture Kanwil, and the Dinas-Dinas of agriculture, public works and
community development. The Ambon Assessment Institute for Agricultural
Technology would have Director level representation. For the three
targeted Kabupaten, a project coordinator would be appointed at BAPPEDA
TK II, with project managers (PIMPROs) appointed for the lead
- 4 -



participating Dinas-Dinas. Community Development Facilitators would
assist with the selection and guidance of village based initiatives. A
Secretariat would be established to monitor credit and revolving credit
(this excludes block grants to villages). This would be modeled on the
GTZ Project Linking Banks and Self-Help Groups.
Benefits and Target Population:
The target population would comprise:
1.   Coastal fishing/tree crop communities in Maluku Tengah (mostly on
Seram), Haahera Utara and Haahera Tengah. About 300 villages as direct
beneficiaries with a total population of 335,000 would be targeted.
2.   Rice and food crop producers including transmigrants in well-
established sites. About 7,000 households (40,000 beneficiaries) would
benefit from new semi-technical irrigation (east of Wahai on Seram;
northeast Buru; Wasile Bay area of Halteng--Dodaga and some adjacent
schemes; and possibly around Kao.
3.   Commodity processors and traders in three Kabupaten who would
benefit from agricultural and marine processing technology and
marketing, warehousing, and sea transport infrastructure.     Off-farm
employment generation is expected.
4.   Populations of targeted areas would benefit from village
initiatives (water supply), revolving credit, passenger waiting rooms
and dock improvements.
5.   Indirect beneficiaries would be reached through adaptive research,
demonstration plots and technology diffusion.
The project benefits would be:
1.   Income generation targeted to poorer communities.    Nearly 70% of
target villages are classified as "backward" or poor (IDT) versus 58%
for Maluku as a whole and 33% for Indonesia. Income generation is to be
achieved through a strategy of providing new 'technology', capturing
more value in processing and agro-business before shipment, avoiding
losses and spoilage during storage and transportation, improving marine
transport facilities, and relieving credit constraints.
2.   Welfare improvements in the form of consumer surplus from
relatively lower rice and copra oil prices (overcoming transportation
costs with local production for rice and introducing more efficient
pressing/extraction for copra); improving water supplies, and other
village-identified initiatives; and improved transportation
infrastructure.
3.   Sustainable resource use through better fisheries management and
increasing productivity and off-farm income generation to take pressure
off of fragile habitats. This project would contribute to the
conservation objectives of a proposed Maluku Conservation and Natural
Resources Management Project being prepared in tandem.
- 5 -



4.   Institutional strengthening of self-help groups; water users
associations; local governments; agricultural research stations; and
technical agencies.
Environmental and Social Aspects:
The project involves no resettlement and is expected have no major
detrimental impacts on the environment. On the contrary, sustainability
of near-shore marine resource use is expected to improve through
research, community-based management, stock assessment, and moratoria in
key areas/seasons. The project is being designed together with the
Maluku Conservation and Natural Resources Management Project which will,
inter alia, protect watersheds and thereby promote the sustainability of
irrigation investment through safeguarding water availability and
controlling siltation. The Conservation Project will also protect
mangroves and establish/manage marine conservation areas which will
contribute to productivity in fisheries. These benefits of the
Conservation Project for regional development will be reciprocated.
Regional development interventions under the proposed project will raise
productivity in tree and food crops, shift emphasis to down-stream
processing, stabilize land use patterns and reduce encroachment, and
concentrate economic development away from some critical habitats in
conservation areas.    A number of social issues involving indigenous
peoples as beneficiary groups will be addressed during preparation and
implementation. Social and needs assessments have already been
conducted in the major geographic areas of the project.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending November 8, 1996.
- 6 -



