Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 22424
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
INDONESIA
MALUKU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 4306-IND)
June25, 2001
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
Indonesia Country Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate as at December 31, 2000)
Currency Unit    Indonesian Rupiah
Rp. 1.0  = US$ 0.0001
US$ 1.0= Rp. 9412
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIAT                Assessment Institute for Agriculture Technology
AARD                Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
APBN                Annual District Government Development Budget
BANGDA              Directorate General of Regional Development in MoHA
BAPPEDA             Provincial or District Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS            National Development Planning Agency
BIPP                District Agricultural Information and Support Center
BPP                 Rural Extension Center
BRI                 Bank Rakyat Indonesia
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
Dinas               Government technical agencies
GEF                 Global Environment Facility
GOI                 Government of Indonesia
IFAD                International Fund for Agricultural Development
Kabupaten           District in a rural area (or Regency)
Kecamatan           Sub District
Kepala Desa         Head of village and of LKMD
KDP                 Kapupaten Developmenbt Project
KUD                 GOI-backed rural cooperative
LKMD                Village Council (Lembaga Ketahanan Masyarakat Desa
MACONAR             Maluku Conservation & Natural Resources Management Project
MRDP                Maluku Regional Development Project
NBF                 Non Bank Financed
NGO                 Non-government Organization
Pimpro              Project Manager
PMU                 Project Management Unit
POSKESWAN           Local Animal Health Clinic
SOE                 Statement of Expenditure
Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassurn
Country Manager/Director:  Mark Baird
Sector Manager/Director:  Mark D. Wilson
Task Teamn Leader/Task Manager:  Titie Hadiyati



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
INDONESIA
MALUKU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan No. 4306-IND)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. Introduction: Origin and Background of the Project .............. ....................... 1
II. Project Objectives and Description based on the PAD, March 1998 ........ .......... 2
III. Comments on the Project Cycle and Implementation        .      .       5
IV. Project Progress and Accomplishments ................................................... 9
V. Factors Affecting Implementation and Causes of Closure .............................. 12
VI. Conclusions and Recommendations (Lessons to be learned)     .    .     13
VII. GOI and Bank Partnership Performance ............................................... 14
VIII. Borrowers Viewpoints/Comments        ................................. 15
Table 1: Summary of Project Costs ........................................................  18
Table 2: GOI Funds - Summary of Expenditures by Category and Component ... 19
Table 3: Loan Funds - Summary of Expenditures by Category and Component ... 20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project Completion Note - MRDP
Indonesia
Maluku Regional Development Project
(Loan No. 4306- Ind)
Proiect Completion Note
I Introduction: Origin and Background of the Project
1.  This Project Completion Note (PCN) refers to the above mentioned Project for which a
loan of US$16.3 million equivalent was approved by the World Bank's Board on March 31,
1998. The Loan was declared effective July 10, 1998 and the borrower requested its cancellation
to be effective December 31, 2000 with about US$ 848,995 or approximately 5.2% of the
original loan amount having been disbursed, due to a deteriorated implementation environment
which resulted from widespread social unrest. An amount of about $951,005 had not been
disbursed at the time of the closing date.
2.  This document was prepared by Christopher Konecki (FAO-TCIP) together with a joint
Bank and GOI mission team including Titie Hadiyati, Soemaryo Soemardjo, Unggul Suprayitno
(WBOJ) and Irfani Darma (Bank Consultant) as well as members of the Government of
Indonesia-central project management office at Directorate General of Regional Development
(BANGDA), Ministry of Home Affairs and Regional Autonomy.
3.  In the spirit of cooperation and partnership, the Bank and GOI joint mission teams agreed
to assess the results on the ground following closure of the loan prior to finalizing the Project
Completion Note. A field visit was undertaken by BANGDA members to Ambon, Ternate and
Tidore from May 2-12, 2001. The draft PCN was reviewed by GOI and the field visit findings
were reviewed and discussed by the joint teams. A final text version of the PCN was agreed
during the period June 1-15, 2001.
4.  Project Preparation  Overview.   Project formulation was harmonized with the
Government's development strategy for Eastern Indonesia and the Bank's Eastern Islands
Development sector strategy for 9 provinces and recommendations which included (a) improved
services, irrigation and productivity for agriculture; (b) infrastructure development for inter-
island communications; (c) industrial and agro-processing development; (d) human resources
development; and (e) institutional de-concentration and decentralization.
5.  Project design responded to the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objectives of improved
efficiencies and productivity to support sustainable macro-economic development through (a)
regional development in strategic areas by decentralized approaches to planning and
implementation; (b) poverty reduction and increased equality by rural agricultural productivity
improvements in impoverished areas; and (c) sustainable management of natural resources and
I



Project Completion Note - MRDP
the environment by rehabilitating and intensifying tree cropping and fisheries exploitation
management with a conservation strategy towards spatial impacts of development.
6.   The principles of decentralized planning and resources management for achieving growth
and regional balance were in the forefront of the Project implementation strategy. The Project
preparation established complementary and supportive linkages to the MACONAR (Maluku
Conservation and Natural Resources) project also being prepared at that time. The strategy was
intended to advance the objectives of regional and national equity, spatially-balanced growth
patterns and improved urban/rural linkages while addressing main sector issues such as (a)
regional decentralization; (b) access to credit; (c) tree crops financing and agro-technology
diffusion; (d) income increases for fishing communities; and (e) village infrastructure financing
and community participation.
7.   Schedule and Financing Features. Project identification in early 1996 was followed by
acquisition of US$ 375,000 Japanese Grant Funds (JGF) to assist BAPPEDA at provincial and
district levels and BANGDA in preparing the Project. The preparation was completed and
negotiated within 24 months by mid February 1998. The loan was made effective in mid July
1998. The preparation timeframe was 10 months longer than anticipated, allowing for JGF
technical assistance procurement. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was officially
accepted by the Board and Loan Closing date established as June 30, 2005. Total Project cost
was US$ 20.5 million, including contingencies of US$ 4.3 million.
II Project Objectives and Description based on the PAD, March 1998
8.   Project Goal and Objectives in the PAD. The main objective or goal of the Project was to
alleviate poverty in rural and coastal areas of Maluku and generate economic growth through the
following initiatives or actionable objectives;
(a) investment in tree and food crops, commodities processing, and support services;
(b) increasing access to credit for income generating activities;
(c) meeting village demand for small-scale infrastructure (water supply, sanitation, jetties, sea
walls, feeder roads, bridges and drainage works); and
(d) overcoming transportation and marketing constraints through investment in sea transport and
storage facilities.
The goals and objectives were complicated at the beginning. Other on-going or planned projects
intended to address the needs for rural infrastructure. Examples are the Kabupaten Roads which
was on-going during MRDP preparation and the planned WSSLIC project both used sector
approaches, while the Kecamatan Development Project, which took shape at the start of the
MRDP implementation, used a regional approach. A key contributing aspect in the design
preparation was the consultation process with the local development agencies. All the agencies'
departments wanted to be involved so they could participate in sharing operating resources
planned under the Project. Hence, the work break-down structure (wbs) in the PAD design
summary or logical framework contains a combination of sector and regional components.
2



Project Completion Note - MRDP
9.   The achievement of the Project's Development Objectives at closing is undetermined,
considering the limited progress in the implementation of activities that could have contributed
towards the intended objectives and goals. Although some limited outputs were accomplished,
their outcomes are not possible to gauge without detailed evaluation. Accomplishment of
outputs is discussed in section IV of the report.
10. Project Components Description. Project design in the PAD provided for five (5) main
components with a total of eleven (11) sub-components. Implementation was mainly intended
through eight (8) regional agencies under BAPPEDA's general coordination with activities in 3
Kabubaten (districts) and 15 Kecamantan (sub-districts). The Project components and sub-
component arrangements are detailed in the PAD and summarized below (total costs with
contingencies in parentheses).
11. Component A.-Tree Crops Development and Rehabilitation ($ 4.2 million). Activities in
this component provided for financing of tree crops expansion, intensification and rehabilitation
on 7,500 ha owned by 15,000 low income coastal households in 12 of the Project's 15
districts(kecamatans). This intended to support seed stock procurement, nurseries, cropping
patterns intensification, on-farm management training, farmer input grants including equipment,
facilities and technical assistance for district implementing agencies. No clearing of primary or
secondary forest was permitted under the Project.
12. This component linked credit and demonstrations to finance palm saw-mills, to encourage
replanting rather than expanding the area, and local processing of copra and coconut products to
provide value-added benefits. Financing Grants for inputs were to be limited to approximately
$100/household in the first year and for the following two years to about $ 90/household total.
Loans were to be repaid to a village account controlled by the Village Development Council
(LKMD) where it could be used for on-lending to other adopters, to supplement village grants
for income-earning enterprises.
13. Component B. Community Development for Infrastructure and Income-Eaming Activities
($ 9.2 million).  The Project intended to establish the selection of village proposals for
infrastructure and income-generation at district level to improve village welfare, relieve credit
constraints and provide financing for technology adoption for agro-processing and larger-scale
investments. Transmigration sites were excluded from participating in the village grants and
credit component. The Project proposed to build human resources capacity in planning and
monitoring and evaluation methods through district and LKMD training courses and workshops.
14. Grants for Village Infrastructure ($6.1 million). About 60% of targeted villages were to
benefit from infrastructure grants to a RP 100 million ($20,000) maximum per village. Selection
criteria included considerations of technical feasibility, maximizing community participation and
organizations, sustainable operations and maintenance, local labor and physical resources
utilization, neutral secular/social content, environmental safeguards and land acquisition or
household displacement exclusion. Infrastructure support was based on community demand and
3



Project Completion Note - MRDP
included water supply and drainage systems, sanitation facilities, small-scale irrigation, access
road improvements, power generation and public market structures. Provisions were made for
technical assistance in design and construction aspects.
15. Credits for Income-Earning Enterprises (3.1 million). Credits for village enterprises were
to be made available on a competitive selection basis with repayment controlled by LKMD and
funds management assistance provided by BRI for income generation revolving credit accounts
and for repayment of tree crops development loans. Enterprises to be supported included;
agricultural technology adoption for disease, pest control and post harvest processing and tree-
crop nurseries and/or livestock saltening. Fisheries credits were to be strictly controlled to
exclude negative impacts on the resource or over-exploitation of the resource.
16. Component C. Support Services for Agriculture and Fisheries ($ 3.7 million). Project
support was provided to finance (1) marketing support, processing demonstrations and enterprise
proposal assistance; (2) animal health services, upgrading of Rural Extension Centres (BPP) and
training; (3) technology diffusion and agriculture support services (excluding research); (d)
marine and fisheries support, (5) seed multiplication for irrigated agriculture.
17. Processing and Marketing ($0. 7 million). The value of household-scale processing in
Central Maluku doubled from 1988 to 1993. To support the momentum, the Project planned to
undertake larger-scale prototype agro-processing demonstrations with farmer and fisher groups
in cooperation with NGOs and then adapt and replicate them under Component B. Additionally,
the sub-component intended to establish a small marketing unit to identify and develop product
processing, quality certification and trade linkages.
18.  Animal Health and Extension ($0.9 million).  Surveys  of farmer  groups  identified
improvement of animal health as a priority to complement on-going IFAD activities. This sub-
component planned to (a) establish 3 district-level Centers for Agricultural Information and
Extension (BIPP); (b) upgrade 10 Rural Extension Centers (BPP); and (c) establish 6 new animal
health clinics and upgrade 2 units.
19.  Technology Diffusion ($1.0 million). In response to farmer requests and needs the Project
was to provide assistance for training and technical assistance for technology diffusion and
demonstrations for implementation by farmer groups and community organizations in
accordance with local needs and preferences.
20.  Fisheries and Marine Support ($0.6million).  Fisheries and coastal marine resource
profiles were to be carried out on the 20 most important species for commercial and consumptive
use to guide resource development and management. Investments were planned in on-shore
facilities to attract private investment in fisheries infrastructure.
21. Seed Multiplication for Irrigated Agriculture ($0.5 million). The Project design supported
seed multiplication for 19,000 hectares of existing irrigated agriculture in transmigration areas in
Seram Utara and on Halmahera. The Project intended to finance improvement of the main Food
4



Project Completion Note - MRDP
Crop Seed Multiplication Facility (BBI) and establish 2 new Seed Farms (BBU) to encourage
private seed growing operators.
22. Component D. Sea Transportation and On-Shore Facilities ($ 1.8 milliona. The Project
planned to improve existing and construct new infrastructure to address the large economic
costs/losses due to transport delays, marketing cost escalations, and goods spoilage. The Project
would finance 4 dock construction and expansion activities complete with handling/storage
structures; 2 dock extensions at major transportation hubs plus storage facilities at 7 smaller
locations for added handling capacity.
23.  Component E. Capacity Building for Management, Coordination, Monitoring and
Evaluation ($1.6 million). Activities under the component were to strengthen and develop
capacities in planning, programming, coordination, monitoring and evaluation. These included
(a) training, technical assistance and equipment provided to strengthen the capacities of the
implementing agencies, (b) a baseline survey for Project impact assessment, (c) market surveys
and market development work to promote investment opportunities in agricultural processing,
and implement prototype operations, and (d) assistance to BPN (National Land Agency) for
mapping and publishing of data for the 15 districts to improve spatial planning and
environmental management and advance the objectives of the proposed MACONAR Project.
III Comments on the Project Cycle and Implementation
24. Formative Aspects of the Project. The Project was formulated following expressions of
commitment by the regional and central governments to identify and address priority needs for
regional equitable growth through sustainable rural development for poverty alleviation in
Maluku province. In consultation and cooperation with the GOI, Project identification and
preparation activities commenced in February 1996. Specifically targeted were the poorest of
the poor in the strategic regional development areas on Seram and Halmahera.
25. Project Preparation Activities and Loan Agreement. Preparation processing was carried
out during a period of 24 months starting in February 1996 and negotiation in February 1998.
Detailed assessments of the sectoral issues, quality aspects and alternatives were considered
during preparation and reflected the prevailing CAS objectives and unit (EASRD) priorities and
followed Bank guidelines. The Loan Agreement was signed on May 1, 1998 and became
effective on July 10, 1998. The Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG), in early 1999,
reviewed the Quality at Entry and indicated, with reservations related to need for intensive Bank
supervision and flexibility in utilizing "grant funds", that the Project design "responds very well"
to the CAS of 1997, "is unavoidably complex" and that "the design process made a good
assessment of the alternatives and has come up with a workable solution to a complex problem".
The report, issued in July 1999, rated the Quality at Entry as satisfactory.
26. Start-up Period of the Project.   GOI and Bank focused on establishing a base for
effective implementation of the newly effective loan Project after it became effective. In the
meantime, the Bank's original task team leader who was involved in the Project design retired
5



Project Completion Note - MRDP
and a supervision continuity gap was created. Start up of Project activities was slow and
mobilization of counterpart resources by GOI was greatly affected by the continuing economic
crisis in the South East Asia region.
27.  Project Launch Workshop.  The program  for officially launching the Project was
organized by GOI from 9-12 September 1098 (about 2 months after loan effectiveness date) to
initiate Project momentum, prioritize activities and agree immediate actions related to work-
plans, local budgets, local financial mechanisms, procurement schedules and loan disbursement
rates due to the crisis level economic conditions. The Bank fielded a Project launch mission to
coincide with the workshop.
28.  The Bank mission observed that levels of preparedness/readiness to commence Project
activities varied considerably across the responsible partners and areas. Few activities were
underway and many districts needed focused assistance. It was indicated by the mission (2
months into the implementation phase) that--due to slow progress, management and financial
performance, as well as perceived doubts in viability of the existing project design--the approach
needed rethinking and that operations management and coordination arrangements would be
reviewed by the first Bank supervision mission scheduled for February 1999. However, the
indications and feedback from the launch workshop imparted a sense of concern and confusion
on the client, considering that the Project design and preparation documents were agreed,
negotiated and signed only 4 months earlier and key variables with exception of economic stress
on local funds (social unrest being unforeseen) remained mostly constant. A detailed action plan
was prepared by the Bank and GOI following the workshop to get the Project off to a good start.
29.  Bank's Supervision.   The first supervision mission, planned for February 1999, was
delayed and took place July/August 1999 in North Maluku and Central Halmahera only. This
was due to social unrest in the region which commenced on January 19, 1999 and spread to the
entire Project area by August 1999. Prior to the mission, a separate review was carried out in
early January 1999, before the social unrest, by the Bank and BANGDA. Due to the low
operational progress levels as well as weak management and financial performance, a Project
Improvement Plan (PIP) was prepared by the Bank with BANGDA which included
recommendations for synchronizing of sector activities among the implementing agencies.
30.  The Bank's first supervision mission was carried out Julyl5-28, 1999 and once more
highlighted the inherent complexities of; (a) Project geographic location and activities
distribution, (b) institutional management capacities;  (c) procedures for transparent
procurement; and (d) inter-agency synchronization and coordination of activities in the province
and district level. Field visits were limited to north Maluku due the poor security situation
elsewhere. The prevailing operations environment, varied levels of preparedness and overall
implementation capacity and arrangements confirmed that radical changes to design and
restructuring of the Project were warranted. Mission recommendations included reallocation or
cancellation of loan savings due to delays of implementation. During the supervision, the
mission members delivered management training to the Project component managers and a
workshop on procuremert and reporting to buttress implementation. An action plan was
6



Project Completion Note - MRDP
formulated for re-aligning implementation performance and agreed in the mission's aide-
memoire. The aide-memoire recommended a re-design mission for February 2000, should
security improve. Client response to recommendations in the Bank mission's Letter to Project
Management issued on October 1, 1999 was favorable and understanding
31. Bank missions' perceptions of quality at entry on-the-ground were somewhat different than
the QAG desk review  and assessment of early 1999.  The observations, findings and
recommendations of the Bank launching and supervision missions were clearly intended to
provide proactive and positive management guidance to the implementing agencies. However, at
the launching stage the mission's constructive critique of the Project design, institutional and
implementation arrangements, was perceived as confusing by the partner client.  This
observation highlights (a) the need to recognize the importance of corporate continuity and
supervision approach consistency between loan effectiveness and launch mission dates, and (b)
the need for resilient/adaptable supervision management to absorb impacts of unforeseen events
and challenges of changing priorities and strategies while guiding implementation. Such factors
typically impact the management of already designed projects during the period from concept
document to first supervision mission.
32.  Consideration and Decision Process for Closure.   Closure of the loan Project by
December 31, 2000 was agreed between Government of Indonesia and the Bank following a
series of events and action steps. The chronology of the events leading to loan closure are
outlined in following paragraphs.
33. The security alert situation, which arose in Ambon, had erupted into full scale social
conflict by August 1999 and severely disrupted and/or destroyed daily life routines and general
civil administration in the Project area.  The security situation affected overall Project
coordination of implementing agencies by provincial Bappeda authorities and implementation of
Project activities at district and village levels. By July 1999, the Project staff based in Ambon
were unable to travel to the field to implement and adequately supervise Project activities in the
Central Maluku district.
34. The Bank's first supervision mission conducted in July/August 99, was limited to visiting
Northen Maluku, (Maluku Utara and HalmaheraTengah) where Project activities continued to be
implemented and monitored by Project staff from the district level. Activities in Central Maluku
were suspended.
35. Due to the civil unrest and subsequent security concerns, the mission recommended several
immediate operational management actions for GOI; (a) to temporarily suspend all physical
activities in the Project areas until the security situation stabilizes; and (b) have district project
managers in Malut, Malteng and Halteng report directly to a project secretariat in BANGDA,
with documents and correspondence copied to the central manager in Ambon. The actions
undertaken by BANGDA (including attempts to establish a project secretariat in North Maluku
were intended to overcome 'district level-Jakarta' communication delays, and allow more time
and opportunity for provincial-based technical staff to monitor and supervise the still on-going
7



Project Completion Note - MRDP
activities in the field. Despite efforts by GOI to manage Project implementation, the spread of
conflict prevented effective completion of the planned actions.
36. The evaluation of cumulative Project Development Objective (DO) rating by the first
supervision mission was "unsatisfactory". However, the continued civil unrest in Maluku
worsened and spread to adjacent Project areas (Seram, Ternate, Tidore and Halmahera), with
major impacts on MRDP implementation. The communication between central and local
governments at the provincial and district levels were severely disrupted by social fragmentation
which has persisted until this date. The provincial and district project secretariats in Ambon and
Temate were no longer functioning, and supervision, monitoring, and support by central-project
and/or technical staff was halted. In addition, BANGDA agreed to suspend all physical activities
on October 27, 1999 for FY 99/00 and issued a formal instruction effective January 25, 2000 to
avoid possible procurement problems (administrative mishandling and poor quality). Official
travel in the region was halted under UN highest level of alert security regulations.
37. It was evident that MRDP had become a problem project with serious delays, slow
disbursements, and weak implementation capacity with limited, if any prospects for rapid
Improvements. Therefore, MRDP was included in the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
between the Bank and the GOI (MOF and BAPPENAS) for National Portfolio Restructuring and
partial loan proceeds cancellations in some 43 IBRD financed projects dated December 13, 1999.
38  The resulting first cancellation of US$ 4.5 million in MRDP loan proceeds became
effective on December 13, 1999. The difficulties of the socio-political and economic climate in
indonesia provided irreconcilable barriers to re-aligning the already problematic Project
performance.
39. The status and future direction of the Bank financed projects in Maluku were discussed
and reviewed by GOI and Bank on the meeting on February 24, 2000. As a follow-up
discussion, the special meeting for MRDP was held on March 14, 2000, included all executing
agencies (local governments, technical sectors in the provincial level and their central level lines
agencies) Bappenas and the Bank to determine if the MRDP could be further implemented or
not.
40. It was agreed that MRDP might be implemented, provided that the GOI; (a) submit a
consolidated Project report of all components no latter than March 29, 2000; (b) fulfill the
.disbursement condition loan covenants and procurement procedures; (c) submit the consolidated
audit report FY 1998/1999 no latter than April 15, 2000; and (d) submit the proposal for
7 elocation of participating villages and districts.
41. However, due to the worsening continued civil unrest, these Project commitments could
not be fulfilled until the end of April 2000. In addition, the Bank had not (at April 30, 2000)
received acceptable audited financial statements and noted that use of SOE formats was
discontinued. Hence, no further applications for withdrawals based on SOEs and payments to
the Special Account for this Project could be made until such time as an acceptable audited
8



Project Completion Note - MRDP
financial statement was received. GOI responded by providing audit reporting and ensured the
use of SOE format.
42. In May 2000 the Bank recommended that GOI consider cancellation of the loan since; (a)
the non-disbursed loan balance of US $ 11,032,784 would continue to accrue a commitment-fee
cost to GOI, and (b) there appeared no immediate solution in sight, nor opportunity to restructure
the Project for the near future.
43. Responding to the Bank recommendation, in August 2000, the executing agency decision
to close the loan was made and closing date established as December 31,2000. In October 27,
2000, the GOI issued a formal letter to propose the second cancellation of US$ 10.0 million and
to advance the loan closing dated to December 31, 2000. The loan amendment of this matter has
been agreed by both parties on November 13, 2000. At the time of the closing date, an amount
of about $951 thousand had not been disbursed.
IV Project Progress and Accomplishments
44.  Accomplishments during the Project Implementation Period. In spite of difficulties and
the force-majeure effects of the social unrest, some limited outputs were accomplished by the
Project. North Maluku and Central Halmahera components continued Project activities until
October1999. Management and administrative support activities continued into the year 2000.
An assessment of progress on the action plan items of the October 1999 Bank mission was made.
Discussions with Project management at BANGDA, a review Project reports and findings of the
May 2001 site visit by BANGDA, indicate that about 18 out of the 26 action plan items listed in
the aide-memoire (some70%) have been acted upon or the related activities stopped due to the
force majeure.
45. MRDP's major project focus was village-based rural development with community
participation in tree crops development, village infrastructure improvement, village-economic
activities, and improved farming and marketing system. The Project did not move far along the
path to achieve the intended development objective due to the confining limitations encountered
during its short life. The civil unrest destroyed institutional frameworks or delayed progress in
activities such as implementation of the key village infrastructure grants sub-component.
Recruitment of community organizers and facilitators, and Project socialization at district and
village levels was also deferred/cancelled.
46. The supporting component activities could not be initiated without the main
community/village development aspect.  The implementing agencies decided to postpone
implementation of activities during the period of unrest because the Project could not meet its
overall development objective without more effective synchronization of component activities.
47.  Financial Progress.  As of June 21, 2001 total applied disbursement from the Bank loan
amounted to US$ 848,995.34 (excluding balance in the special account of US$ 3,696.15).
Therefore, disbursement ratio to original loan amount of US$ 16.3 million was about 5.2% and
9



Project Completion Note - MRDP
about 47% of the revised loan amount of US$1.8 million following the final amendment.
Auditors did not conduct field audit assignments due to the civil unrest and security concern.
The GOI audit agency only provided an expressed qualified opinion on the consolidated project
financial report for all fiscal years (FY.1998/99, FY.1999/2000 and FY.2000). The reasons cited
by GOI for providing only this level of audit were as follows; (a) the auditors could not
physically examine the actual expenditure accounts due to the destruction of provincial records;
(b) the auditors could not assess the justification and allocation details of the expenditures due to
inadequate supporting documents, and (c) there were coding errors in entries (over/under) on
accounting statements for several category expenditures.
48. Procurement Aspects. Decentralized procurement arrangements and the lack of
experience and capacity of the responsible agencies' regional offices resulted in significant
implementation difficulties and provided potential for breaches of the Bank's procurement
guidelines. The exceptionally diverse range of procurement activities within a wide range of
component activities and accounting categories, in a widely dispersed geographic setting against
a backdrop of inexperience with the Bank's comprehensive procedures were difficult for the
client's limited resources to supervise and manage effectively. Detailed administration and
processing was mishandled by inexperienced staff of executing agencies resulting in the Bank's
rejection of some works and disallowing disbursements. Unless intensively guided and/or
supported by capacity building actions/programs, before and during implementation, the systems
and focus on procurement proficiency and transparency, as experienced in many project settings,
are difficult to establish in a timely manner to meet Bank funded project criteria. Banks
supervision mission workshops on procurement provided some basis for improving the
capacities.
49. Other aspects that affected Project performance and impacted on the (even partial)
achievement of objectives were (a) the Bank and the central government's physical inability to
conduct field supervision and monitor progress to provide guidance or feedback for improving
Project implementation; (b) non-availability or incompleteness of information/reporting as
management decision support tool to assess in detail the needs for implementation adjustments;
and (c) inability to implement the project as described in the Loan Agreement, as evidenced by
the lack of compliance with major legal covenants. Descriptions of component achievements
(reported prior to halt of activities in October 1999, and added to by the recently completed site
visits by BANGDA staff as part of the joint operations in preparing this PCN) are given in
following paragraphs.
50. Component A. Tree Crop Development and Rehabilitation. Progress reported included:
(a) surveys of farmer and land selection activities in Halmahera and North Maluku identified 80
villages and some 9700 farmers as candidates and selected 1000 for Project participation. This
survey could not be implemented in Central Maluku due to the civil unrest, (b) activities
commenced towards supplier based seed procurement (5.5 ha seed-beds) and farmer based
nurseries (about 500 ha), (c) office and housing facilities construction, rehabilitation, and
renovation of PMU and PMO was reported as 90% completed, and (d) procurement of office
equipment was completed with delivery to Ambon, but was not yet delivered to all district
10



Project Completion Note - MRDP
offices before the social unrest and would now be considered as lost. Some equipment was
delivered to the district offices in North Maluku.
51. Component B. Community Development (Village Grants). No progress is recorded on
issuance of villages grants due delays in required preparatory activities (site selection, technical
and implementation guidelines preparation; community facilitators and technical and community
development support. Procurement of NGOs to support implementation management and
community facilitation process was initiated. BANGDA prepared Project work schedules,
initiated procurement process under NCB rules for NGO based consultant selection to support
technical and community development, commenced preparation of implementation and technical
guidelines, and awareness campaigns (by providing and issuing leaflets and posters).
Procurement of NGO based technical assistance for this component proved difficult under NCB
rules and contributed significantly to the delays of implementation of the component.
52. Component Cl Support for Agricultural and Fisheries Processing and Marketing.
Achievements to date include; (a) procurement of office equipment and reference materials for
the Center of Industry Promotion and Information Office (PPII or Pusat Promosi dan Informasi
Industri) in Ambon, (b) procurement of 3 sawmill units for PPII in Ambon, Wahai and Makariki
villages in Central Maluku District), (c) training for 120 participants (i.e. 20 participants from
each of six participating sub-districts) in the processing of 6 commodities including coconut
products-namely, oil, sugar and wood saw-milling-- cayuput oil (minyak kayu putih), dried and
smoked fish, (d) market surveys, and (e) a baseline survey for demonstration units (unit
percontohan) to develop small-scale commodities processing initiatives. The survey was
conducted in cooperation with Pattimura University of Ambon. The recruitment of technical
assistance for enterprise initiatives development did not commence.
53. Component C2 Strengthening of Animal Health and extension services. Progress consists
of facilities improvements for BIPP/BPP and Poskewan initiated without prior management
plans and approvals. The management and staffing plans were prepared and submitted in late
1999. The following activities were accomplished; (a) offices/buildings construction and/or
rehabilitation and equipment procurement for BPP and Poskeswan in 3 districts North Maluku
(Tobelo, Galela, Kao, Morotai Selatan, Malifut, Jailolo), Central Maluku (Soahuku/Amahai,
Piru, Tehoru, Pasahari, Namlea, Haruru, Mako), Wasile and Halmahera (Oba, Weda, Maba), and
(b) farmer training in the 3 districts with 763 farmers reported trained in Halmahera district and
no figures available for the other districts, and (c) development of information materials,
including brochures and posters in Halmahera. The civil unrest caused destruction to property in
Poskeswan offices in Malifut, Morotai Selatan and the BPP office in Jailolo.
54. Component C3 Improvement of Farming System Technology Diffusion: Progress has been
positive in the technology testing and research and the resultant institutional growth.
Institutional strengthening activities were carried out jointly by BPTP (Balai Pengkajian
Teknologi Pertanian) and BIPP/BPP staff for control of cocoa pod moths and coconut beetles,
and construction and usage techniques for fish storage chiller boxes. Activities that have been
conducted include BPTP staff training as electricians, mechanics, mapping (6 persons), and BIPP
11



Project Completion Note - MRDP
staff training in agriculture extension (36 persons), animal husbandry (cattle, chicken), and
internship training of BPTP staff (6 persons) in information campaign materials development and
library management at the BPTP Bogor office. Technology testing and research activities were
conducted in the areas of cocoa pod moths control in North Maluku (12 farms, 30 ha) and
Central Maluku (10 farms, 15 ha), and coconut beetles control in Halmahera (41 farms, 50 ha),
and alley-row farming in the three districts (34 farms, 30 has). Activities related to fish storage
chiller boxes were conducted in North Maluku and the dissemination campaigns for results of
technical research and testing were not conducted due to the civil unrest.
55. Component C4 Strengthening Fisheries and Marine Support: The TORs for the fisheries
resource profile was prepared by BANGDA in consultation with Bappeda. The consultants
selection for technical assistance was halted at contracting NOL stage due to Project closure.
56. Component C5 Seed Multiplication for Irrigated Agriculture: Achievement includes
submission to the Bank of management plans and the detailed design for farms, and draft
guidelines for seed growers agreements. Progress includes the design and cost estimates for
rehabilitation of the irrigation system and fencing of the BBI in Kairatu; the BBU office and staff
housing at Seram Utara and Wasile; and training of seed growers in Wasile
57. Component D Sea Transportation and On-Shore Facilities: The TORs for Consulting
Services of the feasibility study and detail design for maritime transport and cargo handling were
prepared, and the consultants selection was halted at the process of the RFP stage. Construction
of storage facilities in Subaim, Weda, Namlea and Wahai commenced without Bank for prior
review, however the Bank NOL was given after a post-review. Construction quality was to be
checked and facility constructed using Bank approved standards and procurement guidelines.
Progress on this activity was halted due to persisting unrest.
58.  Component E Project Management and Monitoring.  Progress on human resources
capacity building activities was limited to the Bank workshops delivered during the first
supervision mission. Procurement processing for technical assistance advanced to the evaluation
of proposal stage before activities were halted. The Bank supervision mission in October 1999
reviewed the selection of district mapping services and reported that according to Bank
procurement procedures the "TOR for Kecamatan mapping were agreed by the Bank", the sole-
source contract proposal should be revised, the contract "should be with Bird Life International,
a Maluku based NGO", and the procurement process for technical survey equipment should
proceed.
V    Factors Affecting Implementation and Causes of Closure
59.  Force Majeure. Effects of the violent, destructive social unrest in the Maluku province,
which started in Ambon on 19 January 1999, is by far the single most influential factor in
bringing about the pre-mature closure of the MRDP. The social unrest and resultant destruction
affected institutional and social fabrics of the region.  The complete loss of a workable
implementation environment left the Loan Project management no better choice.
12



Project Completion Note - MRDP
60. Management was a challenge from the start. Inherent complexities in the geographic
setting, logistical framework, institutional capacity and Project design provided a formidable
challenge to management at the outset. In terms of the physical, financial and human resources
capacity alone, the management workload aspects were underestimated and caused immediate
deficiencies in Project performance. Myriad functions, activities, interactions needed to be well
synchronized and coordinated. Progress reporting reviews and interviews with management
personnel in Jakarta (BANGDA) and in Maluku provincial and district levels during preparation
of the PCN, confirmed that Project overall coordination was difficult and complex while
coordination capacity at all levels was weak.
61.  Project momentum.  The Project never achieved a level of sustainable or effective
momentum, and would have needed intensive professional support to off-set low implementation
capacity.  Considering the volume/range of activities and locations, activity timeframes,
implementation arrangements and institutional capacity, there was a need to adjust the workload
and rate of implementation (scaling down), as noted by the Bank's supervision mission.
62. Design and Performance expectations were optimistic and ambitious. Project design,
complexity and high expectations provided cause for a reality check at an early stage and
opportunity for adjustments. Aspirations, commitment and vision of the Maluku Provincial
authorities during formulation did not match the performance at project start nor reflect the lack
of depth in the capacity of individual implementing entities in the districts.
VI  Conclusions and Recommendations (Lessons to be Learned)
63. Complex projects with geographically dispersed characteristics could be more
successfully implemented at a more decentralized level, whereby rural multi-agency setting,
multiple activities, variable capacity and performance readiness, as found in MRDP and
proposed under MACONAR, would be better managed by dedicated intensive technical
assistance. Implementation management structures with multiple agencies at central, provincial
and district levels is often a poorly performing arrangement, as often seen in Indonesia.
64. Coordination mechanisms should be priority aspects for regionally oriented development
project designs and include intensive advance activities to prepare clients prior to full start-up to
ensure implementation capacity is in place. Experience and data confirm that typically in
Indonesia the initial 1-2 years of loan effectiveness is consumed by preparatory 'mobilization'
activities. Technical assistance is needed and most effective when intensively provided early at
decentralized levels.
65. Project management and supervision decisions taken by the Bank and Clients require
corporate continuity and consistency in approach to assist Project performance while allowing
for a transition to full implementation momentum,  especially in the formative stages.
Consultations with clients are essential to develop mutually derived alternatives or effect any
anticipated radical design changes/actions needed to re-align Project performance. Credibility of
13



Project Completion Note - MRDP
agreed Project undertakings needs to be preserved and client orientation maintained in guiding
and supporting major change initiatives.
66. Implementation readiness at afl levels needs to be determined and strengthened before
activities start or work-plans be revised/cutback to suit performance and management capacities.
Commencing activities in management, coordination, monitoring and evaluation aspects requires
institutional capacity which lacked depth in MRDP. Significant amount of potential mis-
procurement was indicated because of; (i) client regional staff's inexperience with the Bank's
guidelines and procedures, (ii) the large number of geographically dispersed activities were
difficult to supervise and monitor, and (iii) the absence of systems and focus for transparency.
67. Loan Conditions and Procurement arrangements require careful selection to secure
realistic performance levels and sound management during implementation in decentralized
Project settings. Adaptable and resilient Project implementation and management arrangements
are needed to absorb impacts of unforeseen events and challenges while implementing projects
in a complex, decentralized setting. Procurement arrangements and detailed processing can be
readily mishandled by inexperienced staff in the executing agencies (notwithstanding unethical
or corrupt practices) unless intensively guided and/or supported by capacity building actions, as
experienced in many Project settings.
68. Post-conflict reviews and/or assessments of needs and sector rehabilitation potential
would provide longer term planning benefit to the Client and the Bank for Loan Projects
closed due to civil unrest. As is the case in MRDP, by gathering valuable project related
information on the extent and permanence of institutional, physical and social fabric
disruption/destruction or damages caused, further analysis would be made possible for evaluating
future development assistance and formulating appropriate strategies, Project concepts and
designs. Such evaluation studies by the Governrment of Indonesia and/or Bank or other donors
would be considered prerequisite for future Maluku/North Maluku investments which are
currently being mentioned by GOI. Priority would be assigned to the assessment of needs for
civil society normalization and/or social healing, remedial action plans and special design
considerations for non -uniform society operating environments.
VII Gol and Bank Partnership Performance
69. Project formulation and preparation support initiatives by Gol in Maluku were highly
satisfactory and provided the impetus for developing a comprehensive and innovative program.
Performance of provincial management was mostly satisfactory. BANGDA and BAPPEDA
provided assistance to the Bank in stakeholder workshops and focus group discussions for
participatory evaluation of beneficiaries' needs, which was included in the social assessment
(SA) during preparation. Difficulties in implementation stemmed from low capacities for
performance and management at district and village levels. Gol institutional systems for
providing transparency in procurement processing were lacking especially at district levels.
Project reporting on a consolidated basis was unreliable due to frequently unavailable district
14



Project Completion Note - MRDP
level reports. Audit reporting tasks were satisfactorily completed by GOI including for fiscal
year 2000.
70. The adherence to quality assurance practices by the Bank in Project design and
implementation are recognized and supported by (a) the satisfactory rating of Project design and
quality at entry as expressed by the QAG; and (b) the adaptability of Project management to
changing conditions as exemplified by supervision missions' proactive approach in
assessing/providing solutions for improving implementation performance under highly adverse
Project conditions. Fiduciary responsibilities were upheld and financial management solutions
presented by the Bank missions to optimize implementation progress and Project benefits.
71.  Partnership cooperation and assistance in loan Project preparation and implementation
management was good. Implementing agencies of GOI in particular BAPPEDA and BANGDA,
demonstrated ownership in the respective Project activities and expectations and facilitated Bank
supervision efforts. The loan closure process was enacted in a mutually agreed and concerted
fashion.
VIII Borrowers Viewpoint / Comments 1
72. The Project was aimed at alleviating poverty and generating income for people of Maluku
Province, especially in poor communities in three Kabupatens (or districts) (namely Central
Maluku, North Maluku and Central Halmahera), covering 15 sub-districts or Kecamatans and
363 villages. This objective was supposed to be achieved by way of sectoral investment in tree
crops, food crops, commodities processing; provision of support services; better access to rural
credit; development of small-scale rural infrastructure and facilities, sanitation, drainage, bridge;
and improved sea transport and warehouse facilities.
73.  Five components were designed to achieve the above objective:  (A)Tree Crops
Development and Rehabilitation, (B) Grants for Village Infrastructure and Credits for Income-
Earning Enterprise, (C) Support Service for Agriculture and Fisheries consisting of Sub-
Components C-1 to C-5, i.e. Processing and Marketing, Animal Health and Extension,
Technology Diffusion, Fisheries and Marine Support, (D) Sea Transportation and On Shore
Facilities, and (E) Project Management, coordination and monitoring and evaluation.
74. The Project started in September 1998 and was planned to end on June 30, 2005, but
prematurely stopped on December 31, 2000 due to force majeure, i.e. violent riots affected the
entire Project area. Most project components, i.e. Components A, C, D and E., had been partially
implemented; some construction was completed but damaged thorough arson. Meanwhile,
Component-B had not yet been implemented; and Component C-4 was canceled. Part of
Component E was partially implemented.
' Translation from Bahasa Indonesia-Executive Summary Section from "Nota Penyelesaian Proyek Pengembangan
Wilayah Maluku-June 7, 2001
15



Project Completion Note - MRDP
75. Some internal factors influencing the Project performance were: there was sharing
commitment of the local government in making it a success; obstacles to the Project
implementation were coordination, monitoring and supervision --- these included the problem of
understanding the Project design, administrative procedures and financial reporting of the
Project.
76. The external factor considered to be the main reason in terminating the Project was the
violent riots, or force majeure.
77. The operation of the Project was made possible with the provision of a loan by the World
Bank, who had worked closely with the government in identifying and preparing the Project.
The Bank assisted since the early stages of Project preparation, resulting in the Bank's appraisal
which endorsed the feasibility of the Project to be financed. The close cooperation was further
demonstrated when the Project was launched on September 9-12, 1998, and during joint field-
supervision held on July 14-20, 1999 in which Project monitoring and evaluation were jointly
carried out by the GOI and the Bank. Even though there had been a high degree of collaboration
between the government and World Bank, in general, the results attained by the Project have not
been satisfactory.
78. Some recommendations for the future include:
(a) The Project should be continued when the security situation improves even if such follow-up
is without World Bank funding.
(b) Special areas will have be given priorities, i.e. the areas identified under Component B
(Community Development and Village Grants).
(c) Many potential beneficiaries in villages are disappointed because the Project has terninated,
because their expectations were raised during the social assessment process.
(d) Prior to "physical" activities in future projects, attention will have to be given to launching
"'social projects" for ethnic groups in the area prior to project implementation.
(e) Finally, any future project should have linkages with other projects, considering the fact that
large investments had already been made.
(f) Considering the situation in North Maluku has somewhat stabilized, the MRDP type
activities could be continued under other World Bank programs (e.g. Program
Pengembangan Kacamantan-KDP), while for Maluku province, any future project
interventions would need to account for a 'post-conflict' situation.
16



Project Completion Note - MRDP
ANNEXES
Project Expenditure and Costs Tables
17



TABLE I   SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS  (at Loan closing date 31 Dec 2000)
Totals by Components and Expenditures (Rp)
CategorY          | Onginal Loan   Final Revised           A                      C                               E           Loan Oisb.       t1ot ODsP.    Total Cost to Dats  Loan SA Disb   Project Cost    otal         %ornai   % Revised
(US  (us S)                                                                 ~~~~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~(np)  (RP              (US a(seeqnoo IiProject Cot                Loan         Loon
...~ ~ ~         ~ ... .....Ba                                                                                                                               )       z     SS                    B    L.sn. 
1 Clvu works                 |       1,900,000         450,000                                                                                                                                                                 14.1%        14.5%      227.08.
ia-Part C.2               1        100,000          199,000                            1,440,523,073                                   1,295,955,401     144,567,672      1,440,523,073     118,312.49       213,947          9.4%       113.3%       59.45%
1c-Part C4                |        300,000             1,000                                                                                                                          . -  .   431.37         431.37          0.0%         0.1%       43.14%
1c-Part D                         1,300,000         150,000                                            634,154,730       73,724,524     672.051,000       35,828,254        701,879,254      97,438.04       176,199          4.6%         7.5%A      64.96%
1d-Other                           200,000          100,000       12,187,670                                    1-                -      10,860,300        1,327,370         12,187,670      59,526.96       107,644          0.1%        29.8%       50.53%
2-4oods                             2,500,000         420,000                -                                                                      -                .                                               .         13.8%         6.9%       73.36%
2n-Part A                         2,100,000          170,000     683,854,800             160,353,650                              -     514,390,100      329,848,260        844,238,450      25,441.42        46,006          5.5%         1.2%       14.97%
2b-Pa rts C,D,E                     400,000         250,000                -             901,863,309                    34,0692,494     745,289,563      505,266,240       1,250,555,803    145,996.95       264,009          8.11%       36.5%       58.40%
3-GOods-Part B                       7,600,O                                             -                  -                       -                -               -
4-ServIce delivery contract           500,000           30,000      88,418,700             116,395,673              .-                     164,129,273       40,685,100        204,814,373      26,937.31        40,711          1.3%         5.4%      89.79%
5-Training                            400,000          250,000      40,263,000            1 ,784,605,808                   70,000,000    1,689,057.470     205,811,338       1,894,868,808     1104,638.82      189,220        1Z3%         26.2%       41.110
6-Resoarch, Survey, Study             500,000          250,000       8,925,975            1,976,461,278                      5,000,000    1,951.374,713      39,012,540      1,990,387,253      73,234.80       132,432        12.9% .       146%       29.29%
7-Traval                              300,000          350,000     174,040,300             354,424,347                    9995,090,940    1.372,236,836     155,318,751      1,527,555,587     180,512.01       337,273         9.9%         62.2%      53.29%
8-ConsuftOir Servlces                1,400,000          50,000                   -                   -     17,264,690       74,450,000      84,269,690        7.445,000         91,714,690       6,829.02        12,349         0. 0/         0.5%       13.66%
9. Unaliocated                       1,200,000
SA-A SpecIld Account                                                                                                                                                                             3,696.15      3,696.15
N-onb,nkFI-.d (Nr5F0                                         -     603,880,300            1,675,577,210    52,022,300    3,073,803,275                    5,405,283,085      5,405,283,085                                      35.2%
l,c. crnt Soot. GO01
TOTAL                 16,300,000       1,800,000       1,011,600,740    0      8,410,204,348    703,441,720    4,644,761,233    8,499,614,436    6,870,393,610   15,370,009,046       848,995     1,531,917       100.0%         5.2%        851
% Total RP Cost                                              10.5%      0.0%        54.7%           4.6%           30.2%            55,3%           44.7%
% OrlDinal Loon                                              1 0%       0.0%        5.1%            0.4%            2.8%            5,2%             4.2%                                   5.2%           9.4%
% Revised Loan                                               0.9%       0.0%        46.6%           3.9%           25.7%            47.1%           38.0%                                  47.2%          85.1%
NobOs:
t. Overall Project Cost in US$ Equivalent is deterurined by ratio total Rp Loan SA vs Rp GOI (39%) vs Total Rp and US$ SA Disbursed eg. (13) = (12) x (11() 1 (9)
Page 1 8



TABLE 2    GOI FUNDS -SUMMARY OF EXPENDITURES by CATEGORY AND COMPONENT    (in Rupiah)
COMPONENTS  and EXPENDITURES                                             _
A                 B                  C                  D                   E           TOTAL PROJECT GOI
CATEGORY                                                                                                                     DISB.
GOI               G                  G0I                GOI                 GOI
1-Civil works
la-Part C.2                                                              144,567,672                                                 144,567,672
1 c-Part C4
I c-Part D                                                                                    6,966,730           28,659,524          35,828,254
id-Other                              1,327,370                                                                                        1,327,370
2-Goods
2a-Part A                           265,706,600                           64,141,460                                       -         329,848,260
2b-Parts C,D,E                                                           367,102,400                             138,163,840         505,266,240
3-Goods-Part B
4-Service Delivejy                      15,752,700                           24,932,400                                                   40,685,100
5-Training                               4,026,300                          194,785,038                               7,000,000          205,811,338
S-Research, Survey. Studies                                                  39,012,540                                                   39,012,540
7-Travel                                17,404,050                           36,276,437                              101,638,264         155,318,751
8-Consultant                                                                                             .            7,445,000            7,445,000
Non Bank Financed (NBF)                603,880,300                         1,675,577,210         52,022,300        3,073,803,275       5,405,283,085
(recurrent cost-GOI)
TOTAL                     908,097,520                         2,546,395,57          58,991,030        3,356,909,903        6,870,393,610
Page 19



TABLE 3   LOAN FUNDS  SUMMARY of EXPENDITURES by CATEGORY AND COMPONENT   (in Rupiah)
__________ COMPONENTS and EXPENDITURES
A            ~~~B               C                                       E
CATEGORY                  Special. Acc      Speclal. Acc       Speclal Acet        Special. Acc        Special. Acc      TOTAL PROJECT
1-Clvil works
1 a-Part C.2                                                             1,295,955,401                                               1,295,955,401
1 c-Part C4
Ic-Part 0                                                                                     627,186,000          44,865,000          672,051,000
id-Other                              10,860,300                                                                            -           10,860,300
2-Goods 
2a-Part A                            418,178,000                          192,424,380                                       .          514,390,190
2b-Parts C,D,E                                                            804,286,909                             210,528,654          745,289,563
3-Goods-Part B
4-Service Delivery                        72,666,000                           91,463,273                                                 164,129,273
5-Tralning                               36,236,700                         2,684,393,920                             63,000,000        1,689,057,470
6-Research, Survey, Studies                8,925,975                        1,937,448,738                              5,000,000         1,951,374,713
7-Travel                                156,636,250                           394,079,210                            897,452,676        1,372,236,836
8-Consultant                                                                                       17,264,690         67,005,000           84,269,690
Non Bank Financed (NBF)
(recurrent cost-GOI)
TOTAL                      703,503,225                         7,400,051,831         644,450,690       1,287,851,330       8,499,614,436
Page 20



