Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4703 
Project Name 
SL-Decentralized Service Delivery Program 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Sub-national government administration (50%);General education 
sector (15%);Other social services (15%);General water, sanitation 
and flood protection sector (15%);General public administration 
sector (5%) 
Project ID 
P113757 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development  
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
August 8, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
June 30, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
October 15, 2009 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
1. 
Following a brutal decade-long civil war which killed 20,000 people and displaced half 
the population, Sierra Leone has been on a path of reconciliation, reconstruction, and 
stabilization of its economy and governance systems.  Since 2002, the country has held 
parliamentary, presidential and local elections which have all been deemed free and fair. Sierra 
Leone’s strong recovery, which began in 2000, continued for a ninth unbroken year in 2008 with 
a
real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth estimated at a yearly average of 5.5 percent despite 
rising food and fuel prices. Nevertheless, the challenge to sustain political stability continues. In 
particular, there is a need to strengthen the national and sub-national democratic institutions, 
particularly those associated with the decentralization program that began in 2004, and translate 
the gains of economic growth into improvements in poor people’s lives.  Sierra Leone continues 
to be ranked second to last in the UNDP Human Development index. The gaps in delivering 
basic health, primary education, and water and sanitation remain substantial.  
 
2. 
Despite the Government’s increased pro-poor spending in recent years, human 
development indicators in Sierra Leone have shown only modest improvements.
1
For example, 
Sierra Leone has some of the worst health indicators
 
in the world, with a life expectancy of 42 
years, an infant mortality rate of 170 per 1000
 
live births, and a maternal mortality ratio of 857 
per 100 000
 
live births.
2
Each year, about 11 percent of children die before celebrating their first 
birthday and 1 of every 8 children dies before reaching his or her fifth birthday; up to 40 percent 
of these deaths occur in the first month of life.  Similarly, in the education sector, net enrollment 
(2005) is relatively low at 87 percent, and 30 percent of primary school-going age children are 
still out of school. Challenges remain in attracting and keeping children – particularly girls – in 
1
IRCBP Evalutions Unit.  Report on the IRCBP 2007 National Public Services Survey May 2008. 
2
MICS 2005. 
Page  2
school.  These include improving the quality and relevance of basic education and enhancing the 
education system
’s capacity to monitor outcomes. Finally, little progress has been achieved in 
the water and sanitation sector since the end of the war. Coverage remains at 47 percent for water 
and 30 percent for sanitation. The situation is worse in rural areas as compared to urban 
communities: 32 percent of rural communities have access to clean water compared to 84 percent 
of urban communities.
 
3. 
In part to address this situation, the Local Government Act of 2004 and its attendant 
Statutory Instrument provided for a phased transfer of service delivery functions from 17 MDAs 
to the 19 newly established councils. The first election of Councilors was held in May 2004 with 
a
second one in July 2008.
 
In accordance with the Regulations, responsibility for most basic 
human services has now been handed to the Councils; these services include primary health, 
primary and junior-secondary education, agriculture services, and water supply in rural areas. 
Capacity development has received consistent attention since the beginning of the 
decentralization program; however, considerable steps remain to be taken to solidify the 
processes of decentralization. 
 
4. 
Currently, the vast majority of LCs’ funding comes from central Government transfers, in 
the form of grants tied to specific expenditure assignments. Share of LC transfers as percent of 
actual discretionary budget increased from 6.2 percent in 2005 to 12.1 percent in 2008, although 
consistently falling short of the targets.  Similarly, LC transfers as share of domestic revenue 
increased from 3.4 percent in 2005 to 6.1 percent in 2008. Despite increases, these ratios remain 
low compared to developing country expenditures, where transfers to sub-national governments 
are about 24 percent of the total taxes collected.
3
Total transfers in Sierra Leone represent only 
0.7 percent of GDP, as compared to developing country averages of 2 percent of GDP. 
Preliminary analysis of the cost burden of LC functions for service provision suggests that even 
if LCs were receiving their full budgeted allocation, these transfers would be insufficient.  
 
2. Objectives 
 
5. 
The overall objective of the program is to support decentralized delivery of basic services 
in Sierra Leone.  In addition to providing Councils with substantially more funding for recurrent 
expenditures, Phase I of the program will focus on strengthening government institutional and 
organizational capacity at the central and local level to enable LCs to fulfill their core devolved 
functions and launching an “umbrella” platform to consolidate all financial flows to local 
councils. The focus will be on strengthening key processes in the service delivery value chain 
that will reinforce efficient use of existing and additional resources:  namely, development 
planning, budgeting, and expenditure monitoring, monitoring of service delivery results and 
strengthening citizen involvement in the service delivery cycle.  In Phase II, the program will 
focus more explicitly on translating that institutional and organizational capacity into better 
service outcomes with continued focus on refining the grants system and cross-cutting 
constraints. In Phase III, the program will be expected to focus on addressing sector specific gaps 
3
Bahl & Wallace (2004).  Inter-governmental Transfers: The Vertical Sharing Dimension.  Working Paper 04-19. 
p.5  
 
Page  3
in service delivery. The development objective of Phase I of the program is:  (a) to strengthen 
government capacity to manage decentralized services; (b) to improve the availability and 
predictability of local councils’ funding; and (c) to strengthen the intergovernmental fiscal 
transfer system. 
6.  
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
7. 
Since the inception of its decentralization program, competing priorities and revenue 
shortfalls have not allowed the Government to be able to transfer 100 percent of the allocated 
amounts to LCs.  Moreover, in light of the global financial crisis and decrease in commodity 
prices, the GoSL is likely to face budget shortfalls in the coming years and will be forced to 
make expenditure decisions.  Under these circumstances, it is important to provide GoSL with 
additional funds to improve the predictability and timeliness of the LC transfers, and to protect 
delivery of basic services vis-à-vis budgetary pressures.  Furthermore, the program will also 
focus on strengthening organizational capacities of LCs in cross-sectoral local development 
budgeting and planning. This support represents the continuation of the World Bank’s 
engagement with GoSL’s local councils and communities through such mechanisms as the 
Institutional Reform and Capacity Building Project, the National Social Action Program, and 
GoBifo.  
 
4. Description 
 
Component 1: Grants to LCs  (US$16 million)  
 
8. 
The majority of program funds will be used to supplement the quarterly transfers that 
local councils receive from the central budget. IDA funds will be pooled with Government funds 
at the council level, following the same distribution formulae, disbursement schedule, and 
expenditure guidelines. There will be no differentiation between program funds and Government 
funds in terms of use or eligibility of expenditures. Councils are expected to limit use of funds to 
items appearing in their annually-approved budgets, which should also be (a) reflected in their 
local development plans and (b) consistent with national sector strategies. Based on existing 
local development plans and national strategies/plans in individual sectors, as well as the 
statutory guidelines, an indicative 
set of
 activities that are likely to be funded in the three sectors 
receiving the most support at the council level (health, education, water and sanitation). 
 
9. 
The DSDP will also finance a pilot performance bonus system. Beginning in the first year 
of the program, each council will select annual service output targets as part of their annual 
development plan updating process.
 4
 
The council-specific service output, budget execution and 
administrative targets will form the basis for annual Local Council Agreements signed between 
councils, MOFED, and the MOLGIARD. LCs achieving 75 percent or more of their combined 
annual targets will be awarded an additional 10 percent above the IDA portion of their transfers 
in the second and third years of the program.   
4
These three sectors were selected based because (a) they are particularly relevant to human development outcomes 
and (b) they receive a large part of the funding at the local level. 
Page  4
Component 2: Capacity Development (CD) and Technical Assistance (TA) (US$3 million)  
 
10. 
This component will support gaps that have been identified by the Decentralization 
Secretariat to strengthen LCs’ capacity in performing their core functions, and MDA capacity to 
provide oversight and to achieve improvements in service delivery.  Because some capacity-
development needs are common across all Local Councils or all devolved MDAs, while others 
are Council- or MDA-specific, the program will offer three channels of assistance: (a) centrally-
organized support for all Local Councils in specific areas; (b) centrally-organized support for all 
relevant MDAs
5
in specific areas; and (c) demand-driven assistance for individual and/or groups 
of LCs and MDAs. As this component will be implemented by DecSec, all of its activities will 
be defined in DecSec’s annual work plan, which will be submitted for IDA approval at beginning 
of each year. 
 
Component 3 Program Management (US$1 million)   
 
11. 
The objective of this component is to ensure timely implementation and satisfactory 
monitoring of the program.  The component will finance administrative costs related to the 
implementation of local council grants components and of capacity development.   
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
20 
 Total 
20 
 
6. Implementation 
 
12. 
The DSDP will maximize the use of possible existing Government structures, particularly 
the existing Intergovernmental Fiscal Transfer System and the implementation arrangements set 
up by the IRCBP and the Multi-Donor Trust Fund to support capacity development of Local 
Councils. The MoFED will be responsible for the DSDP as a whole; in particular, MoFED will 
have overall responsibility for the oversight, coordination, monitoring, and evaluation of project 
activities. The IRCBP Project Administrative Unit (PAU) within MOFED will execute the 
DSDP, keeping overall administrative, monitoring, and evaluation responsibility for the program. 
Component 1 will be implemented by the Budget Bureau-MOFED, with support from its Local 
Government Finance Department (LGFD), and component 2 will be implemented by the 
Decentralization Secretariat (Dec Sec) of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Local Government and 
Rural Development (MoIALGRD).  
 
5
‘Relevant’ MDAs are taken to mean MDAs in sectors (a) that have devolved in line with the statutory instrument, 
and (b) for which LCs are receiving significant funding (i.e., funding equal to at least 10% of the whole vertical 
envelope). Currently, those sectors are: Health, Education, Energy and Water Resources, Social Assistance, Youth 
and Employment and Agriculture.  
Page  5
13. 
LCs will be the primary beneficiaries of the program and will be responsible for the 
satisfactory utilization of the grants towards devolved functions in line with their annual 
development plans and budgets.  They will also be responsible for reporting on their 
expenditures and agreed targets.  Their relationship with MoFED and MoIALGRD will be 
governed by the Local Council Agreement and Operational Manual (which will include the 
already published LGFD documents on grants distribution formulae, conditions, and other) and 
annual development plans.  The program will be overseen and monitored by the Steering 
Committee established by the grant agreement of the IRCBP (IDA Grant No H086-0-SL) and 
subsequently amended (February 28, 2008).  Finally, key Ministries, Departments and Agencies 
will provide guidance and/or technical assistance to support the effective planning, management, 
and delivery of basic services.  
 
7. Sustainability 
 
14. 
As the Councils are still relatively young and have experienced substantial movement at 
both political and executive leadership levels, much more effort is needed to make their 
management systems robust.  Councils and their staff (including those of MDAs) will benefit 
from constant support for general management, development planning, budgeting, and budget 
implementation to support their progress towards sustainability.  The DSDP implementation 
emphasizes the development of Councils’ human resource and organizational capacity. 
Furthermore, engaging the MDAs substantively in decentralized service provision is essential for 
the sustainability of the Councils.  The Program will support capacity development of the MDAs 
to ensure they understand and fulfill their roles.  The program will also put in place improved 
expenditure control and monitoring mechanisms for the local transfers providing capacity 
development support to the LGFD, Budget Bureau, DecSec, and other MDAs.    
 
15. 
There is a risk that the GoSL will not be able to sustain adequate levels of funding to LCs 
during and after the APL period.  The program will institute a disbursement mechanism which 
will encourage the GoSL to maintain their funding at current levels and sanction lower 
disbursements with fewer or no IDA disbursements.  During the 6 year period of the APL, the 
GoSL and development partners will continue to support the LCs in improving their revenue 
raising and collection mechanisms.  As the global economy recovers, Sierra Leone is expected to 
improve its revenue base through increased production in agriculture and commodity exports. 
This should enable the country to resume the growth rates of 7-8 percent and maintain its 
financial commitments for local council transfers.  Nevertheless, the country will be in need of 
continued assistance over the long term.   
 
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
16. 
A number of lessons learned from past operations in the country and international 
experience were taken into account in the design of this program. In Sierra Leone, (a) the 
volatility of traditional budget support has made it an imperfect instrument for the purposes of 
increasing expenditures on basic services, (b) LCs are able to spend funds effectively, but the 
amounts that they are receiving are insufficient, (c) increased interaction/communication 
Page  6
between LCs and citizens improves the quality and impact of local development activities, and 
(d) MDAs have felt largely isolated from the decentralization process and currently see little role 
for themselves in decentralized governance. Moreover, international experience suggests that (a) 
improved funding to LCs coupled with adequate accountability mechanisms results in better 
planning and management of resources, and (b) incentives can lead to significant improvements 
in the quality of local government processes.
6
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Physical Cultural Resources (
OP/BP 4.11
)
[
]
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10)
 
[
]
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50)
 
[
]
[X] 
10. 
List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
11. Contact 
point 
Contact: Mirey Ovadiya 
Title: Senior Operations Officer 
Tel: (202) 473-2960 
Fax:  
Email: Movadiya@worldbank.org 
 
12. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
6
Ed. by Shah, Anwar. 2006. Local Governance in Developing Countries. World Bank. Public Sector Governance 
and Accountability Series.   
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  7
