Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  08/27/2009 
Report No.:  50264
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Sierra Leone 
Project ID:  P113757 
Project Name:  SL-Decentralized Service Delivery Program 
Task Team Leader:  Mirey Ovadiya 
Estimated Appraisal Date: June 30, 2009 
Estimated Board Date: October 15, 2009 
Managing Unit:  AFTSP 
Lending Instrument:  Adaptable Program 
Loan 
Sector:  Other social services (30%);Sub-national government administration 
(25%);General education sector (15%);General water, sanitation and flood protection 
sector (15%);General public administration sector (15%) 
Theme:  Social safety nets (34%);Decentralization (33%);Other human development 
(33%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
20.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.00
0.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The development objective of Phase I of the program is: (a) to reinforce the 
intergovernmental fiscal transfer system, (b) to improve the availability and predictability 
of resources to local councils, and (c) to support the councils’ capacity to plan, 
implement, and monitor devolved service delivery functions.   
 
3. Project Description 
The program will have three components:  (i) grants to local councils; (ii) capacity 
development and TA and (iii) program management  
 
The project will provide: (i) predictable and incremental results-based financing to LCs, 
ensuring that they have resources to finance expenditures needed to operate existing basic 
service infrastructure (as per devolved functions to local councils) at a satisfactory level; 
(ii)capacity development support to LCs to enable them to better plan, budget and 
monitor service delivery in key sectors with an emphasis on accountability mechanisms; 
Page  2
and (iii) technical assistance to central ministries/agencies to support their regulatory and 
quality assurance role.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The program will be implemented in all 19 councils in Sierra Leone. The LC grants will 
finance a range of activities that are devolved to local councils in health, education, water 
and sanitation, youth, social assistance and other. These activities involve maintenance 
and rehabilitation, construction of water supply systems (wells, boreholes, pipes), 
purchase of equipment and materials, and supervision.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Yasmin Tayyab (AFTCS) 
Ms Nyaneba E. Nkrumah (AFTEN) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The program will finance expenditures of Local Councils for their devolved 
responsibilities.  The devolved functions (to date) span over health, education, 
agriculture, social assistance, rural water and sanitation and waste management. The 
activities usually cover maintenance, rehabilitation, and operation of infrastructure, 
purchase of equipment and materials and supervision. The project does not envisage any 
significant environmental impact. There may be safeguard issues related to maintenance 
and rehabilitation of boreholes or latrines under component 1, which provides grants to 
LCs for recurrent costs. Component 2 provides demand driven assistance to groups of 
LCs and MDA for sub-projects and although these are unlikely to have an environmental 
impact,an ESMF framework has been prepared to mitigate any possible impact.   
 
Page  3
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
No long term impacts are expected under the program. Indirect impacts are difficult to 
determine given that sub-projects are unknown. However, for component 1, which 
involves grants for some construction and rehabilitation,particularly for boreholes, 
latrines, and piped water systems and some minor repairs of buildings,etc, there may be a 
potential minor environmental impact. These may include  soil loss, erosion and siltration 
from construction and construction debris. The ESMF describes, in detail, the process put 
in place to ensure that checklists are developed and implemented and that a sound 
monitoring and reporting framework are in place. The National Environment Protection 
Board will be responsible for clearing the environmental and social screening forms and 
checklists   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
The screening tool will allow specialists to choose alternative sites to minimize 
significant (negative) environmental impacts.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The borrower has in place a system of environmental screening and impact mitigation 
mechanism at the local council level.  This system was established by the IDA financed 
Institutional Reform and Capacity Building Project (IRCBP).  The ESMF for the IRCBP 
has been adapted for the new project (only very minor changes were required)and was re-
disclosed.  The Project Operational Manual and PAD will specify that no activities 
involving involuntary land acquisition will be allowed.  
 
Furthermore, an environmental and social impact checklist is used to screen all activities 
included in the Local Development Plans whether they involve construction, maintenance 
and operation. All Local Councils have already received training of environmental 
management within the framework of IRCBP. The module was adapted from a CDD 
program.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The key stakeholders will be the Local Councils, communities, Ministry of Finance and 
Economic Development, Ministry of Local Government and key line ministries.  The 
disclosure of safeguard policies is being done at several instances: (i) prior to appraisal- 
this process will ensure that the documents are accessible to the public, including 
communities at the LC level and NGOs and other stakeholders;(ii) during the project 
launch as part of the training on the Operational Manual and (iii) as part of indiviudal 
training for Local Councils.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Page  4
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
05/01/2009 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
07/06/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
05/20/2009 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 N/A 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
The documents were disclosed before Appraisal.   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
N/A 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Page  5
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
N/A 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
N/A 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Mirey Ovadiya 
08/27/2009 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Nyaneba E. Nkrumah 
08/27/2009 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Yasmin Tayyab 
08/27/2009 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Warren Waters 
08/27/2009 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Ms Lynne D. Sherburne-Benz 
08/27/2009 
Comments:   
