Document of
The World Bank
Report No: ICR2689
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
(IDA-46560)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.9 MILLION
(US$ 20.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
FOR THE
DECENTRALIZED SERVICE DELIVERY
ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN PROJECT
June 19, 2013
Social Protection Unit for West and Central Africa
Country Department West Africa 1
Africa Region


﻿CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 2013)
Currency Unit = Leones
Leone 4,280 = US$1
US$1.00 = SDR 1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL          Adaptable Program Loan
CLoGPAS     Comprehensive Local Government Performance Assessment System
DecSec       Decentralization Secretariat
DSDP        Decentralized Service Delivery Project
DfID        Department for International Development
EFA FTI      Education for All Fast Track Initiative
ESMF        Environmental and Social Management Framework
EU           European Union
FM          Financial Management
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GOSL        Government of Sierra Leone
HDI         Human Development Index
IDA         International Development Association
INPSS        Integrated National Public Service Survey
IPAU         Integrated Project Administration Unit
IPFMRP       Integrated Public Financial Management Reform Project
IRCBP        Institutional Reform and Capacity Building Project
J-CAS        Joint Country Assessment Strategy
LC           Local Council
LGA         Local Government Act
LGFD        Local Government Finance Department
MDA          Ministries, Departments, and Agencies
MDG         Millennium Development Goals
MTR         Mid-Term Review
MoFED       Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MoLGRD      Ministry of Local Governance, and Rural Development
MoHS        Ministry of Health and Sanitation
MoEWR       Ministry of Energy and Water Resources
MoEYS       Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports
MoWR        Ministry of Water Resources


﻿M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
NRA         National Revenue Authority
NPSS        National Public Service Survey
NSAP        National Social Action Program
OM          Operations Manual
PHU         Peripheral Health Units
PER         Public Expenditure Review
PEFA        Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA)
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PDO         Project Development Objectives
PRSP II     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper II
RCHP        Reproductive and Child Health Project
RPF         Resettlement Policy Framework
RTF         Resident Technical Facilitators
RTF         Resident Technical Facilitators
SLRA        Sierra Leone Roads Authority
UNDP        United National Development Program
WDC         Ward Development Committees
WDR         World Development Report
WGI         World Governance Indicators
Vice President   Makhtar Diop
Country Director   Yusupha B. Crookes
Sector Manager    Stefano Patemostro
Project Team Leader: Qaiser M. Khan
ICR Team Leader : Emily Weedon Chapman


﻿REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
DECENTRALIZED SERVICE DELIVERY
ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN PROJECT
CONTENTS
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
I. Disbursement Graph
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design...................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes             ..........5.......5
3. Assessment of Outcomes        ........................................... 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.    ....................   ..... 20
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance   ................     ........ 21
6. Lessons Learned           .....................................   ......... 24
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ..... 25
List of Annexes
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing                     ................................. 26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component          ............................... ..... 27
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis  ............................. 34
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ...... 35
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results............................... 37
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results......................... 42
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR        ......... 43
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders  .  .......... 57
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents      ..........................  ..... 58
IBRD MAP No. 33478..........................................60


﻿Datasheet
A. Basic Information
SL-Decentralized
Country:             Sierra Leone         Project Name:        Service Delivery
Program
ProectID:P11757L/CTFNumber(s):                     IDA-46560
ICR Date:            06/19/2013           ICR Type:            Core ICR
REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:  APL                  Borrower:            SIERRA LEONE
Original Total       XDR 12.90M           Disbursed Amount:    XDR 12.82M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:      XDR 12.82M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
B. Key Dates
Revised / Actual
Process           Date            Process       Original Date      es)
Date(s)
Concept Review:     10/14/2008   Effectiveness:      02/15/2010       02/15/2010
Appraisal:          06/30/2009   Restructuring(s):       N/a          06/23/2011
Approval:           10/15/2009   Mid-term Review:    02/01/2011       05/02/2011
Closing:            12/31/2011       06/29/2012
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:              Substantial
Bank Performance:                        Moderately Satisfactory
[Borrower Performance:.           .       Moderately Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
Bank                Ratings             Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:    Moderately Satisfactory Government:       Moderately Satisfactory
Implementin
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory I ementing  :  Satisfactory
L                               'mAgency/Aencies:.
Overall Bank                              Overall Borrower
Performance:         Moderately Satisfactory Performance:      Moderately Satisfactory
Perfrmane:                      Prforance


﻿C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation         Indicators     QAG Assessments          Rating
Performance                              (if any)
Potential Problem Project No             Quality at Entry
at any time (Yes/No):                    (QEA):
Problem Project at any  0                Quality of        done
time (Yes/No):          o                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before      Stsatr
Closing/Inactive status:  Stsatr
D. Sector and Theme Codes
Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Public administration- Education                       27               27
Public administration- Health                          27               27
Public administration- Water, sanitation and flood     31               26
protection
Sub-national government administration                 15               20
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Decentralization                                        33              50
Other human development                                 33              50
Social safety nets                                      34               0
E. Bank Staff
Positions                 At ICR                      At Approval
Vice President:       Makhtar Diop                 Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:    Yusupha B. Crookes            Ishac Diwan
Sector Manager:       Stefano Paternostro          Lynne D. Sherburne-Benz
Project Team Leader:  Qaiser M. Khan               Mirey Ovadiya
ICR Team Leader:      Emily Weedon Chapman
ICR Primary Author:   Emily Weedon Chapman
F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The overall objective of the program (APL) is to support decentralized delivery of basic
services in Sierra Leone. The development objective of Phase I of the program is: (a) to
strengthen Government capacity to manage decentralized services; (b) to improve the
ii


﻿availability and predictability of Local Councils' funding; and (c) to strengthen the
intergovernmental fiscal transfer system.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not applicable.
(a) PDO Indicator(s)
Formally      Actual Value
Indicator          Baseline Value O      alTet Revised Target        Achieved at
Values        Completion
Number of grants for
expenditures (excluding wages
and interest obligations) in      9               4               6                6
education, health and
sanitation, water, and solid
waste management
Percentage of domestic
revenues (less wages, interest
obligations, and statutory
transfers to National Revenue   29.6%            30%             N/a             38%'
Authority and Road Fund)
transferred to LC on an annual
basis, excluding DSDP funds
Transfer of funds to LC as
percentage of total GoSL         6%              6%              N/a             5%2
expenditures
Number of LC meeting at least
75 percent of service-output      0               15             N/a              11
targets specified in LC
Subsidiary Agreement
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
Formally      Actual Value
Indicator          Baseline Value O      alTet Revised Target        Achieved at
Values        Completion
Number of LC with integrated
development plans and
budgets (finalized in             0               19             N/a              19
accordance with sector plans)
before the start of the FY
Number of LC with
procurement plans (which          0               19             N/a              19
include LC transfers and
1   Value reported as of 12/31/2012 to reflect percentage of annual transfer for FY2012. The Government
of Sierra Leone fiscal year is January to December.
2   Value reported as of 12/31/2012 to reflect percentage of annual transfer for FY2012. Value on Project
closing date was 3.3% resulting from the second FY2012 transfer being made July 17, 2012, just
following the June 29, 2012 closing date.
111


﻿DSDP funds)                I
Number of LC with January-
September budget execution        12              19             N/a             i3
rates of 90 percent of available
funds
Percentage of WDC receiving
and discussing development       N/a             100%            N/a             23%
plans/budgets, financing
statement, and their updates
Percentage of WDC holding
public meetings and reporting
to LC as part of the annual      N/a             75%             N/a             79%
development plan updating
and execution cycle
Percentage of WDC
conducting spot checks on
service providers (in health,
education, and water supply)
Number of LC whose M&E
units receive, process, and       13              19             N/a              19
transmit to key stakeholders
data related to sector activities
Number of LC producing
annual updates on                 0               12             N/a              19
development plans
Number of National Public
Service Surveys conducted
Number of LC receiving
timely transfers from
consolidated revenue funds        19              19             N/a              19
each quarter (within the first
month of each quarter)
Number of LC receiving
timely transfers from DSDP                                                        194
each quarter (15th of the first
month of each quarter)
Number of teaching and
learning materials that are       0            850,000           N/a           1,497,7205
distributed to primary schools
Number of LCs procuring and                       19
distributing required sets of     0                              N/a         Not reported6
teaching and learning materials
Number (proportion) of LCs
which conduct fee-free           N/a              19             N/a         Not reported7
awareness campaigns
3   Value based on January to September 2012 execution rates.
4   The DSDP Phase I provided LC grants for FY20 10 and FY20 11; therefore, this figure is based on the
transfer of the last FY2011 LC grant of DSDP funds. The Project's Phase II provides funding for
grants in FY2012 through FY2015.
5   Intermediate indicator related to program indicators.
6   Intermediate indicator related to program indicators. Data is not available.
7   Intermediate indicator related to program indicators. Data is not available.
iv


﻿Percentage of water and
sanitation facilities which are  Baseline differs  95%         N/a        Not reported
used, maintained and in good  per LC
working order in each LC
Number of Councils with 50
percent of villages declared     0              19             N/a         Not reported9
open defecation free (ODF)
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
Actual
Date ISR                                                          Ata
No.     Ate                  DO                       IP              Disbursements
(USD millions)
1    06/04/2010         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   2.50
2    01/14/2011         Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             7.30
3    06/27/2011         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  15.26
4     12/24/2011        Satisfactory     I      Satisfactory                  18.91
5    06/19/2012         Satisfactory     I      Satisfactory                  19.77
H. Restructuring (if any)
Board     ISR Ratings     Amount
Restructuring Approved         at       Disbursed at   Reason for Restructuring & Key
Date(s)      PDO     Restructuring Restructuring               Changes
in USD
Change     DO     IP        in 
millions
06/23/2011      No        S     MS           15.26 There was one Restructuring of the
Project during implementation that
supported: (i) a six-month extension of
the   Project  closing  date  from
December 31, 2011 to June 29, 2012;
(ii) reallocation of proceeds across
disbursement categories; and (iii) a
minor adjustment of the Results
Framework to clarify a monitoring
indicator and revise a target.
Changes (i) and (ii) intended to
provide necessary time and resources
for the completion of the Community
Monitoring Pilot, which sought to test
social accountability mechanisms in
four districts.
Change (iii) sought to align the
modifications to two triggers proposed
8   Intermediate indicator related to program indicators. Data is not available.
9   Intermediate indicator related to program indicators. Data is not available.
V


﻿for Board approval in December 2011
as part of the DSDP Phase II with ie
DSDP Phase [ Projeter documents
1. Disbursement Profile
Original    Formally Revised -- Actual
25-
ov


﻿1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.     Following a brutal, decade-long civil war, Sierra Leone has been on a path to restore its
economic and governance systems, yet the challenge to sustain political stability continues and
low human development indicators persist. The conflict, which lasted from 1991 to 2002, killed
20,000 people and displaced half of the country's population of approximately six million people.
Since 2002, the country has held three rounds of parliamentary, presidential, and local elections,
which have all been deemed free and fair.10 During this same period, Sierra Leone's recovery
was bolstered by unbroken real gross domestic product (GDP) growth, even maintaining an
estimated growth rate of 5.5 percent in 2008 and 4 percent in 2009, despite the international
economic and price crises." Still, at Project appraisal, there remained a need to strengthen
democratic institutions and translate the peace dividends of economic growth into improvements
in lives of the country's poor. Despite the gains made since the conflict, in 2008, Sierra Leone
ranked in the bottom ten percent of countries regarding "government effectiveness" on World
Governance Indicators (WGI) and ranked last on the UNDP Human Development Index (HDI).
2.     The Government of Sierra Leone (GoSL) embarked on decentralization reforms as a
means through which to address some of the root causes of the civil war and improve delivery of
basic services. 12 The Local Government Act 2004 (LGA) re-established 19 elected Local
Councils (LC) and their respective Ward Development Committees (WDC) and created a legal
framework for the devolution of selected functions to them. Since ratification of the LGA, Local
Councilors have been elected in the three rounds of elections, held in 2004, 2008, and 2012.
These elected officials are supported by the LC core administrative staff, hired under the
Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development (MoLGRD). The LGA also sought to
improve the transparency of the country's resource transfer system and reduce the resource and
expenditure inequalities among regions. The legislation outlined three funding sources for the
LC: Central Government transfers for devolved functions and administrative expenses; LC-
generated revenues from taxes, fees, and royalties; and loans and grants from other sources.
3.     The achievement of this devolution process was foreseen as a long-term initiative. Sierra
Leone has a legacy of centralized power, with elected LC having been abolished in 1972.13
Through the 2004 LGA, the Government launched the process of re-establishing the LC,
including hiring and training core administrative staff to support the elected Local Councilors
and constructing LC offices. Based on the building of this capacity, the LGA provided for a
phased transfer of service delivery functions from 17 ministries, departments, and agencies
(MDA) to the 19 newly re-established LC. At Project appraisal, the vast majority of LC funding
came from Central Government transfers, in the form of grants tied to specific expenditures;
however, actual transfers consistently fell short of the budgeted commitments. Between 2005 and
2008, the percentage of budgeted allocations actually transferred to the LC ranged from 41 to 75
percent. The 2008 global economic recession further threatened the implementation of the
10 National-level elections were held in 2002, 2007, and 2012; local elections were held in 2004, 2008, and 2012.
11 World Bank Sierra Leone Country Brief
12 Sierra Leone Truth and Reconciliation Commission (2004).
13 Srivastava, Vivek and Marco Larizza (2011).
1


﻿Government's decentralization program given the subsequent difficulties to maintain public
service delivery expenditures in the face of shrinking Government revenues.
4.    In the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper II (PRSP II) 2008-2011: Agenda for Change, the
Government reconfirmed its commitment to decentralization while recognizing the shortcomings
in the reform processes. The poverty analysis in the PRSP II highlighted that "focusing on
providing resources to rural areas and supporting the decentralization process through funding
and capacity building is key to the poverty reduction process in rural areas." Toward this
objective, the PRSP II agenda promoted decentralization as an essential prerequisite for
sustainable growth and economic development with the principle objective of enhancing service
delivery. The Paper also noted that, while the Government had successfully established the 19
LC as functioning local government bodies, capacity varied between the localities and the
devolution of responsibilities remained incomplete.
5.    The World Bank and donor partners, particularly the United Kingdom's Department for
International Development (DflD) and the European Union (EU), have supported the
Government's decentralization agenda since its inception in 2004.  The Bank's Institutional
Reform and Capacity Building Project (IRCBP), implemented from 2004 to 2011, assisted in the
establishment of a functioning local government system and focused on decentralization policy
and management capacity, human and logistical capacity of the LC, and the establishment of a
funding mechanism to transfer grants from the Central Government to the LC, among other
activities.14 The Bank's Joint Country Assessment Strategy (J-CAS) FY10-FY13 outlined the
continuation of this support under its human development pillar to improve predictability,
expenditure controls, and transparency in public resource management and decentralization.
6.    Within this context, the Decentralized Service Delivery Project (DSDP) was designed as
an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) to continue the Bank's long-term support to decentralization
and improved service delivery. While, in the immediate post-war years, the focus was on
stabilization and re-establishment of services through sector-specific investments, the DSDP
adopted a more comprehensive approach focused on cross-sectoral constraints to service delivery,
including budgeting, monitoring and evaluation (M&E), and social accountability. The DSDP
also sought to have a demonstration effect about the potential use of national decentralized
systems for channeling donor funding to service delivery. The Project built on the objectives of
the IRCBP as well as the Bank-funded National Social Action Program (NSAP) and was
complimentary to the Integrated Public Financial Management Reform Project (IPFMRP), the
Reproductive and Child Health Project (RCHP), and the Education for All Fast Track Initiative
(EFA FTI) Program.
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
7.    The objectives of the Project were: (i) to strengthen Government capacity to manage
decentralized services; (ii) to improve the availability and predictability of Local Councils'
funding; and (iii) to strengthen the intergovernmental fiscal transfer system. The performance of
Phase I of the DSDP APL was assessed through the following key indicators as specified in the
Project's Financing Agreement:
14 The IRCBP was funded by an IDA Credit of US$25.3 million from 2004 to 2009 and a Multi-donor Trust Fund
of US$25.3, financed by the EU and DflD, from 2006 to 2011.
2


﻿a. Number of grants for expenditures in education, health and sanitation, water, and solid
waste management sectors excluding wages and interest obligations;
b. Percentage of domestic revenues (excluding wages, interest obligations and statutory
transfers to Recipient's National Revenue Agency (NRA) and Road Fund) transferred to
Local Councils, on an annual basis, excluding Project funds;
c. Transfer of funds to Local Councils as a percentage of total expenditures of the
Recipient; and
d. Number of Local Councils meeting at least 75 percent of targets specified in their
respective Subsidiary Agreement.
1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators
8.    No changes were made to the formulation of the PDO or key indicators as outlined in the
Project's Financing Agreement.
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
9.    The LC were the primary beneficiary of the Project and were responsible for the
satisfactory use of Project funding to undertake the devolved functions in line with annual
development plans and budgets. In support of the PDO, the Project's capacity building
initiatives benefitted the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MoFED), the
MoLGRD, and other MDA involved in the provision of decentralized basic service delivery.
The Project also benefitted the population at large through its financing toward the improvement
of delivery of basic services.
1.5 Original Components
10.   The Project provided financing for the following components:
a. Grants to the LC (US$16 million): This component was used to supplement the
transfers that the LC received from the Central Government. The grants were allocated
for expenditures toward devolved functions in education, health and sanitation, solid
waste management, and water based on LC annual development plans and budgets and
consistent with national sector strategies. DSDP funds were comingled with Government
resources in LC accounts. Triggers for DSDP Phase II were tied to ensuring that Phase I
grants were additional to Government funds and did not substitute for them.
b. Capacity Development and Technical Assistance (US$3 million): This component was
designed to strengthen LC capacity to perform their core functions and MDA capacity to
provide guidance and oversight to the LC. It was divided in two sub-components:
i.  Centrally-organized support for all LC and MDA (US$2 million): This sub-
component targeted capacity constraints common across all LC and MDA,
including development planning and budgeting, M&E, and social accountability.
These three areas were identified as needs by the LC, the MDA, and the
Decentralization Secretariat (DecSec).
ii. Demand-driven support for the LC and relevant MDA (US$1 million): This sub-
component provided a demand-driven capacity development window for the LC
and the MDA (not covered by Component 2.1), through which the LC and the
MDA would submit proposals for technical assistance tailored to their specific
needs.
3


﻿c. Program Management (US$1 million): The objective of this component was to ensure
timely implementation and satisfactory monitoring of Components 1 and 2. It was
divided in two sub-components:
i.   Program  Coordination (US$400,000): This sub-component financed specific
operational costs of the DecSec, the Local Government Finance Department
(LGFD), and the Integrated Project Administration Unit (IPAU).
ii.  Monitoring and Evaluation (US$600,000): This sub-component emphasized
strengthening national M&E systems to monitor LC and Central Government
performance on delivery of services.
1.6 Revised Components
11.    No changes were made to the Project's components.
1.7 Other significant changes
12.    There was one Restructuring of the Project that included: (i) a six-month extension of the
Project closing date from December 31, 2011 to June 29, 2012; (ii) reallocation of proceeds
across disbursement categories; and (iii) a minor adjustment of the DSDP Phase II triggers to
revise one target value and clarify one monitoring indicator. Changes (i) and (ii) intended to
provide the necessary time and resources for the completion of the Project's pilot social
accountability mechanisms. Change (iii) ensured that changes to two triggers proposed for
Board approval in December 2011 as part of the DSDP Phase II aligned with the DSDP Phase I
Project documents.
13.    Regarding change (ii) above, the reallocation of proceeds under the Amendment to the
Financing Agreement (Credit No. 4656-SL) as signed June 23, 2011 is as follows.
Table 1: Overview of Reallocations of Credit No. 4656-SL
Category              Amount of Financing      Percentage of Expenditures to be
Allocated (in SDR)        Financed (inclusive of taxes)
Original    Revised       Original          Revised
(1) Goods, works, and services for LC  9,700,000  9,800,000 Such % as shall be  Such % as shall be
Grants under Part 1 of the Project                     specified in the Annual specified in the Annual
Work Plan and Budget Work Plan and Budget
for the respective FY for the respective FY
(2) Goods, consultants' services,  2,000,000  2,500,000             100%              100%
Training, Study Tours and Workshops,
and Operating Costs for Parts 2.1 and 3
of the Project
(3) Goods and services for Capacity  600,000    600,000             100%              100%
Development under Part 2.2 of the
Project
(4) Unallocated                     600,000          0
TOTAL AMOUNT                     12,900,000  12,900,000
14.    Regarding change (iii) above, the Bank team proposed amendments to two of five
original triggers for transitioning from the DSDP Phase I to Phase II. This revision, as presented
in the table below, was approved by the Board during its consideration of DSDP Phase II.
4


﻿Table 2: Revision to Triggers for DSDP Phase II
Original Trigger                 Revised Trigger                Rationale
(3) A reduction in the number of (3) A reduction in the number of The original target of four grants
Government grants to LC to fund  Government grants to LC to fund  was revised to six grants because of
education, health  and  sanitation, education, health and sanitation, the need for separate grants for
social waste management, and water social waste management, and water primary  and  secondary  service
expenditures from nine to four by  expenditures from nine to six by  provision  in  both  health  and
FY12                             FY12                           education
(4) In FY10 and FY11, (a) variance  (4) In FY10 and FY11, (a) the  The language of original trigger was
between  available resources and  execution rate of the resources revised for editorial clarity of trigger
executed LC budgets should not be available to LC should be at least 4(a)
more than 10%; and (b) at least 9 LC  90%; and (b) at least 9 LC in FY10
in FY10 and 15 in FY11 should meet and 15 in FY11 should meet at least
at least 75%  of their LC-specific  75% of their LC-specific service
service output targets (as per LC  output targets (as per LC Subsidiary
Subsidiary Agreements)           Agreements)
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
15.    The DSDP      was designed    in  support of the Government's commitment to its
decentralization agenda and was part of the Bank's ongoing assistance to these reforms. A
World Bank Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) assessment of decentralization in client
countries, published in 2008, confirmed the strong political will within Government to
decentralize. At Project appraisal, the Government had made steady progress toward the
implementation of the LGA passed in 2004, including the establishment of 19 LC and devolution
of some functions for basic service delivery, including primary and junior secondary education,
primary and secondary health care, rural water supply, sanitation, waste management, agriculture,
youth services, social assistance, and fire prevention services. The IRCBP supported these
efforts and the design of the DSDP, with funding channeled to LC through Government systems,
was possible, in part, due to the previous capacity building undertaken through the IRCBP.
16.    As a next step in this reform process, the DSDP sought to support decentralized delivery
of basic services in Sierra Leone by building on lessons learned and data collected through
previous interventions in Sierra Leone as well as international good practices. In 2009, the Bank
and the Government prepared a joint report to review the initial period of decentralization (2003
to 2007) and many of the lessons from this report are reflected in the design of the DSDP. The
Project's components were designed specifically to address three problems identified in the joint
review, as well as IRCBP-related documents, as constraining LC performance, namely the
adequacy, timeliness, and predictability of resource transfers from Central Government.
Component 1 provided additional resources to the LC to increase funding for education, health,
water supply, and sanitation. Components 1, 2, and 3 undertook complementary activities to
promote timely and predictable transfers by strengthening LC and Central Government capacity.
The DSDP also incorporated recommendations from the 2008 IEG assessment on
15 The related indicator in the Results Framework in the PAD originally read "Number of LC with January-
September budget execution rates of 90 percent of available funds". This revised language, therefore, also
fostered better alignment between the triggers for DSDP Phase II and the DSDP Phase I Results Framework.
5


﻿decentralization that highlighted, among others, the need for existing government commitment to
decentralization, strong M&E systems, and capacity development at the local level.
17.   The Project design prioritized the use of existing Government systems but introduced
Subsidiary Agreements between the LC and the Central Government to strengthen monitoring of
LC grants through the establishment of service output targets linked to these funds. Co-mingling
Project and Government funding to the LC allowed for an emphasis on improving existing
transfer mechanisms, eliminating the common threat in low-income, fragile contexts of creating
duplicate avenues for donor financing. The Subsidiary Agreements were adopted to strengthen
this transfer system by tracking how LC grants would contribute to the local development plans;
however, the design of the Agreements limited their effectiveness as a benchmarking tool. First,
finalization of the Agreements was established in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) as a
condition of disbursement for Component 1 and there was insufficient lead time for their
preparation before the first transfer was due. Second, the Agreements would have benefitted
from clearer linkages among the targets established, the capacity building activities necessary to
achieve these outputs, and the engagement of relevant MDA in their monitoring and completion.
18.   The Project's institutional arrangements also reflected an emphasis on using existing
structures within Government (previously established under the IRCBP) and each unit had well
defined responsibilities within the Project. The LGFD, housed within the MoFED, managed the
transfer of funding to the LC and was responsible for Component 1. The DecSec, a Directorate
of the MoLGRD, managed the implementation and coordination of the decentralization process
and was primarily responsible for the Component 2. The IPAU, a joint implementation unit
housed under MoFED, provided program management under Component 3. The disparity of
salaries between these specialized units and the civil service salary scale remained at challenge
during Project preparation and is addressed further in Section 4 below.
19.   At Project appraisal, the risk rating was Substantial. Among the primary questions raised
was the Government's ability to sustain its current levels of funding to the LC in a timely and
predictable manner. The Project, therefore, established triggers for the transition from DSDP
Phase I to Phase II that related to the percentage of Government expenditures allocated to the LC
annually and the adherence of the transfers to the quarterly disbursement schedule published in
the beginning of each fiscal year. These triggers sought to ensure that the DSDP funding would
be in addition to, not a substitute for, existing Government transfers to the LC. Limited LC and
MDA capacity to manage the devolved functions also was identified as a potential binding
constrain to implementation and Component 2 was fully devoted to this issue.
20.   No Quality at Entry review was conducted by the Quality Assurance Group.
2.2 Implementation
21.   Implementation Progress (IP) was rated Satisfactory or Moderately Satisfactory
throughout the Project in reflection of the generally steady and consistent operation of the DSDP
Phase I. The Moderately Satisfactory rating was in place from December 2010 to June 2011
because of disbursement delays at the beginning of the Project. As noted above, the transfer of
the DSDP-funded grants to the LC required Subsidiary Agreements outlining how each LC
would allocate the DSDP funding. The first transfers to the LC were made in May 2010, the
same month that the Agreements were finalized; however, the original Project work plan had
envisioned them to occur in January 2010. The delay was compounded by difficulties in
transitioning to electronic disbursement arrangements under the Bank's Client Connections
6


﻿platform. Importantly, during this period, the Government-funded transfers happened on a
timely and regular basis thereby minimizing the impact of the delayed IDA funding on the LC.
Moreover, by the mid-term review (MTR) in May 2011, the Project had overcome this initial
delay; the LC had received five quarterly grants of DSDP funding, representing 56 percent of the
total Project allocation for LC grants.
22.   The Project's MTR was conducted in May 2011 and lessons from the review informed
implementation going forward as well as the design of the DSDP Phase II. For example, the
MTR found limited technical support from the line ministries to the LC, despite the availability
of funding for such activities under Sub-component 2.2. To encourage better use of this funding,
the Project made resources available directly to line ministries against agreements for the quality
monitoring and reporting of the LC. In addition, the MTR clarified that LC grants could not
fund new construction (except in cases of community or chiefdom donation of land) in the
absence of a Resettlement Framework Policy (RFP).16 Following the MTR, the Government
began drafting a RFP to allow for such activities under Phase II. The MTR also emphasized the
issue of delays in the mainstreaming the DecSec within the MoLGRD.
23.   The MTR concluded that the DSDP Phase I had achieved three of the five triggers for the
transition to Phase II and had made progress toward the remaining two. The percentage of
domestic revenues (less wages, interest obligations, statutory transfers to the NRA, and the Road
Fund) transferred to LC in FY2010 was 36 percent, above the target of 30 percent; Government
transfers to the LC had been timely throughout FY2010; and the Government had developed a
policy on the assignment procedures and terms of secondment for sector staff at LC.  The
Government also had reduced the number of sectoral grants in education, health and sanitation,
solid waste management, and water from nine to six. Given the separate management structures
for primary and secondary service delivery in both education and health at the local level, the
Government and the Bank agreed to revise this target to six, instead of the original benchmark of
four. Lastly, while the LC had met the targets regarding disbursement rates, only seven LC had
met 75 percent of the targets specified in their Subsidiary Agreements. This was below the
FY2010 target of nine and the MTR cited challenges in the setting of accurate targets within the
Agreements. The MTR aide memoire noted that revisions to the preparation of the Agreements
would be adopted under DSDP Phase II. Based on these findings, the Bank continued its
preparation of the DSDP Phase II.
24.   In conjunction with the MTR, an Independent Technical Audit Report of the DSDP Phase
I was prepared in June 2011. A June-July 2011 Bank mission reviewed the findings with the
Government and proposed concrete action items where necessary. Among others, the audit
reported that funding transfers from the LGFD to the LC occurred at regular intervals but were
behind schedule. As noted above, this shift in the timing of transfers resulted from the time
required for preparation of the initial Subsidiary Agreements and a one-time delay in
disbursements related to complications with Client Connections. Still, 90 percent of the LC was
able to submit their returns within two months as stipulated in the DSDP Operations Manual
(OM). The audit found the need to strengthen procurement and filing practices. The Project's
capacity building activities were adjusted accordingly; however, the 2012 In-depth Financial
16 The DSDP Phase I Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) was developed and disclosed
during Project preparation but the rehabilitative nature of the works envisioned did not trigger the need for a
RFP.
7


﻿Management (FM) Review identified continuing weaknesses in file management. In terms of
civil works, the technical audit noted the need for improvement in the quality of some of the
project sites visited, including the areas of design and adherence to technical standards. Civil
works officers were recruited for the LC in 2010 and the technical audit noted the inexperience
of some of these newly-hired staff. The Project, therefore, sought to strengthen the DecSec's
own civil works unit and its capacity for training and oversight of their local-level counterparts.
25.    The Project Restructuring was finalized in June 2011, as outlined in Section 1.7 above.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
26.    The M&E design of the DSDP expanded upon existing Government systems established
to monitor and inform the decentralization process. The DSDP supported the Integrated National
Public Service Surveys (INPSS), to capture citizen perceptions of overall service delivery results,
and the Comprehensive Local Government Performance Assessment System (CLoGPAS), to
monitor capacity development of the LC. These two instruments sought to consolidate and
improve upon several Government surveys that had been implemented with varying degrees of
regularity since the beginning of the decentralization reform processes. In addition, the DSDP
M&E design also relied on data collected through the quarterly LC financial retirements to the
LGFD and the monthly Resident Technical Facilitators (RTF) reports to the DecSec.  Under
the DSDP Phase I, the Government also sought to build its M&E capacity through the piloting of
social accountability activities to emphasize demand-side accountability of service delivery.
27.    The regularity and reliability of M&E improved over the course of the Project's
implementation. The measurement of the Project's indicators relied not only on monthly and
quarterly reporting instruments but also surveys related to local government performance and
public service provision. Revisions to the CLoGPAS and INPSS tools resulted in some delays in
the implementation of both instruments; however, the additional time allocated strengthened the
quality of the findings from the surveys. For example, the INPSS fielded in 2011 was an
"integrated" version of the National Public Service Survey (NPSS), consolidating it with the
Peripheral Health Utility Survey and the Service Delivery Perceptions Survey. The 2011
CLoGPAS was revised to streamline duplicative indicators, delete performance measures in
which the LC were judged consistently strong, and add modules related to sectoral performance,
local economic development, WDC functionality, and gender. 1 Moreover, based on the
CLoGPAS tool, the Project also fielded a WDC Functionality Assessment in 2012 that provided
a more in-depth analysis of capacity at the ward level. In terms of Project-level reporting,
initially, M&E focused primarily on the key outcome indicators; however, this shortcoming was
identified during and largely corrected following the MTR.
28.    The Project illustrated the use of M&E to inform the DSDP activities. Based on the
capacity weaknesses identified through the 2011 CLoGPAS, the DSDP provided trainings in
financial management and development planning to the core staff in all 19 LC. In addition,
17 The RTF are DecSec staff based in the LC offices.
18 Pyndt (2010). Revisions to the CLoGPAS mean that its findings for 2006, 2008, and 2011 cannot be compared
directly with one another. In 2008 and 2011, the criteria of the minimum conditions and the performance
measures were revised. Some conditions that had been universally met were dropped and new benchmarks
were established; other questions changed from asking about the establishment of certain functions to their
functionality and performance.
8


﻿trainings for the LC in filing and records management were piloted in four localities. The 2011
INPSS and CLoGPAS also have informed the design and activities under the DSDP Phase II,
which includes an additional component specifically focused on results and accountability. The
Government is planning the next round of the INPSS for 2014 and of the CLoGPAS for 2013.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
29.   Environmental and social safeguards. Given its support for maintenance and
rehabilitation of basic infrastructures with the potential of environmental and social impacts, the
Project was classified as Environmental Category B, requiring a partial assessment, and triggered
OP/BP 4.01, Environmental Assessment.    The Environmental and Social Management
Framework (ESMF) was revised from the existing IRCBP document and was disclosed on July 6,
2009. The Government had in place environmental screening and impact mitigation mechanisms
at the LC, supported by the IRCBP. Under the DSDP, capacity weaknesses, particularly
regarding solid waste management, were addressed by refresher trainings conducted by the
DecSec.   In addition, the MTR identified that, in a limited number of cases, the LC had
designated DSDP funding to undertake new construction. These expenditures were ineligible
under the Project given the lack of a RPF and were re-allocated to Government resources.
During preparation of the DSDP Phase II, a RPF was prepared, the ESMF was revised, and both
documents were disclosed to allow for the funding of new construction under Phase II.
Regarding grievance redress mechanisms, Bank supervision highlighted that such systems
existed but included only limited documentation of issues raised; this lesson has informed the
tracking of grievances under Phase II.
30.   Financial management and procurement. Throughout implementation, FM arrangements
were considered generally adequate and met the minimum requirement of IDA. The accounting
and FM functions of the Project are managed by the IPAU. The Project audits were unqualified
and submitted on time. An In-depth FM Review, conducted in June 2012, noted that the FM
systems at both the IPAU and the LC generally met the minimum IDA requirements. Regular
supervision of Project's FM compliance concurred with this finding, particularly regarding the
capacity of the IPAU. However, at the LC level, the Review observed instances of weakness,
including lack of adequate supporting documentation, improper authorizations and approvals,
and three ineligible expenditure claims totaling approximately 112 million Leones
(approximately US$26,000). The observations are not unique to the Project but an indicator of
systemic challenges of the public FM arrangements at the sub-national level.
31.   Procurement performance was rated Satisfactory throughout implementation.  The
Project procurement arrangements were based on the guidelines and capacity developed under
the IRCBP. The IPAU was responsible for procurement at the central Project level. The one
significant procurement delay related to three contracts for the Project's social accountability
activities, which were finalized in February 2012. At the LC level, the DSDP Independent
Technical Audit and an IRCBP-funded Procurement Audit, both finalized in June 2011, found
adequate capacity of procurement staff at the LC but, simultaneously, noted the need for
increased monitoring to ensure compliance with procurement guidelines and improve the overall
quality of the works. The Project sought to strengthen mentoring by the IPAU of LC
procurement staff. The Project's procurement volume was insufficient to warrant a separate
procurement audit; a combined audit of the DSDP Phase I and the RCHP is currently ongoing.
9


﻿2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
32.   The DSDP was designed as an APL to ensure sustained and consistent Bank support to
the Government's decentralization efforts. The DSDP Phase II IDA Grant for XDR 16.7 million
was approved by the Board on December 20, 2011, transitioning without interruption from Phase
I. Under the DSDP Phase II Financing Agreement, the Government committed to co-financing
of US$105 million, the majority of which reflected recurrent costs for the operation of the
devolved functions. The EU also contributed EUR 4,589,415 to Phase II of the Project. The
Government and Bank team agreed to maintain the Project's PDO under the Phase II, but the
Phase II design reflects lessons learned during the implementation of Phase I. Among others,
this included the addition of a new component on results and social accountability that will help
ensure monitoring by the Government of the DSDP Phase I indicators beyond its closure.
33.   As noted above, the DSDP was one element of the Bank's broader support to
decentralization in Sierra Leone and the consolidation of its outcomes is complimented by
ongoing Bank interventions in other sectors. The IPFMRP, which closes on July 31, 2013,
supports the Government of Sierra Leone in sustainably improving the credibility, control, and
transparency of fiscal and budget management. In the health sector, the RCHP includes
activities targeted to improving the capacity of decentralized service delivery with funding
transferred to the LC. On September 21, 2012, the Government and the Bank signed an
Additional Financing of US$5.6 million to supplement the second phase of the RCHP. The
Ministry of Health and Sanitation (MoHS) confirmed the complimentary between the DSDP and
RCHP objectives and activities. Economic and sector work also is ongoing to inform potential
areas of future reform as the Government continues with the process of decentralization.
3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Satisfactory
34.   The Project's objectives, design, and implementation remain relevant to the development
priorities of Sierra Leone. The Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper II (PRSP II) 2008-2011:
Agenda for Change, which was extended to 2012 and covered the entire Project period,
identified decentralization as a precondition for achieving the Government's strategic priorities,
particularly the delivery of basic social services through devolution to the LC. The DSDP
objectives aligned with the PRSP II through the allocation of financial resources for the LC to
undertake the devolved functions and the development of a capable human resource base to
implement these activities. The Project's indicators, including the value of LC transfers and LC
achievement of service output targets, among others, were relevant to the PRSP II support for
local governance and decentralization.
35.   Various reports and analyses have reconfirmed the relevance of the Project's components
and indicators to help alleviate key challenges faced by the Government in its efforts toward
decentralization. The Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) Performance
Assessment Report on Sub-national Government (Local Councils), released in late 2010,
identified the regularity of fund transfers as the "most noteworthy" challenge in public financial
management at the LC level. The 2010 Public Expenditure Review (PER) highlighted the risk of
inadequate human resources and need for additional training of key LC staff. It also noted that
inadequate resource mobilization was the "second most serious risk to decentralization." These
10


﻿findings support the relevance of the DSDP in contributing to the Government's priorities and
Bank assistance strategy. Component 1: Grants to the LC directly increased the resources
available to the LC and the Project indicators aimed to ensure that the DSDP transfers were
additional to, rather than a substitute for, Government budget allocations to devolved service
delivery. Component 2: Capacity Building and Technical Assistance focused on training LC and
devolved MDA staff, the outcome of which was measured through the LC performance against
its self-established service-output targets. Component 3: Program Management, through the
INPSS and CLoGPAS, also sought to provide independent assessments of the decentralization
process. Although the three components are interrelated in the improvement of decentralized
service delivery, the Project could have benefitted from clearer linkages between the three
specific objectives in the PDO and the Project's indicators and components.
36.    The Project's use of the APL instrument was reinforced by the 2011 World Development
Report: Conflict, Security, and Development (WDR) and was relevant to the Project objectives,
particularly the regularity of transfers to the LC. The 2011 WDR emphasized the need for a
gradual and systematic approach to decentralization in post-conflict contexts. The DSDP Phase I,
which built on lessons from the IRCBP and was designed as an APL with clear triggers for the
transition to the DSDP Phase II, served as one step in the Bank's longer-term, sustained support
to the Government's decentralization agenda.  Moreover, use of the APL, instead of a
Development Policy Lending (DPL) instrument, helped ensure the timeliness of transfers to the
LC. The Team considered supplemental financing to the existing DPL Multi-Donor Budget
Support (MDBS) Framework; however, MDBS disbursements tended to happen within the third
or fourth quarter of each fiscal year, rather than in regular quarterly installments as designed
under the DSDP to address the predictability of transfers to the LC.19
37.    During Project implementation, the Government adopted the 2010 Decentralization
Policy in furtherance of the 2004 LGA, which launched the decentralization reform process. The
2010 Policy noted the Government's commitment to "decentralization by devolution" and
included as its first principle, "the transfer of power, authority, and resources from the center to
democratically elected local councils." The Policy further specified that "the local councils shall
continue to exist as the highest development and service delivery authority in the locality." This
was a departure from the LGA, which identifies the LC as the highest "political" authority in the
locality; however, the continued relevance of the LC was clear throughout the Policy, including
increasing discretionary powers regarding resource allocation. Moreover, the 2011 PSRP II
Progress Report highlighted the Government's continued commitment to implementing the
decentralization process, including the sustained level of its transfers to the LC. It also
recognized the additional financial support to the LC provided through the DSDP.
38.    The 2012 Progress Report of the J-CAS FY1O-13 reinforced the relevance of the
decentralization agenda to the Bank's portfolio in Sierra Leone. It noted the lessons learned in
devolving responsibilities to the LC since these reforms began in 2004, particularly in terms of
improving service delivery and strengthening accountability, and outlined the need for the
Bank's ongoing engagement in the decentralization agenda. The DSDP also reflected the
relevant adjustments proposed in the Progress Report to strengthen social accountability
mechanisms in the country program.
19 See the Program Document for the Sierra Leone Fifth Governance Reform and Growth Credit (P126355).
11


﻿3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
39.    The achievement of the Project Development Objectives (PDO) is rated Moderately
Satisfactory. The Project met two outcome indicators and achieved 73 and 83 percent of the
target values of the remaining two outcome indicators. As detailed below, the achievement of
Specific Objectives 2 and 3 are rated Moderately Satisfactory, while the achievement of Specific
Objective 1 is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The ratings of the three specific objectives are
weighted equally given their interconnectivity, as well as that of the Project's three components
in contributing to the PDO.   The rating of Moderately Satisfactory is supported by the
achievement of eight of the Project's 11 intermediate indicators related to the PDO.
Specific Objective 1: strengthen Government capacity to manage decentralized services
40.    The achievement of the Project's objective to strengthen Government capacity to manage
decentralized services is Moderately Unsatisfactory given that the Project did not achieve the
related outcome indicator. Eleven LC achieved the key performance indicator to meet at least 75
percent of service-output targets specified in their Subsidiary Agreements. This represents 73
percent achievement of the Project target of 15 LC. These service outputs represent tangible
improvements to basic service delivery in health, education, solid waste, and water access across
Sierra Leone. DSDP-funded grants to LC supported 195 projects to rehabilitate health clinics,
hospitals, and schools in all 19 LC, as well as upgrading of sectoral offices, staff housing, and
libraries.  In solid waste and water, the DSDP funded the rehabilitation or construction of
collection and dumping facilities in 79 locations, 20 water supply systems, 259 hand pumps and
water wells, and one water treatment center. The Project also funded procurement of textbooks
and other teaching materials, computer equipment, motorbikes, drugs and other medical supplies,
power supply equipment, medical equipment, furniture, and waste collection tools. In 2011,
research by DflD found that the highest percentage of respondents (40 percent) reported that the
LC had "brought the most development" to the community, as compared to traditional authorities
(15 percent), Central Government (35 percent), or parliament (10 percent).20 While this question
probed all development activities and is not solely attributable to the DSDP, it reflects well on
the LC ability to manage decentralized services.
41.    The Project introduced the use of Subsidiary Agreements to track more systematically LC
service-output targets; however, the Project design could have placed additional focus on their
initial development. As noted above, the Agreements were prepared quickly to allow for
disbursement of DSDP-funded LC transfers. Policy staff and sectoral specialists held primary
responsibly for their preparation and project costing was often unrealistic. Recruitment of civil
works officers at the LC level began in 2010; in some cases, these staff were not in place to help
accurately estimate the costs of rehabilitation works. For example, the Koinadugu District
Council Agreement budgeted 170 million Leones for four school rehabilitations; the actual
expenditures for two school rehabilitations in this district were 329.5 million Leones. 21
Importantly, by the end of the Project, all 19 LC had civil works officers and the DSDP had
20 Fanthrope, Lavali, and Sesay (2011).
21 While the actual price for these two school rehabilitations was higher than estimated, the cost for these works is
below the regional average for the construction of new school facilities. See Section 3.3 for further discussion.
12


﻿funded four trainings for LC core administrative staff and devolved sectoral staff on
development and sectoral planning.
42.    Limited technical oversight by the central line ministries of the LC also may have
hindered initial progress toward the service-output targets; however, the Project sought to
remedy this challenge following the MTR. Although the MDA helped prepare the Subsidiary
Agreements, the LC and MDA did not establish corresponding Agreements regarding the latter's
responsibilities during project implementation. Technical supervision, particularly by central-
level MDA staff, was identified as an implementation weakness during the Project's MTR. This
may have reflected some resistance on the part of the MDA to facilitate the transfer of functions
devolved from them to the LC. However, in the second tranche of activities under Component 2,
the Project provided resources to the MDA for monitoring of LC projects. By the end of the
Project, monitoring support to conduct field visits for technical supervision accounted for
approximately 80 percent of the funding used by MDA through Sub-component 2.2.
43.   The Project achieved a majority of the intermediate indicator targets regarding improved
Government capacity to manage decentralized services. At Project closure, the LGFD reported
that all 19 LC were producing annual updates of the development plans, exceeding the target of
12 LC. This indicator was confirmed by the In-depth Financial Management Review conducted
in June 2012. The 2011 CLoGPAS found that 14 LC had a revised plan that incorporated all
projects for 2011; however, LGFD noted that the CLoGPAS enumerators, who focused on
review of records available at the LC, did not follow-up with LGFD staff to see if these plans
22
were on file in its offices. This CLoGPAS data still measures above the Project target.  In
addition, at Project closure, monthly progress updates by the RTF reported that the M&E units in
19 all LC received, processed, and transmitted data related to sector activities to key stakeholders,
in line with the Project target of 19 LC. The 2011 CLoGPAS reported that 14 LC were in
23
compliance with their M&E plans and were preparing monitoring and/or inspection reports.
According to the Government's financial management system, while all 19 LC had January to
September budget execution rates of 90 percent of their available funds in 2010 and 2011, 11 LC
achieved this benchmark in 2012, below the target of 19 LC.
44.   Performance of the WDC met the Project targets related to their management of
decentralized services. The 2011 CLoGPAS found that, in 15 of 19 LC (79 percent), WDC
organized consultations during the preparation or review of the development plan, as compared
24
with the Project target of 75 percent.  In addition, the 2012 WDC Functionality Assessment
showed that 75 percent of WDC conducted spot checks on service providers in health, education,
and water supply, exceeding the target of 65 percent.
45.   One National Public Service Survey (NPSS) was conducted under the DSDP Phase I, as
compared with Project's target of two surveys. During implementation, the Government and
World Bank agreed to develop an "Integrated" NPSS to combine three related surveys into one
consolidated instrument. This reconfiguration took additional time but contributed to improved
coordination of outcome measurement among different service delivery sectors.
22 Minimum Condition 2.1.
23 Performance Measure 3.4. Note that the 14 LC with revised development plans differed from those 14 in
compliance with their M&E plans.
24 2011 CLoGPAS Ward Committee 1.3.
13


﻿Specific Objective 2: improve availability and predictability ofLocal Councils'funding
46.    As measured by the relevant outcome indicators, the Project is rated Moderately
Satisfactory in its achievement of the objective to improve availability and predictability of LC
funding. Throughout implementation, the Project exceeded its outcome indicator target that 30
percent of domestic revenues (less wages, interest obligations, and statutory transfers to the NRA
and Road Fund) were transferred to LC on an annual basis, with 36 percent in FY2010, 34
percent in FY20 11, and 38 percent for FY2012. Given that this percentage excludes the DSDP
grant funds, this indicator highlights the mitigation of a key risk identified at Project preparation.
The DSDP funds were additional to-not a substitute for-Government funding to the LC.
47.    As a percentage of total Government expenditures, the transfer of funds to the LC was 6
25
percent for FY2010 and was maintained at 5 percent for FY2011 and FY2012.  These figures
are compared to the Project target of 6 percent. The real value of Government disbursements to
the LC more than doubled between FY2009 and FY2011, from 28.2 billion Leones to 61.5
billion Leones. However, over the same period, civil servant salaries of teachers and nurses
increased substantially, contributing to the one percentage point decrease in the transfer of funds
to LC as a total of Government expenditures. Government expenditures for nurse salaries
increased from 1.3 billion Leones to 7.9 billion Leones in FY2010 and teacher salaries increased
from 18.3 billion Leones to 25.2 billion Leones in FY201 1. Together, this represents roughly 1.5
percent of all estimated Government expenditures for FY20 11.26
48.    The Project achieved the intermediate indicators targets regarding the availability and
predictability of funds, as evidenced by the Government's financial management system.
Regarding the transfer of Government resources, the number of LC receiving timely transfers
from consolidated revenue funds each quarter was maintained at 19 throughout the Project, in
accordance with the Project target. Of the eight quarterly transfers made in FY2010 and FY2011,
LGFD transferred six quarters within four weeks of the beginning of the quarter and the
remaining two quarters within six weeks of the beginning of the quarter. Moreover, whereas
actual Government transfers to the LC did not exceed 75 percent of the budgeted amount
between 2005 and 2008, the Government transferred 96 percent of its budget allocation to the LC
in 2010 and 86 percent in 2011. For the first quarter of FY2012, there was a three month delay
in the transfer, which was made in April 2012 instead of January 2012; however, the second
quarter transfer was made in July 2012, within three months of the preceding transfer and in
keeping with the intended quarterly disbursement of funds.
49.    Regarding the DSDP-funded transfers, after an initial delay in the first quarter grants,
transfers occurred on a regular and timely basis. The first transfer was made in May 2010,
instead of January 2010 as planned, given the time required for consultations among LC, WDC,
and devolved MDA staff to prepare the Subsidiary Agreements. Subsequently, the 19 LC
received four of the remaining seven grants within three months of the previous transfer and
three grants within four months of the previous transfer. While this was not aligned with the
original schedule that the LC would receive DSDP transfers within the first 15 days of each
25 At of the Project's closing date on June 29, 2012, the transfer of Government resources to LC as a percentage of
Government expenditures had dropped to 3.3 percent; however, this resulted from the timing of the second
FY2012 transfer, which was made July 17, 2012, just following the closure of the DSDP Phase I.
26 MoFED IFMIS; Republic of Sierra Leone (2010a).
14


﻿quarter, after the initial delay, the transfers did provide a predictable source of additional
resources to the LC.
50.    The timely transfer of funding during the Project period is confirmed by the staff of the
LC and the MDA. The overall availability and predictability of funding transfers to the LC
throughout the DSDP Phase I was noted in meetings with the MoHS and MoEYS, as well as
with the LC core administrative and MDA staff in Port Loko District, Bo City, Bo District,
Kenema City, and Kenema District. In particular, senior staff at the MoHS noted that, although
challenges remain, the devolution of funding through the LC provided a more transparent and
regular transfer of resources to the sectors than before the reintroduction of the LC. Through the
decentralized processes, the MDA now know the total resource envelope available for their
activities during the fiscal year. This was not the case before decentralization reform agenda
began. However, central-level staff at the Ministry of Energy and Water Resources (MoEWR)
reported some delays in notification about the receipt of transfers at the local level.
Specific Objective 3: strengthen the intergovernmentalfiscal transfer system.
51.    The strengthening of the intergovernmental fiscal transfer system is rated Moderately
Satisfactory. In regards to the outcome indicator associated with this objective, the Government
streamlined the fiscal transfers in the four areas supported by the Project (education, health and
sanitation, water, and solid waste management), reducing the number of sectoral grants from
nine to six. During the DSDP Phase I Restructuring, the Bank and Government agreed to have
six grants to maintain two separate allocations for each health and education, rather than the
27
original target of four grants in these four sectors.  Although the target for this indicator was
formally revised, the Restructuring occurred in June 2011 when approximately three-quarters of
the Grant had already disbursed. During the Project period, the Government also strengthened
its fiscal transfer system through the adoption of the Second Generation Intergovernmental Fiscal
Transfer System with the focus to further reduce the conditions on LC transfers to permit greater
autonomy to define local priorities.28
52.    The Project also performed well as measured by the intermediate indicators regarding the
strengthening of the intergovernmental fiscal transfer system between the Central Government
and the LC. The DSDP achieved its targets that all 19 LC have integrated development plans
and budgets (finalized in accordance with sector plans) before the start of the fiscal year and that
all 19 LC would have procurement plans. In both cases, the Project baseline was zero.
Development plans and budgets were introduced at the beginning of the decentralization
reforms; however, there were often inconsistencies between these documents and the sector
plans. The DSDP emphasized the integration of these planning tools. Procurement plans were
first developed by the LC in late 2009, when the Project was under preparation. The 2011
CLoGPAS supports the achievement of these intermediate indicators. It found that all 19 LC had
prepared a balanced budget incorporating the projects for 2011 and submitted it to LGFD.29 The
survey also found that all 19 LC had an approved procurement plan for 201 1.30
27 As outlined in Section 1.7 above, both sectors have different management structures for their primary and
secondary services at the local level, thereby limiting the ability to consolidate these grants.
28 Republic of Sierra Leone (2012).
29 2011 CLoGPAS Minimum Condition 4.1.
30 2011 CLoGPAS Performance Measure 7.1.
15


﻿53.    The intermediate indicators regarding the WDC, however, do not appear to have been
met. The RTF reports show that 46 percent of WDC were receiving and discussing development
plans and budgets, financing statement, and their updates. The 2012 WDC Performance
Assessment found that 28 percent of committees had received an updated development plan,
budget, and financial statement from the LC. Only 23 percent had discussed these documents.
This is compared to a target of 100 percent.
Program Outcome Indicators
54.    The DSDP Phase I performance indicators in the Financing Agreement measured
performance against the PDO; however, the Results Framework in the PAD also included four
program outcome indicators related to higher-level objectives of the APL and Government's
decentralization processes. These program indicators aimed to focus Government attention on
improved monitoring of service delivery and measured: the number of people with access to an
improved water source; the number of people with access to improved sanitation services; the
number of schools with teaching and learning materials according to agreed standards; and the
31
proportion of clinics with essential drugs in stock.
55.    National survey data shows improvement during the Project period in the delivery of
basic social services in most areas as measured the Project's program indicators. Overall, the
2011 INPSS found that 81 percent and 77 percent of respondents reported that the quality of
education and health care, respectively, was much better or a little better than in the previous
year.32 The 2011 INPSS also shows an increase of 12.1 percent of people with access to
improved water sources and 10.8 percent for sanitation services as compared to the 2008
NPSS.33 According to the 2011 figures, access to sanitation services (82.3 percent) exceeds the
Project target of 40 percent, while access to improved water sources (54.8 percent) is below the
Project target of 60 percent.34 Regarding distribution of learning materials, 42.9 percent of
students in Government schools received free textbooks and 29.3 percent received exercise
books for free, an increase from 24.5 percent and 21.6 percent, respectively, in the 2008 NPSS.35
However, the 2011 INPSS found a decrease in the percentage of clinics having essential drugs
(41.3 percent) as compared to 2008 (61.2 percent). 36 The values for these education and health
related indicators are below the Project target of 100 percent. Regarding the intermediate
indicators related to the program outcomes, the Government purchased and distributed 1,497,720
teaching and learning materials to primary schools between 2010 and 2012, exceeding the target
31 During appraisal of the DSDP Phase II, the program outcome indicators were consolidated into a separate
results framework under the section "Higher Level Objectives to which the Project Contributes."
32 These two questions were new to the 2011 INPSS and therefore comparison data is not available.
33 Improved water sources include tap, well, and dug well protected, whereas unsafe sources are considered dug
well unprotected, rain water, and spring. Improved sanitation services include flush or latrine type toilets.
34 The DSDP Phase I baseline data (30 percent for sanitation, 51 percent for water) was based on the 2007 NPSS.
The Phase II PAD maintained this data but noted that it would be updated at the MTR with the 2011 INPSS
data, which was not available at appraisal.
35 Textbooks and exercise books are used as proxy measures for "teaching and learning materials." In terms of
"agreed standards," the Sierra Leone Education Sector Plan established the standard that the provision of core
textbooks and exercise books should a 1:1 ratio. The baseline value for this indicator under the DSDP Phase II
is zero percent, based on the Education Management Information System (EMIS).
36 The baseline value for this indicator under the DSDP Phase II is 32 percent, based on the Health Management
Information System (HMIS).
16


﻿of 850,000. Data for the remaining four intermediate indicators related to the program outcomes
regarding quality of service delivery was not provided. As outlined in the Results Framework of
the PAD, these five intermediate indicators were not related to the PDO.37
56.    Although this national survey allows for the measurement of these indicators, a clear
causal linkage between these data and the Project is difficult to establish. First, there are a
multitude of exogenous factors that would have effected service provision in Sierra Leone during
this period, including the free healthcare initiative for pregnant women, lactating mothers, and
children under five launched in April 2010 and the high density of non-government actors
providing basic services outside of national systems. Second, since decentralization was rolled-
out nationally, there is no counter-factual against which to measure the changes in service
provision, that is, what would have happened in the absence of these reforms.
3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Satisfactory
57.    The overall efficiency of the Project is rated Satisfactory. The LC appear to have
managed expenditures relatively efficiently and the allocation of expenditures to program
management costs reflects the Project's capacity building objectives. The signed amount of the
IDA Credit in November 2009 was XDR 12.9 million, of which XDR 12.825 million was
disbursed prior to the Project closure in June 2012.
58.    Although an economic and financial analysis was not conducted at Project appraisal, a
comparison of the unit costs of rehabilitation and construction under the Project to regional
averages show efficient use of resources to improve access to basic services. Rehabilitation
costs vary between projects depending on the state of the pre-existing structure; however,
rehabilitation is typically more cost effective than new construction in increasing access to basic
services. For example, data from recent education-sector ICR in low capacity and fragile
contexts provide a comparison for school construction: in Benin the cost of a single classroom
ranged from US$12,931 to US$20,000; in Burundi the average unit price was US$24,434; and in
C6te d'Ivoire it was US$21,118.38 By comparison, the average price of school rehabilitations
under the DSDP was US$10,711 per project. This average cost encompasses school sub-projects
that ranged from one to six classrooms each. It also includes the construction or rehabilitation of
water and sanitation facilities for roughly one quarter of these projects.
59.    The efficient use of resources by the LC is confirmed by the 2010 Public Expenditure and
Financial Accountability (PEFA) Performance Assessment Report and the low ratio between the
LC administrative and sectoral grants. The 2010 PEFA ranked all five LC sampled with an "A"
grade for "competition, value for money, and controls in procurement." In comparison, the
Central Government, which previously held responsibility for basic service delivery expenditures,
received a "C+" grade in this same category. Moreover, in FY20 10 and FY20 11, respectively,
37 The ICR considers the indicator related to the proportion of clinics with essential drugs in stock as a program
indicator not an intermediate indicator. Although the PAD also includes this indicator as an intermediate
indicator in the Arrangements for Results Monitoring, the Results Framework identifies it as a program
outcome indicators related to the Project's higher level objectives of the decentralization of basic services.
38 See the ICR the Benin Education For All-Fast Track Initiative Program (P110576), the Burundi Education
Sector Reconstruction Project (P064557), and the C6te d'Ivoire Education and Training Support Project
(P035655).
17


﻿2.3 and 2.9 percent of the grant allocations to the LC were designated for administrative costs,
with the remainder of resources allocated to sectoral activities to improve or increase access to
basic services.39 These administrative and sectoral grants include all sources of funding to the
LC and, therefore, are not solely applicable to the DSDP.    Still, they highlight the high
percentage of funding at the LC level that is allocated to programmatic rather than administrative
costs. The LGFD also helped ensure the efficient use of funds at the LC level through its review
and verification of the financial report and returns of all LC expenditures for the previous quarter
before release of the subsequent quarter grant transfer.
60.    Overall Project expenditures for capacity building and program management equaled 30
percent of the total expenditures for grants to the LC, which is in line with Bank support to
decentralization processes elsewhere in Sub-Saharan Africa, particularly the Uganda Second
Local Government Development Project, and even represent a smaller percentage than the
Rwanda Decentralization and Community Development Project.40
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
61.    Overall, the Project is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The Project helped move forward
the Government's decentralization reform agenda as part of the Bank's ongoing support for this
long-term process. The DSDP has remained relevant to the Government and World Bank
development strategies as they have evolved since the Project's preparation. The Government's
current planning documents identify decentralization as key to basic social service delivery. The
Project achievement of two of its outcome indicators is linked to tangible improvements in the
level and flow of Government funding to the LC. Capacity constraints within the LC, however,
remain apparent, as evidenced by the Project's outcome indicator related service-output targets.
Still the progress achieved to date is considerable given that the LC were re-established in 2004
and did not have a full complement of core staff until 2010, that is, during the Project
implementation period.41 The Project's objectives also appear to have been achieved efficiently,
with construction and management costs below or in line with regional comparators.
Importantly, with the APL design, the DSDP continues to provide ongoing technical assistance
to the Government's decentralization processes through its second phase. These findings are
confirmed by interviews with Government staff as well as site visits and community verifications.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
62.    One of the key objectives of the Government's decentralization reform agenda was to
help overcome the inequalities between the relatively urbanized Western Area province, which
includes the capital, Freetown, and rest of the country, which is predominately rural with limited
access to basic services. The Sierra Leone Truth and Reconciliation Commission, among other
39 LC administrative grants do not include staff salaries, which are paid directly by the Central Government.
40 See the ICR for the Uganda Second Local Government Development Project (P077477) and the Rwanda
Decentralization and Community Development Project (P074102).
41 Core staff include chief administrator, deputy chief administrator, internal auditor, development officer, finance
officer, civil works officer, human resource officer, accountant, procurement officer, M&E officer, and
valuation officer. Environmental and social officers were recruited in 2011 and 2012.
18


﻿research, identified this divide a major source of the social tensions that fostered the country's
civil war.42 Through supporting Government capacity to administer decentralized services and
with direct support for rehabilitation of basic services across Sierra Leone, the DSDP contributed
to Government efforts to overcome this legacy, in part, through decentralization reform.
63.    The Project's social accountability activities introduced community monitoring to
empower Sierra Leoneans through demand-side accountability of basic service delivery. While
strengthening the supply side (i.e. Government provision of basic services) is critical, effective
service delivery also requires accountability, including from the community who are typically at
the frontline of observing weaknesses. It also can help forge stronger relationships between
citizens and the state. The DSDP piloted such activities in the two lowest tiers of health clinics
in four districts. Trained facilitators guided clinic staff and community representatives to create
scorecards for their clinic and design a compact containing mutual commitments to improve
health service delivery. The Project supported regular monitoring of the compacts.
64.    The Project sought to improve Government monitoring capacity on gender aspects of the
decentralization reforms through revisions to the 2011 CLoGPAS that included a new module on
gender. Although the CLoGPAS findings cannot be directly attributed to the DSDP, this
assessment offers some insight into the role of women in the decentralization process. The five
survey questions included aspects of women's election to and participation in WDC as well as
girls' school attendance and gender sensitivity in LC implemented projects. Overall, the results
were promising, although there is clear room for improvements. Ten LC scored better than 75
percent, while six scored between 50 and 75 percent and three scored below 50 percent.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
65.    The Project's development objectives focused explicitly on strengthening LC and Central
Government capacity to provide basic services through devolved functions. The grants to the LC
adopted a 'learning through doing' approach to the transfer, management, expenditure, and
monitoring of funds at the local level. The pooling of Project grants with Government funds
encouraged the sustainability of the knowledge built regarding intergovernmental fiscal transfers.
The Project's capacity building component offered both centrally-organized and demand-driven
windows for training. That is, trainings were developed based not only in areas of observed
weakness (including as identified by the CLoGPAS) but also as requested by the LC and the
MDA. The Project's indicators, as discussed in Section 3.2, provide additional detail regarding
the institutional capacity activities of the DSDP.
66.    Key institutional reforms, however, remain necessary to consolidate the institutional
development gains of the decentralized structures in Sierra Leone over the longer-term. In
particular, as discussed in Section 4 below, mainstreaming the DecSec into the MoLGRD is
necessary to the sustainability of the Ministry's oversight of the LC and devolved functions. A
draft institutional arrangement proposes that the responsibilities currently undertaken by the
DecSec be adopted by a Local Government Secretariat under the MoLGRD. This provides a
general outline of the reporting structures for this new unit; however, it does not include the civil
service positions required for staffing or specify the Government budgetary allocation necessary
to pay these salaries.
42 Sierra Leone Truth and Reconciliation Commission (2004); Srivastava, Vivek and Marco Larizza (2011).
19


﻿3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
67.    The DSDP supported the 2011 INPSS that was conducted in Sierra Leone to solicit user
feedback on public service provision and interactions with all levels of government.43 Although
the INPSS findings cannot be solely attributed to the DSDP, given the exogenous factors that
undoubtedly influenced the survey's findings, the INPSS is a performance monitoring tool for
the Government's decentralization agenda, to which the DSDP contributes. Overall, the 2011
survey found improvements in the provision of education, health, water, and sanitation services.
In terms of access, 77 of percent rural households reported having a primary schools within 30
minutes walking (up slightly from 75 percent in 2008). Sixty seven percent of households in
rural areas reported having access to a Government health facility within one hour (up from 63
percent in 2008 and 48 percent in 2005). Satisfaction with both public schools and health care
also saw improvements since 2008, with a four percent increase (91 to 95 percent) for schooling
and a nine percent increase (85 to 94 percent) for health care. Access to water from a protected
source was reported by 55 percent of households in 2011 as compared with 47 percent in 2008.
Eighty two percent of respondents reported using an improved toilet facility in 2011.
68.    Despite these improvements, perceptions of LC responsiveness declined. The 2011
INPSS shows steady progress in people's awareness of and interaction with the LC. Ninety
percent of respondents had heard of their Local Councilor in 2011 (compared with 87 and 70
percent in 2008 and 2007, respectively) and 21 percent of households reported that they had
benefitted from a LC project over the past year (an increase of 12 percent from 2008). Still, in
2011, 39 percent of respondents thought that the LC were responsive to their community's needs.
This is similar to the 37 percent reporting in 2007 but a decrease from the 66 percent in 2008 and
53 percent in 2005. Publicity and campaign promises connected to the elections held in 2005
and 2008 may help explain the inconsistency between the findings from the NPSS in those years,
as compared with the 2007 and 2011 surveys. See Annex 5 for additional detail.
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial
69.    In their 2011 article, "Decentralization in Post-conflict Sierra Leone: The Genie is Out of
the Bottle," Srivastava and Larizza argue that decentralization in Sierra Leone is well enough
established that its reversal has become unlikely. The DSDP was designed within the framework
of a demonstrated Government commitment to decentralization and the Project was implemented
through pre-existing, national structures. As such, its development outcomes contribute to the
country's longer-term decentralization reform process that began in 2004 and remains ongoing.
The risk to the development outcome is mitigated further by the Project's use of the APL
instrument. As noted above, the DSDP Phase II is currently ongoing, maintains the same PDO
as Phase I, and provides additional support to the Government's achievement of these objectives.
Phase II, therefore, contributes to consolidating the achievements of the Project's Phase I and has
attracted EU co-financing in support of these outcomes.
43 Because the INPSS combined three survey instruments, not all questions asked in the 2011 INPSS have
comparator questions available from all three years. Comparisons between the 2011 INPSS and surveys
conducted in 2005, 2007, and 2008 are made where possible.
20


﻿70.   Still, the decentralization process remains incomplete with inaction by the Government to
move forward key aspects of these reforms. Some challenges, such as the need for continued
support to LC and MDA capacity building, are being addressed through ongoing donor-
sponsored interventions, such as the DSDP Phase II. Other challenges, such as institutional and
jurisdictional reforms, require political will from within Government. At the institutional level,
the Government incorporated the LGFD and its staff into the MoFED during the Project period;
however, mainstreaming of the DecSec and the IPAU, as noted above, has proceeded much more
slowly than anticipated. These changes are tied to the Government-wide public sector reform
process. Moreover, jurisdictions at the sub-national level require clarification, in particular the
relationship between the LC and the chiefdom administration. While the funding transferred
from the Central Government to the LC increased over the life of the DSDP, the LC are
envisioned also to generate funds through local taxation. Under the current legal framework, the
LC are meant to set the local development tax rate, but the chiefdom administration is
responsible for tax collection and its subsequent distribution based on established precept
allocations. In practice, however, the LC report minimal receipt of tax revenues through this
system. The Government is conducting a review of the Local Tax Act in 2013.
71.   Public support for and perceptions of the LC may be negatively influenced by the
apparent disconnect between people's understanding of LC responsibilities compared to those
functions actually devolved to them. The draft PRSP III 2013-2017: Agenda for Prosperity
recognizes the negative impact of delays in the devolution process. For example, LC authority is
constrained by their lack of jurisdiction over human resource functions. Because the devolved
staff continued to report directly to the MDA, the LC cannot hold them directly accountable their
performance.  Limited local resource generation and continued centralization of the
Development Budget also create dependency of the LC on other Government bodies, including
the MDA and the chiefdom administration. Without greater devolution of authority, the LC are
likely to be held accountable by citizens for functions over which they have little control.
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
72.    The Task Team ensured quality at entry through an evidence-based, context-specific
Project design. As noted in Sections 2.1 and 3.1 above, the Project was prepared in alignment
with Government and Bank development policies and its objectives reflected the findings,
lessons, and recommendations from ongoing lending operations and economic and sector work
in Sierra Leone, as well as international good practices. The Project's components and M&E
activities reflected the key constraints identified through these reports and lending interventions,
although the Results Framework could have benefitted from clearer linkages between the
Project's objectives, components, and specific indicators to measure them. The Team also
promoted quality at entry through the use of existing country capacity and systems, including the
technical capacity of the DecSec, the LGFD, and the IPAU, as well as the intergovernmental
fiscal transfer system. In addition, the decision to utilize the APL instrument allowed for
benchmarks related to key objectives of the Project that would trigger the DSDP Phase II and to
help ensure that Project-funded transfers to the LC occurred at regular and timely intervals.
21


﻿73.   Additional focus on the preparatory processes for the Subsidiary Agreements could have
improved quality at entry. The Agreements were a key Project tool that established the LC
targets for the DSDP funding, yet the Project design allocated relatively little time and support to
their preparation. The Project envisioned for transfers of the DSDP grants to the LC to begin by
January 15, 2010, providing only two months after signature of the Financing Agreement for the
local-level consultations to draft the Agreement and their subsequent review by the Central
Government. In addition, although the DSDP included training in development planning, these
activities were not scheduled to begin until after the Agreements were finalized.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
74.   The Task Team was proactive in its supervision of the DSDP, utilizing the lessons from
independent Project assessments and addressing implementation challenges with targeted action
items. During the 30-month implementation period, the Team conducted six missions to
supervise the Project and submitted updated Implementation Status and Results (ISR) Reports
every six months. The MTR was conducted in May 2011 and coincided with an independent
technical audit of the Project. As outlined in Sections 2.2 and 2.4 above, a detailed list of action
items was developed based on the findings of these assessments and much of the Team's
subsequent supervision focused on addressing the LC capacity shortcomings identified therein,
including strengthening procurement and safeguard compliance. The Team also applied the
lessons from Phase I to and leveraged EU co-financing for Phase II, helping to ensure the
adequacy of the transition arrangements in place at the close of Phase I. Supervision, however,
could have benefitted from more thorough reporting on the Project's Results Framework. Many
of the intermediate outcome indicators were only included in the final ISR and the five
intermediate outcome indicators related to the program outcomes were never reported in the ISR.
The final ISR also inadvertently failed to report the Project's Restructuring.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
75.   Overall, the World Bank supervision of the DSDP was Moderately Satisfactory. The
Task Team engaged with the Government, other Bank Task Teams in the country, and donor
partners to ensure that the Project's objectives were aligned with the country's development
strategies and ongoing development interventions.  During Project preparation and
implementation, a multi-sectoral Task Team conducted missions a minimum of twice per fiscal
year. These included support from safeguard, FM, and procurement staff, as well as public
sector, social protection, health, and legal specialists. However, shortcomings in overall Bank
performance impacted both quality at entry, given the design of the Subsidiary Agreements, and
supervision, particularly M&E reporting.
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
76.   Throughout the Project, the Government illustrated its commitment to decentralization to
improve basic service delivery and promote development not only in its policy and development
planning papers but also through its regular transfer of Government funding to the LC. As noted
above, in FY20 10 and FY20 11, Government transfers to the LC were timely and represented 96
22


﻿percent and 86 percent, respectively, of the full budgeted amount. This is a notable improvement
from the state of LC transfers at Project appraisal, which did not exceeded 75 percent of the total
budgeted allocation between FY2005 and FY2009. In addition, during implementation, the
Government adopted the 2010 Decentralization Policy that reaffirmed its commitment to
decentralization, including the Policy's first principle of "the transfer of power, authority, and
resources from the center to democratically elected local councils." Moreover, the 2011 PSRP II
Progress Report highlighted the Government's commitment to implementing the decentralization
process and sustaining the amount of transfers to the LC.
77.   Certain key aspects of the decentralization process, however, remain outstanding. Some
functions that were outlined for devolution in the 2004 LGA and 2010 Decentralization Policy
remain centrally managed, including the responsibility for all human resources. Although the
Government, in accordance with the DSDP Phase II trigger, developed a policy regarding the
assignment of sector staff at the LC level, these staff and the LC core administrative staff report
to their line ministries rather than the LC.44 The responsibility of various actors at the local level
also requires clarification. The 2010 Policy designated the LC as developmental authorities,
rather than political authorities as specified in the 2004 LGA. This change was accompanied by
the reintroduction of District Officers, locally-based appointees of the Central Government who
head the chiefdom administration. As noted above, the relationship between the chiefdom
administration and the LC requires clarification, particularly in regards to local resource
generation. Moreover, despite an ongoing dialogue with the Bank Team, the Government did
not make progress on mainstreaming of the DecSec into the MoLGRD during the DSDP Phase I.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
78.   The performance by the Implementing Agencies, including the LGFD, the DecSec, and
the IPAU, throughout the Project highlighted their commitment to achieving the development
objectives. As noted above, the IP was rated Satisfactory throughout the Project period, except
between December 2010 and June 2011, when the IP was rated Moderately Satisfactory. The
Moderately Satisfactory rating resulted from initial delays in disbursements while the LC
prepared the Subsidiary Agreements. This consultative process, however, was important for
local involvement in the allocation of Project resources. Moreover, by May 2011, the LGFD had
transferred five DSDP-funded grants to the LC, overcoming much of the initial delay in
comparison to the original Project work plan. Importantly, throughout the Project, the LGFD
maintained timely transfers of the Government grants to the LC. The DecSec highlighted the
Project's learning from its M&E tools not only to improve the INPSS and CLoGPAS but also to
design capacity building activities based on the CLoGPAS findings. The IPAU, which served as
the project coordination unit, provided satisfactory fiduciary oversight throughout
implementation to ensure compliance with the Project's covenants. The IPAU also coordinated
M&E data collection and reporting; however, the Implementing Agencies reported on only one
of the five intermediate indicators related to the program outcomes. The Implementing Agencies
coordinated the DSDP with other Bank interventions and Government resource allocations.
44 The LC core administrative staff are hired and report to the MoLGRD.
23


﻿(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
79.   Overall, the Borrower's Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The Government
and the Implementing Agencies showed a commitment to achieving the Project's development
objectives, responsiveness to challenges experienced during implementation, the usage of M&E
to inform activities, and coordination between the Project and Government and other donor-
funded interventions. However, continued delays within the Government on key aspects of the
decentralization reform agenda could threaten the development gains made under the Project,
and by the Government more generally, to build capacity at the local level.
6. Lessons Learned
* The Project confirms the effectiveness of phased, long-term support to Government reform
processes. As highlighted throughout the ICR, the DSDP Phase I was one element of the
Bank's ongoing support to decentralization in Sierra Leone. The Project benefitted from the
capacity built and lessons learned under the IRCBP and, in turn, the outcomes and learning
from the DSDP Phase I have been critical in the preparation of DSDP Phase II. The adoption
of clear triggers to transition from Phase I to Phase II of this APL emphasized the importance
of the Government's achievements of key benchmarks in its decentralization agenda. This
approach has provided continuity to the Government and the relatively new LC structures.
*  The mainstreaming    of specialized  units for technical support and/or project
implementation needs to be carefully detailed with time-bound action plans developed
during project preparation.  The specialized units within Government to support
decentralization have helped to build capacity for devolved service delivery and to establish a
more transparent mechanism for the intergovernmental transfer of resources in Sierra Leone.
However, as the reform process progresses, the responsibilities of these units need to be
mainstreamed into regular Government structures. The proper planning for this transition,
particularly the change from consultant to civil service staffing, is linked with the longer-
term sustainability of such reforms.
*  The appropriate sequencing of activities, particularly regarding capacity building, is
critical to successful implementation. Through the provision of grants to the LC, the DSDP
sought not only to increase funding for basic services available at the local level, but also to
provide a 'learning through doing' approach to capacity building. This design appears to
have been successful in strengthening the fiscal transfer system of Government. However, in
terms of managing the delivery of devolved basic services, the Project could have benefited
from front-loading key capacity building activities prior to beginning the transfers to the LC.
For example, training in development planning could have been implemented before the
preparation of the Subsidiary Agreements.
*  With adequate investment, regular and comprehensive surveys are possible in low-capacity
contexts and can serve as useful learning tools. To help minimize the capacity necessary
for implementation, projects in low-income, fragile countries often focus on the
simplification of design, which can result in a reliance on project-level M&E or impact
evaluations conducted by international firms. Moreover, systems for national data collection
are typically nascent, further limiting access to information for M&E. The DSDP Phase I
highlights that comprehensive surveys are feasible in such contexts and can be successfully
24


﻿administered within national systems. The revisions to and implementation of both the
INPSS and the CLoGPAS took more time and resources than original envisioned under the
Project; however, this investment built national M&E capacity while providing useful
findings to inform the DSDP Phase I implementation and Phase II design.
* With some adjustments, the adoption of the Subsidiary Agreements as part of the standard
LC operating procedures could provide an effective benchmarking tool to measure service
delivery at the local level. The Subsidiary Agreements adopted under the Project need
sufficient time for a consultative preparation process, input from qualified technical
specialists, and buy-in from the MDA. Despite these challenges, the Agreements could
provide a useful means for the Government to continue regular monitoring of the LC
performance against service-output targets. Updates on the LC progress against the
Agreements could be measured during the LGFD's quarterly review of the financial
retirements for the LC grants. Implementation delays and other deviations from the agreed-
upon targets could then be addressed proactively and in a timely manner.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
80.   The comments from the Borrower, provided by the Implementing Agencies, focus on the
Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome. While the Borrower agrees that there have been
delays in the process of mainstreaming the DecSec, the Borrower notes that tremendous efforts
are being made in order to complete this objective, including submission of the DecSec
mainstreaming action plan to the Bank. In addition, the Public Sector Reform Unit, responsible
for the functional and management reviews of MDAs, has approved a revised organogram of the
MoLGRD that includes the functions of the DecSec. It is important to point out that the
mainstreaming of the DecSec is part of the Government's wider public sector reform program
and will not happen in isolation.
81.   Issues relating to political mandate and coordinating local development are clearly
defined in various policy documents and legislations such as the 2004 LGA; however, challenges
persist regarding the allocation of resources collected from common revenue sources. This is
expected to be addressed when the 2004 LGA and the Local Tax Act are reviewed this year. In
addition, efforts have been made to build LC capacity to mobilize revenue from property taxes,
one of the main sources of own revenue. In this regard, property cadastre have been designed,
developed, and are now being implemented in 11 LC. This includes the recruitment of Valuators
within the LC. In addition, four LC have developed a comprehensive and sustainable framework
to mobilize locally generated revenues. Further to the above, a fiscal decentralization strategy
was developed with a broad objective to promote local autonomy and increase participation
through strengthening the effectiveness, transparency, and accountability of the LC in revenue
mobilization and expenditures.
(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable.
25


﻿Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in SDR milions)
Original        Revised          Actual       Percentage of
Category           Appraisal      Appraisal at    Expenditure     Appraisal at
Estimate      Restructuring  (SDR millions)   Restructuring
(SDR millions)  (SDR millions)
Goods, works, and
services for LC Grants
under Component 1                9.70            9.80           9.885         100.9%
Goods,    consultants'
services,   Training,
Study   Tours    and
Workshops,       and
Operating Costs for
Components 2.1 and 3            2.00             2.50          2.762          110.5%
Goods and services for
Capacity Development
under Component 2.2              0.60            0.60           0.186          31.0%
Unallocated
0.60            0.00            0.00
PPF                             0.00             0.00            0.00
Total Financing
Required             12.90           12.90        12.83345
(b) Financing
Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest     Percentage of
Source of Funds                                   Estimate
(SRmln)(SDR millions)                Appraisal
(SDR millions)
[Borrower                                            0.00               0.00            0.0%
International Development Association               12.90             12.825           99.4%
(IDA)
45 The Credit Cancellation and Closure Letter dated November 6, 2012 subtracts an amount of XDR 8,392.17
from the expenditures in the three categories based on exchange rate fluctuation between XDR and the currency
of the designated account from the time of advance to the time of recovery. This accounts for the slight
discrepancy between the total of the three categories as listed above (XDR 12.833) and the total disbursements
(XDR 12.825) as listed in the Letter date November 6, 2012, Table (b) in this Annex, and Section 3.3 in the
main ICR narrative.
26


﻿Annex 2. Outputs by Component
1.    The following components were undertaken in support of the Project's outcome and
intermediate indicators as discussed in Section 3.2 above.
Component 1: Grants to Local Councils (US$16 million)
2.     Component 1: Grants to Local Councils (LC) sought to increase the availability and
predictability of funding to the LC and also adopted a 'learning through doing' approach to the
transfer, management, expenditure, and monitoring of funds at the local level. The Project
provided funding for LC-identified projects in health, education, solid waste management, and
rural water. Subsidiary Agreements between the LC and the Central Government established
service-output targets for the DSDP funding. Following signature of these Agreements, DSDP
grants to the LC were allocated through the existing intergovernmental fiscal transfer system on
a quarterly basis.
3.     In the health sector, the majority of DSDP-funded projects supported the rehabilitation of
primary health units, primary health clinics, and hospitals with a total of 84 projects conducted in
17 LC. These rehabilitation works ranged from refurbishment to existing infrastructure (such as
painting of walls, tiling of floors, electrical maintenance, and roofing) to the restoration of cold
storage to the repair of water and sanitation facilities.  In terms of facilities' upgrading, the
Project also funded the rehabilitation of medical offices and nurse housing in six locations across
three LC. In addition, the DSDP funding supported the development of site plans for 10 primary
health units in Western Area Rural District. The LC also allocated DSDP resources in the health
sector to various procurements. Four LC bought drugs and other medical supplies, including for
laboratory testing. Four motorbikes were bought in three LC. Power supply equipment was also
purchased in five LC; this included solar panels, solar-powered equipment (such as refrigerators),
generators, and one fuel storage tank. Other procurements included two incubators, one x-ray
machine, furniture and bedding in two LC, and communications equipment in one LC. In one
LC, DSDP-funded activities included public awareness and advocacy meetings on a range of
health issues, including the Government's free health care initiative.
4.     The DSDP grants to LC funded rehabilitations of educational facilities in all 19 LC. In
total, this included 101 projects to improve primary schools, junior secondary schools, and adult
literacy centers. The grants also funded the upgrading of water and sanitation facilities and the
construction of separate latrines for boys and girls. Other construction activities included
rehabilitation of staff housing and education offices in five LC and refurbishment of six libraries
in two LC. In seven LC, the DSDP supported the purchase and/or construction of furniture,
including desks, chairs, and blackboards. Other DSDP-funded projects included the procurement
of textbooks, computer equipment, one motorbike, one utility vehicle, biometric equipment for
public exam verification, and supplies for science curricula.
5.     In solid waste and rural water, 15 LC allocated DSDP grants to the upgrading or
establishment of new collection and dumping facilities in 79 locations. These activities ranged
from construction of public waste bins to fencing of dump sites to rehabilitation of drainages for
town streets. Other solid waste activities included the procurement of collection tools, such as
tricycles, wheelbarrows, shovels, and cutlasses in 13 LC. Rural water projects included the
rehabilitation or construction of 20 water supply systems, including one solar powered system,
259 hand pumps and water wells, and one water treatment center. Water sector procurements
were limited but included the purchase of one truck, four motorbikes, one generator, and
27


﻿furniture for one rural water office. Rural water projects were conducted in 14 LC; this was the
only sector in which activities were not undertaken in all 19 LC.
Component 2: Capacity Building and Technical Assistance (US$3 million)
6.    In support of the Project Development Objective (PDO), particularly Government
capacity to manage decentralized services, the Project's second component provided training and
logistical support to key stakeholders in the decentralization process. The LC were the primary
beneficiaries of these activities, although Ministry, Department, and Agency (MDA) staff also
received support. This Component had two windows: (i) centrally-organized support that was
provided to all LC and MDA and (ii) demand-driven support for needs identified by the LC and
the MDA.
7.    Sub-component 2.1: Centrally-organized support for all LC and MDA focused on
training and logistical support determined as universally applicable across the LC and the MDA.
The foci were determined primarily by the 2008 and 2011 Comprehensive Local Governance
Performance Assessment Survey (CLoGPAS) findings. Throughout DSDP Phase I, the primary
focus of capacity building was on development planning processes related to the regular
submission of development plans, budgets, procurement plans, and M&E reports, all of which
were measured by the Project's intermediate indicators. Within all 19 LC, the development
planning and local technical committees received training on their roles and responsibilities and
the development planning officers in all 19 LC also received professional training, such as on the
preparation of the Subsidiary Agreements and Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF)
budgeting. The Project also organized training on bookkeeping, transparency, and accountability
for treasury clerks and other core administrative staff. Logistical support included the provision
of motorbikes and modems to the development planning officers in all 19 LC. In addition, the
Project provided training to the Ward Development Committees (WDC) in six LC and to MDA
staff on sectoral planning and budgeting. This Sub-component also supported consultations on
key policies and legislation related to decentralization, including the Chiefdom Governance and
Tribal Administration Policy, the Hospital Boards Act, and the Second Generation
Intergovernmental Fiscal Transfer System.
8.    Under this Sub-component, the Government also sought to strengthen citizen
participation and monitoring of local service delivery through the piloting of social
accountability activities. The Project partnered with three international NGOs to pilot two nine-
month interventions with the aim of empowering health users and clinic staff to help improve
service delivery and health status more broadly. The interventions targeted Maternal and Child
Health Posts (MCHPs) and Community Health Posts (CHPs), the two lowest tiers of health
clinics, in four Sierra Leonean districts: Bo, Kenema, Tonkolili, and Bombali. The DSDP Phase
I funding supported the Community Compact intervention, which included the development of
scorecards of health metrics for the participating clinic.  Clinic staff and community
representatives used this scorecard to design Community Compacts containing mutual
commitments to improve health service delivery.  In follow-up meetings, community
representatives scored the nurse on his or her performance under the compact, and vice versa,
and revised the Compacts as necessary. This follow-up on clinic performance through the
review of the community scorecards and compacts has continued under DSDP Phase 2 and will
include a non-financial awards for the "best-improving" and the "best-absolute performing"
clinic in each district.
28


﻿9.    The impact of the social accountability activities is tracked through an impact evaluation
using a randomized controlled trial (RCT) conducted by researchers from New York and
Stanford Universities, using Innovations for Poverty Action Sierra Leone (IPA) as the on-the-
ground evaluation team.  The DSDP Phase I funded the baseline survey for the RCT.
Preliminary results from evaluative surveys, supported by DSDP Phase II, are expected by
September 2013.
10.   Sub-component 2.2: Demand-driven support for the LC and relevant MDA provided a
channel through which the LC and the MDA could apply for targeted training and logistical
support in response to self-identified capacity constraints. The amount of funding available for
the LC through the demand-driven window was based on the relative capacity of the LC as
measured by the findings of the CLoGPAS. The five lowest scoring LC received US$45,000,
the eight middle performers received US$39,000, and the six highest performers received
US$30,000. This accounted for US$717,000 and the remaining US$283,000 allocated under this
Sub-component was available for demand-driven support to the MDA.
11.   All 19 LC benefitted from demand-driven support under the DSDP, with the majority of
the LC receiving both training for core staff and logistical equipment. Kambia received only
logistical equipment, whereas Port Loko received only training. All other LC received both
forms of support. A committee chaired by the Decentralization Secretariat (DecSec) with
representatives from Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MoFED), Ministry of
Local Governance and Rural Development (MoLGRD), the Local Governance Financial
Department (LGFD), and the Local Governance Service Commission (LGSC) reviewed all
applications for training or logistical support from the LC. Trainings included basic computer
literacy, more advanced software training, particularly on Excel, as well as a range of
administrative and management functions, such as procurement, financial management, human
resources, auditing, filing and records management, leadership, budgeting, and taxation. These
trainings were provided to LC core administrative staff as well as to MDA staff from each of the
sectors benefitting from the DSDP (education, health, water, and sanitation). In addition, staff in
two LC received solid waste management training. The majority of logistical support included
the purchase of IT equipment, such as computers, printers, modems, scanners, copiers, cameras,
and overhead projectors. Other support included the purchase of generators and motorbikes, as
well as office furniture. These investments facilitated the day-to-day operations of the LC and
also enabled their monitoring of basic social service projects. Approximately three quarters of
the support to the LC under the demand-driven window was allocated to logistics.
12.   For the MDA, the Ministry of Health and Sanitation (MoHS), the Ministry of Education,
Youth, and Sports (MoEYS), and the Water Supply Division of the Ministry of Energy and
Water Resources (MoEWR) requested capacity building and technical assistance support under
the demand-driven window. The MoHS requested a training of trainers on revised monitoring
and supervision checklists and the MoEWR requested technical training on water quality
sampling and analysis, computer literacy, and planning and budgeting. The majority of requests,
however, related to monitoring support to conduct field visits for technical supervision. In total,
this accounted for approximately 80 percent of the support to MDA through Sub-component 2.2
and was divided fairly equally between the MoHS, MoEYS, and MoEWR.
29


﻿Component 3: Program Management (US$1 million)
13.   The Program Management Component comprised two Sub-components: (i) Program
Coordination and (ii) Monitoring and Evaluation. The Program Coordination Sub-component
financed the management, coordination, and monitoring of project activities by the LGFD, the
DecSec, and the Integrated Project Administration Unit (IPAU). As noted in Section 2.1 above,
the LGFD, housed within the MoFED, managed the transfer of funding to the LC and was
responsible primarily for Component 1. This included review of quarterly retirements of the LC
in comparison to their updated development plans, budgets, and procurement plans, as well as
against the targets set in the Subsidiary Agreements. The DecSec, a Directorate of the MoLGRD,
managed the implementation and coordination of the decentralization process, primarily through
Component 2. In addition to its staff at the central level, the DecSec supported Resident
Technical Facilitators (RTF) in each of the 19 LC to provide day-to-day technical assistance and
capacity building to the LC. The IPAU, a joint implementation unit housed under the MoFED,
provided overall coordination of the DSDP activities as well as program management support,
such as project reporting, financial management, and procurement in accordance with Bank
regulations.
14.   Under the Monitoring and Evaluation Sub-component, the Project facilitated not only the
project-level monitoring as conducted by the LGFD, the DecSec, and the IPAU related to their
respective responsibilities, but also the implementation of the 2011 Integrated National Public
Service Survey (INPSS), the 2011 Comprehensive Local Government Performance Assessment
System (CLoGPAS), and the 2012 WDC Functionality Assessment. The Project supported the
consolidation of three previously separate surveys (the National Public Service Survey, the
Peripheral Health Utility Survey, and the Service Delivery Perceptions Survey) into a single
instrument under the INPSS. This 'integrated' survey provided more comprehensive feedback
on public services in Sierra Leone and also represented a cost savings by fielding one survey
instead of three. Under the Project, an international consultant was hired to review the
methodologies and questionnaires used in the 2006 and 2008 CLoGPAS to revise the CLoGPAS
instrument used in 2011. The revised 2011 tool sought to improve the quality of the assessment;
however, the changes to the minimum conditions and performance measures of the LC meant
that it was difficult to track LC performance across the three surveys. In both 2008 and 2011, the
criteria of the minimum conditions and the performance measures were revised. In some cases,
conditions that had been universally met were dropped and new benchmarks were established.
In other cases, questions were revised from asking about the establishment of certain functions to
focusing on their functionality. Based on the CLoGPAS tool, the Project also fielded a separate
WDC Functionality Assessment in 2012 that provided a more in-depth assessment of their
capacity.
30


﻿Table 2.1: DSDP M&E Framework
Project Outcome Indicators         Baseline      Year 1        Year 2       End of       Original   Revised End    Data Source for
Actual       Actual       Project       End of      of Project       Actual
(12/31/2010)  (12/31/2011)   Actual       Project       Target
(06/30/2012)    Target
Number of grants for expenditures            9            7             6            6            4             6         GoSL Financial
(excluding wages and interest obligations)                                                                                 Management
in education, health and sanitation, water,                                                                              System (IFMIS)
and solid waste management
Percentage of domestic revenues (less      29.6%         36%          34%46        38%47         30%          N/a            IFMIS
wages, interest obligations, and statutory
transfers to National Revenue Authority and
Road Fund) transferred to LC on an annual
basis, excluding DSDP funds
Transfer of funds to LC as percentage of    6%           6%            5%          5%48          6%           N/a            IFMIS
total GoSL expenditures
Number of LC meeting at least 75 percent     0            7            11            11           15          N/a       DecSec and LGFD
of service-output targets specified in LC                                                                                   Reporting
Subsidiary Agreement
Intermediate Outcome Indicators       Baseline      Year 1       Year 2        End of      Original    Revised End   Data Source for
Actual       Actual       Project       End of      of Project       Actual
(12/31/2010)  (12/31/2011)   Actual       Project       Target
(06/30/2012)    Target
Number of LC with integrated development     0            7            19            19           19          N/a        LGFD Reporting
plans and budgets (finalized in accordance
with sector plans) before the start of the FY
Number of LC with procurement plans          0            13           19            19           19          N/a        LGFD Reporting
(which include LC transfers and DSDP
funds)
46 The baseline value for this indicator under the DSDP Phase II is 41 percent based on data from May 2011.
47 Value based on annual percentage for FY2012 to reflect indicator specification for annual percentage.
48 Value based on annual percentage for FY2012 to reflect indicator specification for annual percentage. The value on the Project closing date was 3.3%
resulting from the timing of the second FY2012 transfer, which was made July 17, 2012, just following the DSDP Phase I closing date.
31


﻿Intermediate Outcome Indicators      Baseline     Year 1       Year 2       End of      Original   Revised End   Data Source for
Actual       Actual      Project      End of      of Project       Actual
(12/31/2010) (12/31/2011)   Actual       Project      Target
(06/30/2012)   Target
Number of LC with January-September        12           19           19          1149         19          N/a        LGFD Reporting
budget execution rates of 90 percent of
available funds
Percentage of WDC receiving and           N/a          53%          46%         23%          100%         N/a      Year 1 and 2 - RTF
discussing development plans/budgets,                                                                                   Monthly
financing statement, and their updates                                                                                 Monitoring
Reports; End of
Project - WDC
Performance
Assessment
Percentage of WDC holding public          N/a          79%          79%         79%          75%          N/a          CLoGPAS
meetings and reporting to LC as part of the
annual development plan updating and
execution cycle
Percentage of WDC conducting spot checks  N/a          45%          47%         75%          65%          N/a      Year 1 and 2 - RTF
on service providers (in health, education,                                                                             Monthly
and water supply)                                                                                                      Monitoring
Reports; End of
Project - WDC
Performance
Assessment
Number of LC whose M&E units receive,      13       Not reported     19           19          19          N/a         RTF Monthly
process, and transmit to key stakeholders                                                                          Monitoring Reports
data related to sector activities
Number of LC producing annual updates on   0            19           19           19          12          N/a        LGFD Reporting
development plans
Number of National Public Service Surveys   3           3            4            4            5          N/a      Integrated National
conducted                                                                                                             Public Service
Survey (INPSS)
49 Value based on January to September 2012 execution rates.
32


﻿Intermediate Outcome Indicators       Baseline      Year 1       Year 2        End of      Original    Revised End   Data Source for
Actual       Actual       Project       End of      of Project       Actual
(12/31/2010)  (12/31/2011)   Actual       Project       Target
(06/30/2012)    Target
Number of LC receiving timely transfers      19           19           19            19           19          N/a            IFMIS
from consolidated revenue funds each
quarter (within the first month of each
quarter)
Number of LC receiving timely transfers      0            19           19           1950          19          N/a            IFMIS
from DSDP each quarter (15t of the first
month of each quarter)
Number of teaching and                       0       Not reported  Not reported  1,497,7205    850,000        N/a        DecSec and MOE
learning materials that are                                                                                                 Reporting
distributed to primary schools
Number of LCs procuring and distributing     0       Not reported  Not reported  Not              19          N/a        DecSec and MOE
required sets of teaching and learning                                          reported52                                  Reporting
materials
Number (proportion) of LCs which conduct    N/a      Not reported  Not reported  Not              19          N/a        DecSec Reporting
fee-free awareness campaigns                                                    reported53
Percentage of water and sanitation facilities  Baseline  Not reported  Not reported  Not         95%          N/a       DecSec Reporting
which are used, maintained and in good   differs per                            reported54
working order in each LC                    LC
Number of Councils with 50 percent of        0       Not reported  Not reported  Not              19          N/a        DecSec Reporting
villages declared open defecation free                                          reported55
(ODF)
50 The DSDP Phase I provided LC grants for FY2010 and FY201 1; therefore, this figure is based on the transfer of the last FY201 1 LC grant of DSDP funds.
The Project's Phase II provides funding for grants in FY2012 through FY2015.
51 Intermediate indicators related to program indicators.
52 Intermediate indicators related to program indicators. Data is not available.
53 Intermediate indicators related to program indicators. Data is not available.
54 Intermediate indicators related to program indicators. Data is not available.
55 Intermediate indicators related to program indicators. Data is not available.
33


﻿Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
Not applicable.
34


﻿Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
Names                                  TteUi
Lending
Eunice Yaa Brimfah Ackwerh         Sr. Education Specialist                     AFTEW
Douglas M. Addison                 Sr. Economist                                EASPW
Charles Annor-Frempong             Sr. Rural Development Specialist              EASCS
[Ferdinand Tsri Apronti            Consultant                                    AFTA1
Evelyn Awittor                     Sr. Operations Officer                       AFTHW
Kathryn Suzanne Bach              Junior Professional Associate                 AFTHE
Adriana M. Da Cunha Costa          Language Program Assistant                    AFTEE
Brendan J. Glynn                   Consultant                                     SDV
Anna Victoria Gyllerup             Sr. Operations Officer                       MNADE
Trina S. Haque                     Sector Manager, Health, Nutrition            AFTHW
Anders Jensen                      Sr. M&E Specialist                           AFTDE
Mirey Ovadiya                      Sr. Social Protection Specialist             HDNSP
Oluwole Pratt                     Financial Management Analyst                  AFTME
Laura L. Rose                      Sr. Economist (Health)                       AFTHD
Vivek Srivastava                   Sr. Public Sector Specialist                  PRMPS
Yasmin Tayyab                      Sr. Social Development Specialist             AFTCS
Mathewos Woldu                     Sr. Economist                                 AFTU1
Giuseppe Zampaglione               Country Manager                              LCCH4N
Supervision/ICR
Joyce Agunbiade                   Financial Management Specialist               AFTMW
Ferdinand Tsri Apronti            Consultant                                     AFTA1
Evelyn Awittor                     Sr Operations Officer                        AFTHW
Emily Weedon Chapman               Social Protection Specialist                 AFTSW
Moses Duphey                      Consultant                                     AFTN3
Randa G. El-Rashidi               Operations Officer                            AFTSW
Christopher C. Gabelle             Sr. Governance Specialist                     AFTP3
Peter Ganda                       Operations Officer                            AFTSW
Brendan J. Glynn                  Consultant                                      SDV
Gibril Salor Jalloh               Consultant                                     LEGJR
Anders Jensen                      Sr. M&E Specialist                           AFTDE
Fatu Karim-Turay                  Team Assistant                                 AFTSL
Qaiser M. Khan                     Sector Lead Economist                        AFTHD
Angela Nyawira Khaminwa            Sr. Social Development Specialist             AFTCS
Josiane M.S. Luchmun              Program Assistant                             AFTSW
Nicholas Menzies                   Counsel                                       LEGJR
Mirey Ovadiya                      Sr. Social Protection Specialist             HDNSP
[John Van Dyck                     Sr. Operations Officer                        AFTSW
35


﻿(b) Staff Time and Cost
Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
Travel and Consultant Costs)
[Lending                                              58.50                    326.80
Total:                                                58.50                    326.80
Supervision/ICR                                       44.15                    254.13
Total:                                                44.15                    254.13
36


﻿Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
1.     The 2011 Integrated National Public Services Survey (INPSS) was conducted in Sierra
Leone to solicit user feedback on public service provision and interactions with all levels of
government. The INPSS consolidated three related surveys (the National Public Services Survey,
the Peripheral Health Utility Survey, and the Service Delivery Perceptions Survey) that had been
previously conducted in 2005, 2007, and 2008 and was partially financed by the DSDP.56 The 2011
INPSS surveyed 6,000 households across the country and its implementation was managed by
Innovations for Poverty Action (IPA), a U.S.-based nonprofit focusing on research through
randomized evaluations.
2.     The INPSS findings present a broad picture of people's perceptions regarding service
provision and governance; they cannot be solely attributed to the DSDP. Many factors exogenous to
the Project undoubtedly influenced the survey's findings. Among others, these include the free
healthcare initiative for pregnant women, lactating mothers, and children under five launched in
April 2010 and the high density of non-government actors providing basic services outside of
national systems. However, the INPSS was designed as a performance monitoring tool for the
Government's decentralization agenda and the DSDP contributes to this agenda. As such, and given
the difficulty of isolated the impact of a project like the DSDP that is designed as one step in a much
larger reform agenda, the following analysis provides some insight as to changes in public
perceptions of basic service delivery and governance during the Project's implementation.
Education
3.     Access to primary schools in the rural areas has increased slightly since 2008, with 77
percent of households reporting access to a school within 30 minutes walking in 2011 as compared
with 75 percent in 2008. Moreover, of the communities that did not have a school nearby in 2008
and did have one in 2011, 49 percent report that the new school was a government school (the next
largest portion was community schools at 34 percent).
Table 5.1: Access to Primary Schools (all types)57
Questions used include: How far is this school in miles? How long does it take to get to school?
Percent of households
2005       2007      2008      2011
N=4754     N=4805    N=4805    N=4071
Within 15 minutes      50         65        66        68
15 to 30 minutes       19         9         9         9
30 to 60 minutes       19         14        14        13
1 to 2 hours           8          7         8         8
Greater than 2 hours   3          2         2         3
Don't know             2          3         2         <1
4.     Satisfaction with public schools also has seen improvements since 2008, with a four
percentage point increase from 91 to 95 percent. This finding was confirmed in a follow-up question
56 Because the INPSS combined these three survey instruments, not all questions asked in the 2011 INPSS have
comparator questions available from all three years. Comparisons between the 2011 INPSS and surveys conducted
in 2005, 2007, and 2008 are made where possible.
57 All tables in Annex 5 are from the 2011 INPSS.
37


﻿(new to the 2011 survey) to which 81 percent of respondents reported that they believed that the
quality of education was much better or a little better than previously.
Table 5.2: Satisfaction with Various Types of Schools
Question: Are you satisfied with school's building and materials/teacher/learning in school?
Percent of households
2005       2007       2008       2011
N=4427     N=3366     N=3570     N=3695
Government            86         95         91         95
Mission               88         94         90         93
Community                        79         67         93
Private               89         98         94         98
Other                 83         84         75         93
Health
5.     Sixty seven percent of households in rural areas reported having access to a Government
health facility within one hour, as compared with 63 percent in 2008 and 48 percent in 2005.
Table 5.3: Access to Government Health Facilities
Question: How far is it to this (clinic usually used)? How long does it take to get there?
Percent of households
2005     2007      2008      2011
N=4051   N=3996    N=3972    N=3977
Within 15 minutes    18       18        23       24
15 to 30 minutes     12       16        17       22
30 to 60 minutes     18       19        23       21
1 to 2 hours         18       24       23        21
Greater than 2 hours  32      21        14        12
Don't know           1        2         1         1
6.     Satisfaction with health care at Government facilities also increased. Ninety four percent of
respondents were satisfied with the care received in 2011 as compared with 85 percent in 2008.
Again this was confirmed with a follow-up question about perceptions of improvements in services.
Seventy seven percent of respondents believed that services were much better or a little better than in
the previous year. Shortages of medicine, however, did remain a concern with 21 percent of
responding that this was the most important health service provision issue facing the community.
Table 5.4: Satisfaction with Health Care in Government Facilities
2005     2007    2008     2011
N=5420 N=5226 N=5523 N=4951
Percent of satisfied
households                82      91       85      94     +
Note: Figures marked with +/- represent a statistically significant increase or decrease over 2008.
Significance at the 95% level.
38


﻿Table 5.5: Satisfaction with Health Care at Government Facilities by Local Council
Percent of households
2005      2007     2008      2011
Kailahun District         53        93       89        95     +
Kenema District           85        86       72        92     +
Kono District             79        88       79        93     +
Bombali District          92        93       82        94     +
Kambia District           93        92       76        96     +
Koinadugu District        91        92       92        98     +
Port Loko District        73        97       83        98     +
Tonkolili District        82        87       83        92     +
Bo District               82        94       87        92
Bonthe District           79        89       75        90     +
Moyamba District          91        90       77        87     +
Pujehun District          88        90       75        91     +
Western Area Rural        83        93       95        98
Freetown                  85        95       98        97
Kenema Town               73        76       85        95     +
Koidu Town                67        93       90        84
Makeni Town               92        90       90        100
Bo Town                   81        75       94        95
Bonthe Town               88        100      83        100    +
Total                     81        91       84        94     +
Note: Figures marked with +/- represent a statistically significant increase or decrease over 2008.
Significance at the 95% level.
Water and Sanitation
7.     Access to water from a protected source was 55 percent in 2011 as compared to 47 percent in
2008; however, these figures vary greatly by locality, from 89 percent in Kenemea District to 22
percent in Moyamba District. Access to toilet facilities also improved between 2008 and 2011, with
82 percent of respondents reporting usage of an improved toilet facility in 2011. Again, these
figures vary greatly between urban and rural households: over 99 percent of respondents in Freetown,
Koidu Town, Makeni Town, and Bo Town used an improved toilet facility, but less than half did in
Bonthe and Moyamba Districts.
Table 5.6: Source of Drinking Water by Community Type (N= 5752)
Question: What is the main source of drinking water for members of your household?
Percent of households
Large     Small
Freetown  Town      Town    Village   Total
Town      Town
Piped into dwelling                         8        3        2        <1       2
Piped into yard/plot                       15        8        4        <1       4
Piped public tap/standpipe                 48       16        19       6        15
Mechanical well                             1       18        35       32      26
Dug well (protected)                        9       45        21       7        12
Dug well (unprotected)                      1        5        7        7        6
Water from spring                           2       <1        1        5        4
Rain water                                 <1       <1        1        <1      <1
Bowser                                     <1       <1        <1       <1      <1
39


﻿Cart with batta                            1       <1       <1       <1       <1
Surface Water
(River/Dam/Lake/Pond/Canal/Irrigation)
Bottled/Packet water                       9        1        1       <1       2
Other                                      2       2         1       <1       1
8.     The majority of households (60 percent) reported disposing of their waste in the bush. This
question was introduced in the 2011 survey; therefore, no baseline data is available for comparison.
Table 5.7: Method of Waste Disposal (N=5750)
Question: How do you dispose of your waste?
Percent of households
Burn it                                  3
Pit                                      7
Bush                                     61
Gutter                                   2
Garbage collection from house            9
Garbage collection from public site      9
Recycle                                 <1
Bury it                                  1
Decomposed/Agricultural use              1
Sea/River                                4
Other                                    2
Local Council Governance
9.     The INPSS findings highlight steady progress in people's awareness of and interaction with
the LC. In 2011, 90 percent of respondents had heard of their Local Councilor as compared with 87
and 70 percent in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Twenty eight percent had talked to this person as
compared with 24 and 26 percent in 2008 and 2007, respectively. In addition, 21 percent of
households reported that they had benefitted from a LC project over the past year, an increase of 12
percent from 2008. However, although communities did not report a difference in quality between
LC and NGO projects in 2008, LC projects were reported as of lower quality than NGO projects in
2011.
Table 5.8: Changes in Measures of Contact with Local Councilor
Question: Have you heard/talked/visited/aware about/of the Local Councils/LC projects?
Percent of respondents
2007      2008     2011
N= 6283   N=6145   N= 5751
Heard of Local Councilor                   70     87        90
Talked with a Local Councilor              26     24        28
Visited the Local Council notice board     7       6        7
Aware of Local Council projects            18     17        24
10.    Perceptions of LC responsiveness and performance, however, declined. Given its focus on
individual perceptions, the INPSS is subjective by nature and that this subjectivity can produce
40


﻿apparent disconnects in its findings. Despite consistent reporting of improvements in the perceived
quality of education and health services, increased access to safe water and improved toilets, and
higher frequency of LC-funded projects, there was a decrease in the perceived responsive of
Government to community needs. In 2011, 39 percent of respondents thought that the LC were
responsive to their community's needs. This is similar to the 2007 finding of 37 percent but a
decrease from 66 percent in 2008 and from 53 percent in 2005. The 2008 reporting regarding
whether the LC would do a great or good job spending 500 million Leones was 75 percent, as
compared with 35 percent in 2007 and 30 percent in 2011.
Table 5.9: Perception on How Local Council Would Spend Le500 Million
Percent of respondents
2007     2008     2011
N=4406   N=3925   N=5151
They would do a great job and spend all the money   9       18        6
They would do a good job but cut a little bit of the money  26  57   24
They would do a bad job and would cut most of the money  18  18      21
They would do a bad job and just take all of the money  20   7       30
Don't know                                         28        -       20
11.   Perceptions of governance performance in the 2008 survey were likely shaped by the
elections held in July 2008 and may help explain the inconsistency between the findings from the
NPSS in that year, as compared with 2007 and 2011. The 2005 survey, on the other hand, was
conducted only six months after the LC were elected and therefore may represent expectations
regarding these new institutions rather than their actual performance. As in 2008, publicity and
campaign promises may have resulted influenced the 2005 findings.
41


﻿Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable.
42


﻿Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR
Government of Sierra Leone
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE
FOR THE
DECENTRALIZED SERVICE DELIVERY PROGRAM-PHASE 1
43


﻿1.    Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1   Context at appraisal
1.    The project design focused basically on supporting post-conflict Sierra Leone following a
brutal decade-long civil war that killed 20,000 people and displaced half the population.
Thereafter, Sierra Leone was on the path of reconciliation, reconstruction, and stabilization of its
economy and governance systems. In 2002, the country held parliamentary, presidential and
local elections that were all deemed free and fair. Sierra Leone's strong recovery, which began in
2000, continued to be impressive and attractive with donors. Nevertheless, the challenge to
sustain political stability continues. There is a particular need to strengthen the national and sub-
national democratic institutions and translate the gains of economic growth into improvements in
poor people's lives.
2.     Since 2004, the Government of Sierra Leone (GoSL) embarked on a decentralization
program with the aim of (a) addressing some of the root causes of the civil war, particularly the
overall deficit in the policy decision-making process, and (b) improving the delivery of basic
services. The Local Government Act 2004 (LGA) established a legal framework for the
devolution of selected functions to Local Councils (LCs). It has also introduced an equitable and
transparent resource transfer system from the center to LCs so as to reduce the resource gaps and
income inequalities amongst regions. The decentralization agenda attracted support from
development partners, particularly in the areas of public financial management reform and LC
capacity development.  Financing of LC devolved functions through transfers remains a
Government priority.
3.     Support to the decentralization process up to 2011 was provided under IRCBP which
needed to respond to the legal/administrative requirements arising from the re-establishment of
LG after a 32 year hiatus. The primary focus of IRCBP was to support post-conflict Government
of Sierra Leone (GoSL) establish a functioning local government system and improve
inclusiveness, transparency, and accountability of public resource management at all levels of
government. Inevitably, therefore, there was an emphasis on the legal framework and
institutional structures for devolution as well as the full panoply of organizational capacities and
actor/community sensitization to move the process forward. Advances under IRCBP have been
significant with all 19 Local Councils effectively operating under diverse elected leaderships
with own-accountable core staffs and established systems (fiscal transfer, procurement, audit
etc.) Nonetheless the deepening of decentralization is hampered by delays in function transfer
and no firm accountability of sectoral staff to Councils. However, service delivery has not
declined under decentralization; significant gains in performance in this sphere are manifestly
delivered upon in line with the overall investment and citizen expectation.
4.     With the onset of the global economic slowdown, Sierra Leone's real growth rates and
domestic revenue collection were expected to decrease. This was expected to threaten the
implementation of the GoSL decentralization program and most likely to force expenditure cuts
to key basic services. This however is not the case as funds transfer to local councils keep
increasing, at least at the same rate of inflation, on yearly basis.
45


﻿5.     There have been significant lags in the timetable for the devolution of some functions
(land administration and feeder roads, for example), and staffing and salaries for the devolved
functions remain under central management. Considerable steps still need to be taken in order to
solidify the processes of decentralization. Notably, the planned devolution of functions is not yet
complete.
6.     The Decentralized Service Delivery Program was introduced as a new approach to
securing tangible benefits (MDG gains) from the decentralization process and is based on: (i)
increasing the amounts, predictability and level of discretion for recurrent transfers to LCs in key
sectors; (ii) consolidating and expanding the progress made in capacity building and
accountability mechanisms to strengthen efficiency; and (iii) constructing a programmatic
vehicle that can be progressively used to channel expanded resources to sub-national level from
various contributors. Given the context described above, the rationale of the program was based
on: (a) the need to address gaps in the existing instruments; and (b) the advantages of shifting to
an 'umbrella' model of support for basic services.
7.     The Program became effective late-January. Phase I was for 2 years, that is January 2010
to end December 2011 and was extended to June 2012 due to delays in implementation of this
phase. The total project is a credit of US$20 million.
1.2   Project Development Objectives (PDO)
8.     The development objective of Phase I of the program is: (a) to improve the availability
and predictability of resources to local councils, (b) to support the councils' capacity to plan,
implement, and monitor devolved service delivery functions; and (c)   to reinforce the
intergovernmental fiscal transfer system.
1.3   Project Components
Component 1: Grants to Local Councils (US$16 million)
9.     The majority of program funds were used to supplement the transfers that local councils
receive from the central government budget. DSDP (IDA) funds were allocated and disbursed to
LCs for use, as they see fit, within the functions devolved to them in the education, health, solid
waste management and water sectors. The relative sectoral distribution was 25%, 20%, 40%,
15% respectively following expressed priorities of Govt. The distribution amongst LCs followed
the formulae applied to each sector. Spending of the transfers is discretionary within the sector
and in line with the LC's AWP as well as individual Subsidiary Agreements containing specific
targets for service delivery
10.   The decision to restrict the scope of IDA transfers was made in conjunction with
Government, and on the basis of a preference not to spread funds to thin. By focusing on the four
sectors that Government has prioritized in its transfers to LCs, the proposed operation added
value, allowing LCs to achieve real results in these areas. Within the sectors, the distribution
between councils followed the distribution of the GoSL formula-based grants to Councils, which
46


﻿the Local Government Finance Committee (LGFC) recommended and published before the start
of each fiscal year58. The first IDA transfers were made to LCs in 2010.
Component 2: Capacity Development (CD) and Technical Assistance (TA) (US$3.0 million)
11.    The component strengthened LC capacity to perform their core functions and MDA
capacity to provide adequate strategic guidance and oversight to LCs. The CD and TA support
under this program complemented ongoing work under the IRCBP and various sector programs.
To date, LCs have received basic training on LC core functions, including procurement, financial
management, and general administration, with progress tracked through annual Comprehensive
Local Government Performance Assessments (CLOGPAS) assessments. The CLOGPAS
assessments continue to reveal certain capacity gaps at the council level. Responding to this
capacity gap, trainings were conducted for core staff and devolved MDA staff.
12.    This diversity, the program offered two channels of assistance: (a) centrally-organized
support for all Local Councils and relevant MDAs59 in specific areas; and (b) demand-driven
assistance for individual and/or groups of LCs and MDAs. As this component will be
implemented by DecSec, all of its activities will be defined in DecSec's annual work plans,
which will be submitted for IDA approval at beginning of each year.
Component 3: Program Management (US$1.0 million)
13.    The objective of this component is to ensure timely implementation and satisfactory
monitoring of the program.   The component financed administrative costs related to the
implementation of the grants and capacity development components (Components 1 and 2).
Sub-component A (program coordination-US$400,000) supported IPAU, LGFD, DECSEC, and
Budget Bureau to meet costs related to program monitoring and administration, inter-
governmental coordination between key MDAs, joint program supervision, bi-annual program
reviews, donor coordination, and external audit. Sub-component B (monitoring and evaluation-
US$600,000) also financed program monitoring and evaluation. It specifically provided technical
assistance in strengthening and modifying M&E arrangements for the local level and also
provide the logistical and technical support necessary to facilitate joint MDA-LC-DecSec
monitoring missions and the production of bi-annual LC work plan reports.
58 These formulae are reviewed each year and are required under the LGA 2004 to be refocused towards more
accurate measurement of need and the inclusion of revenue capacity measures.
59 'Relevant' MDAs are taken to mean MDAs in sectors (a) that have devolved in line with the statutory
instrument, and (b) for which LCs are receiving significant funding (i.e., funding equal to at least 10% of the
whole vertical envelope). Currently, those sectors are: Health, Education, Energy and Water Resources, Social
Assistance, Youth and Employment, and Agriculture.
47


﻿2.0     Achievement of Objectives and Outputs
Program Outcome Indicators       Baseline     End of Project             End of Project Status
Target
Proportion of clinics with     2008: 82%           100%       Bo: 19.8%
essential drugs in stock                                      Bombali: 25.9%
Kenema: 27.2%
Tonkolili: 27.2%
The data collected for this indicator was for only
the four pilot districts for the Community
Monitoring and Non-Financial Awards under the
social accountability initiative. This in fact was a
separate survey from the INPSS. The percent
value is per district.
People with access to an       2007: 51%           60%        54.79%
improved water source
People with access to          2007: 30%           40%        82.28%
improved sanitation services
Met: Performance on this indicator more than
doubles the target. However, the wording for the
indicator was modified by replacing "sanitation
services" with "toilet facilities".
Schools with teaching and      Number of           100%       Textbooks: 39.4%
leaming materials according    materials                      Exercise books: 28.3%
to agreed standards            to be
distributed                    Again, this indicator was modified by replacing
according to                   "Schools" with "Students" and the data is
MEYS                           disaggregated per textbooks and exercise books
datasheet
Project Outcome Indicators      Baseline     End of Project             End of Project Status
Target
Number of grants for           9                     6        6
expenditures (excluding                                       The government had requested reducing the target
wages and interest                                            from four to six to allow separation of funds
obligations) in education,                                    between primary and secondary health care.
health and sanitation, water,
and solid waste management
sectors
Percentage of domestic         29.6%               30%        34% (FY2011)
revenues (less wages, interest
obligations, and statutory
transfers to NRA and Road
Fund) transferred to LCs
on an annual basis, excluding
DSDP funds
Transfer of funds to Local     6.0%                6.0%       5.0%
Councils as a percentage of                                   Not Met: This is end of 2011 FY data. While
total GoSL expenditures                                       there was a real increase in transfer of funds to
local councils more than expected at appraisal,
agitation by civil servants led to much larger than
expected increases of the salary share of the
budget. Thus the share of transfers to local
councils fell as a share of total Government
48


﻿expenditures but increased as a share of non-
salary non-interest expenditures to 11%
Number of Councils meeting     0                    15        11
at least 75 percent of service-                               Not Met: The short fall is due to the fact that
output targets specified in LC                                many councils stretched out some of the projects
Subsidiary Agreement                                          over a couple of years due to funding in each year
not being enough to complete certain projects.
This affected bulk projects like water supply
systems.
Number of Councils with        0                    19        19
integrated development plans and
budgets (finalized in accordance
with sector plans) before the start
of the FY.
Number of Councils with        0                    19        19
procurement plans (which
include LC transfers and
DSDP funds).
Number of Councils with        12                   19        19 (FY2011)
January - September budget
execution rates of 90 percent
of available funds
Percentage of WDCs             N/A***              100%       46%
receiving and discussing
development plans/budgets,
financial statements and their
updates
Percentage of WDCs holding     N/A                 75%        79%
public meetings and reporting to
councils as part of the annual
development plan updating and
execution cycle
Percentage of WDCs performing  N/A                 65%        75%
spot checks on service providers
(in education, health and water
supply)
Number of Councils whose       13                   19        19
M&E units receive, process,
and transmit (to key
stakeholders) data related to
sector activities
Number of Councils             0                    12        19
producing annual updates on
implementation progress on
development plans
Number of National Public      3                     5        4
Services Surveys conducted                                    Not Met: The fourth survey combined three
existing surveys and became a more intensive one
and heavier to administer than expected
49


﻿Number of Councils receiving  19                   19        19
timely transfers from the CRF
each quarter (transfer received
within first month
of the quarter).
Number of Councils receiving  0                    19        19
timely transfers from DSDP
each quarter (15th of the first
month of each quarter).
Number of teaching and        0                  850,000     1,497,720
learning materials that are
distributed to primary schools
Number of LCs procuring and   0                    19        Responsibility for Data Collection:
distributing required sets of                                DecSec/Ministry of Education/LCs
teaching and learning materials
Number (proportion) of LCs    N/A                  19        Responsibility for Data Collection:
which conduct fee-free awareness                             DecSec/MDA/LCs
campaigns
Percentage of water and       Baseline differs    95%        Responsibility for Data Collection:
sanitation facilities which are  per LC                      DecSec/MDA/LCs
used, maintained and in good
working order in each LC
Number of Councils with 50    0                    19        Responsibility for Data Collection:
percent of villages declared open                            DecSec/MDA/LCs
defecation free (ODF)
Targets are indicative and will be reviewed annually
There are existing development plans in all LCs. However, these need to be updated incorporating recently developed
sector plans in health, education and water
N/A: Not Available. Values will be updated by end of 2009
District Councils currently receive, process and transmit data on Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) to Statistics
Sierra Leone
Central Government transfers to Local Councils for Quarters 1 and 2 of 2009 were made in January and April
respectively. This should be maintained in subsequent periods
3.0    Assessment of Project Implementation
3.1     Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Satisfactory
14.    The PDO was to improve the availability and predictability of resources to local councils;
support the councils' capacity to plan, implement, and monitor devolved service delivery
functions; and reinforce the intergovernmental fiscal transfer system. All of these fall within
government development priorities.
15.    The total targeted amount of US$ 16 million was fully paid to the councils within the
project period and was utilized to deliver services to the identified sectors. A second-generation
intergovernmental fiscal transfer system on an equitable and transparent basis was universally
adopted and accepted by local councils and other stakeholders. An unconditional grant window
was also introduced to increase council's autonomy in the administration of exclusive local
services. The reduction of bureaucratic inefficiencies was achieved through the direct transfer of
50


﻿devolved function funds to service delivery accounts at the LCs managed by the LCs in
accordance with the priorities identified in the development plans.
16.   Adequate provision for capacity building was made to support financial management
systems for effectiveness of financial flows to local councils and council; adherence by local
councils to Local Council Agreements; and the status of triggers for moving from phase 1 to
phase 2 of the program. Local councils were monitored on their implementation of sub-projects
and other services as indicated in their budgets and subsidiary agreements.
17.   The institutional and organizational structures of sub-national government have been
durably strengthened in the country through continuous training and the provision of logistical
support and required equipment and tools. Significant advance has been made in also
strengthening the foundations for PFM.
3.2   Component Administration
Component 1- Grants to Local Councils
Rating: Satisfactory
18.   The total targeted amount of US$16 million was fully paid to the councils within the
project period. Health service grants were used to support rehabilitation of health facilities,
including provision of water and electricity supply; immunization; distribution of drugs and
medical supplies to facilities; training of health workers; provision of diets for in-patients; etc.
Education grants also supported rehabilitations of primary and junior secondary schools,
including provision of WATSAN facilities; distribution of core text books to primary and junior
secondary schools; procurement and distribution of TLMs; supervision of schools; etc. Rural
water grants provided local councils with clean and drinkable water through
construction/rehabilitation of boreholes and gravity schemes; rehabilitation/construction of water
wells; chlorination of water wells; etc. Solid waste management grants grant generally supported
garbage collection and disposal.
Component 2 - Capacity Building and Technical Assistance
Rating: Satisfactory
19.   Capacity Development Grant: A novelty of the Decentralized Service Delivery
Program is the establishment and operationalization of a demand-driven and supply-driven
Capacity Development Grant Program. The grant increased enthusiasm and enhanced LC
capacity to perform their core functions; and MDAs on the other hand were strengthened to
provide adequate strategic guidance and oversight over LCs.
20.   Training and Logistics: The various trainings and logistics provided under this
component were helpful in strengthening the decentralized service delivery process.
Development Planning and Management Committees, as well as local technical planning
committee of Local Councils now perform their roles and responsibilities more effectively and
efficiently. Ward committee members were trained on development planning, budgeting,
monitoring and evaluation that were not part of the previous training manual. Treasury Clerks
51


﻿and other Chiefdom Administrative functionaries were trained on simple administrative
procedures, planning and budgeting, book-keeping, transparency, and accountability.
Development planners also received training at IPAM in development planning. A total of 394
bicycles were procured and supplied to all ward committees in the country, and 19 motor bikes,
modem and desk top computers also procured and supplied to the local councils.
21.   IEC: Awareness raising and sensitization programs were undertaken to promote
transparency, accountability, participation and inclusiveness. Regional and district based radio
programs, consultations and meetings were organized to educate citizens on decentralization
agenda and service delivery programs at the local level. This created a forum for free expression
of opinion and views that were readily transmitted to the relevant parties.
22.   Fiscal Decentralization: The fiscal decentralization review provided an assessment of
the progress of fiscal decentralization in Sierra Leone since 2004 by analyzing revenue and
expenditure streams of local councils. A fiscal decentralization strategy was therefore developed
to respond to findings of the review and support promotion of local council fiscal autonomy in
financing sub-projects and front line service delivery. Key recommendation of the fiscal
decentralization strategy was the design and adoption of a second generation grant system. To
that end, the second generation intergovernmental transfer system titled "Towards a Fiscal
Decentralization Strategy for Sierra Leone: Recommendations for a Second-Generation
Intergovernmental Fiscal Transfer System" has been developed.
23.   Financial management at the local council has also improved and sub-projects were
efficiently implemented. This efficient use of resources, both in terms of project cost and low
ratio of administrative to sub project expenditure, was also acknowledged by local council PEFA
performance assessment report of 2010.
Component 3- Program Management
Rating: Satisfactory
24.   Program   Coordination: Project management under IPAU was mostly satisfactory
throughout the implementation period. All project activities were thoroughly coordinated,
ensuring compliance with the legal instruments. Annual work and procurement plans were
prepared and approved by the Technical Steering Committee (TSC) and the Bank thorough out
the implementation period. Management and progress reports were prepared and shared with the
Bank and the GoSL. The IPAU maintained proper and adequate financial records. IFRs were
submitted on time on a quarterly basis and external audits were commissioned on time and the
reports delivered to the Bank within the stipulated six months after the preceding financial year.
The project cost at appraisal was US$20 million from IDA and the actual disbursement
amounted to be US$19,998,195 million. Procurement management was generally satisfactory
and followed the procurement procedures outlined in the project documents. The procurement
audit of the project was delayed to allow IPAU and local councils undertake substantial quantum
of activities. The management team agreed for a joint procurement audit with RCHP2 to ensure
economies of scale by splitting the cost. The procurement process in ongoing and the consultant
is expected to commence work next week.
52


﻿25.   Monitoring and Evaluation: A number of activities were undertaken to strengthen the
M&E system to monitor local and central government performance on delivery of services.
Training programmes were organised for District M&E Committees, M&E and Development
Planning Officers of councils and Civil Society Organizations to enhance their performance in
their specific roles and responsibilities. An automated data collection system was piloted to
ensure information flow between local councils, MDAs and MIALG&RD. Guidelines and
framework for Local Council M&E were revised and rolled out to the relevant stakeholders.
26.   Social Accountability: The focus on social accountability throughout the program works
with stakeholders at central and local levels. This has improved communication, information
dissemination, and performance monitoring that has enhanced quality of service delivery.
27.   Integrated National Public Services Survey (INPSS): The Integrated National Public
Services Survey was designed to serve as an end-line survey for gauging the effects of
decentralization on public service delivery. It measures household experiences and satisfaction
with public services and resource levels, staffing and procedures of frontline service delivery
units. The survey provided useful information on levels of access, utilization and satisfaction
with public services from a nationally representative sample of 8000 households. It also provided
baseline data for the Community Monitoring intervention.
28.   Community Monitoring Interventions: This social accountability intervention is aimed at
improving delivery of Health Services to the rural poor. The GoSL is partnering with selected
NGOs (Plan International, Concern Worldwide and International Rescue Committee) to pilot two
interventions that use information to improve the quality of primary health services. The first
strengthens demand side accountability through facility scorecards and community monitoring of
health facilities, taking inspiration in part from a recent ground-breaking study demonstrating a
30% drop in child mortality when community score cards are used. The second intervention
seeks to incentivize health workers by providing non-financial awards to the staff of top-
performing clinics and discussions are underway with the MoHS and other stakeholders on
firming up the nature of awards. The interventions are being piloted in four districts, and will be
evaluated using a randomized controlled trial. The program also seeks to further strengthen WCs,
which are designed to mediate between communities and Councils. The program will establish a
periodic feedback loop so that Councils are required to respond publicly to concerns raised by
ward committees and quickly address grievances. The subsequent payments and the final report
will be undertaken under DSDP 2.
29.   CLoGPAS: The Comprehensive Local Government Performance Assessment System
(CLoGPAS), which monitors capacity developments at LCs, was conducted in 2011. It is a
management capacity assessment tool developed under the IRCBP project to assess the
functional capacities of local Councils, particularly their preparedness to take over devolved
functions, as they relate to the broad mandate of local level service delivery within the national
decentralization framework. CLoGPAS collects information from all 19 local Councils on the
quality of processes that occur at that level. These include; organizational and management
structures, planning and budgeting, project implementation, performance of devolved functions,
financial management, transparency and accountability, monitoring and evaluation, gender
inclusiveness and functionality of ward committees. In 2011, the results were collated, ranked
53


﻿and disseminated initially through a workshop attended by all LC political heads
(Chairpersons/Mayors), core staff, civil society and  councilor representatives, and then
subsequently to the general public and other stakeholders.
30.   An international consultant Holger Pyndt was contracted in 2011 to review the instrument.
Consultations were held in selected local councils. The framework was revised to include
modules on devolved functions, Ward Committees, local economic development and gender
issues. The new framework was implemented in May/June 2011.
4.0   CHALLENGES
4.1   Program Implementation
31.   The implementation of the DSDP Phase especially as it relates to the components has not
confronted critical challenges. However, some few difficulties were encountered but did not
necessarily affect the overall accomplishment of the Project Objective.
32.   Under Component 1, there were delays from Local Councils to timely access quarterly
disbursements even when Government transfers were not ready at that time. These delays are
mostly associated with LCs not submitting timely expenditure returns that is a strong condition
for LGFD to transfer the grants directly into the sector accounts held at the councils. Late
submission of expenditure returns were mainly due to the LCs not able to collect and collate
sector returns due to the fact that the sectors have varied capacity to make timely submission.
Also the requirement for LCs to submit returns at the end of the quarter, even when some could
only access the grants in the second month of that quarter, was found to be unrealistic.
33.   Under Component 2, capacity development challenges included getting the MDAs to
provide their policy oversight and supervision of the council and the low ability and/or capacity
of local councils to generate own revenue. In regards to the capacity development grants,
challenges included:
a. Getting the Councils and MDAs to understand and appreciate the new shift from
supply-driven to demand driven;
b. The Commitment of some Councils to access the grant was very weak leading to
the delay in processing applications;
c. Some Councils apply for support that has already been provided either by the
Project or other donors;
d. Getting the Local Councils and MDAs to provide reports and returns on the
utilization of the grant on time;
e. Aligning the capacity development requests with the CLoGPAS outcomes; and
f. Delay in implementation led to other requests being obsolete.
34.   Under Component 3, in terms of program coordination, generally, the difficulties include
the following: inadequate staffing at the IPAU; inadequate office space for IPAU staff;
unpredictable resource transfers from the central government; very low local revenue
mobilization effort for district councils; difficulty to manage the IMC; and poor Donor
54


﻿Coordination on Decentralization. In terms of monitoring and evaluation, the difficulties
included:
a. Limited understanding of the objectives and the benefits of M&E by some
Councils leading to some M&E Officers facing challenges in performing their
roles and responsibilities;
b. Weak coordination in planning and implementation of M&E activities between
MDAs and LCs;
c. Feedback mechanism from LC to the MLGRD is absence thereby making
reporting on activity implementation irregular and uncoordinated;
d. Inadequate funds for M&E; M&E Officers are constrained to effectively
implement M&E Plans for both Council and Sector activities; funds couched
within "administration" in the budget;
e. Weak information/communication loop between Councils and ordinary citizens;
f. Limited information flow between Councils and ward committees;
g. M&E still not an agenda item in council meetings; and
h. Role of Councils in devolved sector monitoring is still minimal.
4.2   Lessons Learnt
Component 1
> The time frame for LCs to submit quarterly expenditure returns was too short, i.e., end
March, June and September to access grants in April, July and October respectively.
> The requirement for LCs to submit all sector returns, even when some sector would have
submitted on time, before accessing total grant for a particular quarter also undermines
timely fund flow and service delivery.
> Initial payments required for some sub-projects were higher than the quarterly allocations,
which mean that funds have to be accumulated to meet first payment. This has delayed
implementation of sub-projects.
Component 2
> Failures of LCs to include DSAs for their staff in requesting for training affects the
overall implementation of the activity
> Untimely submission of report by both LCs and MDAs on the utilization of the Grant
received affects processing implying that grants should be processed on a need basis
> Some Councils are more responsive and committed than others due to a variety of factors.
However, efforts are being made through mentoring and meetings to address this issue.
> Delays in release of funds have inflationary implications thus affecting finals costs of
goods and services.
> Utilization of Service Providers in their localities was very helpful in reducing cost and
ensuring that the activities of Councils were not interrupted due to their participation in
training
5.0   BANK AND GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE
35.   The overall Bank performance was satisfactory. The Bank's performance at lending is
satisfactory, given that the GOSL participated fully in the preparation of the project and the Bank
55


﻿fully honored its obligation at lending. The Bank's performance was satisfactory. The Bank
provided adequate implementation support through missions to the country. All aides memoires
related to the ISMs were prepared on time and cleared by borrower before they were officially
issued. The mid-term review of the project was conducted on time; and in a participatory manner,
involving the Government. A formal report on the review was prepared and discussed with the
Government.
36.   The performance of the Government of Sierra Leone is rated satisfactory as it
participated actively and effectively in the preparation of the Project from 2010 till its appraisal
in 2011. During the period of preparation, Government officials showed their commitment to the
project by cooperating with Bank officials involved in the design of the project.
56


﻿Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not applicable.
57


﻿Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
Adu-Boateng, Kwaku (2011). Independent Assessment and Technical Audit of Performance of
the First Phase of the Sierra Leone Decentralization and Service Delivery Program
(DSDP). Freetown, Sierra Leone.
European Union, Election Observation Mission to Sierra Leone (2013). Sierra Leone Final
Report: Presidential, Parliamentary, and Local Council Elections, 17 November 2012.
Freetown, Sierra Leone.
Innovations for Poverty Action (2012). Report on the IRCBP 2011 Integrated National Public
Services Survey: Public Services, Governance, and Social Dynamics. Freetown, Sierra
Leone.
Pyndt, Holger (2010). Review of the Comprehensive Local Government Assessment System
(CLoGPAS) in Sierra Leone. Local Government Denmark (LGDK) International
Consultant
Republic of Sierra Leone (2010a). Government Budget and Statement of Economic and
Financial Polices for the Financial Year 2011, Delivered by Dr. Samura Kamara,
Minister of Finance and Economic Development, November 12, 2010. Freetown, Sierra
Leone.
Republic of Sierra Leone (2010b). Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA)
Performance Assessment Report: Sub-National Government (Local Councils). Freetown,
Sierra Leone.
Republic of Sierra Leone (2010c). Public Financial Management (PFM) Performance
Assessment Report: Central Government. Freetown, Sierra Leone.
Republic of Sierra Leone (2011a). Sierra Leone Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper Progress
Report: 2008-20 10. Freetown, Sierra Leone.
Republic of Sierra Leone, Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development,
Decentralization Secretariat, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (201 1b). Comprehensive
Local Government Performance Assessment System (CLoGPAS) 2011. Freetown, Sierra
Leone.
Republic of Sierra Leone, Ministry of Finance and Economic Development, Local Governance
Financial Department (2012).  Local Governments Equitable Grants Distribution
Formulae and Annual Allocations. Freetown, Sierra Leone.
Sierra Leone Truth and Reconciliation Commission (2004). Witness to Truth: Report of the
Sierra Leone Truth and Reconciliation Commission. Freetown, Sierra Leone.
58


﻿Srivastava, Vivek and Marco Larizza (2011). "Decentralization in Postconflict Sierra Leone: The
Genie is Out of the Bottle." Yes, Africa Can: Success Stories from a Dynamic Continent,
Punam Chuhan-Pole, Manka Angwafo, eds. Washington, DC.
Theunynck, Serge (2009). School Construction Strategies for Universal Primary Education in
Africa: Should Community Be Empowered to Build Their Schools? Washington, DC:
The World Bank.
World Bank, Independent Evaluation Group (2008). Decentralization in Client Countries: An
Evaluation of World Bank Support, 1999-2007. Washington, DC.
World Bank (2009-2012). Aide-memoires of Preparation and Implementation Supervision
Missions for DSDP.
World Bank (2010-2012). Implementation Status and Results Reports for DSDP.
World Bank (2009). Decentralization, Democracy, and Development: Recent Experience from
Sierra Leone. Washington, DC.
World Bank (2011). World Development Report: Conflict, Security, and Development.
Washington, DC.
59


﻿IBRD 33478
SIERRA LEONE
o SELECTFD OTIES AND TOWN5             MAIN ROADS
DISTRICT CAPITALS                   RAILROADS
®  NATIONAL CAPITAL                    DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
RNYERS                          - -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDAR ES
12-W                  12°W                  11W
GUINEA
J-J
10°N                                                                       10N
K01 AE U-.1ý
}4°            KOQNADUGU                    UIE
er  i<aml-                  I      G U l N E A
FoKomoriali
C) B     O             N AAl
-KAMBIA -1948.)
PORT LOK 0egm y.
Kudrbun  Ø  inL
okaIaAlilBinduh
Mange                                  AIAHJ
Bay  MOYAMy noa
ATLNTICF OCTEANKO                ''°
4~ ~ ~ ~~~~ JL T-HKUN I""6,sfd
ltr bæodoni,,omoa,,                            Gandosrhun.(.ntKoindu
A."   Yar                                                Ka  hu
QoRohfunk is'neoy rn ae'oDambara °"oo"" KAItæL AeHUN
BoZyo                             BO      KE0Ara
Ma MOYAMBA
LNBERI   0
60u
ONTHt-E
Pelhun
PUJE HUN--
ATLANTIC OCEAN
7°N LEONE--
NOVEMBER 2004
60


