Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7282-POL 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF POLAND 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated April 26, 2005 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 7282-POL 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 26, 2005, between the REPUBLIC OF POLAND 
(the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS 
(A)  the Bank has received a letter of development policy from 
the Borrower, dated February 24, 2004, describing a program which sets forth the guiding 
principles that the Borrower shall follow in relation to its general responsibilities for the 
road sector and in relation to the specific responsibilities of the General Directorate for 
Roads and Motorways (GDDKiA, as further defined in paragraph (e) of Section 1.02 to 
this Agreement) with a view to encourage provision of an efficient and sustainable road 
network capable of supporting the Borrower’s national socio-economic goals (the 
Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of such Program; 
(B) 
 the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(C) 
by an agreement dated February 28, 2004 between the Borrower and the 
European Investment Bank (the EIB) (the EIB Finance Contract Agreement), the EIB has 
agreed to make a finance contract to the Borrower in a principal amount of one hundred 
fifty million Euro (EUR 150,000,000) part of which will assist in financing part of the 
cost of Part A of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the EIB Finance 
Contract Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modification set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
Page  4
-
2
-
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the words 
“corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works, 
consultants’ services and Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Transfers (hereinafter 
defined) referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(c) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(d) 
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any 
of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on 
December 31 in each calendar year; 
(e) 
“GDDKiA” means the Borrower’s General Directorate for National 
Roads and Motorways, a central body of the Borrower’s administration falling under the 
supervision of the MOI (as hereinafter defined in paragraph (h) of this Section), and 
composed of its headquarters office in Warsaw and its sixteen (16) regional offices; 
(f) 
“HDM-4 System” means the Highway Development and Management 
Computerized System within the GDDKiA providing information for the analysis of road 
management and investment alternatives; 
(g) 
“Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators” means the agreed performance 
indicators set forth in a letter of even date herewith to be utilized by the Borrower under 
the Project to measure the progress in the implementation of the Project and the degree to 
which the objectives thereof are being achieved; 
(h) 
“MOI” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Infrastructure, or any 
successor thereto; 
(i) 
“Operational Manual” means the Operations Manual adopted by the 
Borrower on June 10, 2004, under the Bank-financed Road Maintenance and 
Rehabilitation Project (Loan Agreement No. 7223-POL dated April 7, 2004) and to be 
amended and updated pursuant to Section 6.01 of this Agreement; which may be 
amended from time to time with the Agreement of the Bank;  
Page  5
-
3
-
(j) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
February 11, 2005 covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
(k) 
“Project Coordination Unit” and “PCU” means the Project Coordination 
Unit established by the Borrower within the MOI under the Bank-financed Road 
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (Loan Agreement No. 7223-POL dated 
 
April 7, 2004); 
(l) 
“Resettlement” means: (i) the involuntary (
i
.
e
.,
an action that may be 
taken without a person’s informed consent or power of choice) taking of land, including 
anything growing on or permanently affixed to such land, such as buildings and crops, 
resulting in: (A) relocation or loss of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or  
(C) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected persons 
must move to another location; or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally 
designated parks and protected areas resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihoods of 
the affected persons, and encompassing restrictions on the use of resources imposed on 
people living outside a park or protected area, or on those who continue living inside the 
park or protected area during and after Project implementation; 
(m) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(n) 
“Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program” means the sub-program 
for road maintenance and rehabilitation co-financed by the Bank, prepared by GDDKiA 
with the assistance of the HDM-4 System, and which constitutes part of the GDDKiA 
budget allocated for the management of the national road network; 
 
(o) 
“Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Transfers” means the amount, 
consisting of 62% out of the proceeds of the Loan and 38% from the Borrower’s own 
resources, transferred by the Borrower through its Ministry of Finance to the MOI and 
through the MOI to GDDKiA to cover the costs of goods, works and services required for 
the implementation of the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program; and 
(p) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
Page  6
-
4
-
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred 
million Euro (EUR 100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. 
The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Transfers under Part A of 
the Project. 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007 or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  Such fee shall be 
payable not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to:  
(i) eighty five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and  
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. 
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal
 
amount of the Loan,
 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually 
in arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Page  7
-
5
-
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
two installments of fifty million Euro (EUR 50,000,000) each to be made on  
April 15, 2011 and October 15, 2018, respectively. 
Section 2.09. 
(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. 
(a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project and, to this end, shall, through the MOI, cause the GDDKiA to carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and technical practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. 
(a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services
 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
Page  8
-
6
-
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 
twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval. 
(c) 
Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 6.03 (d) of the General 
Conditions (and terms of paragraph 1.13 of the Guidelines referred to in Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement and paragraph 1.18 of the Consultant Guidelines referred to in Schedule 3 
also referred to in said Schedule), if, at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract financed through disbursements from Road Maintenance and 
Rehabilitation Transfers is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this 
Agreement, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower cancel an amount of the Loan 
equivalent to sixty two percent (62%) of the amount of such contract. 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through the MOI, shall cause the GDDKiA to 
maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through the MOI, shall cause the GDDKiA to: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
Page  9
-
7
-
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of the reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower, through the MOI, shall cause the GDDKiA to: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section III of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower, through 
the MOI, shall cause the GDDKiA to prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial 
monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
Page  10
-
8
-
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover 
such calendar quarter. 
 
Section 4.03. 
Without prejudice to the requirements of Section 4.02 above, 
with respect to Part A of the Project, the Borrower through MOI shall cause GDDKiA to 
prepare and submit to the Bank monthly financial report in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, within thirty (30) days after each month. 
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. 
The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower, through the MOI, shall have caused the 
GDDKiA to adopt amendments to the Operations Manual in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 6.02. 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  11
-
9
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions, including 
inter alia, 
reallocation of the proceeds of the Loan among the 
Categories set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Section 7.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
u1.
Swietokrzyska 12 
 
00-916 Warszawa  
 
Republic of Poland 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
MINF 
 825592 minf pl or 
(48-22) 826 6670 
 
Poland 
 814386 minf pl 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  12
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Warsaw, Republic of Poland, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF POLAND  
 
By   /s/  
Wies aw Szczuka
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  /s/  Daniela Gressani 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  13
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category ,and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
Category
Euro)
to be financed
(1) Road 
Maintenance 
and 
96,000,000 
62% 
Rehabilitation Transfers 
 
 
 
(2) 
Goods under Part B 
3,700,000 
100% of foreign 
 
of the Project 
 
expenditures, 
 
100%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 85% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants' services 
300,000 
100% for foreign 
 
under Part B of the 
 
consulting firms and   
Project and for  
 
foreign individual  
auditing services 
 
consultants and 83.5% 
 
for local consulting 
 
firms and local 
 
individual consultants 
 
including 100% of 
 
eligible social charges 
 
TOTAL 100,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods, works or services supplied from 
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
Page  14
-
12
-
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c) 
the term “foreign consulting firm” means a consulting firm which is 
registered or incorporated in the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(d) 
the term “foreign individual consultant” means an individual consultant 
who is a national of a territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(e) 
the term “local consulting firm” means a consulting firm which is 
registered or incorporated in the territory of the Borrower; and 
(f) 
the term “local individual consultant” means an individual consultant 
who is a national of, or is resident in the territory of, the Borrower. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding ten million 
Euro (EUR 10,000,000), may be made in respect of Category (1) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after January 1, 2005; and (b) any expenditures under any Category in the table 
in paragraph 1 above, unless the Bank has received payment in full of the front-end fee 
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (i) goods costing 
less than EUR 500,000 equivalent per contract; (ii) works costing less than 
 
EUR 6,000,000 equivalent per contract; (iii) services of consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than EUR 160,000 equivalent per contract; and (iv) services of individual 
consultants costing less than EUR 100,000 equivalent per contract, all under such terms 
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include any information as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower (Report-based Disbursements).  In the case of the first such request submitted 
to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan Account, the Borrower 
shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected sources and applications of 
funds for the Project for the six-month period following the date of such request.  
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Euro a special deposit account in the 
National Bank of Poland or in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and 
Page  15
-
13
-
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment in the case of a commercial bank. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
  (b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in  
Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements; or
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
Page  16
-
14
-
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from
 
the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  17
-
15
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of EUR 20,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested. 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.  
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  18
-
16
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (i) the amount so requested; and  
(ii) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following 
the date of such reports. 
 
Page  19
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in continuing improving the 
effectiveness of the country’s national road rehabilitation and maintenance systems, with 
emphasis on quality, efficiency, financial viability and road user satisfaction, by:  
(i) further increasing the percentage of national roads in good condition; (ii) establishing 
a
reliable and stable funding for the national road maintenance and rehabilitation 
network; and (iii) improving the capacity within GDDKiA to operate efficiently and 
effectively. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program
Carrying out of the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program of 
maintenance, rehabilitation, strengthening and reconstruction of existing roads selected 
for financing under GDDKiA’s 2005-2006 budget. 
Part B:
GDDKiA Management Information System
Implementation of a modern management and information system (MIS) within 
GDDKiA that would properly integrate all data necessary to efficiently carry out 
GDDKiA’s activities (including technical, financial, human resources and contract 
related data) and support all core functions and decision-making processes of GDDKiA. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007. 
Page  20
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.  
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than EUR 500,000 
equivalent per contract and works and services (other than consultant services) estimated 
to cost less than EUR 6,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding and the following additional 
provisions:  
(a) 
with respect to eligible contracts procured under the Borrower’s Act on 
Public Procurement, dated June 10, 1994, that became effective on January 1, 1995, as 
amended, the procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those 
allowing open tendering set forth in said Act with the following clarifications required for 
compliance with the Guidelines: (i) no domestic preference shall be used; and (ii) the 
term “Best Offer” shall be understood as the lowest evaluated bid selected following 
Page  21
-
19
-
evaluation with use of quantifiable factors expressed in monetary terms.  In addition, no 
merit points system shall be used to evaluate bids; and 
(b) 
with respect to eligible contracts procured
 under the Borrower’s Law on 
Public Procurement, dated January 29, 2004, that became effective on March 2, 2004, the 
procedures to be followed for national competitive bidding shall be those allowing open 
tendering for procurement of goods, works and technical services set forth in said Law 
with the following clarifications required for compliance with the Procurement 
Guidelines: the term “Best Offer” shall be understood as the lowest evaluated bid 
selected following evaluation with use of quantifiable factors expressed in monetary 
terms.  In addition, no merit points system shall be used to evaluate bids. 
2. 
Shopping or Request for Quotations
.
Goods, works and services (other than 
consultant services) estimated to cost less than EUR 60,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping or goods, and services 
(other than consultant services) estimated to cost less than EUR 60,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Request for Quotation 
provisions with respect to eligible contracts procured under the Public Procurement Law, 
dated January 29, 2004. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods, works and services (other than consultant services) 
for road maintenance and rehabilitation: (i) estimated to cost less than EUR 6,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured on the basis of provisions of the Law on Public 
Procurement dated January 29, 2004; and (ii) estimated to cost less than EUR 600,000 
equivalent per contract, which the Bank agrees meet the requirements for Direct 
Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions of said procurement 
method. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than  
EUR 160,000 equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  22
-
20
-
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than EUR 160,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection 
and estimated to cost less than EUR 100,000, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 through 3.13 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each contract for 
goods, works and technical services (other than consultant services) procured on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding; (b) each contract for consultants’ services provided 
by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of EUR 160,000 or more; (c) each contract 
procured under Section II.B.3(ii) and Section III.B.3 above; and (d) each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of EUR 100,000 or 
more.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank; provided, however, 
that the terms of reference for each contract provided by a firm and for the employment of 
individual consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. 
Page  23
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
Section I:
Organizational Arrangements
1. 
Ministry of Infrastructure
The MOI shall be responsible for overall Project management and coordination 
through the Project Coordination Unit, assisted as required by GDDKiA. 
2. 
Project Coordination Unit
The Borrower shall maintain the PCU within the MOI, headed by a Project 
Coordinator, until completion of the Project, with staff, resources and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank.  Specifically, the PCU shall be assign responsibility for overall 
Project coordination, including, 
inter alia
:
(i) consolidation of all reporting requirements 
under the Project, including the annual work plan  under the Road Maintenance and 
Rehabilitation Program and the annual progress reports referred to in paragraph 1 of 
Section III of this Schedule; (ii) management of the Special Account referred to in Part B 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; (iii) arrangement for the audit of records and accounts 
of the Project; and (iv) carrying out of monitoring and evaluation activities under the 
Project. 
3. GDDKiA
The Borrower, through the MOI, shall assign to the GDDKiA responsibility for 
daily Project management and coordination activities, including: (i) preparation of 
disbursement applications under the Loan; (ii) maintenance of records and accounts 
related to the Project; and (iii) participation in administration of bidding procedures and 
contracts under the Project. 
Section II:
Implementation Modalities
1. Operational 
Manual
(a) 
The Borrower, through the MOI, shall cause the GDDKiA to take all 
action required to carry out the Project in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in the Operational Manual, including, 
inter alia
:
(i) the procedures for the 
selection, carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the maintenance and rehabilitation 
of works thereunder; (ii) any requirements relating to environmental and social standards 
satisfactory to the Bank and those required to enforce and monitor the strict adherence by 
each contractor under Part A of the Project to the measures specially designed to ensure 
that the works in question do not cause or result in Resettlement; and (iii) all applicable 
Page  24
-
22
-
laws and regulations of the Borrower relating to work and road safety and environmental 
protection, ensuring adequate information regarding the above is included in the FMRs 
for the Project. 
(b) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through the 
MOI, shall ensure that the GDDKiA do not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Operations Manual or any provision thereof. 
2. 
Selection of Expenditures for National Roads
The Borrower, through the MOI and with the assistance of the HDM-4 System, 
shall determine, on the basis of proposals submitted by GDDKiA, the overall annual 
program of expenditures for national roads to be financed under Part A of the Project. 
Section III:
Progress and Evaluation and Monitoring Reporting
Progress Reports
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower, through the MOI, shall cause the GDDKiA, on or about 
February 28 of each year until Project completion, to prepare and furnish to the Bank a 
progress report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
describing, in accordance with the Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators, the progress 
achieved in the implementation of the Project during the preceding calendar year.   
 
