Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1206 
Project Name 
Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (ROADS 4) 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Roads and highways (100%) 
Project ID 
P088824 
Borrower(s) 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Infrastructure and Road Administration (GDDKiA) 
Ministry of Finance 
12 Swietokrzyska Str. 
Poland 
Tel: (48-22) 694-31-71 
Fax: (48-22) 826-66-70 
agr@mofnet.gov.pl 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[
]
C
[X] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[X] S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
November 4, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 20, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 30, 2005 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Roads IV is a continuation/“repeater” operation of the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation 
(RM&R) Project currently under implementation. It forms part of the Poland’s Government 
multi-year financial arrangement with the Bank, agreed in July 2003. This is the second specific 
loan out of the planned three, to be implemented over the next three years. That arrangement 
suits very well the Government’s annual budgeting process. The Ministry of Finance has already 
allocated the necessary project counterpart funding for its next fiscal year (2005). Moreover, the 
project will further enhance the ability of the Government and the General Directorate for 
National Roads and Motorways (GDDKiA) to plan and implement high priority road 
investments supported by the main donors (EU, EIB, EBRD). To that end the EIB has urged the 
Bank to continue its assistance towards improving the institutional capacity of the Road 
Administration. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The objective of the project is to continue improving the effectiveness of Poland’s national road 
rehabilitation and maintenance systems by (i) further increasing the percentage of national roads 
in good condition, (ii) establishing reliable and stable funding for the national road maintenance 
and rehabilitation network, and (iii) improving the capacity within GDDKiA to operate 
efficiently and effectively.  
 
Page  2
3. Preliminary description 
 
The preliminary total project cost is USD 190 (EUR 152) million, of which the World Bank 
would finance USD 125 million, i.e., around 65%, split as follows: (i) continuation of the 
financial support to the road maintenance and rehabilitation program (about USD160 million) - 
according to the budget framework prepared by GDDKiA for 2005. The financing scheme and 
implementation principles will be similar to the ones applied under RM&R project. The 
component may include a pilot maintenance project in a selected region, to use a three-year 
performance 
–
based contract; and (ii) implementation of a Management Information System 
(MIS) within GDDKiA (about USD15 million) – in line with the Strategy for a Comprehensive 
Information Technology System approved by the GDDKiA in February 2004. In addition, the 
project may include a small TA component to support GDDKiA Concessions Department in 
developing Public-Private Partnerships (PPP) in the road sector. 
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01). An independent assessment of Borrower’s safeguards 
capacity was carried out during preparation of the RM&R project, and found satisfactory to the 
World Bank.  The existing project Operational Manual (OM) - covering the approach to 
consultation, expected mitigation measures, and monitoring and evaluation procedures – will be 
updated and reviewed to ensure that the lessons learned from the RM&R project are included.  
The content of this section is  also based on (1) the background report and discussions held 
during the public workshop held in Poland in mid January 2004, (2) follow-up consultations and 
analyses in connection with the SWAp, and (3) the experience gained from the overall 
environmental management plan and site-specific environmental assessments done for previous 
World Bank-financed roads projects.  
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 65 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
125 
 Total 
190 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Anca Dumitrescu 
Title: Transport Specialist 
Tel: (202) 458-9754 
Fax: (202) 614-0900 
Email: Adumitrescu@worldbank.org
 
