Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1301 
Project Name 
Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (RM&R II) 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Roads and highways (100%) 
Project ID 
P088824 
Borrower(s) 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Implementing Agency 
General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways 
(GDDKiA) 
Ministry of Finance 
12 Swietokrzyska Str. 
Poland 
Tel: (48-22) 694-31-71 
Fax: (48-22) 826-66-70 
agr@mofnet.gov.pl 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[
]
C
[
]
FI   [X]  
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[X] S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
December 22, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
January 18, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
March 31, 2005 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Country Partnership Strategy.
 Poland joined the EU in May 2004, which is a cornerstone in the 
country’s development effort. Access to structural funds and closer economic integration 
constitute a unique opportunity for further progress. In that context, the Bank has just established 
a
new work agenda for Poland, embedded in a Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) document. 
The World Bank and the Government see a need for the Bank to have a significant but well 
targeted operational program over the next two years in selected sectors in Poland to leverage, 
promote and endorse needed reforms. The Bank continues to be involved in Poland because: (i) 
the country’s per capita income is still below the threshold for World Bank graduation; (ii) there 
is still a significant agenda of needed reforms in areas in which the World Bank has been, and 
continues to be engaged, and where it can add value from the perspective of the client (among 
others in the road sector); and (iii) capacity to formulate and implement projects for EU funding 
(and reforms in general) is still limited, creating an opportunity for Bank’s contribution. 
The CPS represents an evolution with respect to a traditional CAS approach from a largely pre-
determined program of lending and non-lending activities for the full period of the Strategy to 
one in which broad priorities are defined for the entire period while specific areas of involvement 
and operations are demand-driven and agreed in yearly business plans, consistent with the Polish 
planning and budgeting cycle. For flexibility purposes World Bank procedures will also need to 
be aligned with those of the country, in line with the “Use of Country Systems” initiative and the 
“entity and sector accreditation” concept in the 
Framework for World Bank Involvement in the 
EU New Member Countries
.
Page  2
The new approach also means a move away from lending scenarios and triggers towards broad 
criteria that define a set of minimum standards for engagement and a ceiling for lending based on 
creditworthiness and World Bank exposure limits. The minimum standards for engagement are 
based on the country’s agenda; they include, in particular, further fiscal consolidation and 
stabilization of public debt below the constitutional limit as outlined in Poland’s convergence 
programs, which is consistent with the path towards meeting the Maastricht criteria for adoption 
of the Euro.  Overall Poland is a creditworthy borrower and has good access to sovereign credit 
with a rating of BBB+. Additionally, constitutional debt restrictions put an effective limit to any 
fiscal and economic policy irresponsibility. The government continues efforts to consolidate 
public finances. 
Economic growth accelerating.
 Following a very weak performance in 2001-2002 of about 1 
percent per annum, growth rebounded strongly in 2003-2004 to the estimated 5.8 percent per 
annum in 2004. The recovery has been led by expanding manufacturing production for export, 
which was supported by a real depreciation of the zloty over past two years and by recent EU 
accession, as well as private consumption stimulated by an expansionary fiscal policy. 
Meanwhile, following a virtual collapse, investment recovery still lags behind. Firms hold off 
investment project due to unstable legal situation, government red tape, inefficient public 
administration services and infrastructure bottlenecks.  
The IMF notes that the near-term economic outlook is positive, with the prospect of strong 
growth in exports and output being supported by an improved external environment, strong 
POLAND: Main economic indicators
Annual data 
2000 
2001 
2002 
2003 
2004e 
Real Economy 
 
GDP Growth (constant prices) 
4.0 
1.0 
1.4 
3.8 
5.8 
Domestic Demand Growth (constant prices) 
2.8 
-1.6 
0.9 
2.4 
4.3 
Gross Domestic Fixed Investment Growth (constant prices) 
2.7 
-8.8 
-5.8 
-0.9 
5.0 
Social Indicators 
 
Inequality (Gini coeff. for equivalent consumption) 
0.271 
0.271 
0.278 
2.812 
.. 
Employment (end of period, millions)
1
14.54 14.04 13.72 13.62 13.70 
Unemployment, registered (end of period, %) 
16.3 
19.4 
20.0 
20.0 
19.3 
Public Finances 
 
National methodology
2
General Government Revenues (% of GDP) of which 
37.5 
38.3 
38.0 
39.7 
39.6 
General Government Expenditures (% of GDP) 
40.5 
43.3 
44.0 
46.3 
47.1 
General Government Deficit (% of GDP) 
-3.0 
-4.9 
-5.9 
-6.6 
-7.5 
Total Public Debt (% of GDP) 
40.7 
41.6 
47.6 
52.1 
53.6 
ESA95
3
General Government Deficit (% of GDP) 
-1.8 
-3.5 
-3.6 
-4.1 
-5.7 
General Government Debt (% of GDP) 
36.6 
36.7 
41.2 
45.3 
46.6 
Prices, Wages, and Interest Rates 
 
Inflation (period average, y/y, % change) 
10.1 
5.5 
1.9 
0.8 
3.4 
Commercial lending rate (period average, %) 
20.2 
18.7 
13.4 
8.3 
9.0 
Real Effective Exchange Rate
4
(end of period, y/y% change) 
13.0 
11.1 
-8.7 
-12.0 
15.0 
Nominal Exchange Rate (PLN/Euro, end of period) 
3.85 
3.52 
4.02 
4.72 
4.22 
External Developments 
 
Trade Balance (goods) (% of GDP) 
-7.4 
-4.1 
-3.8 
-2.9 
-2.0 
Current Account Balance (% of GDP) 
-6.0 
-2.9 
-2.6 
-2.0 
-1.9 
FDI 
(inflow, 
% 
of 
GDP) 
5.7 3.1 2.2 2.1 2.7 
External Debt (% of GDP) 
39.8 
37.7 
41.5 
47.6 
50.0 
Figures for 2004: World Bank Staff estimate; Sources: CSO, NBP, OECD, IMF, Eurostat and Bank Staff estimates; 
1/ Based on Labor Force Data; 2/ Constant methodology; 3/ source: Eurostat, MoF; 4/ IMF, increase = appreciation 
 
Page  3
profitability of enterprises, and domestic fiscal stimulus. However, stronger investment effort is 
necessary in order to maintain growth momentum at current levels.  
Having achieved a stable underlying inflation at about 2.5 percent per annum, strong current 
ac
count (deficit below 2 percent of GDP) and floating exchange rate Poland’s economy do not 
exhibit any major macroeconomic imbalances. This is, however, with the exception, of labor 
market situation and a relatively loose fiscal stance. 
Unfortunately, the recent economic upturn has not been associated with any significant dent in 
the country’s very high unemployment rate, which remains at almost 20 percent. This reflects 
high structural unemployment, estimated at around 15 percent, related to important labor market 
rigidities arising from the generous social benefit system, skills mismatches, high tax wedge and 
very low labor mobility. Given the difficulties in tackling these obstacles, it seems that only 
demographic trends could improve the situation around 2010-2015. 
Fiscal deficit and debt are the main risk to macroeconomic stability.
 The general government 
deficit increased from 3.4 percent of GDP in 2000 to the estimated 7.5 percent of GDP in 2004, 
reflecting both the economic downturn of 2001-2002 and the expansion of discretionary 
expenditures. The deficits have transferred into a rapid increase in the public debt, which rose 
from 41 percent of GDP in 2000 to estimated 53.6 percent of GDP at the end of 2004, 
approaching a constitutional limit of 60 percent of GDP. However, the fiscal situation is 
gradually improving. First, the government has initiated a fiscal consolidation program that is to 
bring between 1 and 2 percent of GDP savings annually over 2005-2008. The program is 
progressively being implemented. Second, the new government will most probably continue with 
fiscal consolidation. Finally, stronger tax revenues, higher nominal GDP figures, stronger 
exchange rate and significant privatization receipts help reduce the debt-to-GDP ratio. 
 
Link to Pol
and’s development agenda. 
Poland faces three immediate broad development 
challenges. The 
first
 is to meet the conditions required for adoption of the Euro, which Poland 
seeks to achieve by 2009. The so called Maastricht criteria require a prudent economic 
management and, specifically, putting limits on the fiscal deficit, public debt, inflation, interest 
rates and exchange rate fluctuations. A 
second
 challenge is to converge to European income 
levels and be fully competitive in European and world markets. As Poland does so, it will need 
to implement structural reforms to improve labor and capital mobility, improve further the 
business environment, as well as the infrastructure, and deepen public administration reform. 
The 
third
 challenge is to increase employment and reduce poverty. In the case of Poland, 
increasing employment will have a direct and immediate impact in reducing poverty given the 
strong correlation between the two. To this end labor market reforms are needed, and SME 
development needs to be revitalized. Separately, lack of the right type of education is a key 
factor for the ability to find and hold a job, and thus to staying out of poverty. There is also a 
need to revisit the system of social transfers for better targeting as there is evidence that it 
provides a disincentive to more active participation in the labor market. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The objective of the project is to continue improving the effectiveness of Poland’s national road 
rehabilitation and maintenance systems by (i) further increasing the percentage of national roads 
in good condition, (ii) establishing reliable and stable funding for the national road maintenance 
Page  4
and rehabilitation network, and (iii) improving the capacity within the Road Administration  to 
operate efficiently and effectively. These objectives form part of the Letter of Sector 
Development Policy endorsed by the Government in 2004. Achievement of the project 
development objective will be confirmed using the following key indicators: (i) adoption and 
continued use of improved road maintenance and rehabilitation practices within GDDKiA; (ii) 
evidence of use of a coherent 6-year rolling roads expenditure program together with an 
adequately balanced maintenance/investment program; (iii) significant increase in the percentage 
of the road network in good condition when compared with pre-project conditions; and (iv) 
evidence of high road user satisfaction following rehabilitation or maintenance operations when 
users are polled, both about the quality of the completed sections and the inconveniences 
associated with the rehabilitation or maintenance processes. The table below details the project 
monitoring indicators, including the results expected at the end of the project. The indicators 
build on the outcomes under the current RM&R project: . 
 
Project Monitoring Indicators
 
2004 
Baseline 
2005 2006 
GDDKiA Modernization Action Plan (MAP) 
MAP adopted 
implementation 
started  
MAP 
satisfactory 
progress
1
MAP 
completed 
Effective use of HDM-4 System by GDDKiA 
Use at branch 
and national 
level started  
Yes, without 
external advice 
Yes 
Percentage of roads in good condition 
46% 
50% 
55 
Length of network designed for 11.5 tons/axle 
load (km) 
1,400 2,000 
2,400 
Road safety improvement (number of 
fatalities/year) 
5,000 4,500-5,000 
<4,500 
Road user satisfaction surveys completed  and 
published 
One One 
One 
Acceleration of investment in infrastructure is crucial to fulfill Poland’s development agenda and 
meet the challenges still ahead. Modern and well-developed communication network is a key 
element of the general investment climate, which in turn determines country’s potential to foster 
a
sustainable private sector-led growth. In Poland the inadequate, decapitalized, unsafe and 
congested road infrastructure is increasingly recognized as a main bottleneck to growth. Through 
high transport costs it disables opportunities to further exploit economies of scale. It is also 
believed to contribute to regional disparities as, in Poland, regional income and unemployment 
levels are strongly correlated with road density. Access to a reliable transportation networks is a 
precondition to have a competitive economy, both on regional and national levels. With the 
lowest ratio of roads in good condition in the region, Poland is already losing a fair amount of 
foreign direct investments to its better equipped neighbors. The issue is also linked to the 
composition of public expenditures. Relative to its comparator countries, Poland spends too 
much on current consumption, while public investment is heavily neglected.  
1
Monitored under the current RM&R project 
Page  5
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
While it is clear that other institutions, notably the EU, EIB and EBRD -- are likely to be longer-
term partners for financing Poland’s road network, their ability to help is still constrained by 
Poland’s still weak institutional capacity to develop and implement a large program of high 
priority road investments. The World Bank in Poland has drafted its strategy around Poland’s 
development priorities. In particular, Bank supported roads programs have focused on the 
institutional restructuring of the sector with the aim of improving its planning and 
implementation capacity, and on the financing of the sector to tackle the large maintenance 
backlog and the large new investments required for expansion. Some progress has been made 
with the creation of a single roads agency (GDDKiA) and with the creation of the Roads Fund, 
which is financed with a surcharge on fuel. Several additional challenges remain, including the 
need to: (i) improve GDDKiA’s investment planning capacity so as to impact the quality and 
timing of project implementation; (ii) build internal capacity for prioritization and selection of 
investments on the basis of economic criteria using modern programmatic tools; (iii) eradicate 
the large road maintenance backlog; and (iv) institutionalize a framework for private sector 
involvement in the financing of roads through concessions or Public-Private Partnership (PPP). 
 
Request for World Bank Assistance
.
The proposed Second Roads Maintenance and 
Rehabilitation (RM&R II) project is a “repeater” of the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation 
(RM&R) under implementation since March 2004. It follows Government’s request to the Bank, 
of July 2003, to provide a multi-year -- US$400 million worth -- phased financial support for a 
medium-term program of policy reforms and capacity/institutional building, aimed at increasing 
the pace of road network modernization, strengthening road public expenditure management and 
improving governance. The Government steadily pursues its agenda, to which the Bank responds 
through three specific loans, in the respective amounts of 
 100
or
US$126.0 equivalent for the 
first one (RM&R project under implementation), 
 100
or
US$130 million equivalent for the 
proposed RM&R II project, and the remaining US$144 million to follow-up in FY2006. 
 
Borrower Ownership and Commitments
.
Improvement of the national roads network remains 
one of the highest priorities for the Government. The Government has accelerated its efforts  to 
implement the Modernization Action Plan (MAP) of the General Directorate for National Roads 
and Motorways (GDDKiA), initiated under the RM&R project. These efforts are supported 
jointly with the EIB. The EIB’s Priority Roads Framework Project, to cover the period through 
2009, consists of a pooling of funds coming from EIB loans (
 500
million) World Bank loans 
(
 350 million), and Government budget ( 200 million). The first tranche of the EIB loan was 
negotiated in early December, of which  
 10
million will be disbursed in 2005 as part of the 
GDDKiA’s expenditure plan for road maintenance and rehabilitation supported by the Bank 
through RM&R II. The Government’s plans are clear, the commitment is strong, and the 
complementary external support is jointly orchestrated. 
 
The proposed project continues the series of innovative operations to support a Sector Wide 
Approach (SWAp), whose primary goals would be to: (i) support the development of 
institutional capacity in road transport sector; (ii) help Poland address key sector policy issues 
aimed at strengthening public expenditure management and improving governance; and (iii) 
Page  6
provide funding for road maintenance and rehabilitation in a way that would allow for an 
adequate balance between maintenance of existing assets and new investment supported by the 
EU and other international financing institutions.   
 
4. Description 
 
The project loan amounts to about US$130.0 million and includes 2 components: (a) financial 
support to the road maintenance and rehabilitation program (about US$124.3 million) 
–
in line 
with the draft budget framework prepared by GDDKiA for 2005. The financing scheme and 
implementation principles will be similar to the ones applied under RM&R project; and (b) 
implementation of GDDKiA Management Information System (MIS) within (about US$5 
million) – in line with the Strategy for a Comprehensive Information Technology System 
approved by the GDDKiA in February 2004. The complement to the total US$130.0 consists in 
Front-end Fee (US$0.7 million).  
 
a
-
The road maintenance and rehabilitation program
has been prepared by GDDKiA within 
the framework of the budget for 2005. The national budget funds allocated to road maintenance 
and rehabilitation will be pooled with the resources provided by the Bank and EIB loans, to be 
used for reducing the existing road maintenance and rehabilitation backlog. The Bank team 
received a tentative list of 110 contracts to be executed in 16 regional branches of GDDKiA. The 
National budget funds allocated to road maintenance and rehabilitation, pooled with the resource 
provided by the IBRD and EIB loans amounts to PLN0.7 billion equivalent or about US$ 
205million. The proceeds of the loans will provide additional resource to essentially tackle the 
current road maintenance and rehabilitation backlog. The purpose of this financial support is to 
maintain a right balance between maintenance/rehabilitation, strengthening and reconstruction of 
existing roads, and with new construction of motorways and expressways. 
 
b
-
GDDKiA Management Information System (MIS)
.
I
mplementation of the MIS is included 
in the GDDKiA’s MAP supported by the RM&R project. A specific risk identified under the 
RM&R project was the lack of a modern MIS within the organization, which would integrate 
financial-accounting information with the contract data including planning and physical 
measures. The system also aims at addressing current weaknesses in the financial planning and 
control systems, together with the project management systems, used by the GDDKiA 
branches/regions.  The current system worked well when GDDKiA only had to manage a 
relatively small program and only had to deal with one donor (the World Bank). Now that the 
program has expanded several fold and there are numerous donors involved – each with slightly 
different procedures, there is an urgent need to update the financial planning and control systems 
used at the regional level and also to integrate it with a suitable project management system.  
This will enable the regions to produce reasonable accurate estimates of monthly cash flow 
requirements and also to manage the physical implementation of the national road program. The 
component would support the MIS Strategy to (i) establish Wide Area Network (WAN) to 
enable communication between GDDKiA headquarters, its 16 branches, and the 120 regions; (ii) 
develop an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) by adopting SAP or a similar system; (iii) 
develop a system workflow for the management of documents and information; and (iv) procure 
the system supporting equipment/hardware. 
 
Page  7
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 67 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
130 
EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK 
13 
 Total 
210 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The technical assistance provided by Bank staff and consultants under the ongoing RM&R 
project continue to help shaping the Government program and institutional reforms in GDDKiA. 
These are fully supported by the EBRD, EIB and the EU. The Polish Government and the World 
Bank have maintained regular contact with representatives of these agencies, to keep them 
informed and to consult them on program preparation. The EIB in particular is keen in pursuing 
the reforms supported by the Bank in the road sector, in particular in increasing Poland’s 
capacity to plan and implement a large programs of high priority road investments. The EIB 
supported project on Priority Road Infrastructure II includes financing from EIB (
 500
million), 
the World Bank (
 350 million
2
), and the Government (
 200
million) for a program through 2009 
that would help eliminating the maintenance and rehabilitation backlog. The ongoing assistance 
and advice provided by the Bank to the road fund, disbursements from that fund have improved . 
The possibility of using the fund to float bonds and acquire other forms of credit, as well as 
channeling EIB and other donor funds through the road fund, are being explored jointly with the 
Government. 
 
Overall Project Management.
 The MOI through its Project Coordination Unit (PCU) established 
under the on-going RM&R project will be responsible for overall project management and 
coordination, in close cooperation with the Project Team established within the GDDKiA. The 
latter will be the final project beneficiary. GDDKiA has developed significant capacity in 
preparation and management of bidding documents, in cash flow calculations and payments, and 
with the advice of its respective experts it proves capable of successfully implementing the 
proposed project. GDDKiA would be responsible for all procurement required by the project.  
 
Flow of Funds
.
There will be one Special Account for the project. The Special Account will be 
opened by MoF in National Bank of Poland. Loan funds will flow from the World Bank to the 
Special Account and then converted into PLN and pooled with other government funds in the 
central budget account. The funds will then be made available to MoI and GDDKIA as budget 
transfers. The GDDKiA will report monthly to MoI on its use of the funds in accordance with 
normal budget reporting procedures. On a quarterly basis, the MoI -- with concurrence of the 
MoF -- will send an application for withdrawal of loan funds to the World Bank together with a 
reconciliation of funds received and used for project expenditures. The application will be 
supported by Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) showing types of expenditures with applied 
disbursement percentages, as well as a request for further loan funds based on a forecast of the 
next 6 months’ expenditures. Full documentation in respect of project expenditures will be kept 
by GDDKiA and verified by auditors on an annual basis.  
2
Including the on-going RM&R loan, the proposed RM&R II, and a new Roads V in FY06. 
Page  8
7. Sustainability 
 
The project will seek sustainability through: 
·
Carrying out of the road maintenance and rehabilitation program as developed by 
GDDKiA with the assistance of the HDM-4 System, both at headquarters and regional 
offices; 
·
Increased capacity within GDDKiA for planning and managing national roads 
expenditure programs; 
·
Improved efficiency in implementing the overall national roads expenditure program; and 
·
Secured funding mechanisms for road maintenance and safety. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
Since the beginning of 9
0’s, the European Union has been very active in providing grant 
assistance, mainly in the form of program PHARE and pre-accession instrument ISPA (
 510
million). During this period, the Polish road sector has been supported by three main 
international financial institutions: European Investment Bank (EIB) – in the total amount of 
 1.
85
billion, the European Bank of Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) – 
 
45
million, 
and the World Bank which made a transport loan with a road component and three road loans for 
a
total of US$455 million
3
.
Past projects financed by the World Bank, in addition to their focus on road rehabilitation-
modernization and maintenance, also included construction of bypasses, road safety 
improvement, and black spots elimination. All physical investments were successfully completed 
with works widely distributed throughout the country, in compliance with World Bank fiduciary 
and safeguards requirements. The civil works contracts enabled a recently commercialized 
domestic construction industry to modernize its technology and to strengthen its managerial, 
administrative and commercial practices. Through technical assistance, the modernization of the 
national roads administration was initiated, and most of the new private consulting firms as well 
as local construction sector professionals benefited from training courses on preparation of bids 
and on the management and administration of enterprises. A Road Data Bank was created to 
support management of the national roads and facilitate training activities. The recent experience 
with the RM&R project was very positive in terms of execution of civil works contracts, with a 
record number of 164 contracts implemented in a six months period. At the same time the local 
contractors have become too stretched; experience showed that the bidding process should start 
early in January to allow contract execution to start as early as April. Institutional reforms have 
taken a longer time to take-off, but under the new management of GDDKiA, the modernization 
process of the Polish Road Administration has been reactivated.  
 
The experience from past operations may be characterized as globally positive. While the 
objectives of the projects were achieved in full, there is still scope for further improvement to 
address some of the GDDKiA’s internal specific issues including information management, 
3
The first road project was completed in 2000; the second project of 1998 is satisfactorily being completed is by 
end-2004; the RM&R project is progressing at high speed with 93% of disbursement completed in less than one 
year.   
Page  9
accounting, planning, and contract management. In addition to the Modernization Action Plan 
(MAP) 
–
implemented under the on-going RM&R project - these issues are being addressed in 
the MIS component. 
 
Progress has been also registered in road safety. The National Road Safety Program, operating 
since 2001, provides an orientation for road safety policy and  guidance for concrete actions.  
Important provisions have been made to the national legislation on road safety to  further 
strengthen the road safety structure and enhance its operational basis. Poland has been provided 
with a nationwide road safety framework comprising a central coordination body and 16 regional 
branches. Another important aspect is the increased involvement of the private sector and NGOs, 
mainly within the framework of Polish GRSP Committee. An increased contribution to national 
road safety efforts has been noticed and the insurance sector also plays a role in this.  There is a 
slow but steady progress in raising social awareness of road hazards and increasing the public’s 
recognition of road safety measures, especially against excessive speed and alcohol impairment. 
The number of road crash victims has been declining during the last four years, despite a steady 
growth in car ownership. The number of fatalities has shown the fastest decline, followed by a 
slight drop in injuries and crash figures.  In April 2004, by signing the European Road Safety 
Charter, Poland endorsed the Community road safety goals.  Shortly following the accession, in 
May, the countrywide speed limit of 50 km/h within built-up areas was passed by the Parliament. 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Given the nature of the interventions supported by the project, the project does not trigger any 
social safeguards. However, it is quite likely that the implementation of the proposed sector 
reform agenda will generate a number of social issues that will require the Borrower’s careful 
attention throughout the project implementation period. In this context, it is essential that the 
Government builds the necessary capacity to monitor the impact of fuel price increases on the 
most vulnerable social groups and poor working population groups who rely on road transport, 
access and mobility of the poor. In addition, the Government will need to develop the capacity to 
monitor the social impact of the reform and deal with possible redundancies among transport 
sector employees as well as in carrying out public consultations and briefings among the 
concerned stakeholders. 
 
Furthermore, while the project does not finance land acquisition, given the Government’s resolve 
to undertake significant sector investments funded in road sector in the future, the preparations of 
the project included an evaluation of the legal framework and its enforcement in regard to 
involuntary resettlement and land acquisition. The evaluation was conducted on the request of 
the GoP in order to determine the degree of compliance of the Polish law as compared to the 
relevant standards pursued by the Commission of the European Union and the World Bank. 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [
x
]
[
]
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) [ 
] 
[
x
]
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[
x
]
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[
x
]
Page  10
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) [ 
] 
[
x
]
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10) 
[ ] 
[
x
]
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) [ 
] 
[
x
]
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) [ 
] 
[
x
]
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[
x
]
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50) [ 
] [
x
]
Involuntary Resettlement
:
The Safeguards consultation meetings for the project dealt in 
considerable detail on issues related to involuntary resettlement. Since no new road segments 
will be financed, and any small road widening will be carried-out within the right-of-way, 
triggering of the involuntary resettlement safeguards is not anticipated.
 
Furthermore, it is 
confirmed that road maintenance and rehabilitation works supported by the project will not 
involve acquisition of land. 
 
Cultural Property and Chance Find
:
Protection of cultural heritage is currently regulated by 
the Act of 23 July 2003 on Protection of Monuments. This new law, which replaced the old Law 
of 1962 on Cultural Heritage Protection has reinforced the already quite strict rules
 
concerning 
protection of cultural heritage. In fact its requirements in this context, including far reaching 
powers of cultural heritage authorities (‘Conservators of Monuments”) in relation to planning 
and development control are often considered to be too rigid. Chance findings during works is 
regulated by the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage which is empowered of giving and 
recalling permits for carrying out conservational, archeological and excavatory works and on 
terms of carrying out of these works and on qualifications of persons carrying out these works. 
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
1.
Infrastructure -- A Key to Development
 (Warsaw, January 2002); Council of Ministers 
2. 
Poland Road Financing Study
 (Warsaw, June 2002; Prof. Suchorzewski and his team) 
3. 
Technical Assistance to GDDKiA
 
(Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick, November 2003) 
4. 
Assessment of the Public Procurement Law and Regulations
 
(Peter Trepte, October 2003) 
5. 
Comparative Study between Polish and WB Environmental Assessment
 (REC, December 2003) 
6. 
Minutes of the Safeguard Consultation Meeting 
(November 2004)
 
7. 
Minutes of the Quality at Entry Review Meeting 
(November 2004)
 
8. 
Thematic Seminar on Environmental Assessment
 (Josefow, January 2004) 
9. 
Minutes of Decision Meeting 
(January 2005)
 
10
.Operational ManualUpdate 
(Chapter on Environment, January 2005)
 
11
.Organizational Audit by FinnRoad
 
(December, 2004) 
12.
National Roads Draft Investment Program 2015 
(Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick, February 2004) 
13
.
Draft Budget of GDDKiA for 2005
 (November 2004, GDDKiA) 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Anca Cristina Dumitrescu 
Title: Transport Specialist 
Tel: (202) 458-9754 
Email: Adumitrescu@worldbank.org 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' 
claims on the disputed areas. 
Page  11
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
