                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR0000541


              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                      (IBRD-72820)

                                          ON A

                                         LOAN

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 100 MILLION
                            (US$130.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                                   REPUBLIC OF POLAND

                                         FOR A

               SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION

                                        PROJECT


                                      June 26, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Central Europe and the Baltic States
Europe and Central Asia Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective May 1, 2009)

                 Currency Unit = Zloty (PLN)
                         1.00 = US$ 0.34
                         US$ 1.00 = 2.93

                         FISCAL YEAR


          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy
EIB        European Investment Bank
EU         European Union
FMR        Financial Management Report
GDDKiA     General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ISPA       Instrument for Structural Policies for Pre-Accession
ISR        Implementation Status Report
MAP        Management Action Plan for GDDKiA
MIS        Management Information System
MoI        Ministry of Infrastructure
MoT        Ministry of Transport
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PCU        Project Coordination Unit
PDO        Project Development Objective
PLN        Zloty
PPP        Public-Private Partnership
PSAL       Private Sector Adjustment Loan
RMR1       First Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
RMR2       Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
SECAL      Sector Adjustment Loan
SIL        Sector Investment Loan
SWAp       Sector-Wide Approach
TA         Technical Assistance



                 Vice President: Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
       Country Director (Acting): Theodore O. Ahlers, ECCU7
                Sector Manager: Henry G. R. Kerali, ECSSD
          Project Team Leader: Radek Czapski, ECSSD
              ICR Team Leader: Ross Pavis, ECSSD

The main text of this ICR evaluates two projects: Poland Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation 1 and 2. These two projects constituted the first two projects in a series
of loans aimed at supporting the Government's 6-year development program of the
national road network. The Program was designed to improve the effectiveness of
Poland's national road rehabilitation and maintenance systems, particularly in the
areas of quality, efficiency, road safety, financial viability, and road-user satisfaction.
As the components and objectives of each project were closely aligned, and as the
closing dates were only six months apart, it was decided that the assessment of the
two projects would be more comprehensive and could shed more light on the
Program if they were evaluated together. Therefore, there are two ICRs, each with its
own datasheet, but the main text in each volume, which assesses both projects, is the
same. Ratings apply to the Program. Where there is a deviation between the two
projects, it is noted in the text. Each datasheet from the twin project is included as an
Annex. A third project in the series is scheduled to close in September 2011.

                                                    POLAND
                   Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project




                                                  CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph



 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design.............................................. 1 
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................. 4 
 3. Assessment of Outcomes........................................................................................... 7 
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcomes....................................................... 12 
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower........................................................................... 13 
 6. Lessons Learned ...................................................................................................... 14 
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ......... 15 
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 17 
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 19 
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 22 
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 23 
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 25 
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 26 
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 27 
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 30 
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 31 
 Annex 10. Datasheet for Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (1)................ 32 
 Map IBRD No. 33843................................................................................................... 36 

A. Basic Information

                                                                       Road Maintenance &
Country:                Poland                  Project Name:
                                                                       Rehabilitation 2 Project
Project ID:             P088824                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-72820
ICR Date:               06/26/2009              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       MINISTRY OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                       FINANCE
Original Total
                        USD 130.5M              Disbursed Amount:      USD 121.3M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways (GDDKiA)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/28/2004    Effectiveness:                             06/16/2005
Appraisal:             02/17/2005    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              03/29/2005    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                12/31/2007         06/30/2009


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory           Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:        Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately SatisfactoryPerformance:            Moderately Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators              (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                    Quality at Entry     None


                                               i

at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original        Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                 4                4
Roads and highways                                               96               96


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development            40              40
Injuries and non-communicable diseases                            20              20
Regional integration                                              40              40


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                       At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu                       Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Theodore O. Ahlers                 Roger W. Grawe
Sector Manager:            Henry G. R. Kerali                 Motoo Konishi
Project Team Leader:       Radoslaw Czapski                   Michel Audige
ICR Team Leader:           Ross S. Pavis
ICR Primary Author:        Graham Smith
                           Ross S. Pavis



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project is to continue
improving the effectiveness of Poland's national road rehabilitation and maintenance
systems by: (i) further increasing the percentage of national roads in good condition; (ii)
establishing reliable and stable funding for the national road maintenance and
rehabilitation network; and (iii) improving the capacity within the Road Administration
to operate efficiently and effectively.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                                 ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from         Revised       Achieved at
                                                 approval           Target      Completion or
                                                documents)          Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :   GDDKiA Modernization Action Plan (MAP)

Value           Modernization Action        MAP shows                         MAP -- satisfactory
quantitative or Plan (MAP) adopted,         additional,                       progress but slower
Qualitative)    implementation started      substantial
                                            progress                          than expected.

Date achieved 02/29/2004                    12/31/2007                        03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        See section 3.2 for a fuller discussion of this indicator.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from                       Achieved at
                                                 approval           Revised     Completion or
                                                documents)       Target Values   Target Years
                Effective use of HDM-4 System by GDDKiA (HDM-4 is a software tool for the
Indicator 1 :   analysis, planning, management and appraisal of road maintenance,
                improvements and investment decisions.)

Value                                       Usage in at least                 Yes, but only some

(quantitative   Use at branch and           50% of branches,                  branches are able to

or Qualitative) national level started      based on 2005 or                  fully utilize HDM-
                                            later database.                   4's full potential.
Date achieved 05/31/2004                    12/31/2007                        03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Partly achieved since in spite of extensive training program and dedicated staff

achievement)    only a few branch offices use HDM system in their planning processes.

Indicator 2 :   Percentage of roads in good condition
Value
(quantitative   46%                         52%                               53%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                    12/29/2006                        12/01/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                 iii

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                               Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                    IP         Disbursements
                                                            (USD millions)
  1   06/02/2005        Satisfactory         Satisfactory             0.00
  2   04/01/2006        Satisfactory         Satisfactory          115.59
  3   01/08/2007        Satisfactory         Satisfactory          116.52
  4   01/11/2008        Satisfactory         Satisfactory          117.34
  5   02/06/2008   Moderately Satisfactory   Satisfactory          117.34
  6   07/10/2008   Moderately Satisfactory   Satisfactory          117.34
  7   04/29/2009   Moderately Satisfactory   Satisfactory          121.28



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         iv

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

In 2003, Poland's imminent EU membership offered a unique window of opportunity for the World Bank
to support the Polish Government, especially as it was initiating an overdue fiscal adjustment. One area
where World Bank support was considered essential was in the development of the required institutional
and financial capacity for a road improvement program. Time was a critical factor since, beginning in
January 1, 2004, Poland was eligible to receive European Union (EU) structural and cohesion funds, and
in order to qualify, it was necessary to have a well-conceived and economically justified road
improvement program. Furthermore, if the eligible funds were not fully committed by the end of 2006,
they would be lost. The lack of institutional capacity within the General Directorate for National Roads
and Motorways (GDDKiA) had already affected the use of EU funds1 which had been offered in 2002
and 2003 but never utilized. Now this lack of capacity was threatening to affect use of the larger
Structural and Cohesion Funds in the absence of strong World Bank support.

Poland joined the EU in May 2004, which led to closer economic integration and access to structural
funds and which constituted a unique opportunity for further development. In that context, the Bank
outlined a new framework for cooperation with Poland, which became part of the new Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS). The World Bank and the Government agreed to maintain a significant
operational program over the next few years in those sectors where the Bank could add value, leverage,
and promote and endorse needed reforms. Although Poland's per capita income was approaching the
threshold which could initiate the process leading to eventual graduation from World Bank borrower
status, there was still an agenda of important reforms in areas in which the Bank had been a key technical
partner.

During this time, inadequate, unsafe and congested roads were increasingly recognized as severe
bottlenecks to economic growth. High transport costs curtailed opportunities to exploit economies of scale
and also exacerbated regional disparities, since in Poland regional income and unemployment levels were
strongly correlated with road density. Access to a reliable transportation network is a precondition to a
competitive economy, on both regional and national levels. With the lowest ratio of roads in good
condition in Central Europe, Poland was already losing a fair amount of foreign direct investments to its
more developed neighbors. The poor quality of the road network was identified in the CAS of November
2002 as a key factor that increased the cost of doing business in Poland.

GDP growth reached 5.4 percent in 2004, up from 1 percent in 2001, 1.4 percent in 2002, and 3.8 percent
in 2003. This rise marked the end of the first serious economic cycle in Poland since the beginning of the
transition. Growth originated in a rapid expansion of exports (linked partly to EU accession, but also to
efficiency gains), and growing private consumption, while fixed investment only began recovering in
2004. Inflation remained low and relatively stable; it declined to less than 1 percent in 2003, but increased
in 2004 on the back of EU-accession effects (adjustments of indirect taxes etc.) and the surge in oil and
other commodity prices. However, second-round effects appeared to be contained, as monetary conditions
were tightened through both a hike in interest rates and appreciation of the zloty. Further, wage pressures
were held in check by the persisting slack in the labor market. The current account deficit stayed at a very




1Funds available through the Instrument for Structural Policies for Pre-Accession (ISPA).


                                                        1

low and safe level, helped by a healthy increase in exports and muted investment demand. External debt
at 47 percent of GDP posed limited risks.

Poland's development agenda had as its overriding objective to put the economy on a path of high and
sustainable growth through improved competitiveness of firms and regions, to contribute to the recovery
of employment and promote strong social cohesion in order to reach two-thirds of the EU average income
per capita by 2013. This strategy recognized the need to manage the economy prudently in order to
increase employment and reduce poverty, converge (in the medium-to-long term) to average European
income levels, and meet the requirements for the adoption of the Euro. While it was clear that other
institutions ­ notably the EU, European Investment Bank (EIB) and European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development ­ were likely to be longer-term partners for financing Poland's road network, their
ability to help was still constrained by Poland's weak institutional capacity to develop and implement a
large program of high priority road investments. The World Bank drafted a partnership strategy around
Poland's development priorities. In particular, Bank-supported roads programs focused on the
institutional restructuring of the sector with the aim of improving its planning and implementation
capacity, and on the financing of the sector in order to be able to tackle the large maintenance backlog and
the large new investments required for expansion.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)2

RMR1. The objective of this Project was to improve the effectiveness of Poland's national road
rehabilitation and maintenance systems by: (i) significantly increasing the percentage of national roads in
good condition; (ii) establishing reliable and stable funding for the national road maintenance and
rehabilitation network and for road safety; and (iii) improving the capacity within GDDKiA to operate
efficiently and effectively, and to reflect the views of road users in developing its programs. Achievement
of the Project Development Objective was to be confirmed using the following key indicators: (i)
adoption and continued use of improved road maintenance and rehabilitation practices within GDDKiA;
(ii) evidence of use of a coherent six-year rolling roads expenditure program, together with an adequately
balanced maintenance/investment program; (iii) significant increase in the percentage of the road network
in good condition when compared with pre-project conditions; and (iv) evidence of high road-user
satisfaction following rehabilitation or maintenance operations when users were polled, both about the
quality of the completed sections and the inconveniences associated with the rehabilitation or
maintenance processes.

RMR2. The objective of this project was to continue improving the effectiveness of Poland's national
road rehabilitation and maintenance systems by: (i) further increasing the percentage of national roads in
good condition, (ii) establishing reliable and stable funding for the national road maintenance and
rehabilitation network, and (iii) improving the capacity within the Road Administration to operate
efficiently and effectively. Achievement was to be confirmed using the following key indicators: (i)
adoption and continued use of improved road maintenance and rehabilitation practices within GDDKiA;
(ii) evidence of use of a coherent six-year rolling roads expenditure program together with an adequately
balanced maintenance/investment program; (iii) significant increase in the percentage of the road network
in good condition when compared with pre-project conditions; and (iv) evidence of high road-user
satisfaction following rehabilitation or maintenance operations when users were polled, both about the
quality of the completed sections and the inconveniences associated with the rehabilitation or
maintenance processes.



2 From Section B3 of the PAD. See Section 3.2 for comment.


                                                      2

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

RMR1 PDO indicator "Percentage of Roads in Good Condition" was added in 2006 (which made it
consistent with indicator in RMR2).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The primary beneficiaries of the two projects were road users who benefited from the improved overall
quality of the national road network, including aspects of traffic safety.

Though these projects were not expressly targeted at the poor, and they do not meet the criteria for being
classified as "poverty-focused operations", improving the country's road network increases access to
schools, health services and job markets, which benefit poor populations. The other beneficiary of the
project was GDDKiA. The agency benefited from a strengthened institutional capacity to carry out its
mandate, providing an improved and more sustainable road system.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

RMR 1
The project loan amounted to 100 million, equivalent to US$126.0 million, and funded the following
four components:

    The GDDKiA Modernization Action Plan (MAP) ($2.5 million). The plan was articulated around
    four major topics to be implemented within one year: (i) to carry out a detailed diagnosis of the
    current situation at GDDKiA, implement modernization measures at headquarters, and launch works
    for development of procedures for preparation and implementation of roads projects [Stage 1]; (ii) to
    complete the process of reorganization at the central level, undertake reorganization at the regional
    level, and finish works on procedures for preparation and implementation of roads projects [Stage 2];
    (iii) to establish a proper system of strategic planning [Stage 3]; and (iv) to evaluate the efficiency of
    implemented measures, pursue modernization of the gaps that would continue after Stages 1 to 3, and
    review potential for further improvements in order to further increase efficiency.

    The Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program ($115.9 million) which had been prepared by
    GDDKiA within the framework of the 2004 budget provides details on the content of the road
    expenditure program that amounts to PLN5.4 billion (equivalent to $1.4 billion) for the year 2004.
    The national budget funds allocated to road maintenance and rehabilitation, pooled with the resources
    provided by the projects, amounted to PLN.634 million, equivalent to $159 million. The proceeds of
    the loan provided additional resources to tackle essentially the current road maintenance backlog.
    Funds were disbursed as a percentage of the agreed program of rehabilitation (67 percent) using local
    procurement (country system) for contracts below EUR 6 million. The purpose of this financial
    support was to maintain the right balance between maintenance/ rehabilitation, strengthening and
    reconstruction of existing roads, together with new construction of motorways and expressways.

 The Road Safety Improvement Program ($5.7 million) to reduce significantly the cost to society of
    road accidents, estimated at two percent of GDP. Actions would focus on further contributing to the
    reduction of road traffic fatalities as part of the National Road Safety Program. This would be realized
    by enhancing the capacities of prevention and mitigation of crash consequences through the provision
    of financing to support partially local initiatives in the area of black spot mitigation and traffic
    calming, additional equipment to the road traffic police, the fire brigade, possibly also the ambulance


                                                        3

    service, and the Road Transport Inspectorate. The program would be coordinated by the Secretariat of
    the National Road Safety Council in the Ministry of Infrastructure.

 Technical Assistance to Increase Public Private Partnerships (PPPs) ($0.6 million) provided to
    GDDKiA and MoI to define an adequate policy framework providing incentives for the development
    of Public-Private Partnership (PPP) schemes in Poland.

RMR2

The project loan amounted to 100 million, equivalent to US$130.5 million, and included two
components:

 The Road maintenance and Rehabilitation Program ($125.5 million) was prepared by GDDKiA
    within the framework of the budget for 2005 and with a financing scheme and implementation
    arrangements similar to the ones applied under RMR1. The national budget funds allocated to road
    maintenance and rehabilitation would be pooled with the resources provided by the Bank and EIB
    loans, to be used for reducing the existing road maintenance and rehabilitation backlog. The content
    of the road expenditure program amounted to PLN 7.0 billion (equivalent to $2.3 billion) for the year
    2005. The national budget funds allocated to road maintenance and rehabilitation, pooled with the
    resources provided by the IBRD and EIB loans, amounted to PLN 0.7 billion, equivalent to about
    $205 million. Funds were disbursed as a percentage of the agreed program of rehabilitation (62
    percent) using local procurement (country system) for contracts below EUR 6 million. The purpose of
    this financial support was to maintain the right balance between maintenance/rehabilitation,
    strengthening and reconstruction of existing roads, and with new construction of motorways and
    expressways.

 GDDKiA Management Information System (MIS) ($5.0 million). A specific risk identified under the
    RMR1 project was the lack of a modern MIS within the organization which would integrate financial-
    accounting information with the contract data, including planning and physical measures. Therefore,
    the GDDKiA Modernization Action Plan included the design of a modern MIS.

1.6 Revised Components

No components were revised.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

There were no other significant changes.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

It was agreed during the preparation of RMR1 that the Bank's total financial support to the medium-term
governmental road rehabilitation program would most likely be provided through three sequential loans,
scheduled one year apart. Much consideration was given to the choice of lending instrument. Lengthy
discussions were held over a period of many months with management, Bank procurement, legal and
safeguards staff, and with the Polish Ministry of Infrastructure, which compared three different
approaches: Private Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL), Sector Adjustment Loan (SECAL) and Sector-wide
Approach/Sector Investment Loan (SWAp/SIL). The Government had a preference for the PSAL for a

                                                    4

variety of reasons, including: they saw this as an opportunity to carry out essential reforms of the road
administration through PSAL conditionalities; they had already extended strong efforts in complying with
PSAL requirements; and they were looking for un-tied budgetary support for road development which
they could use to finance expenditures such as land expropriation. This approach was initially accepted by
the Bank, but views began to change as problems with the instrument emerged. The IMF expressed
reluctance in endorsing budget support in light of Poland's deteriorating fiscal position; there were
difficulties with Poland's procurement law, which was not acceptable at that time to the Bank's legal or
procurement departments; and there were also problems with financial management (among others). The
SECAL had similar problems.

A SWAp was proposed as an alternative which would address several of the issues; there were no
concerns from the IMF, or from procurement, legal or financial management, since their concerns could
be addressed by the implementation framework. Although the loan was essentially devoted to financing
physical investments related to road maintenance and rehabilitation, it also provided support to the needed
improvement of the institutional capacity of the GDDKiA, and supported the process of road safety
improvement. Under a SWAp, the project funds for the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation component
were to be pooled with those from the national budget, while the three other components were to be
implemented using World Bank standard arrangements. This made the SWAp something of a hybrid. To
some extent, the loan would rely on government systems, so that the borrower would not have to create
special implementation units, nor adopt rules and procedures solely for Bank-supported investments. It
aimed at quick disbursement with minimal transaction cost to the borrower, and had partially pooled
funds.

In sum, the Bank team and the Government took their time with preparation in order to carefully consider
the appropriate instrument and design, taking into account the complex economic and political issues
existing during that period. It should be noted, however, that there was a built-in time conflict between the
works components and the institutional components vis a vis the implementation of the second project
(see next section).

Preparation of RMR2 was considered a repeater project and followed closely the model developed during
RMR1. After the first loan was approved, there was a fairly lengthy exchange between the Bank and
MoI/GDDKiA, about the exact specifications of the technical assistance (TA) contracts. This led to a
reformulation of the Management Action Plan (MAP) in time for the second loan's appraisal.

2.2 Implementation

In each project, the road works were implemented rapidly (in under one year in the first project). The
intention was to provide a large, quick-disbursing loan for what was a national priority, and to allow a
return to the table a year later for a second loan if still justified by the clients' needs and its performance
during the first project. This created an inherent tension, however, between the shortness of time allotted
for works and the longer amount of time allotted for the technical assistance (TA) components. The three
major TA contracts, all complex and ambitious in nature, would under the best of circumstances probably
have taken at least half a year to procure and probably a year or more to deliver in full. In fact, the TA
contracts all took much longer than expected to procure and implement, and were responsible for
requiring an extension of the closing date of the first loan by 18 months (from June 30, 2007 to December
31, 2008) and the second loan by 18 months (from December 30, 2007 to June 30, 2009).

A primary component of the technical assistance was to improve the capacity within GDDKiA to operate
efficiently through the development of a Management Action Plan to formalize contract-type business
plans governing MoT's mandate to GDDKiA, and GDDKiA HQ's mandate to its regional branches
(including the launching of consequent institutional changes. The target was to agree among the parties

                                                       5

and then to implement. A number of issues led to multiple delays and impediments to progress. The
Consultant FinnRoad delivered its Phase I report in December 2004, which focused on diagnosis of the
institutional weaknesses and recommendations for short-term solutions. There was a lengthy hiatus
caused by the change of government in 2005, during which various proposals were considered. The
previous minister wanted to completely eliminate GDDKiA and decentralize responsibilities to the
regional branches. This was reversed by the new government. In 2007, FinnRoad delivered the two most
important parts of its Phase II (Implementation) report: the draft `contracts' between MOT and GDDKiA,
and between GDDKiA and its branches. GDDKiA, however, was not satisfied with the first draft of the
consultant's review of organization structure and management processes in six other EU states, the
purpose of which was to inform GDDKiA of options, their rationale and results.

It was only in May 2008, when new top management was appointed to GDDKiA, that momentum was
regained. Since then, institutional changes have been introduced with a view to increasing its institutional
capacity. The changes include:

      decentralization of some functions from HQ to branch offices related to investment planning,
         preparation and implementation, while coordination of some vital functions was retained at HQ;

      re-engineering of key business processes and procedures in GDDKiA aimed at simplification,
         focus on results, continuous learning, limiting unnecessary controls, and active communication
         with external partners;

      creation of the following units within GDDKiA: Department of the Environment, Department of
         Technology, Projects Monitoring Unit, EU Projects Unit, and Office of Internal Audit and
         Control.)

As important as these changes were, as was the initial diagnostic assessment that was completed, it was
still less than was originally envisioned under the two projects, which also included completing the
process of reorganization of headquarters and the regional branches, and creating a broader system of
strategic planning and analysis.

A comprehensive management information system based on SAP began to be rolled out to GDDKiA's
regional offices to standardize accounting practices and support the decentralization process by unifying
and streamlining internal control procedures, as well as the flow of documents and approvals. GDDKiA
approved the Strategy for a Comprehensive Information Technology System in early 2004 with the
support a local consultant, and went on to develop the second phase of the task ­ a review of the IT
infrastructure and an analysis of processes and workflow. During 2006 it was decided to proceed with
three main contracts: a service contract with a telecom provider for a wide area network; design of the so-
called Enterprise Resource Processing (ERP) software; and a further consulting contract to computerize
workflow processing. After a lengthy two-stage procurement process, the ERP contract was signed in
January 2007. The workflow-processing contract was due to be signed in September of the same year, but
it was cancelled from the loan funding and postponed until the ERP implementation is more advanced to
assure better coordination between workflow and ERP. The pilot start-up of the key modules of the MIS
system, all financial management and accounting components, took place in January 2009, the start of
GDDKiA's financial year. Full gradual roll-out into all regional branches is planned for later in 2009.
Funding of MIS key components are being continued in the third RMR loan project.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Though the PAD gives little detail on SWAps, performance-monitoring indicators are one of the elements
central to the SWAp concept, and focus more on results, and less on the processes by which the borrower
achieves them. (They are discussed in Section 3.2 below.) The ICR missions found that insufficient
attention was given to the indicators as a central element of project design and supervision. As discussed


                                                     6

in 3.2, the quantitative indicators which measured the works constructed under the project, and also
measured the number of traffic accieent fatalities under the safety component, were monitored and
effective. However, the indicators designed to measure institutional progress were much less so.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The two projects were rated as `financial intermediaries' for purposes of safeguards, and the civil works
triggered only minor environmental impacts. Safeguard compliance was never an issue. At one stage in
2006, financial management was rated moderately unsatisfactory because release of funds to contractors
was taking excessively long and the Ministry of Transport3 was failing to submit satisfactory FMRs.
These problems were overcome by Bank-supplied training to MoT financial staff.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

A third loan, very similar in objective and composition but larger ­ $150 million, was negotiated and
approved 14 months after the second. This was consistent with the initial concept of a programmatic
approach to support rehabilitation of the main road network. At the time it was approved it was thought to
have been the last of the "repeater" loans in the program. However, during 2007 a fourth loan was
prepared, though currently it remains on hold, pending approval by the Government.

Motorways construction program: It is worth noting that MoT has proposed a "mega-program" of
highway construction, aimed at building out almost the entire planned 2,000-km network of motorways
and expressways in time for the Euro 2012 Football European Cup, to be held in Poland and Ukraine
jointly. MoT estimated the cost at Euro 25-30 billion, though there is reason to think that as the road
construction industry continues to gain experience, unit costs will be lower. In 2007 the Government also
adopted a multi-annual roads program for 2008-2013 which is currently under implementation. These
sizable undertakings provide very strong incentives for the Government to ensure that GDDKiA's
institutional capacity continues to be strengthened.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The PADs for the first two loans correctly caught the essence of Poland's situation, with emphasis on the
importance of building up the national Government's capacity to manage a large program of
infrastructure works, and especially rehabilitation of deteriorated roads for the high-level goal of
supporting Poland's economic growth. It was also intended to serve the narrower goal of making sure
Poland did not miss out on large grants being offered by the EU for a limited period to ease the transition
to EU membership and reduce the income disparity between the new members and the EU core. When the
projects were being prepared, Poland was indeed missing out on ISPA funds that were offered but not
taken up, because the Government failed to submit applications for good projects.




3The new government that took office in September 2005 broke up the Ministry of Infrastructure (created by the
previous government) and reverted to a Ministry of Transport.




                                                        7

The project concept ­ or more correctly, the program concept ­ was sound regarding the urgency of
Poland's need and the proposition that Bank attention to maintenance would help secure larger budget
allocations for an activity with a very high and quick economic return but which, for lack of political
attention, would otherwise go under-funded. And it embodied many elements of the SWAp approach,
conceived as a response to complaints from large middle-income borrowers about the high transaction
cost of doing business with the Bank.

The first loan rightly attached considerable importance to a diagnosis of the institutional set-up for
planning road investments and managing their implementation. In the long run, the most significant
benefit from this program would be the re-invigoration of the roads administration, built around resource
allocation decisions based on technical and economic reasoning rather than local politics.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Indicators, PDO and Results Framework

There is a lack of internal clarity in parts of each project's documentation regarding the PDOs and the
indicators ­ they are written in different ways in different places. The PDOs as written in the two Loan
Agreements are the most specific and come closest to encompassing the full scope of the project. They
read as follows:

      "The objective of the Project is to improve the effectiveness of Poland's national road
         rehabilitation and maintenance systems through: (i) significantly increasing the percentage of
         national roads in good conditions; (ii) establishing reliable and stable funding for the national
         road maintenance and rehabilitation network and for road safety; and (iii) improving the capacity
         within GDDKiA to operate efficiently and effectively and to reflect the views of road users in
         developing its programs."4

As noted, however, there are inconsistencies in the documentation which create some ambiguity about the
objectives and their measurement. For example, in RMR1, the above PDO taken from the Loan
Agreement appears in the PAD's Results Framework as:

      The project aims to improve the overall quality of the national roads network to speed up
         Poland's economic integration in the EU.

The indicator for this PDO in the Framework reads, "Development of a coherent roads expenditure
program with an adequately balanced maintenance/investment program to meet Poland's needs as an EU
member."5 In the ISR6, the indicator for the same PDO reads, "GDDKiA's institutional capacity and
performance developed." (A second PDO indicator on condition of roads was added in 2006; though here
it was added as a PDO indicator, the same indicator appears in RMR2 as an intermediate results indicator).
The indicators in the Minutes of Negotiation come closest to being internally consistent with the PDO as
it is written in the Loan Agreement, and it is these upon which this assessment is based. However, it is



4The second project's Loan Agreement, adds the words "continue to" [improve the effectiveness...] and so forth.

5 This PDO indicator does not appear in any other project document.

6The respective datasheets in this ICR are generated from the information in the ISR.


                                                        8

important to note, that even the PDO in the Loan Agreement does not capture all the major activities
under the projects.
Finally, given some of these ambiguities, there is the question of weighting the respective significance of
the sub-development objectives. Around 90 percent of all project funds went to the rehabilitation of roads,
which as discussed below, was satisfactory. The strictly institutional reform components comprised a
little over 1 percent, though when the related MIS component is factored in, as well as the measures taken
to reduce traffic fatalities, it largely account for the rest of the funds. The question arises: which is the
higher order objective and should govern the overall assessment? This report takes the view that the
institutional components of the project, in the long run, have the potential to lead to greater impact, and
that since their success has only been moderate they must carry a strong weighting in this review.

Sub-objective 1: Significantly increase the percentage of national roads in good conditions7

GDDKiA's excellent March 2007 report on the condition of national roads at the end of 2006 showed that
since 2002, the percentage of roads in good condition had risen from the high 20s to the low 50s. The
target in the PAD for the percentage of national roads in good condition was 55 percent8. The actual at the
end of 2006 was 53 percent, showing considerable improvement over the situation prevailing before the
first project, of about 37 percent. (Rehabilitation activities were completed by 2006; the projects were
extended for the institutional components.) Also, statistics may not capture road sections improved as part
of contracts that had not yet been completed.

Though fitting somewhat more logically within the PDO from the PAD that relates to meeting EU
standards, a second works activity under RMR2 was strengthening national roads to take trucks of
maximum weight authorized by the EU standard for single axle weight (11.5 tons per single axle). Here
the target for 2006 was strengthening 2,400 km; actual was well above at 2,912 km.

Sub-objective 2: Establish reliable and stable funding for the national road maintenance and
rehabilitation network and for road safety

The target was to have a rolling six-year road expenditure program approved by MoT, originally by 2005
(RMR1 only). The actual: the program was drawn up each year, and by 2007 a local consultant prepared a
program based on a nationwide assessment of road condition, updated traffic counts and a comparison of
alternative maintenance strategies, using HDM-4. The 2007 report demonstrated a full understanding of
the technical issues driving the selection of an economically optimal program of maintenance and
rehabilitation works for a network under budget constraints. Management of GDDKiA's branches in
Bialystok and Krakow showed the ICR mission full familiarity and understanding of HDM-4's capacities
and its strengths and weaknesses. It showed us that the current budget and plan are largely ­ though
perhaps not wholly-driven by HDM results. Limited documents given to the mission support the
proposition that all GDDKiA branches have strengthened their capacity to do likewise through training of
at least two staff in each branch. In-country observers spoke of Bialystok and Krakow as Poland's best in
this regard; other branches may be weaker.

Road Safety. The sub-objective refers to establishing stable funding for road safety but it does not
mention the substantial activities carried out aimed at the reduction of road fatalities. The outcome is
mixed and difficult to assess for several reasons. Overall, fatalities nationwide are down about 31 percent



7 The targets considered below are those of the second loan, those for the first loan having been subsumed or
adjusted by appraisal and negotiation of the second loan.

8In the second ISR, this was revised down to 52 percent with no comment.

                                                         9

since the early 1990s when the death count peaked. But the 2008 actual of 5,437 is 22 percent higher (i.e.
worse) than the target. It should be noted, however, that the target was set for the whole network, of
which GDDKiA is responsible for only 5 percent in length (though this includes about half of the traffic).
Also, the statistic is an absolute number, not an accident rate that allows for fleet growth. From 2005 to
2008 the number of deaths on the whole network, as well as on just national roads, remained virtually
static. Since road traffic was growing at least 10 percent per year during this period, the rate of fatalities
improved.

Sub-objective 3: Improve the capacity within GDDKiA to operate efficiently and effectively and to
reflect the views of road users in developing its programs

A Management Action Plan was developed to formalize business plans governing MoT's mandate to
GDDKiA, and GDDKiA HQ's mandate to regional branches. The target was to agree among the parties
and to implement. Actual: only partly implemented. As seen in Section 2.2, government changes led to
delays and losses in momentum, and as timed passed, the need was found to redefine substantially the
reform measures that would be required, and hence the TA tasks likewise needed redefinition, and in
some cases, scaling back. Some significant progress was made in the following areas: (i) overall diagnosis
and assessment, (ii) decentralization of some functions from HQ to branch offices; (iii) re-engineering of
key business processes and procedures in GDDKiA; and (iv) creation of new units within GDDKiA on
environment, technology, monitoring, the EU, and audit and control. But a wider reorganization and a full
capability for planning and analysis, and a complete decentralization is not yet realized.

GDDKiA approved the Strategy for a Comprehensive Information Technology System in early 2004,
designed under RMR1, and an MIS began its roll-out to GDDKiA's regional offices to standardize
accounting practices and internal procedures. Not all contracts, however, have been completed (The
contract for workflow-processing was canceled from loan funding and postponed until the enterprise
resources processing software ­ another contract under the project ­ was further along in its
implementation). A pilot start-up of the key modules of the MIS system, and all financial management
and accounting components, took place in January 2009, the start of GDDKiA's financial year.

Road      user    satisfaction  surveys    completed     and    published.    2006     target:   completed.
Actual: A base-line survey was conducted in mid-2004, followed by another in early 2005. The most
recent one was undertaken in January 2009, including questions that allow direct comparison with the
results of the earlier surveys. Its results were not available at the time this ICR was written. Users'
dissatisfaction ex ante with the poor quality of the roads was well documented but not their response to
the specific works carried out under the projects, since such narrowly dedicated surveys would have been
hard to carry out and of limited use for GDDKiA's overall public relations communication activities.

Award of pilot contract for performance-based maintenance by private sector (RMR1 only): 2005 target:
one contract awarded. Actual: GDDKiA decided not to pursue this option using loan funds, preferring to
use its own resources at a later date. At no point has GDDKiA shown much sense of ownership for this
proposal. The Bank recognizes that international experience with performance-based road maintenance by
the private sector is still somewhat experimental and, if it is to succeed, requires a willing and engaged
client. It therefore accepted GDDKiA's decision.




                                                     10

3.3 Efficiency

Neither appraisal report presented an economic return (ER) for a set of specific road sections. Instead, in
the spirit of a program loan, they evaluated the capacity of the borrower to conduct economic analysis
appropriately. It was judged fully satisfactory, showing the necessary precision and detail. In due course,
80 percent of sections were selected using HDM4.

The PADs summarized the main parameters of the calculation. All road sections would already be in poor
condition and yet carry traffic of at least 6,000 vehicles per day. Steady traffic growth was expected
throughout the network, leading to a doubling in less than ten years. The typical unit savings in vehicle
operating costs were also stated. The core elements of the analysis were: (i) the cost per km for the
proposed works and the additional works cost that would have to be incurred to rebuild the road if left to
deteriorate further; (ii) starting traffic and forecast traffic growth rate; and (iii) unit vehicle operating costs
without and with the project. With the values given, they would each generate an ER of at least 25%, well
above the opportunity cost of capital ­and in many cases far higher returns. In this sense, the quality at
entry was satisfactory.

Both PADs included a table showing the year-by-year costs and benefits for a single example. However,
these tables were not informative, since they did not make clear any of the core elements of evaluation
listed above.

As for the present ex-post evaluation, the final construction cost and actual traffic after improvement are
now known. However, we do not have calculations for all the hundreds of sections improved, only a few
examples from one region based on sample review.

Examples from the Bialystok region show rates of return per road section calculated for appraisal of
between 27 and 50 percent, comparing timely overlays against no immediate intervention but
reconstruction several years later. Such high rates of economic return are not uncommon for works of this
type on roads carrying as much traffic as is common in Poland. ERs calculated after the works were
completed (i.e. using actual construction cost and actual opening year traffic) are even higher, ranging
from 42% to 87%. However, the Bialystok ex-post analysis is not strictly comparable with the ex-ante, as
the ex-ante analysis had been done some years before the Project, using a simplified methodology.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

This rating averages the satisfactory relevance of design, the satisfactory outcome of the road works, and
the moderately satisfactory outcomes of the technical assistance. It is weighted on the basis that, while the
road network is a high economic priority for the sector, the institutional components are equally ­ if not
more ­ important in terms of longer term development impact.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

NA

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening



                                                         11

As seen in Section 3.2, achievement of the institutional objectives has been somewhat disappointing so
far, since among the four main areas ­ road safety, management restructuring, introduction of a
comprehensive MIS, and launching of a pilot performance-based maintenance contract ­ only road safety
has really put in place a productive mechanism, staffed by competent and energetic people, and already
showing effective results.

The National Road Safety Council has been functioning now since about 2001 but did not become fully
effective until around 2004. It has brought together all national-level stakeholders and launched numerous
safety campaigns. It has publicized high-risk sites ("black spots"), the wearing of helmets by
motorcyclists, and the use of vehicle headlights in daytime for added visibility. Its campaign for wearing
seatbelts won a national award for `most effective social campaign launched in Poland in 2005". Poland
has been recognized as having one of the most effective campaigns for reducing alcohol-related deaths on
the road. And it is working on the issue of safety-testing of second-hand cars, which are being imported in
large numbers from the richer EU member countries. The first loan financed the road safety coordinator,
speed detection cameras, rescue vehicles for clearing accident sites, and patrol cars for the Road
Transport Inspectorate, which enforces truck licensing, weights and drivers' hours.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
NA

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Surveys

The surveys conducted in 2004 and 2005 rated more than 80% of the network as bad in each of the three
regions where the survey was conducted. Expectations were mixed about whether the situation would
worsen or improve. It was widely recognized that not enough was being spent on road improvements. The
respondents showed very limited awareness of the role of GDDKiA, tending instead to blame local
governments. Many respondents expressed the wish to see public information on the road expenditure
program issued regularly.

A survey completed in January 2009 found that the negative perception had dropped to 61%; but at least
two issues make drawing conclusions from these surveys problematical. First, the survey was not targeted
only at roads funded by the project, and second, the questions on the two surveys were different.
Perceptions of road changes tend to take some time, as most users tend to remain in their local area and
only gradually begin to perceive changes in the greater system. In future, surveys will need to be more
precise and consistent to provide a more nuanced beneficiary assessment.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcomes

Rating: Moderate

The national government and the MoT leadership at the time of this writing have become strongly
supportive of the concept of large-scale rehabilitation and modernization of the national road network.
This is encouraged by the European Commission, not just with words but also with money, on a big scale,
as evidenced by the involvement of EIB in co-financing RMR2, and the generally rapid and appropriate
implementation of the third loan in this series programmed for 2006 to 2011. GDDKiA produces good
quality periodic reports that clearly present relevant data on the condition of the network and apply
appropriate logic in arriving at estimates of the financing needs and the priorities that should govern
choices within the network in order to live within a constrained budget.




                                                     12

On the other hand, until its change of management in 2008, GDDKiA did not show the degree of
ownership of the program that one might have expected. The TA contracts progressed slowly. But HDM-
4 has been used by consultants and at least some of the regions.

A concern going forward is the adequacy of annual road maintenance budgets to sustain the priority of
maintenance over new construction. The budget for 2008 fell substantially short of what was needed ­
about PLN 2.5-3 billion per year. The budget for 2009 also has been severely cut ­as part of the
government's response to the global economic crisis. Though hit less hard than some, it has also been
affected by the severe economic downturn in the neighboring countries. The Government is faced with
difficult fiscal choices. Under RMR3 the Bank continues to remind it of the importance of adequate
budgeting for maintenance, if the gains of the past few years are to be sustained.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

For many years, the Bank in its dialogue with the Polish Government had advocated increased funding to
maintenance, which the Government had been neglecting, allowing the road network to deteriorate
severely to the point where the economy suffered and trade was constrained. The results of the works
carried out under these two operations have been good and widely welcomed by road-users' and have
made a significant contribution to the road system. Incorporating HDM-4, a model developed under
World Bank leadership, contributed to efficiency and planning at the regional level.

`Soft' components were designed to strengthen government capacity for economically sound road
planning, budgeting and accountability for results; GDDKiA lacked champions for reform, while today
MoT strongly supports road sector reforms and is taking courageous initiatives. The World Bank worked
with the Government to build such elements into the project framework which have contributed to these
positive developments.

The Bank encouraged GDDKiA toward greater transparency, through `clean' procurement (now valued
by the Polish government) and consultation with road users, other government branches and civil society.
Finally, the Bank strongly pushed for greater attention to road safety through three consecutive operations,
and it is paying off. The National Road Safety Council is now up and running and delivering excellent
initiatives to inform the public.

The positive features above are somewhat mitigated by a monitoring and evaluation framework that had
weaknesses, such as the exclusion of important indicators, and previously noted inconsistencies. Also, as
noted above, there was an inherent design flaw, in that the rehabilitation and maintenance components
under the first project were planned to happen quickly to prepare the way for a quick transition to the
second project. However, the institutional components needed to progress at a slower pace, and impeded
the readiness for important parts of the second project. Finally, there were broad inconsistencies between
the road user surveys completed in 2005 and early 2009 which weakened some measurements of progress.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory


                                                     13

Frequency of supervision (two to three missions each year) has been adequate and the supervision teams
have brought to bear all the relevant skills, some from HQ and some from the Warsaw office, in a cost-
effective way. The Bank team brought in technical specialists to try to resolve differences in the delayed
TA contracts. It also helped MoT secure Spanish trust funds to pay for a consultant who provided sound
advice on so-called second-generation PPP's for motorway concessions.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Poland is a sophisticated country that joined the EU only three years ago and is poised to play a large role
among the new members from the former Eastern bloc, because of its economic size and central location.
It has, however, lacked strong and consistent political leadership over the recent years, which perhaps is
to blame for the somewhat disappointing performance of the roads administration over the past decade.
That being said, the condition of the road network has been improving steadily since 2004. The World
Bank's lending operations have played a substantial part in shining the spotlight on the right things:
rehabilitation before new construction, and building institutional capacity. The Bank's willingness to
innovate in the design of these projects is commendable, though improved planning and design, as noted
above, might have enhanced some of the institutional progress.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Ministry of Infrastructure/Transport has performed in a fully satisfactory way, notably by ensuring
rapid compliance with the conditions of board presentation and effectiveness, as well as complying with
its obligations regarding financial management and reporting (with just one supervision period when FM
was rated moderately unsatisfactory).

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

As noted already, implementation of the civil works component and the road safety component have been
satisfactory, whereas the rest of the capacity-building component is much delayed and the TA contracts
are still in progress. This makes it impossible to judge whether the latter objective will be met. GDDKiA
is the locus of most of the delay, because of the internal and external weaknesses noted above. There is
some basis for attributing some of the delays to higher changes in government beyond GDDKiA's control.
That said, GDDKiA was the central locus of implementation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

GDDKiA is the central implementing agency, which ought to have taken full advantage of these
operations to strengthen its technical and management capacity, but it has not, and consequently many of
the activities have not reached fruition.

6. Lessons Learned


                                                     14

What can the Polish experience teach us about SWAps? The experience of these projects is relevant to
other middle-income countries. These two loans were an early example of applying the so-called "Sector-
Wide Approach" (SWAp) concept9, and like some other early SWAps, these were hybrids. The SWAp
concept aims to address flexibly the need to reduce the transaction cost of lending to middle-income
countries, and in this respect, these two operations have been successful. Having ex-post reviews instead
of ex-ante, not only simplified Bank supervision, but also enhanced the implementation process for the
client. A second characteristic of a SWAp is `greater reliance on country systems.' With regard to the
road components, the Government was successful in utilizing the country's regional apparatus. The Bank
approved the medium-term investment plan of the implementing agency (MoI/MoT) on the basis of its
prior Public Expenditure Review and use of HDM-4, a rigorous tool for ensuring that investment
priorities would be based on economic reasoning. The road components ­ the great majority of the
projects' funds ­ were quick disbursing, with more than $100 million having been disbursed in about half
a year in each case.

Mixing quick-disbursing operations with capacity building risks disappointment. It was logical for the
Bank to offer relatively large, quick-disbursing support to a part of the infrastructure that is perennially a
poor cousin: maintenance and rehabilitation ­ because the new economy of the enlarged EU is very much
reliant on intra-EU trade and much of that trade is road-based; and because mobility is a fairly high
priority among consumption goals in new middle income countries. However, institutional change is
never rapid, even in a literate, educated country, especially during a period of political instability. It may
be tempting to hope that the fast-disbursing elements of a project will generate leverage to induce
institutional change, but success is far from assured.

Since the first of these loans, the Bank has rightly increased emphasis on results as the central criterion
for evaluating success and hence for orienting management attention ­ `what gets measured gets
managed' ­ both in the Bank and in the borrower's administration. These operations, which embody that
policy, suggest that the key performance indicators should become an integral part of the loan agreement,
rather than a supplementary letter which is not (clearly) in the public domain, so that everyone gives them
more prominence in design and implementation. At the same time, attention needs to be paid to ensuring
consistency and clarity in the definition of the indicators.

Too often in Bank projects, measures that are proposed to mitigate risks are not sufficiently targeted or
given enough "teeth" to get the job done. In the case of the MAP component, the risk mitigation measures
were "close monitoring of the progress made in the implementation of the GDDKiA MAP and annual
review of budget allocations..." which do not fall outside the regular boundaries of normal supervision. If
approaching a complex or difficult component which contains risks which could compromise
implementation, unless realistic mitigation measures can be proposed which have a reasonable chance of
being successful, the component should be carefully reexamined and other options considered.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies




9More precisely, it could be categorized as "Program-Based" as the program was focusing wholly on the road
sector.


                                                      15

The views and comments expressed by the Borrower in Annex 7 are consistent with this Report.

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                              16

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

                                                          RMR1

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                  Components                       Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                   (USD millions)*       (USD millions)*    Percentage of Appraisal

A. GDDKiA modernization action plan                            2.86                    1.60         56%
B. Road maintenance & rehabilitation
program                                                      131.60                 133.31          101%

C Road safety improvement program                              6.44                    6.57         102%
D. Design and Procurement of long-term pilot
contracts for the Performance-based
Management and Maintenance of Roads                            0.71                    0.84         118%

(Promotion of P in the road sector)



              Total Baseline Cost                            141.61                 142.32        100.5%**

Physical Contingencies                                          0.00                   0.00          0%

Price Contingencies                                             0.00                   0.00          0%
              Total Project Costs                            141.61                 142.32         100.5%
Front-end fee IBRD                                              1.43                   0.72         50%
          Total Financing Required                           143.04                 143.04          100%

* Exchange Rate 1 EUR =1.4304 USD as of 29-Oct-2007.
** Additional 0,5% resulted from decrease in Front-end fee level.



(b) Financing

                                                                                 Actual/Latest
        Source of Funds                   Type of          Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
                                        Cofinancing          (USD millions)         Estimate
                                                                                (USD millions)*      Appraisal

Borrower                                                                 70.50              202.30          286.95
IBRD                                                                   124.70               122.04           97.87
* includes external sources such as EU grants or EIB loans.




                                                             17

                                                          RMR 2

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                       Appraisal
                 Components                         Estimate (USD   Actual/Latest Estimate           Percentage of

                                                       millions)*       (USD millions)*              Appraisal**

Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Program                                                      137.32                 137.32

Goods under Management Information
System                                                          5.29                  5.29

Consultants' services including auditing
services and TA for MIS                                         0.43                  0.43

              Total Baseline Cost                            143.04                 143.04                100%

Physical Contingencies                                           0.0                  0.00                 0%

Price Contingencies                                              0.0                  0.00                 0%
              Total Project Costs                            143.04                 143.04                100%
Project Preparation Fund                                        0.00                  0.00                 0%
Front-end fee IBRD                                              0.00                  0.00                 0%
              Total Financing Required                       143.04                 143.04                100%

* Exchange Rate 1 EUR =1.4304 USD as of 29-Oct-2007
** Percentage based on estimations dated October 29, 2007. TA for MIS and goods for MIS are still to be financed under the
loan.



 (b) Financing

                                                                                 Actual/Latest
        Source of Funds                   Type of         Appraisal Estimate                             Percentage of
                                        Cofinancing         (USD millions)          Estimate
                                                                                (USD millions)*            Appraisal

 Borrower                                                               77.50                 250.00              322.58
IBRD                                                                  130.50                  121.28               92.93
* includes external sources such as EU grants or EIB loans.




                                                            18

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

RMR 1 ­ Outputs by Component

                         Expected Outputs
     Component/         (from PAD/Original
    Subcomponent          Implementation         Actual Delivered Outputs                    Remarks
                                Plan)
Component A: GDDKiA Modernization Action Plan
Map Phase I            Detailed diagnosis and Consultant FinnRoad delivered      Delays in 2005 caused by
                       implementation of      its Phase I report in December     change in Government.
                       modernization          2004, which focused on
                       measures.              diagnosis of the institutional
                                              weaknesses and
                                              recommendations for short-term
                                              solutions.

MAP Phase II and III   Conclude process of    In 2007, FinnRoad delivered two    The contract is still ongoing
                       GDDKiA                 of the most important parts of its and nearly two years late.
                       reorganization at      Phase II (Implementation)
                       central level;         report: the draft `contracts'
                       undertake              between MOT and GDDKiA,
                       reorganization at      and between GDDKiA and its
                       regional level.        branches. GDDKiA was not
                       Establish a proper     satisfied with the first draft.
                       system of strategic
                       planning
Advisory services for  Updated rolling six-   A rolling six-year program has     Advisory services for six-year
six-year planning for  year expenditure       been drawn up each year, but       planning for GDDKiA.
GDDKiA.                program elaborated     only in 2007 has a local
                       using HDM-4.           consultant prepared a program
                                              well based on a nationwide
                                              assessment of road condition,
                                              updated traffic counts and a
                                              comparison of alternative
                                              maintenance strategies, such as
                                              HDM-4 allows. This was
                                              delivered in July 2007 and is
                                              pending approval by GDDKiA.

Preparation of PR      Strengthening of       PR Strategy was developed and      Actions started under RMR1
Strategy.              GDDKiA spokesman       approved by the GDDKiA. Its        are followed up by projects
                       office and             web site was upgraded and new      financed from RMR III.
                       improvement of public  services were added (i.e. road
                       relations with road    information system, internet
                       users.                 press office)

Component B: Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program
Road Maintenance and   Improvement of the      Number of roads in good           917 km of roads were treated
Rehabilitation.        national roads network. condition rose from 40.1% in      with pavement maintenance &
                                               2003 up to 45.5% in 2004.         rehabilitation, including
                                                                                 improvement of drainage
                                                                                 system and road safety features.


                                                 19

Component C: Road Safety Improvement Program
NRSC Strengthening.    Traffic accident        Regional Black Spot Treatment      Target is for the whole
                       fatalities (whole       Program was started on regional    network, of which GDDKiA is
                       network, national and   and local roads in all 16 regions  responsible for only 5% in
                       regional): 2006 target: of the country. Number of road     length (though about half of
                       <4,500. Actual: 5,243 ­ deaths has been cut, even while    traffic), and the statistic is
                       some 15% away from      traffic has been growing at 10-    absolute, not an accident rate
                       target.                 15% per year. It is estimated that that allows for fleet growth.
                                               in 2005 and 2006 - 289 road
                                               crashes were avoided, 10 lives
                                               were saved and 85 serious
                                               injuries were prevented.

                                               A successful seatbelt campaign
                                               was launched (93% of targeted
                                               audience was reached). The
                                               project was awarded the EFFIE
                                               prize for the most effective non-
                                               profit campaign in Poland. 560
                                               country professionals received
                                               five day training on road safety
                                               issues.

                                               Purchase of three patrol cars &
                                               office vans increased the
                                               efficiency of Road Transport
                                               Inspectorate. Number of weight
                                               controls raised from 158 202.00
                                               in 2005 up to 160 267.00 in
                                               2006.
Road Transport                                                                    Increased number of weight
Inspectorate                                                                      controls. Resulted in increased
                                                                                  amount collected by Road
                                                                                  Transport Inspectorate from
                                                                                  fines.
Fire Brigade                                   Purchase of two heavy rescue
                                               vehicles increased the population
                                               protection rate in Mazovia and
                                               Silesia voivodeships. Response
                                               time was also diminished.
Police                                         17 speed cameras were procured.
                                               In voivodeships where cameras
                                               were installed, the number of
                                               road accidents diminished by
                                               5.5% in comparison to 19 %
                                               increase in rest of the
                                               voivodeships in the same period.
Component D: Promotion of PPP in the Road Sector
Preparation of long-   2005 target: one        Two years late, not yet awarded,
term performance       contract awarded.       and borrower ownership is in
based area maintenance                         doubt. The consultant has not
contracts (PMMR).                              completed a background
                                               statement of the rationale and
                                               draft bidding documents to
                                               GDDKiA's satisfaction.


                                                 20

RMR2 ­ Outputs by Component

                         Expected Outputs
     Component/         (from PAD/Original
    Subcomponent          Implementation         Actual Delivered Outputs                    Remarks
                                Plan)
Component A: Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program
Road maintenance and   Percentage of national  Actual: 53%, showing              749.2 km of roads were treated
rehabilitation.        roads in good           considerable improvement over     with pavement maintenance &
                       condition: 2006 target: the situation prevailing before   rehabilitation, including
                       55%.                    the first project, of about 37%.  improvement of drainage
                                               The overall value for end 2006    system and road safety features.
                                               was very close to the target
Component B: Management Information System
MIS design.            Management              The full start-up of the entire
                       Information System      MIS system, including all
                       adopted and             financial management and
                       implemented             accounting components, was
                       successfully in         programmed for January 2009,
                       GDDKiA.                 the start of GDDKiA's financial
                                               year. ERP system will be fully
                                               implemented by mid 2009.

Advisory services for  Updated rolling six-    GDDKiA's branches in
six-year planning for  year expenditure        Bialystok and Krakow showed
GDDKiA.                program elaborated      full familiarity and
                       using                   understanding of HDM-4's and
                       HDM-4.                  that current budget and plan are
                                               largely driven by HDM results.




                                                 21

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

To date, the only examples of economic re-evaluation of rehabilitation sections at completion come from
the Bialystok regional office.

The three sections shown in the table all had relatively high initial traffic and high economic rates of
return. The pavements were 25 years old and extensively cracked (25-35% of surface). The information
supplied gives the actual investment cost and opening year traffic but not the appraisal estimates. We
therefore lack the basis for evaluating whether the outcome exceeded or fell short of the forecast
economic return.

The very high ex post economic internal rates of return are not surprising, considering the relatively heavy
traffic for a two-lane road (4,000-6,000 vehicles per day) and the poor initial condition of the pavement.


                                               Cost per     Actual         Initial       ER at         ER at
 Contract           Section        Length        km         Traffic      Pavement      Appraisal    Completion
    No.           Description        (km)       ($000)     VEH/day          IRI           (%)           (%)
               Modernization of
               NR 61 Warsaw-
     1         Augustow,              21.8        412        6,173            3.6           50            87
               Piatnica-Stawiski
               section
               Modernization of
               NR 61, Warsaw-

     2         Augustow,
               Stawiski-Grajewo        7.0        654        4,353            4.9           50            81

               section + crossing
               with NR 669
               Rehabilitation &
               pavement
     3         strengthening of        5.3        906        5,472            3.6           27            42
               NR8, Sztabin-
               Kolnica section

In each case:
Surface age: 25 years
IRI after rehabilitation: 1.5




                                                    22

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

            Names                         Title               Unit   Responsibility/
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Michel Audig             Lead Transport Specialist           ECSSD Team Leader
Anca Dumitrescu          Transport Specialist                ECSSD Team Leader
Andreas Schliessler      Senior Transport Specialist         ECSSD Peer Reviewer
Barbara Letachowicz      Environmental Specialist            ECSSD Environment
William Paterson         Consultant                          EASTR Peer Reviewer
Chiyo Kanda              Quality Reviewer                    OPCIL Quality
Chiyo Kanda              Senior Operations Officer           OPCIL Peer Reviewer
Claudia Pardinas-Ocana   Senior Counsel                      LEGEC Legal
Daria Goldstein          Counsel                             LEGEC Legal
Elena Kastlerova         Transport Specialist                ECSIE Transport
Elzbieta Siemenska       Procurement Specialist              ECSPS Procurement
Iwona Warzecha           Senior Financial Management         ECSPS Financial
                         Specialist                                Management
Marie Laygo              Program Assistant                   ECSSD Team Support

Supervision/ICR
Michel Audig             Lead Transport Specialist           ECSSD Team Leader
Anca Dumitrescu          Transport Specialist                ECSSD Team Leader
Radoslaw Czapski         Operations Officer                  ECSIE Team Leader
Claudia Pardinas-Ocana   Senior Counsel                      LEGEC Legal
Daria Goldstein          Counsel                             LEGEC Legal
Iwona Warzecha           Sr. Financial Management Specialist ECSPS Financial
                                                                   Management
Karina Mostipan          Sr. Procurement Specialist          ECSPS Procurement
Magdalena Wasik          Program Assistant                   ECCU7 Team Support
Malgorzata Michnowska    Program Assistant                   ECCU7 Team Support
Marcin Jan Sasin         Economist                           ECSPE Economic Analysis
Marie Laygo              Program Assistant                   ECSIE Team Support
Piotr Krzyzanowski       Senior Environmental Specialist     ECSSD Safeguards
Robert Kietlinski        Senior Operations Officer           ECSIE Operations
Zoe Kolovou              Senior Counsel                      LEGEC Legal
Ross Pavis               Operations Officer                  ECSSD ICR Team Leader
Graham Smith             Consultant                          ECSSD ICR Author




                                           23

(b) Staff Time and Cost
Stage of Project Cycle               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                          USD Thousands (including
RMR1                              No. of staff weeks      travel and consultant costs)
Lending
 FY03                                   23.9                                      62.8
 FY04                                   31.8                                    101.1
                          Total         56.3                                    164.7

Supervision/ICR
 FY04                                    0.7                                     0.85
 FY05                                   21.1                                     58.6
 FY06                                   18.1                                     52.6
 FY07                                    9.6                                     30.0
 FY08                                   12.3                                     31.8
 FY09                                   17.0                                     51.6
                          Total         78.9                                    226.0




Stage of Project Cycle               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                          USD Thousands (including
RMR2                              No. of staff weeks      travel and consultant costs)
Lending
 FY05                                   35.7                                    112.9
                          Total         35.7                                    112.9

Supervision/ICR
 FY05                                    0.2                                      0.1
 FY06                                   30.2                                     77.1
 FY07                                   15.6                                     54.2
 FY08                                   16.7                                     58.6
 FY09l                                  19.4                                     58.2
                          Total         82.1                                    248.2




                                      24

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

A Beneficiary Survey, "Public Attitudes Toward the Need of Bearing Costs for Using the Road
Infrastructure in Poland" was carried out in December, 2004, by Pracownia Bada Spolecznych. Issues
that stood out included a very poor public perception of the roads. Users appeared willing to contribute
additional costs that could be required to upgrade roads but had a strong belief that the money that was
currently being spent was wasted. This strong perception of wastage seemed to be one of the most
important causes of the low credibility of those responsible for road maintenance. Until there could be a
perception change, the public seemed extremely hesitant to contribute more funds. The survey found that
the most successful channels for potentially changing public opinion would be radio and the local press.




                                                   25

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
NA




                                      26

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Implementation Completion Report for the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (7223-
POL) and the Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (7282-POL) ­ Ministry's input

The Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Loan (7223-POL) and the Second Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Loan (7282-POL) were considered from the beginning as a part of a larger financial
envelope for several yearly programmes for maintenance and rehabilitation, starting from the year 2004
("Programme"). At the beginning the financial scope of the Programme was defined as:

WB financing 350 MEUR
EIB financing 500 MEUR
Budget           200 MEUR
Total            1050 MEUR

The total contribution of the WORLD BANK was estimated at 350 MEUR which were finally divided
into free Finance Loans. The largest portion of the financing was dedicated to the financing of
maintenance and rehabilitation interventions: (i) 92,5 MEUR and (ii) 96 MEUR out of 100 MEUR in
each case. These works components were to finance the yearly governmental Programmes in 2004 and
2005 realized by the road administration ("GDDKiA").

The outstanding amounts were dedicated to several technical assistance schemes to be mainly
implemented by GDDKiA in the field of road administration modernization: (i) MAP performed by the
Finnish consultant Finnroad, (ii) first stage of MIS, (iii) HDM4 implementation,             and (iv) area
maintenance under the PMMR task. The other components of the road safety character were implemented
by:(i) the National Road Safety Council acting in the Ministry of Infrastructure, (ii) Police, (iii) Fire
Brigade, (iv) main Inspectorate for Road Transport. All these components were identified as a support to
the implementation of the RMR programme in order to improve the efficiency of the Polish road related
authorities and to increase confidence of the Polish public towards the implemented actions on the road
network.

I       RMR Programme

At the start of the Programme implementation a serious backlog in the area of national road maintenance
was identified. In previous years the allocated funds were insufficient to improve the quality of the
network. Thanks to WORLD BANK support the dedicated financial envelope increased substantially and
enabled GDDKiA to constantly improve the status of its assets. Starting in 2004 we had only 45 % of
roads in good condition and at the end of 2008 (last available results) the percentage increased over 53 %.
We have observed also a decrease for roads in bad condition (with approximately same level of % for the
roads in acceptable one) from 26 % in 2004 to 21% in 2008. With the start of the programme, Polish
authorities focused on the pavement treatment itself, implementing schemes dealing with the surface
layers treatment. As a result the percentage of roads in good condition improved by 5,4%. Thereafter, it
was decided to expand the scope of the works, not limiting to the pavement reconstruction but also
including intervention on the lower road layers, shoulders, drainage system, vertical road signs and minor
road safety facilities. This approach has increased the average km cost of the implemented schemes but
proved to be an efficient and effective way of adapting our roads to modern standards of load axle
requirements. As a result, the same percentage of roads in good condition improved for the next year of
RMR implementation on an average of 2-4%.


                                                    27

A strong cooperation with EIB was initiated, following the WORLD BANK'S access to the programme,
which finally developed in the form of four loans taken by the Republic of Poland and the National Road
Fund amounting to MEUR 800. Moreover, it is to emphasize that the Polish Government is determined to
continue this approach in the next years, spending the revenues from the excise tax solely to the road
management and maintenance purposes, since the new road investment mechanism through NRF was
implemented in 2009.

II       TA Schemes in GDDKiA

As part of the financial package proposed by the WORLD BANK, several areas of intervention for
improvement in GDDKiA were identified. The assessment concurred with the analysis performed by the
Ministry and the road administration itself about deficiencies of the system and the absorption capacity.
The first to be implemented and which constituted a trigger for the other assumed TA components was
the Modernization Action Plan (MAP). The task realized by Finnroad was implemented in two stages.
The consultant's conclusions were analyzed carefully by the Polish side. Some of those considerations
were implemented internally in the structural reforms and partial decentralization of responsibilities.

The realization of the Management Information System (MIS) components was delayed over time. The
ERP system to be implemented under the second RMR (7282-POL) Project was shifted to the next loan
(third RMR ­ 7384-POL) and is still under implementation. The first tests started during the current year
at GDDKiA headquarters and at the Warsaw branch - the rest of the branches will follow over time. The
full implementation of MIS will considerably contribute and will complement the a/m restructuring

The HDM-4 tool implementation financed under the 7282-POL loan was intended to strengthen and
prioritize the process for the identification of road investments. HDM-4 is being used by GDDKiA
headquarters to prioritise the road maintenance and rehabilitation schemes identified by the GDDKiA
regions within yearly programmes. The full implementation of HDM-4 in all branches has been left to
their decision.

The WORLD BANK resources also financed activities and consultants for a public relations strategy for
GDDKiA. With the help of the Bank, the multi-year strategy was prepared and implemented. Several
campaigns were planned and realized; an internal professional communication center and network were
created.

The PMMR component was ultimately not realized due to some disagreement with the consultant on
work outcomes achieved. As a result, GDDKiA has also decided not to finance pilot projects under the
third RMR (7384-POL). Despite this unsuccessful outcome, however, GDDKiA is trying to implement
these types of activities individually in some of the regions using some forms of output-based contracts.

Even if the implementation of several components was encumbered by several changes in the
management of the Ministry and GDDKiA, the general line of reforms is still maintained. The road
administration, facing the implementation of a large and ambitious investment programme, supported
largely from EU funds, is internally reforming and adapting its own structures, including the
standardization of preparatory and monitoring procedures. Nevertheless, the scope of changes in
GDDKiA, and the current assumptions for the changes, diverge from the project outcomes defined for the
both loans.

III      Road Safety

The NRSC support in the first RMR (7223-POL) was a continuation of previous cooperation under the
Second Roads project (4236-POL). World Bank support helped NRSC to prepare a large programme

                                                      28

aimed at the improvement of public awareness about road safety on all public roads. The media
campaigns proved to be a success with a high degree of public identification and acceptance. Those
arrangements will be continued under the Third RMR (7384-POL) with possible implementation in 2010
and 2011.

IV      Other Components

In RMR 1 (7223-POL) there were also minor components implemented including: (i) acquisition of photo
radars by the Police Headquarters, (ii) acquisition of accident rescue cars by the Fire Brigade
Headquarters; and (iii) acquisition of adapted passenger cars and vans for the Main Institute of Road
Transport. All those components were part of larger investment programmes realized by the relevant
authorities. These purchases intended to strengthen the road safety enforcement and accident prevention
on the Polish roads. Following the received post-realization feedback, the new facilities helped
considerably those entities in achieving defined goals in the area of safety improvement on public roads.




                                                    29

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
NA




                                      30

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

 Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports.
 Project Appraisal Documents (Nos. 27577 POL and 31324 POL).
 Legal Agreements (7223 POL and 7282 POL).
 Sector-Wide Approaches (SWAps) in Europe and Central Asia : Early Lessons of Experience: ECA
  Quality Unit, ECSPS, November 2006.
 Gambit 2005 National Road Safety Program, National road Safety Council, Poland.
 Poland: Strategic Priorities for the Transport Sector.
 Public attitude towards the need of bearing costs for using the road infrastructure in Poland by the
  individual users analysis by Pracownia Bada Spolecznych (December 2004).
 ARC Rynek I Opinia, Report from Quantity Study [Opinion Survey?] of the Directorate General for
  National Roads and Motorways, July 2005 (powerpoint).
 Review of Road Safety Projects of the RMRI: Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report
  (Working Document).
 Technical Assistance to Prepare A Modernization Action Plan (MAP) to Enhance the Capacity of
  General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, Phase 1 and 2; Finnroad (Final Report,
  September 2007).
 Scott Wilson report on performance-based contracts.
 General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways Report on the Technical Condition of
  Pavements of National Roads as at End-2006, March 2007 (prepared by DRO-Konsult).




                                                  31

Annex 10. Datasheet for Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (1)



A. Basic Information

                                                                          Road Maintenance and
Country:                 Poland                   Project Name:
                                                                          Rehabilitation Project
Project ID:              P078170                  L/C/TF Number(s):       IBRD-72230
ICR Date:                June 18, 2009            ICR Type:               Core ICR
Lending Instrument:      SIL                      Borrower:               Republic of Poland
Original Total
                         USD126.0 M               Disbursed Amount:       USD 121.6 M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: FI (Financial Intermediary)
Implementing Agencies:
General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways (GDDKiA)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: European Investment Bank


B. Key Dates

      Process               Date              Process         Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:         04/22/2003      Effectiveness:          06/10/2004         06/10/2004
Appraisal:              02/12/2004      Restructuring(s):
Approval:               03/30/2004      Mid-term Review:        06/30/2005         09/19/2005
                                        Closing:                06/30/2007         12/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
          Bank                    Ratings                 Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:        Moderately Satisfactory  Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:  Satisfactory             Implementing
                                                  Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                      Overall Borrower
Performance:             Moderately Satisfactory  Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                                32

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                                  QAG Assessments (if
        Performance                 Indicators               any)                  Rating

Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                             No                                           None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
Problem Project at any time No                      Quality of Supervision
                                                                          None
(Yes/No):                                           (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes for Program
                                                                    Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     12                12
Roads and highways                                                   87                 87
Sub-national government administration                                 1                 1


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Administrative and civil service reform                                 33              33
Infrastructure services for private sector development                  34              34
Other financial and private sector development                          33              33


E. Bank Staff for Program
         Positions                           At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:              Shigeo Katsu                         Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:            Theodore O. Ahlers (Acting)          Roger W. Grawe
Sector Manager:              Henry Kerali                         Motoo Konishi
Project Team Leader:         Radek Czapski                        Michel Audige
ICR Team Leader:             Ross Pavis
ICR Primary Authors:         Graham Smith, Ross Pavis

F. Results Framework Analysis for Program

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Documents)
The objective of the Project is to improve the effectiveness of Poland's national road
rehabilitation and maintenance systems by: (i) significantly increasing the percentage of national
roads in good condition; (ii) establishing reliable and stable funding for the national road
maintenance and rehabilitation network, and for road safety; and (iii) improving the capacity
within GDDKiA to operate efficiently and effectively and to reflect the views of road users in
developing its programs.


                                                   33

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
NA

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                         Original Target         Formally         Actual Value

       Indicator    Baseline Value        Values (from        Revised Target      Achieved at

                                     approval documents)           Values        Completion or
                                                                                  Target Years

Indicator 1 :      GDDKiA's institutional capacity and performance developed
Value                                MAP shows                                  MAP adopted,
quantitative or    N/A                                                          implementation
Qualitative)                         satisfactory progress                      started
Date achieved      03/31/2004        06/29/2007                                 09/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %            Moderately successful --delayed, partly as a result of repeated changes of

achievement)       government.


Indicator 2 :      Percentage of roads in good condition
Value
quantitative or    <37%              43%                                         49% -- exceeds

Qualitative)                                                                    target

Date achieved      12/31/2003        12/31/2005                                 12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %            53.6% as of December 2008
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                         Original Target         Formally         Actual Value

       Indicator    Baseline Value        Values (from        Revised Target      Achieved at

                                     approval documents)           Values        Completion or
                                                                                  Target Years

                   Effective use of HDM-4 System by GDDKiA (HDM-4 is a software tool for
Indicator 1 :      the analysis, planning, management and appraisal of road maintenance,
                   improvements and investment decisions.)
                                                                                Yes (partial: w/o
Value                                Yes, based on 2005                         use of 2005
(quantitative      N/A                                                          database and
or Qualitative)                      database                                   improved
                                                                                interface)
Date achieved      03/31/2004        06/30/2006                                     9/30/2008

Comments (incl. %  Only a few branches offices fully utilize HDM capability in their planning

achievement)       though, others use some of its more basic functionalities for organization
                   purposes.



                                                 34

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISR

                                                                  Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived              DO                    IP         Disbursements
                                                               (USD millions)
   1    06/29/2004         Satisfactory         Satisfactory              1.23
   2    11/03/2004         Satisfactory         Satisfactory           113.52
   3    05/31/2005         Satisfactory         Satisfactory           114.65
   4    03/06/2006    Moderately Satisfactory   Satisfactory           117.28
   5    01/08/2007         Satisfactory         Satisfactory           120.30
  6     02/09/2007        Satisfactory          Satisfactory           122.04
  7     02/06/2008    Moderately Satisfactory   Satisfactory           122.04
  8     07/10/2008    Moderately Satisfactory   Satisfactory           122.04



H. Restructuring (if any)
NA


I. Disbursement Profile




                                             35

               14                                              16                                   18                                             20                                    22                                                    24
                                                                                                                                                                   RUSSIAN                                                                                               POLAND
                                    Baltic Sea                                                                                                                   FEDERATION
                                                                                     Slupsk                                   Gulf of Gdansk                                                                      L I T H U A N I A                            SECOND ROAD
                                                                                             6
                                                                                                                 Gdansk
                                                                                                                                               54                                                                                                       MAINTENANCE AND
                                                                                           POMORSKIE
                                                              11         Koszalin     21                                       7                                                                                                                               REHABILITATION
                                                                                                                                             22                                                  65
                                                                                                                                        Elblag                                                   Suwalki                                        54
              54                                                            25                                                                              51    57
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      16
                                                   6                                                                                               WARMINSKO-                    59      63
                                                                                                         22                                                                                                                                                            PROJECT
                                     3                                                                                           55           7     MAZURSKIE                                                 I  II I I I      I

                                 ZACHODNIOPOMORSKIE                                   25                                       R.                                   57                                       II
                                                                                                                                                       16                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                            Olsztyn        59                                                                                         EXISTING MOTORWAYS AND
                                                                                                                                                          51                                                   II
                                                                                                                                                                                           58                      8                                                  EXPRESSWAYS
                             10                           20                                                            Vistula                        7
                               Szczecin                                                                                                                       58        53               63            65                                                       6     NATIONAL ROADS
                                                                                               25
                                                                                                       KUJAWSKO-                                                                                                                    10

                                                     10                                              56                                                                                            PODLASKIE
                                                                                                       POMORSKIE                                                             53      Lomza                           Bialystok
                                      3                                                   Bydgoszcz                                                                                              64                                                                   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                    22      Pila                                                   15
                                                                                    10                                                                                            R.                        8                           65
                                26                                                                                                                                57                          63
                                                                                  Notec^R.                   Torun                                        7                                                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                  Ostroleka
                  Odra
                             31                                                                 5     25                                            Ciechanow                                                                            R.                           PROVINCE (VOIVODSHIP)
                                 23                                                11                      15                                                               Narew                                                   Narew
                            R.                Gorzow                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                       1                       10                 60     61                8            66
                                              Wielkopolski                Warta                                                    67
                                                                                R.                                                                          50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 66                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                        22                                                                                         Wloclawek             MAZOWIECKIE
                                                           24                                                  62                                     10                                 50      63
                               31                                        2                                                                62    Plock       7              62
                                 LUBUSKIE        3                                         5
                                                                        Poznan               15                                                         50                                 62          Bug                                BELARUS
                                                                                                                                             Vistula                                                        R.
                                                                                                                                                                    61
                                                                                                                                                    R.                  Warsaw
                                   29                                                                                                                                                           Siedlce 19
                                           Odra                      32   WIELKOPOLSKIE                           2                                           2         (Warszawa)           2
                                               R.                                                        Konin                        60       2
              52                                                                                                                                                            17                                                                  52
                                  32                                                                                                                                                                                                 2
                                                  Zielona                                                                                                        8         50                                        Biala
                                                  Gora                        Lezsno         11                                    LÓDZKIE                     50                              76
                                                                                                                                                                                                            I I    Podlaska
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I I I
                                          27        3                                                                                               Skierniewice                                                      I
                                                                                          15           Kalisz                                                                          17            63
                                                                                                                                                  72                                                                    63
                                                                                                                                                                             79                                       II  I
                                    18                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                              83                           Lodz                                  Vistula                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                         48
                                                                                                       Sieradz                       14
                                                                                                                            12                        8                                 R.      Wieprz  R.                       II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                     GERMANY    NeisseR.                                           36
                                            12
                                                            3               36
                                                                                                                                                        48                                    17                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                   DOLNOSLASKIE                                25             14                                                          Radom                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        II         82
                                                                   36                                                R.                        Piotrkow         12                                                        I
                                            4                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                 8           45    ta             8         1  Trybunalski                                      Lublin                      I
                                                 Legnica                                                         ar                                                 7                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                  39             W                                                                   79          LUBELSKIE                     I     12
                                           30Jelenia           3                     Wroclaw                 41                                                                                                                        Chelm
                                              Gora                                                                                  42                                42                            19                  17
                                                                      5                            42                                                      74
                                                       3                                                                                91
                                                                  34        35              Odra                  43
                                                                                                                                                                  Kielce
                                                          5                                                                                                                                                                                                 0    25      50       75 Kilometers
                                                                    Walbrzych                   R.   45                                                                           74                                                  Zamosc
                                                                                                  Opole                              Czestochowa     SWIETOKRZYSKIE                     79
                                                                                                                                          46                                                                74

                                                                                          46                      SLASKIE                                     78                           Tarnobrzeg                                  17                   0          25           50         75 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                  R.
                                                                                     OPOLSKIE                                             78
                                                                                                                                                                           Vistula
                                                                                                                                                                                                    77
                                                                           33                          40              Katowice                      7
                                                                                                                                                                                          9      19       San                                     NORWAY                              ESTONIA
                                        C Z E C H                                                                                           94                                                                                                                                                   RUSSIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                             R.                                                SWEDEN
                                                                                                            78                                                        73                                                                                                                        FEDERATION
                                                                                                                                                            79                                 Rzeszow                                      50                                          LATVIA
              50                 R E P U B L I C                                                                                                                        Tarnow                                                                   North
                                                                                                               1                                        75                                                              4                         Sea DENMARK          Baltic Sea
                                                                                                                                             44     Krakow                        PODKARPACKIE                                                                                     LITHUANIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Przemysl                                                                RUSSIAN
                                                                                                                                             52 MALOPOLSKIE                      73                                                                                            FED.
                                                                                                                                   Bielsko-                                                                                                                                                   BELARUS
                                                                                                                                   Biala                        75                         Krosno          77
                                                                                                                                                         28       Nowy Sacz                                                      UKRAINE                                   Warsaw
               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                    69
               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                 28                                                                        POLAND
FEBRUARY                                                                                                                                            47
               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                    87  75                                                                               GERMANY                                              IBRD
               Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                           84
                                                                                                                                                      49                                                                                                                                       UKRAINE
               endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                     CZECH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REP.       SLOVAK                            33843
        2005                              AUSTRIA                                                                                                                                                                                                       LIECHT.               REP.

                                                     16                                           18                              S L O V A K       20     R E P U B L I C                      22                                                                                                MOLDOVA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SWITZ.        AUSTRIA     HUNGARY         ROMANIA

