Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFMCL USE ONLY
.  Z5l-ME
Report No. P-3601-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INT 3=4XlIOAL BANK FOR RtECONSTRUCTIONI AND DEVELOPSMET
TO TEE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$350 MILLION
TO
BANCO NACIONAL DE COMERCIO EXRIO
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR AN
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 31, 1983
This documnt h; a restrcted distribution and mmy be wed by weciints eoily in the performac of
their official duties Its contents may not dberwise be dislosed withot World Baink anhrzatica.



CURRENCY UNIT - PESO (MEX$)
Since December 20, 1982, Mexico has the following exchange rates.
(i) a sliding controlled rate for priority imports, most exports and service
payments on foreign debt; this was set at 95 pesos per dollar on December 20
and was about 115 on May 20, 1983; and (ii) a free exchange rate for all
other transactions; in recent days the free peso has been trading around 148
pesos per dollar_
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to Decembar 31
ACRONYMS
ACF       Index of Average Cost of Funds to Multipurpose Banks
(Costo Porcentual Promedio de Captacion)
BNCE      National. Foreign Trade Bank
(Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior -  also referred
to as BANCOMEXT in government Zocuments annexed)
COMPEX    Mixed Advisory Commission on Foreign Trade Policy
(Comision Mixta Asesora de Politica de Comercio Exterior)
EDF       Export Development Fund
FOMEX     Trust Fund for Promotion of Exports of Manufactured Products
(Fondo de Fomento a las Exportaciones de Productos Manufacturados)
FONATUR   Trust Fund for Tourism Development
(Fondo Nacional de Fomento al Turismo)
FONEI     Trust Fund for Industrial Equipment
(Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial)
IMCE      Mexican Foreign Trade Institute
(Instituto Mexicano de Comercio Exterior)
NAFINSA   National Development Bank
(Nacional Financiera, S.A.)
SARH      Ministry of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources
(Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos)
SECOFIN   Ministry of Commerce and Industrial Development
(Secretaria de Comercio y Fomento Industrial also referred
to as SECOFI in government documents annexed)
SHCP      Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
(Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico)
SPP       Ministry of Programming and Budgeting
(Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CONTNTS
Loan and Project Summary                                          i - ii
PART I - THE ECONOMY                                                1
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO                           9
PART III - THE EXPORT SECTOR: EVOLUTION, STRUCTURE &
INSTITUJTIONS                    12
Performance through 1982                                    12
Policies Affecting Export Performance                       16
Export  Prospects for 1983-85                               16
Institutional Framework for Financing Export Operations  17
Financing of Tourism Investments                            23
Non.-Financial Assistance and Services to Exporters         24
PART IV - THE EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                           25
Export Development Strategy
-  Policy Framework                                         25
-  Administrative Procedures                                26
-  Non-Financial Assistance and Export Promotion            26
-  Export Finance and Insurance                             27
-  Top Level Govern ment Support                            27
Progress in Implementation                                  28
Periodic Reviews                                            30
PART V - THE PROJECT AND THE PROPOSED LOAN
Introduction and Objectives                                 30
Loan Components                                             31
Borrower and Implementing Agencies                          33
The Export Development Fund  (EDF)                          33
The Investment Fir.ancing Component                         35
Technical Assistance Component                              37
Procurement                                                 38
Disbursements                                               39
Approval Limits                                             40
Auditing and Reporting Requirements                         40
Project Benefits                                            40
Project Risks                                               41
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipieats only in the performance of
their offwial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUPMENTS AND AUTHORITY                        41
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION                                         42
ANNEXES
Annex I:  Social and Economic Data Sheets                         43
Annex II:  The Status of Bank Group Operations in Mexico          48
Annex III:  Supplementary Project Data Sheet                      56
Annex IV:  Summary of the Stabilization Program                   58
Annex V:   Project Related Tables                                 59
Annex VI:  Government's Export Policy Letter                      65
Annex VII:  Integral Export Promotion Program (1983-1988)         69
Annex VIII:  Timetable of Key Actions                             91
Annex IX:  Principal Policy Measures Affecting Trade              95
Annex X:  Estimated Disbursement Schedule                         98
IBRD Map 15553



MEXICO
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior
Guarantor:        United Mexican States
Beneficiaries:   Trust Fund for the Promotion of Export of Manufactured
Products (FOMEX), the Borrower itself, the Trust Fund for
Industrial Equipment (FONEI), the Trust Fund for Tourism
Development (FONATUR), and certain government entities
providing technical assistance to exporters.
Amount:           US$350 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end
fee.
Terms:            Fifteen years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Relending
Terms:        (i)  BNCE would make available to FOHEX, in US dollars, 79
percent of the loan's proceeds to establish a revolving fund
to make working capital subloans to exporters. Final
beneficiaries of these US dollar denominated subloans would
receive financing at an interest rate of three percentage
points above the published New York Bankers' Acceptance
Rate, including a spread of two percentage points for
participating intermediaries and one-half of one percentage
point for FOMEX.
(ii) About 20 percent of the loan amount, which is
allocated for fixed investment sub-loans, would be on-lent
directly by ENCE or through other participating institutions
(FONEI and FONATUR): either (a) in pesos at a floating
interest rate equal to the average cost of deposit funds
(ACF index) plus two percentage points, including a spread
of between two and two and three-quarters percentage points
for the participating intermediaries; or (b) in UIS dollars
at an interest rate equal to two and one half percentage
points above the Bank's lending rate to BNCE applicable in
the semester when the sub-loan is made, including a spread
of up to two percentage points for participating
intermediaries.
(iii) The Borrower would bear the foreign exchange risk and
any interest rate risk related to (i) above.
Project
Description:    The proposed project would support Mexico's strategy to
expand non-petroleum exports. The project would have four
components: (i) expansion of the US$100 million Export
Development Fund established recently under the amended
Capital Goods Industries Development Project (R83-71 dated
March 28, 1983); this fund would provide urgently needed



- ii -
foreign exchange not presently available to Mexican
exporters from commercial sources for importing inputs
required by exporters; (ii) credit for fixed investments
required by exporters; (iii) technical assistance and
training to exporters for improved production and more
effective marketing; and (iv) technical assistance to
project implementing agencies for studies to improve the
Government's export development strategy and for
institutional strengthening. An estimated 400-600 exporters
are likely to benefit from working capital finance and
120-150 firms from credits for fixed investm.!nts under the
project. The annual export plans of these firms are
expected to account for between one-quarter and one-third of
Mexico's annual non-oil export earnings.
Project Risks:   The project faces a risk that adoption of administrative
procedures and/or policy measures envisaged in the export
development strategy may lag behind schedule. The Govern-
ment has adopted a comprehensive export strategy and taken
action in several key areas such as exchange rate,
institutional and administrative arrangements for promoting
exports (Annexes VI to VIII). These have been reviewed and
found to be satisfactory. The Mexican authorities and the
Bank would closely review these procedures and monitor
developments every six months to modify them as needed.
With these commitments, the above risk is ac_eptable. The
success of the project could also be reduced if
protectionist measures are taken that limit Mexico's access
to foreign markets.
Financial Plan:                                  Local        Foreign      Total
=-- USS Million -
Government/Banking System                     75.0                      75.0
Beneficiaries                                 27.0            -         27.0
Bank                                            -           350.0      350.0
Total                                        102.0          350.0      452.0
------  US$ Million    --
Estimated Disbursements:l/ Bank FY                  1984   1985   1986
Annual                 180    140      30
Cummulative            180    320    350
Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:       This is a combined Staff Appraisal and President's Report.
1/      Since a majority of loan funds would be disbursed for working capital
financing of exporters under the EDF, standard IDF disbursement
profile does not apply.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO BANCO NACIONAL DE COMERCIO EXTERIOR
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR AN EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior with the Guarantee of United Mexican
States for the equivalent of US$350 million to help finarce an Export
Development Project. The loan, which includes a capitalized front-end fee of
0.25 percent on the Bank loan, would be repaid over 15 years, including 3
years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. Final beneficiaries
of short-term export sub-loans denominated in US dollars would pay interest
rates equal to the New York Bankers' Acceptance Rate plus three percentage
points. Peso-denominated sub-loans for fixed investments would carry
floating interest rates, adjusted every six months, equal to the current ACF
(Average Cost of Funds to Multipurpose Banks) plus two percentage points;
fixed investment silbloans denominated in US dollars would carry interest
rates to the final beneficiaries of at least two and one half percentage
points above the Bank's lending rate applicable in the respective semester.
The margin for implementing agencies would be between one half of one and two
and three-quarters percentage points. The Borrower would assume the foreign
exchange risk.
PART I:  THE ECONOMY 1_
2.        The Bank's last economic report on Mexico,  Mexico:  Development
Strategy - Prospects and Problems- (3605-ME), was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on August 31, 1981. Since then the Mexican economy has faced
sevzre economic and financial strains. An economic mission to undertake an
in-depth analysis of the maero-economic developments and prospects for the
Mexican economy visited Mexico in February 1983. The mission's preliminary
findings have been incorporated in the discussion below and its full report
is expected later in 1983. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        Mexico's GDP grew at an average rate of 6 percent a year in real
terms between 1950 and 1980, yielding an increase of 3 percent a year in
output per capita. This rate of expansion was somewhat better than the
exp?ri'nce of other middle income LDCs. Agriculture grew at 3.5 percent a
year and industry grew at an average rate of 7.5 percent. The sustained and
rapid industrialization resulted in the rise of the share of the industrial
sector. A similar change took place in the structure of foreign trade, with
manufactured products accounting for an increasing share of total exports
until 1975. The last thirty years also witnessed the passage of Mexico from
a rural to a largely urban society: in 1980, the fraction of total population
living in urban areas was estimated at two-thirds, while it had been less
than 30 percent in 1950.
1/ This section is identical to Part I of the President's Report for the
Third Small and Medium Scale Industry Development Project.



- 2 -
4.        A dynamic private sector was the main engine of growth in the
Mexican economy even though the public sector continued to account for vell
over one-third of domestic capital formation until the mid-1970s. The public
sector's role in Mexico was seen both to set the pace and pattern of economic
grovth an. to help correct the effects of an uneven distribution of resources
on the relative position of the poorer segments of the population and of the
less favored regions of the country. The Government's success in this
regard, however, vas only partial. While the living standards of many
Mexicans improved considerably, the income of the poor farmers and marginal
urban dwellers lagged behind. Consequently, contrasts within the Mexican
economy remain conspicuous.
5.        In the early seventies, the Government sought to build up infra-
structure, expand basic Industries, stimulate agricultural output and imple-
ment massive social programs. The difficulties it encountered in mobilizing
resources simultaneously to attain all these aims led to excessive public
sector deficits, while domestic supply rigidities caused a large part of ti-e
aggregate demand to spill over into imports. Efforts to redress financial
imbalances by strengthening public revenues fell short of their goal and, in
September 1976, the Government abandoned the fixed parity of the peso and
imposed a strict stabilization program on the economy in the context of the
Extended Facility arrangements with the IMF. The program yielded positive
results within a relatively short time, as described below.
Economic Performance, 1976-1982
6.        The last Administration, which took office in December 1976, saw
the control of inflation and the improvement of the current account balance
as its most urgent tasks. It succeeded in reducing the rate of increase of
domestic prices by half between 1977 and 1978 while, at the same time, the
current account deficit decreased by over 40 percent. After two years of
limited growth, in 1978, the economy resumed its rapid growth. One of the
major constraints on economic growth--the availability of foreign exchange --
had been greatly relaxed by the successful exploitation of Mexico's oil
reserves; at the end of 1981 proven reserves were estimated at 72 billion
barrels. Oil not only contributed directly to foreign exchange earnings and
government revenue, but it also enabled the country to carry a much larger
external debt. The additional resources enabled the purchase of raw
materials and capital goods needed to sustain a high GDP growth, and allowed
the Government to embark on an ambitious expenditure program.
7.        Public expenditure grrow 20 percent per year in real terms between
1979 and 1981. Revenues grew mere slowly, thus causing the public sector
deficit to rise rapidly: as a proportion of GDP, the deficit jumped to about
15 percent in 1981, compared to a ratio of around 7 percent In the preceding
several years. Despite a high rate of mobilization of private savings into
the financial system, the Government had to resort increasingly to foreign
borrowing. Although public sector foreign indebtedness, as a percentage of
GDP, had fallen from 31 percent in 1977 to 20 percent in 1980, it rebounded
again to more than 30 percent in 1981. By 1980, the rapid rise in aggregate
demand was again beginning to exert pressure on prices, and domestic infla-
tion reached 26 percent. Since the nominal exchange rate had remained prac-
tically stable since 1977, the higher Mexican inflation resulted in an appre-
ciation of the peso in real terms. By 1980 the competitive edge gained after
the 1976 devaluation had been lost. This made non-oil exports progressivel,
less attractive, while imports rose at over 30 percent per year in real
terms.



- 3 -
8.         On the positive side, Lhe economic growth rate accelerated to over
8 percent during 1978-R1, and resulLed in an improvement of the labor
market. Conditions were creaLed not only to absorb the new entrants into the
labor force, but also to lower open unemploymenL, which is estimated to have
fallen to 4-5 percent of the labor force in the modern sector. The
Administration also sLrengthened its support to agriculture through
subsidies, reversing the trend towards a worsening trade balance on basic
foods, containing rural migration to some extent, and providing small farmers
with access Lo more efficient producLion methods. Finally, a combination of
fiscal incentives and administrative regulations had a positive effect on
spatial decentralization, one of the major policy objectives of the
Administration.
9.        The Mexican economy witnessed a progressive deterioration In the
course of 1981, and the Government's actions could be seen as responses to,
instead of guiding, events. By 1981, the need to bring domestic inflation
under controL and Lo help restore the competitiveness of non-oil exports had
become apparent. The Administration chose to follow a policy of gradual
adjustment, and expecLed that the deceleration in the growth of demand, to be
brought about through slowing the rise in public expenditures, would reduce
inflation. With a continued favorable outlook for oil exports, no major
problems were expected in the external sector, and a path of gradual
adjustment to a raLe of growth of 6-7 percent appeared sustainable in the
long run and was considered to be less costly in terms of inflation and
unemployment than more drastic stabilization measures.  Thus, the
Administratio;a decreed a 4 percent cut in lts expenditures, broadened
coverage of import licenses to about 80 percent of imports, tightened publIc
procurement procedures, and allowed a more rapid depreciation of the peso.
10.       Unfavorable external circumstances as well as the ineffectiveness
of the policies adopted were at the root of the deteriorating economic
conditions in 1981-82.   Prospects for the world oil market worsened in the
second half of 1981, and Mexico's actual oil revenues, at US$14 billion,
turned out to be 25 percent below the budget estimate. Moreover, imports
continued to increase. There was also a tightening of the international
financial market, with a steep rise in interest rates, which greatly
increased Lhe debt servicing burden since the bulk of Mexico's external
borrowing had been conLracLed aL variable interesL rates. By the end of
1981, the current accounL deficit reached $11.3 billion, or about 6 percent
of GDP. Half of the public sector's financing gap in 1981 was meL through
external funds, with net borrowing amounting to USS18 billAon, half of which
consisted of short Lerm debt. The foreign exchange proceeds were requlred to
susLain Lhe reserve position of the Bank of Mexico as concern over economic
managemenL and the continued rpal appreciation of the peso in the course of
the year led to substantial private capital ouLflows.
1I.       Altho'igh the budget approved for 1982 was moderate, showing
virtually no real increase in expendiLures, the beli'ef that the oil market
would remain weak and continuing doubts ahout financial discipline in the
public secLor fueled the expectation that the Government would not succeed in
reducing Lhe deficit and bringing down Lhe rate of inflation. In fact, the
general expectation was thaL inflation would worsen. Raising the minimum
wage rate hv 34 percent on January 1, 1982 and the award of a 24 percent wage
increase to public employees in March (retroactive to February 18) did little



- 4 -
to improve confidence in the management of the economy. In addition, foreign
commercial lenders became progressively wary of extending new loans or
rolling over the past ones as the country's financial and economic condition
worsened. By early 1982 private capital outflows had reached such
proportions that on February 18, 1982, the Bank of Mexico withdrew from the
exchange market, allowing the peso to depreciate from Mex$27 to Mex$45 to the
US dollar.
12.       The Administration also announced an adjustment program following
the devaluation. On April 19, 1982, a 17-point stabilization program was
decreed, with further cuts in public expenditures, increases in prices of
public goods and services, and a ceiling on domestic deficit financing.
Nevertheless, public expenditures continued to rise faster than revenues; in
fact, the public sector deficit for 1982 reached the unprecedented level of
18.5 percent of GDP. As confidence in the ability of the Administration to
implement these measures continued to erode and further difficulties were
experienced in obtaining external funds, there was a renewed outflow of
capital. On August 5, the shortage of foreign exchange forced the Bank of
Mexico to withdraw once again from the exchange market. Following this,
major policy and institutional changes were introduced, the most salient
being rigorous control of foreign exchange transactions, a dual exchange rate
system (of Mex$50 and Mex$70 to the US dollar), nationalization of the
domestic commercial banks, and the mandatory conversion into pesos of the US
dollar accounts held in Mexico (the so-called Mex dollar accounts) as they
matured. The Government also requested the foreign commercial banks to roll
over principal repayments on public debt falling due during the 90 days from
August 23, 1982.
13.       Thus, 1982 witnessed an abrupt halt to economic growth and a sharp
rise in prices. Preliminary estimates show a slight decline, of 0.2 percent,
in GDP and a 98.8 percent increase in consumer prices. Gross fixed capital
formation, which had been growing in real terms at 25 to 30 percent during
1978-80 and some 15 perce;it in 1981, fell sharply, by almost 17 percent.  At
the same time, the fall in imports (by more than 40 percent), reflecting both
the imposition of controls and the decline in demand, led to a substantial
trade surplus of the order of US$6.5 billion, reducing the current account
deficit to US$2.4 billion or about 1.3 percent of GDP.
14.       On December 1, 1982, Lic. Miguel de la Madrid took office as the
new President. On December 23, the IMF Board approved an Extended Fund
Facility that would provide SDR 3.6 billion over three years to the
Government of Mexico in support of a medium-term stabilization program. The
main features of the IMF agreement are summarized in Annex IV. In accordance
with the program, the Administration of President Miguel de la Madrid has
begun to carry out important changes in domestic and external policies.
These are briefly described below.
Recent Stabilization Measures
15.       A key ob4ective of the IMF-supported stabilization program is to
hring about a substantial improvement in fiscal performance in order to
create the conditions for the resumption of sustained economic growth.  The
program calls for a reduction of the public sector defic-it, from the
equivalent of about 18.5 pcrcent of GDP in 1982 to 8.5 percent in 1983, with



further reductions in 1984 and 1985. Achievement of the above objective will
require a major effort to reduce public sector expenditure and to increase
revenues. The authorities propose to hold down current expenditures by
eliminating or reducing subsidies to both the private and public sectors, and
by controlling the increase in the wage bill through a freeze on hiring and
pursuit of a restrained wage policy.
16.       Furthermore, the authorities have undertaken a review of public
investment projects with a view to reducing expenditures in sectors which
have in the recent past registered very large increases in capital formation,
in particular the petroleum, electricity and industrial sectors. No new
projects are to be started in these sectors, and priority will be given to
completing existing projects that are already quite advanced and which have
high rates of return. In line with this policy, the investment budget of
PEMEX for 1983 has been drastically scaled down in real terms, but
exploration and development expenditures are not expected to suffer. The
size and distribution of PE14EX's investment program remain an important
issue, due both to its claim on present scarce resources and to oil being a
critical determinant of future resource availability. Investment in power is
also being pared down through delaying construction of new generating
plants. Overall, public investment expenditures are projected to decline in
1983, bv nearly 3 percentage points, to about 8 percent of GDP. Recent
organizational and procedural changes in programming and budgeting should
help tighten control over public expenditures and align them closer to the
Government's objectives. A major institutional change introduced by the
present Administration is the upgrading of the Office of the Comptroller
General to a Federal Secretariat.
17.       With regard to public sector revenues, the authorities are carrying
out major adjustments in general taxation and public enterprise pricing
policies. The authorities are widening the tax base through the elimination
of special exemptions, and are adjusting taxation rates. The general rate of
the value added tax has been raised from 10 percent to 15, and new rates of 6
and 20 percent have been introduced for certain previously exempted goods and
luxury goods, respectively. There will be a 10 percent surtax during 1983 on
personal income above five times the minimum wage and shareholders will now
have to declare their holdings and include dividends received as part of
their taxable income.
18.       In regard to public enterprise pricing, the authorities have
implemented major adjustments, with the objective of bringing them into line
with domestic costs. Prices of petroleum products were increased by 20 to 70
percent in August 1982, followed by increases of 100 to 200 percent in
December 1982, and further increases of 20 to 25 percent in March 1983.
Electricity prices were increased by 50 percent in December 1982 and monthly
adjustments are scheduled throughout 1983. The price of sugar more than
doubled in November 1982, with further adjustments In December. Other public
enterprise prices are scheduled to be adjusted in accordance with the policy
objective stated above.
19.       In the area of monetary and credit policy, the operations of the
Bank of Mexico will be subject to limits consistent with the anti-inflation
and balance of payments aims of the program. The domestic credit policy of
the Bank of Mexico will reflect the aim of ensuring that the private sector
receives an appropriate share of domestic financial savings. The funds



- 6 -
available to the private sector will nonetheless be restricted by the limits
on domestic credit growth and the projected 10 percent shrinkage in the real
money base. Meanwhile, private sector demand for credit is expected to be
strong despite a decline in output, since this will be more than offset by
the need to .inance debt service.  Interest rates on deposits are being
adjusted upwdrd to help promote savings and discourage further capital
outflows. The authorities have stated their intention to increase nominal
deposit rates so as to make them positive in real terms. By the end of March
1983, che interest paid on 90 day certificates of deposit and treasury bills
had risen to over 80 percent (effective .ompounded yield) from about 40
percent in the first quarter of 1982. Controls over interest rates charged
for loans are being relaxed. Credit subsidies will be reduced by relating
the interest charges on preferential credits granted by the Government
development banks to the average cost to the banks of loanable funds.
20.       Exchange Rate Policy:  On December 10, 1982 the Mexican author-
ities revoked the generalized exchange control system that had prevailed
since September and established a new exchange system that included a
controlled exchange rate and a generalized free market. The new system
became operative on December 20, with the exchange rate in the controlled
market initially set at Mex$95 = US$1, a depreciation of some 35 percent in
relation to the previously prevailing ordinary rate of Mex$70 per US dollar.
Authorized imports and exports of most goods and debt related transactions
are expected to take place through this market. The free market opened at a
rate of Mex$150 = US$1 and has stayed close to that level for some time. The
authorities have emphasized the temporary nature of this arrangement and
expect both rates to converge, as the controlled rate is adjusted daily.  So
far the adjustment of the controlled rate has been at an annual rate of about
50 percent and will be modified as required in the light of changes in the
differential between the rates of inflation expected in Mexico and its main
trading partners. The controlled rate represents a substantial real
devaluation of the peso (relative to 1978 when exports were rising), thus
compensating in part for the anti-export bias implicit in the protection
system. In addition to these two exchange markets, the Bank of Mexico will
provide forward coverage in foreign exchange for the repayment of private
sector foreign debt obligations.
21.       Trade Policies:  The Administration recognizes that the generation
of a substantial trade surplus will be essential in managing the country's
external payments position. This will require policies to stimulate
non-petroleum exports combined with temporary measures to contain imports.
These actions should be consistent with longer-run objectives of reducing
excessive dependence on petroleum exports and raising domestic productivity
and efficiency. The principal components of this comprehensive trade
strategy include: pursuit of a flexible exchange rate that will help ensure
the profitability of export and import-competing sectors; a reorganization of
the protective system; progress in negotiations on bilateral and multilateral
trade arrangements; judicious use of export incentives and promotional
mechanisms; and setting up and/or strengthening of institutions that will
implement and monitor particular policies.  A detailed discussion of trade
policies appears in Part IV.



- 7 -
22.       External Debt Management:  A central objective of the adjustment
effort is to lower Mexico's reliance on external financing over the next few
years, and ttereby contribute to an easing of the debt servicing problems
that Mexico has experienced in the recent past. Thus, the authorities are in
the process of completing the formalities for restructuring Mexican debt.
The restructuring exercise applies to nearly $20 billion in public debt,
consolidating short-term public debt into medium and long-term facilities,
and rescheduling pr'ncipal payments on medium and long-term public debt due
to the commercial banks during the period August 23, 1982 - December 31,
1984.  The restructuring exercise includes an understanding that the interna-
tional banks will maintatn their exposure to the Mexican banks that are now
nationalized. At the satre time, it provides a mechanism that will eliminate
1982 private sector in.zerest arrears and, in due course,facilitate payment of
principal on such debt.  Based on the terms negotiated with the co  ercial
banks and on the projected net inflows, the actual ratio of debt service to
exports of goods and services is expected to decrease sharply in 1983 and
1984. Thereafter, it would increase to over 60 percent, as repayments on the
pre-1982 debt commence, and would stay around 60-65 percent through 1989 (as
compared to the peak of 66.2 percent reached in 1979); amortization payments
on new borrowing and on the rescheduled debt are due to begin in 1986 and
1987, respectively. External debt as a proportion of GDP is expected to fall
from 34 percent in 1982 to about 30 percent in 1985, and 25 percent in 1987.
23.       Balance of Pavments Outlook and Financing Requirements for 1983:
The economic program requires a continued surplus in the trade balance in
order to provide for the US$12 billion in contractual interest payments,
while maintaining a relatively small current account deficit (around US$2.0
billion in 1983 as against US$11.4 billion in 1981 and US$2.4 billion in
1982). Exports are projected to be around US$23 billion in 1983, from US$21
billion in 1982. Revenues from petroleum exports are projected to stay at
the previous year's level despite the expected increase in volume from an
average of about 1.4 million barrels per day in 1982 to 1.5 million in 1983
with the average price of the export mix between light and heavy crude oil
dropping to an estimated US$26 per barrel. Other exports are expected to
increase by JS51.9 billion in 1983 to a total of US$7.6 billion as a result
of the more favorable exchange rate and the expected recovery in the US
(Mexico's primary trade partner)- Imports are expected to remain around the
low levels of 1982 (USSl4.9 billion) reflecting the stagnation of domestic
output and investment.
24.       To ensure adequate financing of the adjustment program, it was
generally agreed that Mexico needed USS8.3 billion through 1983 with the IMF
providing US$1.3 billion. Of the rest, US$2 billion would be forthcoming
from other official sources, complementing the US$5 billion committed by the
banking community early in March 1983. Whether Mexico will require further
external financing during the year will depend on how well the safety
cushions (through anticipation of lower oil prices, building up of Central
Bank reserves, interest rate and import projections) built into the IMF
program will stand the recent drop in international oil prices.
Prospects
25.       It is particularly difficult at this stage to predict the course
the Mexican ecofiomy wil follow in the next few years.  Even with the good
start made by the Government in 1983 in taking the required stabilization



measures, it is clear that the years ahead will be a period of austerity and
sacrifices on the part of the Mexican population. The Government faces the
challenge of maintaining the required policies over a difficult period. The
factor which helped to postpone difficult policy decisioas in the past -
abundant foreign exchange - cannot be expected to provide a cr- hion in the
future. Although the Mexican economy can count on substantial natural
resources, an educated and skilled labor force, and well-developed
institutions, the prospects of growth in the short and medium-term will
depend basically on: (i) the deflationary effects of the proposed sharp
reduction in the budget deficit; (ii) the constraint on resource availability
imposed by the need to service the large external debt; and (iii) the
specific measures the Government adopts to stimulate production of
agricultural and manufacturing products. Under generally favorable
conditions, a reduction of the budget deficit to 8.5 percent of GDP - the
target under the lIl agreement - will imply a decline of about 2-3 percent in
national output in 1983. This should, however, considerably lessen the
inflationary pressures in the economy. Once a reasonable budget balance has
been establlshed -and it may take some time- the economic health of the
economy should be restored, creating conditions favorable to steady growth.
26.       To avoid another financial crisis in a few years, there is need to
ensure that the country's debt servicing capacity improves quickly. A
critical element in this is the growth of the non-oil economy, specifically
agriculture and industry. Although a reduction in the budget deficit is
likely to impose limits on the overall growth of the economy, appropriate
incentive policies are needed to stimulate the growth of agriculture and
manufacturing, which are largely private sector activities.
27.       Restoration of a high and sustained rate of growth vill provide the
strongest weapon to tackle the long-term problems mentioned above. At
present, Mexico is going through a period of adjustment, which dictates lower
real growth and employment generation in the next few years. However, this
will afford an opportunity to reappraise many of the past years' goals and
policy instruments, and provide a sounder basis for Mexico's development.
The new Administration has already shown its ability to take difficult and
politically unpopular decisions.
28.       The external debt problems have been described in para. 22.  Debt
service on Bank loans amounted to about 3 percent of public debt service in
1981; this ratio is projected to remain about the same during the mid-1980s.
The Bank currently holds about 6 percent of Mexico's total medium and
long-term public debt, and this ratio is not likely to change significantly
over the next few years. In view of the medium and long-term potential of
the economy and provided that the new Administration continues to address
forcefully the challenges outlined above, Mexico is considered creditworthy
for IBRD borrowing. In view of the country's estimated foreign exchange
needs over thte next few years, financing of ongoing and new projects should
include some local costs.



- 9 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 2/
Bank Operations
29.       As of March 31, 1983, Mexico had received 78 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$5,749 million, net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 50 lcans totalling US$2,724.6 million were fully disbursed. The Bank
held US$4,795.8 million, of which US$2,035.0 million had not yet been
disbursed. Some 46 percent ox Bank lending has been for agriculture and
rural development, 17 percent for industry, 12 percent for power, and 14
percent for transportation; the remaining 11 percent has been for water
supply, tourism, urban development, vocational training and pollution control
projects. Annex II contains a stmmary statement of Bank loans as of March
31, 1983, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
30.       Of the US$5.7 billion total lending, about US$2.6 billion was for
establishing or strengthening institutions for channelling credit to areas
where credit supply was deficient or non-existent, and setting up in the
commercial banking system the ability to carry out project-related appraisal
of investments in agriculture, industry and tourism. These credit programs
have facilitated lending to low-income farmers and small- and medium-scale
industrial and tourism enterprises based on productive investmeat plans,
rather than credit granted on the basis of collateral.
31.       The Government arranged adequate budget financing in the years 1978
to 1981, which significantly improved project implementation. Government and
Bank officials met periodically to review project implementation, and greater
attention was focused in Mexico on project monitoring. As a result of these
measures, most of the Bank-assisted projects were being implemented
satisfactorily until mid-1982 and disbursements rose from US$91 million in
FY78 to US$448 million in FY82. However, the present financial crisis is
again causing delays in the provision of counterpart funds, and proposals for
special actions are under preparation to help the Government ease the
counterpart funding constraints on the implementation of projects.
IFC Operations
32.       As of March 31, 1983, IFC had made investment commitments in 23
companies in Mexico, for a total of US$551.2 million, of which US$411.6
million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC
investments is presented in Annex II. IFC has been working together with the
Bank in preparing proposals to establish a facility which would complement
the proposed Bank loan for the Export Development Project. The IFC loan
facility would provide foreign exchange financing to private sector companies
for the importation of machinery, equipment and spare parts required for
production of exportable products, for efficient import substitution and for
improrements in the utilization of their existing productive capacity. IFC
is aiming at a US$75-100 million facility (including funds mobilized from
foreign commercial banks) which would provide financing for fixed investments
of a larger size than those assisted under the proposed Bank loan.
2/ This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Third Medium Size Cities and Sinaloa State Water Project (Report
No. P-3532-ME of April 21, 1983), and identical to Part II of the
President's Report for the proposed Third Small and Medium Scale
Industry Development Project (except for para. 35).



- 10 -
Bank Strategy
33.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico in the past six years
have been to: (a) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribu-
tion of the b-nefits of economic growth; (b) help finance projects that,
directly or i-.irectly, contribute significantly to output and eomployment;
(c) help reduce Mexico's urban-regional imbalances; and (d) help free bottle-
aecks which prevent rapid growth. Under the present circumstances, the Bank
also intends to support the Government's stabilization program, in close
cooperation with the IMF, through quick-disbursing operations and assistance
to increase non-oil export earnings, and to participate in an intensive
macroeconomic and sector policy dialogue to support design and implementation
of appropriate development policies.
34.       Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture and the
sector's crucial importance for the one-third of the nation's population
living in the rural areas, the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector
for its lending. The Bank's agricultural lending program in Mexico has four
goals: first, to increase productivity of presently cultivated lands;
second, to improve the productivity of small farmers; third, to complement
infrastructure investments with support services, such as extension, market-
ing programs and credit; and fourth, to promote employment-generating invest-
ments in rural areas. The Bank has made 13 loans in FYs77-82 totalling
US$1,834.4 million for irrigation, rural development and agricultural, agro-
industrial and livestock credit programs. A US$175 million loan for a rural
development project and a US$180 million loan for an irrigation rehabili-
tation project were approved by the Executive Directors in FY82, and a
US$138.4 million loan for San Fernando rainfed agricultural development was
approved in early FY83. A US$115 million loan for marketing perishables was
approved by the Executive Directors in April 1983. Projects for rainfed
agriculture, regional development and rural credit are in preparation.
35.       Bank lending for industry has aimed at:  (a) reduction of the
balance of payments deficit; (b) decentralizing industrial activities away
from the major, increasingly congested, urban areas; and (c) promoting
greater employment. A steel project which the Bank helped structure and
finance is now operating in a previously underdeveloped area on the west
coast of Mexico, and the city in which it is located, Lazaro Cardenas, is
developing into a new growth pole. Four loans for industrial projects to
promote the development of small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises, to
finance expansion of small- and medium-scale mining, and to support an
industrial equipment lund (FONEI) were approved by the Executive Directors in
FYs78-80. A loan for a vocational training project was approved by the
Executive Directors in July 1981; it is assisting a program to increase the
supply of skilled workers and technicians. A US$152.3 million loan for
development of a i.'pital goods industries project and a US$60 million loan
for pollution control were approved by the Executive Directors in FY82. A
modification in the capital goods project has now been approved by the
Executive Directors to set up a pilot export development fund to help
alleviate the current foreign exchange shortage confronting Mexican
exporters. In addition to the proposed loan, a US$175 million loan for a
proposed small and medium-scale industry project is being presented to the
Executive Directors along with this project.



- 11 -
36.       Bank lending for physical infrastructure has been focused on
regional development and strengthening of institutions and sector policies.
A highway sector project (FY79) and the fourth railway project (FY81) support
these goals. The first and second mediumr-size cities water supply and
sewerage projects (FY76 and 81) reinforce the planning, management and
finance of specialized water supply and sewerage institutions at the federal
and municipal levels, and contribute to the establishment of tariffs more
closely related to costs; a loan to finance a thirc project was approved by
the Executive Directors on May 17, 1983.
37.       The Government has adopted a National Urban Development Plan that
spells out its regional development priorities in operational terms. A
project to assist in the development of the Lazaro Carderas conurbation area
was approved by the Executive Directors in FY78, and a second urban project
for oil-producing southeastern Mexico was approved by the Executive Directors
in FY81. A loan for the preparation of a deconcentration program for the
Mexico City Region was approved by the Executive Directors in August 1982.
38.       The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting CECADE (a
similar institute under the Ministry of Programming and Budget) in training
Government staff in project preparation, monitoring and evaluation. EDI
assistance is directed at courses on urban and regional development, agricul-
ture, rural development and agro-industries. The Bank has also assisted the
Mexican authorities in training personnel for managing water supply and
industrial credit projects.
39.       The Inter-Arierican Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilaLero.l aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans to Mexico
totalling US$2,974.3 million as of March 31, 1983. Over 50 percent of the
total has gone to agricultural and rural development projects, and the
balance to transportation, industry, water supply and sewerage, tourism
infrastructure, education, municipal development, and pre-investment. The
IDB and the Bank have coordinated their assistance on several projects. Each
has made loans for the national integrated rural development program (PIDER),
agricultural and livestock credit, small- and mediu-m-scale industries devel-
opment, and hotel development projects. The International Fund for Agricul-
tural Development (IFAD) has approved a loan of US$22 million for a rural
development project in the state of Oaxaca which was appraised by the Bank's
staff and for which the Bank is acting as cooperating institution for admin-
istering the loan.
40.       Bank-supported power, steel, fertilizer and tourism projects in
Mexico have been co-financed by several bilateral export credit agencies and
commercial banks.   In January 1982, Mexico borrowed US$500 million from
commercial banks to provide complementary financing for Bank-assisted
projects where project specific co-financing would have been difficult.



- 12 -
PART III - THE EXPORT SECTOR: EVOLUTION, STRUCTURE AND INSTITUTIONS
Performance Through 1982
41.       Mexico's exports of goods and services have accounted for less than
10 percent of total output in most of the post World War II period, one of
the smaller ratios among the newly industrializing countries. This situation
reflects, in part, the broad natural resource base of the country and its
large domestic market (Mexico was the eleventh most populous nation in the
world in 1979). Moreover, Mexican administrations have generally followed a
development strategy that has been oriented towards import substitution
behind protective barriers. This has led to a substantial anti-export bias
affecting the productive sectors.
42.       From the early post World War II years through the end of the 1960s
Mexican exports were primarily crude or simply processed agricultural or
natural raw materials. The need to diversify and expand exports,
particularly of manufactured products began to be recognized in the mid-1960s
as the limits of the import substitution approach to industrial and economic
development became apparent. Facilitated by fiscal incentives and other
measures taken by the Government to promote exports, several industries with
favorable characteristics were able to achieve internationally competitive
levels of output aud began to seek foreign markets. By the end of that
decade, exports of manufactures accounted for one-quarter of total exports
(compared to less than 10 percent at the beginning of the period), although
they still represented only 4 percent of the gross value of manufactured
output.     During the 1970s, the structure of Mexico's exports underwent
considerable transformation- Responding in part to increased Government
incentives as well as institutional support, the share of manufactured
exports in total exports grew through the mid-1970s to about one-half-3/
Beginning in 1975, however, the exploitation of the newly discovered
hydrocarbon resources radically changed the pattern of the external sector as
well as of the economy itself. Exports of crude petroleum rose from ll
percent of total exports (about US$400 million) in 1975 to 70 percent (US$14
billion) in 1981, resulting from a ten-fold increase in volume and doubling
of international oil prices. Despite a favorable impact of the 1976
devaluation on manufactured exports which persisted until 1978, the share of
manufactures in total exports was reduced by 1981 to less than 20 percent;
primary products, mainly agricultural items such as coffee, cotton and fresh
fruits and vegetables and service exports, accounted for the remaining 10
percent of exports. Manufactured exports as a percentage of domestic
manufacturing output peaked at 5.5 percent in 1978, and since then have been
declining (to less than 4 percent in 1982).   The volume of manufactured
exports actually declined during 1980 and 1981, although the dollar value
3/   Total manufacturing output grew in real terms at about 7 percent per
annun between 1970 to 1981, slightly above the 6.6 percent growth rate
recorded for GDP. By 1981 manufacturing accounted for about 23 percent
of the GDP while manufacturing exports accounted for less than 4 percent
of the gross output of the economy.



- 13 -
showed slight increases. The poor performance of non-petroleumA exports
reflected the pull of the rapidly expanding domestic market, deteriorating
market conditions abroad and the impact of a continually appreciating
exchange rate as Mexico's domestic inflation considerably exceeded that of
the main importing countries. Total exports of Mexico (including petroleum)
grew, however, from about 8 percent of GDP in 1970 to 13 percent in 1981.
43.       In 1982, the value of exports of crtide petroleum continued to rise
in spite of the decline in petroleum prices from those of the previous year.
Substantial increases in export volume which were achieved in the latter part
of the year more than offset the 15 percent decline in average prices.
However, despite the devaluations during the year, which allowed some
increase in the volume of manufactured exports, the value of primary as well
as manufactured exports fell in dollar terms during 1982 as a result of world
recessionary conditions and increasing shortages of imported inputs due to
the foreign exchange restrictions imposed.   Net revenues fr3m tourism
transactions, which are permitted at the free market exchange rate, started
increasing sharply towards the eud of 1982 and in early 1983, marking a
reversal of a downward trend in net tourism revenues caused by the real
appreciation of the peso in recent years; net tourism revenues estimated at
US$618 million for 1982, are projected to grow to US$1 billion in 1983.
44.       The structure of exports is influenced by natural resource
endowment, available human resources as well as location in relation to
potential markets. Mexican exports have included not only items in which
obvious advantages are offered by Mexico's natural resources or labor
intensity (e.g., processed foods, chemicals and petrochemicals and furniture)
but also those where skilled labor, quality or technology play an important
role (e.g., fashion clothing, steel rolling-mill equipment, small electric
motors and foundry casting). Proximity to the United States, particularly to
the Western and Southwestern regions, often offers substantial advantages to
Mexican industries, in some cases even vis-a-vis competing U.S. industries.
Thus more than 70 percent of Mexico's manufactured exports are to the U.S.;
the remaining are distributed mainly among Western Europe, Central and South
America and Japan. Collaborative agreements with foreign (particularly U.S.)
industries facilitated technology transfer in the case of many product
lines. Overall, Mexico's exports are well diversified among different
product groups, reflecting the broad base of Mexican industry as well as an
increasing capability to achieve internationally competitive levels of
production. Annex V, Tables 1 and 2 provide a summary of the structure and
evolution of Mexico's principal merchandise and service exports and a more
detailed breakdown of manufactured exports. A fuller discussion of the
structure of Mexican industry and exports and related issues is included in
the report entitled Mexico: Future Directions of Industrial Strategy",
which is being distributed to the Executive Directors.
45.       Three subsectors, processed foods, chemicals and petrochemicals
(including petroleum derivatives), and metal products, machinery and equip-
ment, currently comprise more than two-thirds of manufactured exports accord-
ing to the trade classification. These are followed by light industries
(textiles, clothing and leather goods) which have consistently accounted for
5-10 percent of total manufactured exports over the last six years.



- 14 -
46.       The food exports involve relatively little processing and
essentially reflecL natural resoturce endowment and locational advantages
(e.g., the processing of fruits and vegetables for the U.S. market).
Although the relative share of this group declined in recent years  rainly due
to the virtual disappearance of exports of sugar and related by-products
since the mid-0970s, several product groups such as Drocessed fruits,
vegetables and seafood exhibited significant export growth.   Exports from
the chemical and petrochemical industries are also essentially resource
based. Over the last decade they have included a wide range of both
inorganic and petrochemical products. Exports of petroleum derivatives rose
sharply in 1980 and 1981 reflecting the emergence of exports of heavy fuel
oil, butane and propane gases and refinery by-products reflecting a growth of
external demand.
47.       The sub-group which has shown the most dynamism during this period
is engineering industries, comprising metal products, machinery and
equipment, whose share in manufactured exports had risen from roughly 11
percent in 1970 to 28 percent in 1982. Exports of these products, which are
not generally resource-based, reflect growing Lechnological capabilities
combined with the availability of relatively inexpensive skilled labor in
Mexico. The bulk of this category is accounted for by automobiles and
automobile parts (e.g., transmissions, brake parts and assemblies, motor
blocks etc.); specialized machinery and equipment for oil exploration and
exLraction, petrochemical production, electric generation and distribution,
and bottlemaking; and electrical and electronic parts (e.g., electric cables,
television parts). In recent years a small but rapidly growing export of
technological services in the field of engineering and design, covering a
wide range of construction and manufacturing activities (e.g., assistance in
production processes such as bottlemaking, direct reduction of iron ore,
non-woven cloth and cables for petroleum extraction), has also emerged,
illustrating the growing sophistication of Mexican industry.
48.       In addition to the exports from domestically based industry, which
has been covered in the above discussion, Mexico also continues to maintain
maquila (in-bond) industries, (mostly labor intensivE: assembly operations)
located primarily in the U.S. - Mexico border region. The "maquila-
industries transform production inputs imported from the U.S. into final
products which are then shipped back to the U.S., thus providing a
*transformation service  utilizing inexpensive Mexican labor.  It was
estimated that in 1980, the maquila activities earned net foreign exchange
income of about US$800 million and provided employment to about 125,000
workers (7 percent of the total labor force in manufacturing). Another
institutional development oriented towards promoting exports has been the
establishment of export consortia (based on a special fiscal incentive which
was earlier available to them) which help exporters reduce marketing and
overhead expenses by grouping together several small or medium sized export
operations.
Policies Affecting Export Performance
49.       The above export performance is explained not only by changes in
domestic demand and internatIonal economic conditions (e.g., the general
world trade expansion in the early and late 1970s, and the worldwide
recession in 1974 and 1975) butL also to a substantial degree by the



- 15 -
prevailing policy environment. Most important among the policy variations
vere those involving the commercial and exchange rate policies and export
incentives.
50.       Mexican comercial pclicy has been characterized by a significant
amount of protection for domestic productive activities during most of the
past two decades. While import tariff levels have generally been moderate
relative to other Latin American countries, the protective system included a
rather comprehensive system of import licensing, which led to an anti-export
bias affect!ng most productive sectors. During the l960s, licenses vere
required for approximately 60 percent of the miaoer of items in the tariff
nomenclature vhich accounted for slightly more than that share of the value
of total imports. In the early 1970s, as a result of the increasing real
appreciation of the peso (see below), pressL-P for additional protection
increased and the number of items subjected Lo licenses rose to about 80
percent, covering about 75 percent of the total value of Imports. Pollowing
the major devaluations which occurred in the last half of 1976, the
authorities initiated a process of reducing the average tariff level and
reliance on the import licensing system. The process of import
liberalization continued through the end of 1979, by vhich time only
one-fourth of the tariff items was subject to licensing; although they still
accounted for some 60 percent of the total value of imports, import licenses
were granted on a relatively liberal basis for many product groups (e.g.,
capital goods). Reflecting this, nominal protection in 1979 for 24 out of
27 key subsectors Vas lower than in 1970.  Average nominal protection for
manufacturing (excluding petroleum refining which had negative protection of
59 percent) was estimated at 3 percent based on direct price comparisons; for
all productive sectors the level of nominal protection was zero.  However,
some subsectors such as household appliances, autos, plastics and electronic
equipment continued to have bigh levels of nominal and effective protection
(exceeding 100 percent in the case of effective procection). Imports
accounted for 12.8 percent of all manufactures consumed in Mexico in 1980, as
compared to 9.7 percent a decade earlier.
51.       Further liberalization measures which had been planned for 1980 and
1981 vere not undertaken as the increasing real appreciation of the peso once
more gave rise to protectionist pressures. During 1981, some items which had
been previously decontrolled were put back on the licensing list while
tariffs on a number of other products were also increased. Following the
February 1982 devaluation, there was a reduction in some tariff levels. But,
with the imposition of full exchange controls in September 1982, and the
continuing severe foreign exchange shortage, the Government imposed prior
import license requirements for virtually all imports, which implies
potentially unlimited protection in the short run. The Government intends,
however, to reinitiate import liberalization, starting first with
liberalization of imports for export industries (paras. 81, 87 and 88).
52.       Exchange rate policy  in the early 1970s was characterized by a
marked real appreciation of the peso. From 1972 through August 1976, Mexican
prices rose 20-30 percent more than those of its principal trading partner,
while the exchange rate remained at 12.5 pesos to the U.S. dollar, the same
rate which had been maintained since 1954. To reverse capital flight and
help stimulate exports, the Government abandoned the fixed exchange rate in
September 1976 and permitted the peso to float. The peso subsequently
stabilized and fluctuated around 22.6 pesos to a U.S. dollar during most of
the period from 1977 through the end of 1980.  The new rate which in 1977



- 16 -
represented a 25 percent dep.eciation of the peso in real t'rms vis-a-vis
1970, was instrumental in enabling the large expansion of manufactured
exports registered during 1977-1980. However, the relative attractiveness of
exports declined during that period as the Mexican inflation consistently
exceeded world inflation levels. Although the exchange rate waE allowed to
-crawl" during 1981 and early 1982 in response to pressures building in the
financial markets (to about 27 pesos to the U.S. dollar by early February
1982), the rate of devaluation was not sufficient to compensate for the
differential between price increases in Mexico and abroad, leading to further
real appreciation of the peso. By the end of 1981 the peso was estimated to
have appreciated more than 35 percent in real terms in comparison with its
1977 level. Together with a rapidly expanding aggregate domestic demand,
this contrituted to a dwindling of interest in export-oriented activities
among industries, despite the moderate export incentives offered through the
CEDIs scheme (para. 53). The attractiveness of exports was restored only
after the major devaluations, which the Government had to undertake in
February and August 1982 in the face of a severe foreign exchange crisis, and
the introduction of a more flexible exchange rate system towards the end of
1982 (see para. 20).
53.       Export incentives  offered included pre- and post-shipment
financing at preferential rates for manufactured exports and fiscal
incentives in the form of rebate of indirect taxes paid by exporters mainly
through the CEDIs (Indirect Tax Rebate Certificates) system, which was in
effect from 1971 until August 1982 (except for a brief period after the 1976
devaluation).   At the beginning of 1980, a number of the taxes reimbursed
under the system were removed and replaced by the value added tax (VAT) which
was not applied to exports. However, the CEDI rates which stood at about 11
percent of the value of eligible exports on average (but varied across
products depending on domestic content, value added and exports growth), were
not adjusted to take account of the introduction of VAT. In August 1982, the
CEDI system was suspended (although exports remain exempt from the value
added tax); moreover, FOMEX's interest rates on pre- and post-shipment
credits are being reviewed with a view to revise them upwards (para. 60).
These actions reflect the Government's concern to avoid frictions with its
major trading partners, as well as a belief that the new attractive exchange
rate would be sufficient to promote exports. In a related measure, Mexico is
actively pursuing a bilateral trade agreement with the U.S. in order to
arrive at trade understandings and establish mutually agreed criteria for
trade relations, including an agreement on subsidies and export incentives
substantially equivalent to that under the GATT Subsidies Code, applicability
of the 'injury test" to U.S. industries competing with imports from Mexico
and the use of the U.S. Generalized System of Preferences.
Export Prospects for 1983-85
54.       With expectations of lower petroleum prices, foreign exchange
earnings from these exports in 1983 are expected to at best equal those of
1982. Expansion of non-petroleum exports has become a matter of considerable
urgency to help meet the country's financial liabilities and essential
imports for the economy. Total debt service (including amortization payments
on public debt and interest payments on total debt) is estimated to reach a
staggering level of about US$23 billion in 1985. This implies that in order



- 17 -
to limit Mexico's debt service ratio to about 60 percent, the total dollar
value of exports of goods and non-factor services should grow at least at 10
percent per year in constant dollars during 1983-85. Using available
projections of petroleum and service export earnings, the implied minimum
growth rate of non-petroleum merchandise exports required would be 20-25
percent per annum in real terms from about US$4.9 billion (excluding exports
from *maquila" operations) in 1982 to about US$9 billion per year by 1985/86.
55.       Given the broad and diversified base of the manufacturing sector,
the considerable spare capacity which currently exists as a result of the
recession, and the technological base which Mexico has developed, Mexican
industry is well positioned to expand exports under the proposed
macro-economic framework, particularly with an exchange rate regime that
encourages exports. Under these expected favorable circumstances, annual
growth rates of 20 percent or more should be possible for manufactured
exports, and are consistent with the IMF projections. Mexican industry
appears to be in an especially good position to take advantage of a recovery
of the U.S. economy.   Export growth rates of the orders ot magnitude
indicated above could help sustain industrial output and employment under the
current situation of depressed domestic demand. A critical element in
enabling the projected export growth would be availability of sufficient
foreign exchange to meet the import needs of exporters.
Institutional Framework for Financing Export Operations
56.       Traditionally, Mexican exporters, particularly larger firms, have
had adequate access to both domestic and foreign banks to finance production
and sales of their exports; working capital financing was available in peso
and foreign currencies as were the foreign suppliers' credit lines for raw
materials and equipment. In addition, Banco de Mexico has been providing
pre- and post-shipment financing for exporting industries through its special
rediscounting funds (F0MEX and FONEI-- see paras. 58 to 68).  Export
financing has also been facilitated through the selective credit schemes of
Banco de Mexico which require Mexican banks to channel at least 1.6 percent
of their total deposits for financing of exports of primary products (except
petroleum and coffee) and, until recently (para. 57), also 3.5 percent of
their dollar deposits for financing the production, inventories and sales of
manufactured exports.
57.       The foreign exchange crisis currently faced by Mexico has added to
the financing problems of exporters in several important ways. Since
mid-1982 direct access of private industries to new foreign commercial credit
has virtually disappeared because the banks were unwilling to increase or
even maintain their exposure to Mexico. Moreover, the sudden disruption of
foreign exchange markets and the inability of Banco de Mexico to honor
requests for foreign exchange prevented many export firms from servicing
their foreign credits, leading to high arrears of both principal and interest
payments on their obligations. The problem is particularly severe with
supplier credits which involve a large number of foreign suppliers and, for
the most part, are of short-term maturities. Arrears in servicing these
supplier credits have led to disruption of relationships with suppliers and,
in some cases, to cutting off critical supplies of imported inputs. In



- 18 -
addition, the mascive devaluations of the peso combined with the stagnation
of the Mexican economy during 1982 have led to liquidity and decapitalization
problems for many Mexican industries, particularly those with large foreign
debt, which in turn increases the difficulties in obtaining accesb to
commercial cr%Jit. These problems were compounded by the elimination of
dollar deposits in the Mexican financial system since the inception of
exchange control, which effectively removed selective credit programs as a
source of financing for manufactured exports. Given the stringent actions
contemplated by the Mexican Government under the stabilization program agreed
with the IMF, and pending discharge of the debt service obligations,
prospects are for an Increasingly tight credit situation through 1983 and
1984.
58.       Four Mexican institutions have been involved in providing export
credit and/or export credit insurance and guarantees.   The most important of
these has been Fondo de Fomento a las Exportaciones de Productos
Manufacturados (FOMEX), which was established in 1962 as a trust fund of
Banco de Mexico with the principal objective of promoting exports in order to
strengthen the country's balance of payments and assist economic growth.
While production and sales financing for exports represent by far its most
important activities, FOMEX also offers programs for export credit guarantees
for locally produced capital goods and financing of sale/purchase of locally
produced consumer goods in the border zones. The financing of FOMEX is
provided by rediscounting up to 100 percent of loans made by Mexican banks
covering both domestic and foreign cost components; the rediscounting
percentage varies depending on the type of operation, type of enterprise and
domestic content. FOMEX's guarantees can be provided either to the bank
making a loan to the exporter or directly to the exporter. Although FOMEX's
credit guarantee programs cover a broad range of risks, their main focus is
coverage of political and "country- risks. In addition, FOMEX can finance a
number of supporting activities related to exports (e.g., product adaptation
and market studies), but it has not pursued these operations actively in the
past. FOMEX's highest decision-making body is its Technical Committee which
is chaired by the Minister of Finance and composed of high ranking
representatives of SECOFIN, Banco de Mexico, NAFINSA, IMCE, BNCE, and the
chambers of private industries. FOMEX's total staff of approximately 150
people is well qualified and is organized in three principal departments
(technical, operational and administrative) which are assisted in their
operations by seven regional offices located in main industrial and
commercial centers.
59.       During the 20 years of its operation, FOMEX's lending has grown
rapidly. Some 3,500 different enterprises have benefitted from FOMEX
financing since its inception. More than 80 percent of FOMEX's financing was
related to pre-export (production) and export sales financing (see Annex V,
Table 3). The share of FOMEX's export sFles financing in the total value of
Mexico's manufactured exports grew from a modest 4 percent in 1965 to about
28 percent in 1970 and 43 percent in 1982. Operations in 1982 were financed
using resources from recovery of its past loans (71 percent), a 2 percent
special levy which is included in the structure of import taxes and earmarked
by the Government for FOMEX (3 percent), retained earnings and other domestic
sources (6 percent), and external borrowings (20 percent).



- 19 -
60.        Until recenLly, loans under FOMEX's pre-export financing programs
have been given in local currency and with maLurities covertng the period
from the moment of purchase of inputs until the date of export at interest
rates of 8 percent per annum for Lhe final borrower including a 3 percentage
point spread for the intermediary. FOMEX's sales financing provided dollar
loans wiLh maturities of up to 10 years and interest rates varying between 6
percent and 8.75 percent per annum depending on Lhe country of destination of
e'xports and maturity of the loan with a spread for intermediaries of up to 3
percentage points. Interest rates on both pre-export and export sales
financing are, however, currently under review (para. 53) and are expected to
be revised upwards substantially, to be comparable to the cost of credit for
international trade.
61.       Over the years, FOMEX has acquired considerable experience and
expertise in its traditional pre-export, sales, and import substitution
financing programs which have accounted for the bulk of its operations. It
has succeeded in establishing effective working relationship with most of the
parLicipating banks which have assumed full responsibility for appraisal of
firms and operations to be financed through FOMEX. FOMEX's financial
condition is sound and its portfolio of good quality. Given the commercial
naLure of most of its operations, FOMEX has been able to process financing
applicaLions rapidly. However, an expansion of pre-export-cum-sales
financing as envisaged under the project (para. 95) will require more
detailed evaluation of the export plans of beneficiary firms; given the
analytical skills ane capabilities of FOMEX's technical department, this
should not pose any major difficulties. FOMF.X's guarantee program and
financing of activities complementing and supporting production and sale of
export goods (e.g., financing of market studies, technical training,
technology development, support to trading companies, transport equipment and
warehousing of export products) have, however, had limited success; most of
these programs were introduced during the past 2-3 years and are not
sufficiently known to potential beneficiaries. The export development
program supported by the proposed loan is expected Lo help expand these
programs Lhrough increased resources and publicity and strengthening of
FOMEX's capabilities in these regards (paras. 103 and 104). A condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan would be that the impending transfer of
the trusteeship of FOMEX from Banco de Mexico to BNCF (paras. 84 and 88) be
formalized.
62.       Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior (BNCE) was created in 1937 as a
state development bank with the principal objective to act as financial agent
of the Federal Government and oLher public sector entities for foreign trade
and other financial transactions with Lhe rest of the world. Through
subsequent modifications of its legal status and main objectives, BNCE became
a multipurpose bank dedicated to the promotion and development of foreign
trade activities of both public and private sectors. Apart from its
traditional role as financial agent, BNCE's current activities include
imporL-export financing operations and related services (e.g., provision of
letters of credit and acceptances) as well as financing of import
substitution activities.   BNCE has considerable experience in contracting
and administering foreign lines of credit from export-import banks and other
official sources. BNCE also has a subsidiary, IMPEXNAL, which functions as
an export consortium to finance and provide services to participating firms,
particularly in the agro-industries sub-sector.



- 20 -
63.        BNCE's Board of Directors is chaired by the Minister of Finance and
includes eleven additional members selected from high level officials of
government entities dealing with external trade and finance. Tt has a
competent staff of about 630 (including staff at five regional offices)
organized under Lhree main departments (credit, finance and international
transactions and administration) reporting to the DirecLor General (its chief
execujtive). Annex V, Table 4 presents 3 summary of the lending operations of
BNCE over Lhe past Lwo years.   RNCE's financial position is sound.
64.       With its network of correspondent banks worldwide (of which it has
accouints with some 350), BNCE has accumulated considerable experience in
entering into intern.iAonal transactions, contracting and managing external
loans and issuing and accepting letters of credit. Due to its specialtzation
in foreign trade transactLions, close ties with the Government and its
established links with foreign banks, BNCE has adjusted relatively quickly Lo
Lhe changed circumstances thaL followed the 1982 foreign exchange crisis.
Yet, BNCE is sLill predominantly a financial agent for the public sector and
an important financier of Mexico's imports and import substituLing
activities, wiLh pre-exporL and exporL financing operations representing only
a small portion of its total lending. In order to Lransform BNCE into
Mexico's principal export-import bank, a stated Government objective, BNCE
will have to focus its operations more on e-;port and pre-export financing and
plans to consolidate its operations with those of FOMEX (para. 84). Also, to
faciLitate a more active role for BNCE in financing export oriented
investment projects, BNCE's project preparation, appraisal and supervision
capabilities, currently of satisfactory quality but limited in size, will
have Lo be expanded. Any assistance to BNCE required for this would be
eligible for financing under the technical assistance component of the
proposed loan (para. 104).
65.       Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial (FONrI)  was established in 1971,
following extensive discussions between the Mexican authorities and the Bank
to help improve industrial efficiency, the structure of industrial financing,
and the country's balance of payments position.   As a second tier trust fund
of Banco de Mexico, FONEI has been providing term financing through
rediscounting of investment loans made by Mexican banks for industrial
projects with an expected positive impact on the balance of payments through
higher exports or efficient import substitution. As FONEI became a more
mature institution, additional objectives were emphasized including a more
efficient reallocation of resources through Lhe financial system by inducing
banks Lo make their lending decisions increasingly on Lhe basis of
comprehensive project appraisal and lending for new high priority activities
such as technology development. To help achieve these objectives, the Bank
has made four loans totalling US$360 million for FONEI's general industrial
lending for investment projects. FONEI is also one of the lending agencies
in the Bank's Pollution Control and Capital Goods Industries Development
Projects. A full institutional appraisal of FONEI is available in the Staff
Appraisal Reports circulated to the Executive Directors in connection with
Lhc Fourth FONEI project (Report No. 2478-ME of May 1979) and the Capital
Goods Industries Development Project (Report No. 3756-ME of April 1982).



- 21 -
66.       FONEI's Operating Regulations, which are already being used under
the ongoing Bank loans being channeled through FONEI, specifv that in
selecting projects for financing, FONEI should consider, inter-alia , the
f-'lowing economic criteria: {i) the project's foreign exchange generation or
savings; (ii) its economic rate of return; (iii) its utilization of labor and
its value added; and (iv) indistrial decentralization aspects. The maximum
amount of financing FONEI can normally provide to a single investment project
is Mex$300 million. However, to facilitate significant participation in
relatively large projects considered of high priority by the Government
(e.g., capital goods and petrochemicals), FONEI can approve financing in
excess of the above amount provided prior authorization of the SHCP is
obtained. FONEI's subloans are denominated in pesos and have maximum
maturities of 13 years, including up to 3 years of grace. Onlending interest
rates on FONEI's loans for investment projects are set on a floating rate
basis (adjustable every six months) at two percentage points above the
current level of the index of the average cost of term deposit funds to
Mexican multipurpose banks (the ACF index--the base rate generally used for
peso-denominated loans made through the Mexican banking system), including a
spread of two percentage peints for the intermediary bank, which assumes the
full credit risk.
67.       FONEI has a competent professional staff of about 50, organized
under the technical (credit), promotion and administration departments which
report to its Director. FONEI's project appraisal and supervision
capabilities have developed well over the years. It has been reasonably
successful in its efforts to encourage the irtermediary banks to take over
the responsibility for carryirng out full project appraisals before submitting
tha finaacing requests Lo FONE! and to undertake regular and systematic
supervision of the projects. This was partly achieved by offering additional
spreads of 0.25-0.5 percent to intermediary banks willing to assume project
appraisal responsibility, and a further 0.25 percent if the bank also agrees
to undertake full project supervision following FONEI's guidelines.   FONEI's
lending  operations and loan portfolio have grown rap dly over the past five
years (with an almost 10-fold increase in pcrtfolio between 1976 and 1981),
as a result of vigorous domestic demand as well as the promotional efforts
and expanding contacts of FONEI with private sector industries and banks.
New loan approvals in 1982 were about US$210 million equivalent, for about
140 projects (see Annex V, Table 5). Total loan portfolio of FONEI at
year-end 1982 stood at about US$325 million equivalent. It is expected that
after a decline in FONEI's equipment financing in 1983, its operations will
resume their dynamic growth from 1984. FONEI's financial condition is sound;
although it is exposed to some foreign exchange interest payment obligations
under prior Bank loans and foreign exchange risk on a limited amount of
commercial borrowing, this is expected to be largely covered by the increase
in the applicable (floating) interest rates on its peso-denominated lending.
68.       In the past, FONEI has focussed primarily on -integrated" projects
involving creation of new production capacity or major capacity expansions.
Accordingly, its operating regulations set a minimum limit of MexS10 million
(about USS100,000 equivalent at the controlled exchange rate) on the size of
its subloans. Also, under the Government's decentralization policv, FONEI
is currently not allowed to rediscount loans for plants located in Mexico
City and its environs, where a majority of the older industrial plants with
the most critical replacement needs are located. In the light of the current



- 22 -
low demand for new industrial investments and in order to meet changing needs
of its clients more adequately, FONEI's operating regulations have recently
been amended to allow it to finance smaller investments involving removal of
existing bottlenecks or filling critical equipment replacement needs. These
mod'ificationF, which were discussed at loan negotiations, facilitate adequate
FONEI participation under the proposed loan (para. 93).
69.       Compania Mexicana de Seguros de Credito (COMESEC)  was created in
1970 with authorization of SHCP and Comision Nacional Bancaria and with an
initial equity capital of Mex$20 million, 60 percent of which was
underwritten and paid-in by 41 Mexican insurance companies. COMESEC's
principal objective is to offer coverage of commercial risks to Mexican
exporters originating from financial insolvency of foreign buyers. In 1976,
an internal credit insurance program was added.
70.       COMESEC's Board of Directors has 12 members, including
representatives of Banco de Mexico, commercial banks and insurance
companies. COMESEC has currently some 140 staff, located at Mexico City
headquarters and five regional offices.  Through its global and special
insurance policies COMESEC offers credit insurance for a period from 30 days
to five years with premia varying from about 0.25 percent to 5 percent
depending on the duration of insurance, experience of the exporter, prior
credit record and financial position of the foreign buyer, and the country of
destination. COMESEC only covers commercial risks from the moment of
shipment of goods; political risks are covered by FOMEX (para. 58). In
estimating the risks of its operations, COMESEC relies on 400 different
sources of information worldwide. Generally, COMESEC covers 85 percent of
the insured amount of short-term credits and 75 percent of long term
credits. 95 percent of COMESEC's export credit insurance is done through its
global policy,- designed for short-term credit involving continuing trade
transactions throughout the year. Its -special policy- is normally used for
medium to long-term loans financing individual exports of capital goods. In
1982, some 800 export credits to Mexican exporters were insured by COMESEC
through 2,500 policies, covering about 35 percent of Mexican manufactured
exports. Of the total amount of credit insured by COMESEC, over 60 percent
was for export credits. COMESEC reinsures 90 percent of the amount of
insured credit.
71.       COMESEC works closely with FOMEX; in particular COMESEC insurance
is a precondition for exporters to participate in FOMEX's post-shipment
guarantee program which is oriented mainly to cover political risks. Both
COMESEC's c^-edit insurance and FOMEX's guarantee mechanisms have played an
important role in reducing risks faced by Mexican exporters and the banks
that help finance their trade. Traditionally, export credits insured and
premia charged by COMESEC were in US dollars. With the 1982 exchange
controls, COMESEC has been unable to offer full insurance coverage in
dollars. In the future, COMESEC may have to provide new or modified type of
insurance to cater to the new circumstances and markets, e.g., to ensure that
exporters would continue to be considered by Mexican banks as acceptable
credit risks in the face of the foreign exchange control.



- 23 -
Financing of Tourism Investments
72.       The main government entity providing finance for tourism
investments is Fondo Nacional de Fomento al Turismo (FONATUR). FONATUR was
established in 1974, as a trust fund of the federal government under the
administrative supervision of NAFINSA through the merger of two prior trust
funds devoted to financing of tourism investments. FONATUR's operating
regulations empower it to engage in tourism infrastructure operations,
participate in equity investments and rediscount loans for tourism
investments acting as a second-tier financing institution. FONATUR has
successfully implemented three Bank loans, two for tourism infrastructure
(Loans 793-ME of January 1972 and 1420-ME of July 1977) and one for its
lending operations (Loan 1524-ME of February 1978), totalling US$114
million. A full institutional appraisal of FONATUR is available in the Staff
Appraisal Report circulated to the Executive Directors in connection with the
last loan (Report No. 1760-ME of February 1978).
73.       FONATUR's Board is chaired by the Minister of Tourism and includes
representatives of SHCP, SECOFIN and NAFINSA. In deciding on lending
operations, the Board is assisted by a Credit Committee consisting of the
representatives of the above agencies plus FONATUR's Director General.
FONATUR currently has a staff of some 800, organized under five main
departments (credit, equity investments, tourism infrastructure, marketing,
and finance and administration).
74.       FONATUR's lending operations, which are channeled through the
entire network of Mexican banks, grew rapidly from 1977 onwards, reaching
some Us$450 million equivalent in 1981.   Due to shortage of resources and
the financial crisis, FONATUR's lending in 1982 was sharply cut back,
amounting to only about one-third of the previous year's amount (see Annex V,
Table 4). Because of the attractive exchange rate, prospects for tourism
related investments appear good: FONATUR expects that its credit operations
will resume their dynamic growth and that total credit will grow almost three
times between 1982 and 1984. The emphasis would be on upgrading of existing
hotel capacity and construction of high category hotels which are expected to
attract foreign tourists and generate foreign exchange. In order to best
meet the growing demand for hotel investments, FONATUR is currently modifying
the operating regulations that would: (i) allow it to authorize a maximum
loan of MexS1,000 million for fixed asset investments and Mex$100 million for
working capital financing (replacing the current maximum limits of MexS200
million and MexS30 million respectively); (ii) increase the beneficiary
firm's minimum participation in the investment from 35 percent to 50 percent;
and (iii) require a minimum commercial bank participation of 20 percent of
the credit amount. FONATUR's loans have a maximum maturity of 15 years with
up to three years of grace at an interest rate to the final beneficiary
varying from 80 to 100 percent of the ACF index, depending on the size of the
loan.
75.       FONATUR's credit appraisal skills have developed considerably over
the years, and are supported by a competent professional staff of about
twenty. A comprehensive computerized project evaluation program has been
designed recently, including a sophisticated sensitivity analysis for hotel
investments. With a few exceptions (e.g., BANAMEX, BANCOMER), commercial
banks have not developed speciatized units for FONATUR financed operations;



- 24 -
most of the project analysis is undertaken by consultants, with FONATUR staff
preparing the final appraisal report.   Subproject supervision has until
recently been left predominantly to the participating banks and requires some
strengthening. With the current financial crisis and growing arrears
problems of Mexican companies, efforts are being made to strengphen FONATUR's
control and supervision of ongoing credits. These efforts would be closely
followed and supported under the proposed loan.
Non-financial Assistance and Services to Exporters
76.       The principal government agency providing export promotion services
and non-financial assistance to exporters is the Instituto Mexicano de
Comercio Exterior (Mexican Foreign Trade Institute - IMCE). Since its
creation in 1970/71, IMCE has been organizing industrial fairs and special
exhibitions of Mexican exports, and providing market information gathered
through its foreign offices (currently 25, located mostly in North and South
America and Europe) to Mexican exporters. It also has 8 regional offices
(delegations) within Mexico to provide liaison with the Mexican exporters.
IMCE has also been preparing comparative advantage analyses and subsectoral
studies to identify product groups with good export potential and examine the
production and market aspects of particular groups -e.g., textiles, shoes,
petrochemicals and flovers. In some cases this has led to the establishment
of COMIEXPOS, which are export promotion committees set up with the
participation of private sector firms to review the problems of a particular
subsector or product group and promote the required improvement. In
addition, IMCE has also created the Comision Asesora Mixta de Politica de
Comercio Exterior (COMPEX), with the participation of SECOFIN, SHCP, SARH
(Ministry of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources), SPP (Ministry of
Programming and Budgeting), FOMEX, national chambers of industries and
associations of exporters, to facilitate a concerted effort of the public and
private sectors to stimulate exports. IMCE acts as the coordinator of COMPEX
at its monthly meetings.
77.       At present, an excessively large proportion of IMCE's staff (of
about 900) is stationed at its Mexico City Office with less than adequate
numbers at the regional offices. Despite a large organizational effort and
its success in establishing a good network of foreign offices and a data base
which can be used to provide market information to potential exporters,
in the past IMCE's work has suffered from a less than adequate focus on
service and technical assistance to individual exporters. The Government is
reorganizing IMCE's structure and redefining its work program as part of the
Export Development Program supported by the proposed project (para. 83).
78.       Mexican industries have been handicapped in recent years by slow
and cumbersome administrative procedures affecting their import-export
operations (e.g., granting of import licenses and duty drawbacks, and more
recently foreign exchange authorization), which add considerably to the
effective cost of imports and exports. As a result of declining interest in
export activity (paras. 50 to 52), neither the industries nor the Government
gave sufficient attention in the recent past to improving the procedures,
although some studies were initiated in this respect. While the new Customs
Law passed in 1982 contemplates several simplifications in customs
procedures, action to implement them has been suspended following the new
measures to control imports and foreign exchange. Mexico has no experience



- 25 -
with foreign exchange controls and administrative allocation of foreign
exchange and related import permits. It is therefore of critical importance
to ensure simple and efficient procedures. Actions by SECOFIN and related
agencies towards substantial simplification and streamlining of
administrative procedures, particularly as they affect exports, but also
covering import operations in general, are planned as part of the export
development program supported by the prowosed loan. Under its reoriented
structure, IMCE is expected to take a leading role in this respect, by
providing a *single-window service to exporters (para. 82).
PART IV - THE EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Export Development Strategy
79.       The Mexican authorities recognize that a rapid expansion of
non-petroletu exports will have to be an essential part of their medium-term
strategy in order to manage effectively the country's balance of payments
position. A four-fold increase in such exports has been established as the
target for this Presidential term, 1983-88. An increase of this magnitude
will require a major shift of emphasis in the industrial sector, where
exports have been treated as a marginal activity in the past. The large
devaluation of the peso that has taken place has made exporting a much more
profitable activity. The authorities have begun to define and put in place a
comprehensive export development strategy to encourage and assist existing as
well as potential exporters to undertake an aggressive and sustained export
drive. These measures complement other adjustment policies being undertaken,
e.g., those concerning aggregate demand management, external debt management,
and public sector pricing and investment as described in Part I.
80.       The Government's strategy is oriented towards maintaining and
expanding exports in the near term and diversifying both exported products
and markets in the medium-term. A greater competitfveness of exports would
be achieved through improved policies and procedures, more focussed financial
and non-financial assistance to exporters, improved product quality and
adaptation to markets, satisfactory linkages between export activity and the
rest of the domestic industrial activity, and adequate and sustained top
level support. The appraisal mission has worked closely with the Government
in defining the main elements of its immediate and medium-term export
strategy.   In connection with the proposed project, the Government has
provided the Bank a policy letter, together with supporting documents
describing the Government's export strategy and incorporating timetables for
major actions. This set of policy documents (referred to as the export
strategy paper-) would be put into effect by the Government as part of its
export development program (Section 3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement).  The
export strategy paper, the main parts of which are attached in Annexes VI to
VIII, covers the following points.
81.       (a) Policy Framework.  The Government intends to rely mainly on an
attractive exchange rate to provide incentives for exports and import
substitution. Any remaining anti-export bias will be eliminated by
progressive liberalization of quantitative restrictions and reduction of the
average tariff levels, together with reasonable levels of export incentives
(e.g., through indirect tax rebates). A review of the structure of the



- 26 -
tariff system will be carried out on the basis of the effective protection
studies now in progress; the first stage of a new tariff structure that would
reduce both the average level and the dispersion of tariffs is expected to be
introduced by the end of 1983. A de facto free-trade regime will be put into
effect for preda.ction of all manufactured exports by facilitating temporary
import- (inciuuing in-bond) treatment and automatic duty-drawbacks for them.
Facilities for the maquila- (in-bond) industries and infrastructural support
for exports will be re-inforced. An important objective in designing the
above measures would be to ensure that export activities are at least as
profitable as producing for the domestic market. Foreign direct investment
will be encouraged in new export industries, and negotiations to help promote
Mexican exports will be pursued with major trading partners in connection
with bilateral and multi-lateral trade agreements. Through these policy
actions, the Government aims to achieve domestic prices of Mexican products
which are not out of line with the ir.ternational market prices. Additional
studies to help refine future export-related policies (e.g., on productivity,
technical efficiency and international competitiveness of industries) will
be undertaken.4/
82.       (b) AdministraEive Procedures.  The import licensing, duty drawback
and customs procedures in respect of industrial raw materials and
intermediates will be streamlined and simplified, particularly as these
procedures affect exporters (para. 78). Procedures intended to give
exporters priority access to foreign exchange, as well as foreign exchange
surrender provisions applicable to exporters, will be improved to make them
more effective. Export permit and certification procedures, which in many
cases have been cumbersome and time-consuming, will be substantially
simpli'ied. As far as possible, the authority to issue temporary import
permits and export permits will be delegated to the regional offices of
SECOFIN to help cut processing times. A -single-window service will be
offered to exporters through IMCE, in order to help cut down drastically the
number of agencies which exporters have to deal with to fulfill
administrative requirements. The provisions of the 1982 customs law
affecting exporters (e.g., the industrial deposit and inventory
replenishement schemes) will be put into effect in the very near future.
Flexible import procedures for duty-free zones, which were discontinued
following the 1982 foreign exchange control regulations, will be reinstated.
Studies will be undertaken on ways to improve design and flow of
export-related paperwork and to extend the de facto free-trade regime to
indirect exporters (domestic suppliers of final exporters).
83.       (c) Non-Financial Assistance and Export Promotion.  IMCE is being
restructured as a public agency whose primary function is to stimulate
exports, monitor export performance and ensure adequate coordination among
agencies supporting export activities. IMCE's organization and work program
will be reoriented to expand its direct contact with firms and improve the
overall quality of its services (para. 77). IMCE will involve itself more
actively in helping exporters draw up realistic export development programs.
Its economic and sectoral work will focus increasingly on analyses which
translate into practical product and market-specific recommendations. The
4/   These and other studies (para. 82) envisaged under the export
development program, as well as related technical assistance would be
eligible for financing under the proposed loan (para. 104).



- 27 -
regional office staff of IMCE will act increasingly as extension agents,
identifying the needs of individual exporters, providing buyer and market
information and other services (e.g., buyer lists, supplier lists, latest
legislation, assistance in paper work, import-export documentation, transport
arrangements, etc.), and directing them to more specialized assistance when
required. Together with an effective use of the foreign offices, this is
expected to result in significantly improved buyer and market information and
publicity for Mexican products in other countries. IMCE w4ll also take an
active role in organizing export consortia and trading companies which could
help groups of firms achieve scale economies, e.g., through consolidation of
production to meet large batch orders (in the case of firms producing similar
products) and, sharing of overhead expenses. To enable the above reorienta-
tion, IMCE is expected to undertake a major shift of resources in favor of
departments which are directly involved in providing services to exporters
and its regional offices which serve exporters throughout Mexico; the changes
will also involve creation of some new departments and bolstering several of
IMCE's specific services (e.g., assistance in product adaptation and
packaging).
84.       (d) Export Finance and Insurance.  Financing mechanisms will be
created and strengthened to ensure adequate and timely access to credit and
foreign exchange to exporters. Suitable mechanisms are being established and
refined to resolve outstanding loan .5%rearage problems vis-a-vis  foreign
creditors, including those associated with suppliers credits (e.g., by
increasing the percentage of export earnings which can be retained by
exporters in foreign exchange to pay suppliers or through special arrange-
ments with foreign export-import banks). Export credit guarantee and
insurance schemes will be strengthened and modified to suit thb: new circum-
stances of foreign exchange scarcity. Exporters affected by Teso liquidity
and decapitalization problems stemming from foreign liabilitis will receive
help through suitable peso financing arrangements, including equity and
quasi-equity financing from public development banks and trust funds. Steps
will be taken towards the establishment of a consolidated 'export-import
bank" of Mexico under the umbrella of BNCE which would coordinate all export
financing and related services to Mexican industries; as a step towards this,
the trusteeship of FOMEX will be transferred to BNCE in the very near future.
85.       (e) Top Level Government Support.  SECOFIN would have principal
responsibility for the implementation of Mexico's export development strategy
along the above lines.   In addition to its direct responsibilities which
cover trade and protection policies, industrial development policies and
related administrative actions, SECOFIN participates together with SHCP and
Banco de Mexico on matters related to exchange rate policies and would also
keep close contact with other agencies on trade matters relevant to their
responsiblities (e.g., with SARH on controls over agricultural exports and
SHCP on customs regulations).   SECOFIN would review on a continuing basis
all policy aspects relating to external trade, take measures to ensure a
sustained high priority for export development, and promote public confidence
and attitudes favorable to export-oriented activities. SECOFIN also provides
support to the work of the ministerial level Foreign Trade Cabinet which
advises the President on top level policy matters related to external trade.
For the purposes of reporting to the Bank on progress in the implementation
of the various policy, administrative and other measures proposed under the



- 28 -
export development program, BNCE will assume responsibility for preparing
semi-anntial reports in consultation with SECOFIN and other concerned
agencies; these reports would provide the required background information for
the periodic reviews of the program (para. 89).
Progress in Implementation
86.       The strategy which is contemplated by the Government thus takes an
integrated approach to export development. It covers many complex areas and
its implementation requires collaboration of several agencies. Given the
prevailing macro-economic and external sector uncertainties and the limited
prior experience in Mexico with operating under a foreign exchange control
regime, the design of the measures as well as the implementation timetables
may have to be refined and adjusted as experience is gained with the
program.   Annex VIII provides an indicative timetable for key actions under
the Government's export strategy, as reflected in the export strategy paper.
It is expected that the main elements of the strategy and action plan would
be incorporated In the National Development Plan and the Industrial Develop-
ment and Foreign Trade Program due to be published in September/October
1983.
87.       The Government has already taken several important steps towards
implementing the above strategy:
(i) Most importantly, the Government has been adjusting daily the
controlled exchange rate, which is the rate applicable for most
exports, to take account of expected differences between Mexican
and international inflation rates. By May 20, 1983 this crawling
rate reached 115 pesos to a U.S. dollar, representing nearly a 40
percent real depreciation of the peso relative to its level during
1977 after the previous devaluation. A free exchange rate (cur-
rently fluctuating at about 148 pesos to a U.S. dollar) is appli-
cable to other transactions.   Domestic interest rates levels are
being set with a view to discourage capital flight and provide some
stimulus to the repatriation of capital (paras. 19 and 81).
(ii) In late 1982, the Government made available emergency financing of
Mex$50 billion through its major industrial financing trust funds
to help alleviate the peso liquidity and decapitalization problems
of industries. Towards the end of February 1983, the Government
also announced its intention to provide additional special
financing for firms suffering from decapitalization problems; new
ways of reducing the amortization burden of term loans through
automatic capitalization of part of the interest payments (to
achieve approximately equal debt service payments in real terms)
will also be promoted (para. 84).
(iii) In February 1983, as an initial step towards import liberalization,
the authorities removed prior license requirements for imports of
spare parts valued at US$1,500 or less, provided that the importer
is willing to obtain the required foreign exchange in the free
market. The authorities have also initiated preliminary work
towards a review of the tariff levels to provide a basis for
reductions in average level and dispersion of tariffs. The basic



- 29 -
criterion in the review of tariffs (together with the exchange rate
and export incentives) would be that production for exports should
be at least as profitable as meeting domestic demand (para. 81).
(iv) In late February, regulations were issued allowing enterprises to
establish deposits denominated in US dollars acquired at official
exchange rate for servicing of suppliers' debt incurred prior to
December 20, 1982 and falling due prior to June 30, 1983 (para.
84).
(v)   A decree was issued on March 4 to improve substantially the
treatment of exporters by: providing exporters the right to retain
part of their export proceeds or to obtain access to previously
surrendered foreign exchange at the controlled exchange rate, in
order to pay for costs of imported goods required in their
productive process and expenses associated with the imports or
exports;5! allowing exporters to transfer part of their rights for
foreign exchange at the controlled rate to other enterprises,
subject to SECOFIN authorization, inter-alia as a means to
facilitate access to foreign exchange for -indirect exporters" and
trading companies and to liberalize foreign exchange surrender
policy affecting exporters; allowing exporters to engage in
"barter transactions authorized by SECOFIN; and providing
exporters the option to obtain a -single-window" service, including
foreign exchange authorization, financing as well as open import
licenses for periods of up to one year, on the basis of
satisfactory annual export plans authorized by IMCE (para. 82).
(vi) In early April, the Government formally announced a new scheme to
facilitate the rescheduling of foreign debt of private firms
(including suppliers' credit); the scheme provides for sale of
foreign exchange futures by the Banco de Mexico to private firms to
help them hedge the exchange risk associated with the rescheduling,
coupled with financing on reasonable terms and conditions to enable
the firms to purchase such futures contracts. The scheme would be
applicable to loan reschedulings of private foreign debt incurred
before December 29, 1982 provided that the rescheduling is for
minimum terms of 6-8 years including grace periods of 3-4 years
(para. 84).
These actions clearly evidence the Government's commitment to follow the
export strategy which has been elaborated, and represent an excellent first
step in implementing the strategy. To have an overview of all Government
actions taken in this area since February 1982, a list including dates of
Government actions related to trade and exchange rate policies is included in
Annex IX.
5/   Servicing of supplier credits in arrears contracted prior to December
20, 1982 (up to a maximum of 20% of the export earnings) had already
been allowed since December.



- 30 -
88.       Additional actions expected to be taken by about the end of the
current calendar year include: (i) issuance of formal regulations and
administrative instructions to implement liberalization of temporary import
procedures (including automatic reimbursement of import tariffs); (ii) update
of the effect're protection study to cover data for 1981/82; (iii) prepara-
tion of speci^c proposals for the first stage (Jan. - June 84) of import
tariff restructuring and substitution of import license requirements by
tariffs; (iv) formalizat1on of administrative arrangements for simplification
and streamlining of export certification procedures; (v) full introduction of
*single-window  service for exporters by IMCE; (vi) completion of legal
formalities for the transfer of FOMEX to BNCE; (vii) formation of technical
group under BNCE coordination to study required strengthening of export
insurance and credit guarantee mechanisms; (viii) initiation of a study of
ways to meet the foreign exchange, financing and other needs of indirect
exporters; (ix) issuance of regulations for implementation o' the special
provisions of 1982 customs law as they affect exporters (e.g., industrial
deposit scheme); and (x) finalization of terms of reference for studies on
infrastructure bottlenecks to exports.
Periodic Reviews
89.       To achieve close monitoring, the Bank would review once every six
months until 1986, with the Borrower, the Government through SECOFIN, the
Banco de Mexico and other agencies as appropriate, progress in implementing
the various policies and administrative actions outlined in the export
strategy paper.   Any additional measures with respect to trade aad other
policies, financing mechanisms and administrative procedures affecting
exports, would also be considered and agreed upon at these reviews. The first
such review would take place no later than March 1, 1984, that is, within
four to fire months of the loan's expected date of effectiveness (Sections
3.02 of the Guarantee Agreement and 5.06 of the Loan Agreement). FOMEX, DMCE
and private industry representatives would also praticipate in the reviews
whenever appropriate. In view of their close relationship to the export
strategy, several project specific issues would also be covered at the above
semi-annual reviews including: loan disbursements, and, when necessary, the
justification for transferring the funds in part or in full initially
allocated for short-term financing to the project's fixed investment compo-
nent, taking into account the market conditions and demand under the two
components and progress towards the normalization of commercial trade
financing channels (para. 94); execution of the studies and the institutional
programs to strengthen Mexico's export drive (para. 104); and the rates of
interest to ultimate project beneficiaries under the short-term as well as
fixed investment financing components (paras. 98 and 102).   Any adjustments
in project design indicated as a result of the reviews would be followed up
in subsequent stages of project implementation.
V. THE PROJECT AND THE PROPOSED LOAN
Introduction and Objectives
90.       The purpose of the proposed project is to support the Government's
efforts to expand exports rapidly by: (i) assisting the Government in the
formulation and implementation of a comprehensive export development



- 31 -
strategy (paras. 79 to 86); and (ii) providing exporters access to increased
foreign exchange on reasonable terms for imports of production inputs and
equipment during a period of critical foreign exchange scarcity.  The
proposed project represents part of the Bank's Special Action Program to
address Mexico's critical needs following the events of late 1982. It would
complement the assistance being provided to Mexico through the IMF and other
financial institutions.   Annex III provides supplementary data on the
project.
91.       A project to support export oriented industries has been under
discussion between the Mexican authorities and the Bank since late 1981. An
identification mission visited Mexico in June 1982. Major new features
covering the export development strategy and provision of foreign exchange
and short-term financing for imported inputs for exporters, reflecting new
needs which became evident with the events of late 1982, were incorporated in
the project during a preparation mission in December 1982, and the subsequent
appraisal in January/February 1983. Negotiations for the proposed loan took
place in Washington during May 18-23, 1983. The Mexican negotiating team was
headed by Mr. Humberto Soto, Deputy Director General of BNCE, and included
Mr. Ricardo Penaloza, Advisor, BNCE, Mr. Jose Luis Flores, Director, SHCP and
Ms. Maria Teresa Straffon, Advisor, SHCP.   As part of the emergency action
to help Mexico, the Capital Goods Industries Development Project (Loan
2142-ME), has been modified to help initiate a mechanism to finance urgently
needed imported inputs for exporting industries. The loan amendments, which
the Executive Directors approved on April 1, 1983, would permit using US$100
million of the proceeds of the above loan on an interim basis to create a
pilot export development fund,6/ whose characteristics are similar to those
of the short-term financing component under the proposed project
Loan Components
92.       A Bank loan of US$350 million is proposed, of which:
(a) US$275 million would be allocated initially to establish a
revolving fund in foreign exchange (the Export Development Fund)
through which working capital subloans would be made to exporters
to finance the costs of imported raw materials, components, spare
parts and other production inputs; as the foreign exchange shortage
of Mexico eases, and as the need for fixed asset financing
increases with the economy's recovery, the resources of the
revolving fund would be gradually transferred to the fixed
investment financing component in (b) below;
(b)  US$71 million would be allocated to provide mediur- and long-term
subloans for financing fixed investments by industries to help
them maintain, expand or generate export capacity, and by hotels
to help increase revenues from foreign tourism;
6/   These funds would flow back to the original components of the Capital
Goods Industries Project, once the emergency situation has passed.



- 32 -
(c) about US$3,127,000 would be allocated for technical assistance
subloans to exporters, and studies to help improve Mexico's export
development strategy and to strengthen the agencies related to the
export sector, including the provision of equipment required; and
(d) the remaining amount of about US$873,000 would finance the
capitalized front-end fee on the loan.
The following table summarizes the initial allocation of the proposed loan's
proceeds and the complementary financing to cover the total cost of the
project.
(In US$ million equivalent)
Funds from       Resources
Bank     Implementing    of Project
Resources  Agencies and    Sponsors          Total
Banking System
Export Develop-
ment Fund (EDF)          275.0        N.A.             N.A.        275.0
Fixed Assets
Financing                71.0        71.0            25.0         167.0
Technical Assist-
ance Subloans              2.0         2.0             2.0           6.0
Studies of export
strategy and insti-
tutional strengthening    1.127        2.0             N.A.          3.127
Front-end Fee              0.873        -               -             .873
Total                 350.0        75.0             27.0        452.0
The proposed loan size and allocations among the different loan components
are based on conservative estimates of the demand for fixed asset and working
capital financing of exporters over the next 18-24 month period, after taking
into account other available sources of foreign exchange financing for
exporters. The amounts have been set to correspond to the financing
associated with the projected incremental manufactured exports (including
financing for eligible tourism investments) over that period, which in turn
are expected to represent between one-quarter and one-third of the
corresponding total manufactured exports. Up to US$7.5 million o'
expenditures (about 10 percent of the loan amount allocated for fixed
investments) incurred under the fixed investment financing component prior to
the date of loan signing but after May 1, 1983, would be eligible for
financing under the Bank loan, as this represents financing required for
urgent equipment replacement needs vhich have been accumulating under the
current conditions of foreign exchange stringency (Section 2.02 (f)(i) of the
Loan Agreement).



- 33 -
Borrower and Implementing Agencies
93.        BNCE would be the Borrower of the Bank loan and would make
available to the account of FOMEX the proceeds of the loan assigned to
implement the short-term financing (EDF) component and part of the technical
assistance component (para. 103) of the project. Evidence that satisfactory
transfer arrangements have been made would be a condition of effectiveness
(Sections 3.01(a) and 7.01(a) of the Loan Agreement). All Mexican banks
authorized by FONEX for its normal operations would be elgible to
participate as the financial intermediaries under this component. The fixed
investment financing component would be on-lent to final beneficiaries either
directly by BNCE or through FONEI and FONATUR under contractual arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank. Evidence of such contractual arrangements would be
a condition of disbursement for the respective portion of the project's fixed
investment component (Section 2.02 (f)(vii) of the Loan Agreement). BNCE,
FOMEX and the other participating financial agencies would be required under
the applicable operating regulations to ensure the availability of adequate
complementary financing to the final beneficiaries to cover the respective
local cost components. FONEI and FONATUR would modify their operating
regulations as necessary to make them consistent with the above contractual
arrangements. Under the proposed loan FONATUR would exclusively finance
hotel investments with a significant impact on foreign tourism revenues.
94.       Initial estimates are that about US$25-30 million of the US$71
million fixed investment financing component would be used directly by BNCE,
an additional US$25-35 million utilized by FONEI and the remaining amount
(about US$10 million) channeled through FONATUR for financing hotel invest-
ments. The specific allocations among the different agencies participating
in this component would be agreed from time to time by the Bank and the
Borrower, and set at appropriate levels to reflect variations in demand.
Loan funds initially allocated to the EDF would be eligible for transfer over
the period of the loan, in part or in full, to the fixed investment financing
cc%ponent. The justification for such transfer would be reviewed periodic-
ally betwoen the Bank and the Borrower (pRra. 89) in the light of the
prevailing effective demand for export oriented fixed investments, which is
expected to become stronger over the next 2-3 years (Section 3.02(ii) of the
Guarantee Agreement). The transfer of loan resources from the EDF to the
fixed investment component would depend on the recovery of the Mexican
economy to permit the operation of a more liberal foreign exchange regime and
the re-establishment of normal trade financing channels through the commer-
cial banks. To facilitate the fullest possible participation by exporting
firms and coverage of their financial needs, including equity capital, BNCE
would seek the involvement of additional financial agencies in the later
stages of the export development program.
The Export Development Fund (EDF)
95.       The EDF for providing working capital financing to exporters under
the project would be maintained in foreign exchange, separate from FOMEX's
other resources. Evidence that the EDF has been established would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (Section 7.01 of the Loan Agreement). Enter-
prises engaged in manufacturing, processing and agro-industrial activities
(excluding petroleum and basic petrochemicals) would be eligible to use the
EDF provided they can give evidence of export capability. Such evidence



- 34 -
would be incorporated into "annual export plans" which would be required from
enterprises requesting EDF financing. 7/ The annual export plans would
provide details on past export performance, the nature and amounts of the
exports expected and total import requirements of the respective enterprise
over a 12-monr.h period, as well as information on the production cost
structure ano competitiveness in export markets. FOMEX would review the
annual export plans (by itself or with IMCE assistance) to verify that they
are achievable and that the production cost structure and prices of imported
items to be financed under the EDF are reasonable. The goods financed under
the EDF subloans, as well as documents related to any export orders already
received, would serve as security against the credit risks on the sulbloans.
96.       Credit lines with specified maximum of credit limits would be
established for individual exporters based on appraisal of their annual
export plans, to reflect their respective import needs and the typical
duration of the production/export cycle.   Within such credit limits export-
ers would be eligible to receive a series of subloans to finance the purchase
of imported raw materials, spare parts and other inputs in accordance with
their approved annual export plans. Such subloans would cover the estimated
period of the typical export cycle of the exporter (time elapsed from import
of inputs to receipt of export proceeds) but would be subject to maximum
maturities of 360 days.  The total amount outstanding from an exporter to the
EDF under one or more subloans would be limited to 60 percent of the
exporters estimated annual export earnings, or US$5.0 million, whIchever is
lower. (Section 2.02(f)(iv) of the Loan Agreement). To facilitate
monitoring of past performance before granting additional pre-export financ-
ing, the maximum size of any single subloan would normally be limited to 25
percent of the estimated annual export earnings. FOMEX would have the right
to reject subloan authorization to enterprises with adequate alternative
sources of foreign exchange financing. Within the group of eligible export-
ers, FOMEX would provide financing on a first-come-first-served basis. If a
need to ration the EDF resource arises, FOMEX would give priority ?. enter-
prises with the highest potential efficiency of earning foreign exchange as
indicated 'oy shorter export cycles and low import content of products. The
various provisions under the EDF discussed above wosld be reflected in the
Operating Regulations of the EDF uhich would have to be satisfactory to the
Bank. Evidence that these regulations have bee.. issued and the EDF has been
established in terms satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 7.01 (c) of the Loan Agreement'.
These operating regulations would be substantially the same as those recently
approved by FOMEX, with Bank concurrence, for t'he pilot export development
fund (PROFIDE) which was set up recently under Lhe amended Capital Goods
Industries Development Project (para. 91). Forvil transfer of the
trusteeship of FOMEX to BNCE (paras. 84 and 88) would also be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 7.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement).
7/   It is expected that enterprises benefitting from the EDF would span a
broad range of manufacturing activities, reflecting the diversified
industrial base of Mexico, although the metal-working, food-processing
and chemical industries are likely to continue to be the most important
exporting sub-sectors (paras. 44 to 47).



- 35 -
97.       The export performance of enterprises receiving FOMEX financing
vould be sonitored by FOMEX directly and through its participating banks. If
the anticipated exports supporting the financing request are not realized,
the borrowers would still have to fulfill their obligation to repay the sub-
loan and pay interest in foreign exchange, using foreign exchange earned fron
other sources or purchasing it In the free market. Moreover, unless satis-
factory reasons are demonstrated for not fulfilling export plans (e.g.,
unanticipated factors beyond the control of the exporter), additional financ-
Ing would not be made available to that borrover (Sections 4.02 (a)(vi) and
(b)(ii) of the Loan Agreement).
98.       Lending Terms.   Subloans made via the EDF would be denominated and
payable in U.S. dollars. Onlending interest rates to final beneficiaries on
the subloans would be three percentage points above the prevailing discount
rate at which Bankers' Acceptances vith 180-day maturities are traded in the
New York market (Section 4.03 (a) of the Loan Agreement). The latter rate
would be an appropriate base rate to reflect the prevailing interest -ate on
commercial transactions associated with international trade. The participa-
ting financial intermediaries of FOMEX would be allowed to retain a spread of
up to two percentage points to cover the credit risk, and FONEX itself would
retain about one-half of one perLentage point to cover the administrative
costs of operating and supervising the EDF.  The Borrower would assume the
risks arising from the differences between the Bank's currency six and float-
ing interest rate systems and the dollar lending of FOMEX. The adequacy of
the above interest rates in the light of movements in comparable interna-
tional market ard domestic interest rates, as well as the adequacy of other
terms and conditions of the EDF as reflected by the progress in EDF disburse-
ments would be reviewed at least once every six months as part of the revlews
of the Export Development Program (para. 89), with a view to Identify any
required adjustmnts (Section 3.02 of the Guarantee Agreement).   Also,
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank would be introduced that would: (i)
enable exporters to utilize EDF financing to import inputs required to carry
out their annual export plans; and (ii) allov exporters to retain a portion
ot :heir foreign currency earnings to service their subloans. Evidence of
such arrangements would be a condition of the loan's effectiveness (Section
7.01(b) of the Loan Agreement).
The Investment Financing Component
99.       This component, which would initially account for about 20 percent
of the loan amount, is designed to help export industries improve the utili-
zation of their installed capacity and/or create additional capacity for
export production in the medium term. Initially this would primarily involve
financing of investments to meet urgent machinery and eqrtpment replacement
needs of exporters, correcting bottlenecks, upgrading quality and adapting
products to export markets. Few projects to create significant new or expan-
ded export production capacity are expected in the first 12-18 months, but
demana for financing such projects is expected to grow as the economy
recovers and the export development strategy is implemented. Financing under
th!s component vould be available to exporters who have qualified for financ-
ing under EDF, to domeetic industries supplying parts and components to such
exporters, and to industries which are expected to become exporters as a
result of a proposed investment. Investments involving urgently needed
expansion in hotel capacities to increase revenues from foreign tourism would
also be eligible for financing under this component, but would be subject to
the Bank's prior approval on a case-by-case basis. Subloans would cover the
estimated direct and indirect foreign exchange costs of investments.



- 36 -
100.      Total Bank financing to any single subproject would be limited to
the e-.;pected incremental foreign exchange earnings (from exports or tourism)
attributable to the respective investment over the first four years of the
project's operation,8/ or US$5 million, whichever is lower (Section 2.02(f)
(iii) of the Loan Agreement). This would help ensure an export contribution
commenstrate with the size of the investment and the distributi_n of Bank
funds over a reasonably large number of exports. All subprojects involving
creation of new production capacity or significant expansions of capacity
would be appraised following criteria similar to those currently being used
by FONEI for such -integrnted projects (para. 68), including a calculation
of financial and economic rates of return.   A minimum economic rate of
return of 10 percent would be required in all cases. For investments
involving single items of equipment, simplified appraisal procedures to
verifv basic technical and financial viability would be used. Supervision of
fixed investment subprojects would be primarily the responsibility of the
respective implementing agency or the first-tier bank (in case FONEI is the
channel), and would include close monitoring of the export performance. The
provisions concerning the eligibility criteria, financing limits and
conditions, subproject evaluation and other key points would be incorporated
into the Operating Regulations of the fixed investment financing component;
formal adoption by BNCE of these Regulations, in terms satisfactory to the
Bank, and evidence of satisfactory contractual arrangements between BNCE and
FONEI for implementing this part of the project, would be conditions of
disbursement for the Droject's fixed investment component (Section
2.02(f)(vi) of the Loan Agreement).
101.      Lending Terms.   Subloan.; under the fixed investment component
would have a maximum term of 13 years including up to 3 years of grace, and
may be denominated either it. pesos or in US dollars. Peso-denominated
subloans would bear floating interest rates adjustable every three months to
final borrowers equal to two percentage points above the index of the average
cost of term deposits to Mexican banks as published each month by the Banco
de Mexico (the ACF index) (Section 4.03 (b) of the Loan Agreement); the
participating intermediaries, which would assume the full credit risk, would
get a spread of 2 percent (0.50 - 0.75 percent higher if they also undertake
full project appraisal and supervision resporsibility under the FONEI
system). This is the same interest rate that the Bank has approved in its
latest loan to FONEI and the recent loan for the development of the capital
goods industries. While the ACF index has tended to lag behind inflation
during the recent inflationary surge (with che ACF currently at about 58
percent 9/), it is now catching up. The Mexican authorities have announced
their policy to allow interest rates to rise to levels consistent with
adequate resource mDbilization in the economy and avoidance of capital
flight. Based on the stabilization program being implemented with IMF
support, deposit rates should be reasonably in line with inflation
expectations by the end of 1983.
8/   In the case of investment subloans for manufacturers of parts and
components supplied to exporters, the export revenues attributable to
the subproject would be computed as the value of parts and components
incorporated into the final exports.
9/   Since the ACF index encompasses rates on short maturities, the effective
annual rate taking account of compounding would be somewhat higher.



- 37 -
102.      Dollar-denominated subloans would bear onlending interest rates of
at least two and one half percentage points above the Bank's lending rate
applicable for the semester in which the subloan is contracted; BNCE and/or
the participating financial agency (FONEI or FONATUR) and the participating
first-tier bank would thus retain a spread of at least two and one half
percentage points to cover their administrative costs, and credit and cross-
currency risks (Section 4.03 (b)(iii) of the Loan Agreement).   The
appropriateness of these peso and dollar interest rates would be reviewed at
least once every six months, in conjunction with the periodic reviews of the
implementation of the export strategy (para. 89), taking account of world and
domestic market conditions. The Borrower would assume the foreign exchange
risk between the Bank's lending to Mexico and the on-lending to final
beneficiaries or participating financial agencies; the difference between the
level of ACF and the Bank's lending rate would help compensate for the
foreign exchange risk.
Technical Assistance Component
103.      The technical assistance component, accounting for about one
percent of the Bank loan, would provide critically needed technical inputs
for improving the performance of Mexican exporters, strengthening the
project implementing agencies and carrying out specific studies. It would
comprise two distinct parts. About US$2.0 million would be channeled by
FOMEX (para. 93) through its intermediaries as subloans for financing the
foreign costs of technical assistance, training and required services to
exporters and related enterprises in production and marketing (e.g.,
marketing or product adaptation studies, quality control, promotional
campaigns abroad, sending of product samples to potential foreign buyers,
etc.), in accordance with FOMEX's existing operating regulations for this
purpose, which are satisfactory. The maximum amount of Bank financing under
any single technical assistance subloan would be limited to US$200,000
equivalent (Section 2.02 (f)(v) of the Loan Agreement). The subloans would
have essentially the same maximum terms, conditions and interest rates as
fixed investment subloans (Section 4.03(b) of the Loan Agreement). FOMEX
would make available adequate amounts of complementary financing to cover the
corresponding local costs of the technical assistance and other required
services to exporters.
104.      The remaining amount of about US$1,125,000 under the technical
assistance component would be allocated for training, technical assistance
and related facilities for implementing agencies, including consultant
assistance for carrying out a number of specific studies to help refine
Mexico's medium-term export development strategy.  These funds would be
utilized by BNCE directly or channeled to other Government agencies and
entities supporting the export sector (e.g., IMCE and SECOFIN) through
contractual arrangements which would be satisfactory to the Bank (Sections
4.01(g) of the Loan Agreement and 3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement). Two
major areas are expected to be covered by the studies:
(a) estimatior of updated effective protection rates for industrial
products as a basis for tariff restructuring (para. 84);
productivity and technical efficiency studies for specific



- 38 -
industrial sub-sectors; analysis of the ways in which specific
industries could be assisted in becoming more internationally
competitive; and related issues (36 man-months);
(b) analysis of means of improving the administrative procedures
affet.cing imports and exports; and the feasibility and alternative
ways of implementing an administrative system which would extend to
indirect exporters (i.e., suppliers to final exporters), the same
simulated free-trade regime- as would be applicable for final
exporters under the proposed policy reforms, with respect to access
to foreign exchange, import licenses, duty drawback and financing
(24 man-months).
Also eligible for financing under this component would be: some additional
computer equipment required by IMCE and SECOFIN to improve their data banks
and services to exporters (estimated cost of about US$250,000); a program of
seminars to promote the financial assistance and to train the staff of credit
institutions and export enterprises (US$75,000); and training of and travel
(e.g., for export promotion or market research) by staff of the executing
agencies (about US$100,000). The initial allocation of the technical assist-
ance component is based on an estimated man-month cost of US$10,000 for
international consultants, including related travel and overhead costs and a
contingency allowance of 10 percent. The adequacy of the amount allocated
for technical assistance, as well as the progress in implementing the various
parts of the technical assistance component, would be reviewed at least once
every six months as an integral part of the periodic reviews of the export
development program (para. 89), with a view to make the necessary adjust-
ments.   Terms of reference for the studies would be reviewed and approved b3
the Bank prior to their financing (Section 4.01(h) of the Loan Agreement).
Procurement
105.      Export firms would follow normal comercial practice for procure-
ment of raw materials and other inputs from countries and territories
referred to in the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Under the EDF, FOMEX would
verify that the exporters have taken steps to ensure that the prices of
imported inputs included in the annual export plans are reasonable and that
they are in line with past experience. Prior to making disbursements under
the EDF, the participating banks and FOMEX would also verify that the actual
prices paid by the exporters are consistent with the estimates under the
approved annual export plan. Procurement of goods and services under fixed
investment subloans would follow standard procedures for Bank financed
industrial development projects, with the financial intermediaries (BNCE or,
in case of FONEI or FONATUR, the participating bank) having the restonsibil-
ity for ensuring the competitiveness, in price and quality, of items procured
and their suitability for the purpose intended. Normally, this would involve
comparing competitive quotations from several suppliers taking into account
also factors such as compatibility with existing facilities, delivery terms,
maintenance requirements, availability of spare parts etc. In the case of
all individual procurement packages exceeding US$1.0 million in value, the
beneficiary enterprises would be required to provide detailed evidence of
international tendering, with the participation of at least three interna-
tional suppliers. These provisions would be reflected in the FOMEX and BNCE
Operating Regulations, both of which would have to be satisfactory to the



- 39 -
Bank. Consultants with qualifications and terms and conditions of employment
satisfactory to the Bank would carry out the studies of the implementing
agencies (Section 4.01(i) of the Loan Agreement).
Disbursements
106.      Upon effectiveness of the loan and compliance with the disbursement
conditions for EDF, an initial disbursement amounting to 10 percent of the
total resources allocated for the EDF (that is, US$27.5 million) would be
made to establish the EDF.   As disbursements are made by the EDF against
eligible imports of exporters, the Bank would reimburse the EDF on the basis
of monthly statements of expenditures submitted to the Bank by FOMEX. The
detailed documentation evidencing final expenditures on the items financed
would be retained by FOMEX and would be available for inspection by the
Bank. Reimbursements from the Bank loan would cover up to 100 percent of the
c.i.f. costs of imported raw materials, spare parts and other imported inputs
for exporters for which disbursements have been made by the EDF. Replenish-
ments from the Bank loan to the EDF would be limited to amounts consistent
with a maximum net liquidity of US$35 million for the EDF, which represents
the estimated disbursements of the EDF over a six-week period (Section
2.02(g) of the Loan Agreement). The net liquidity of the EDF, taking account
of subloan repayments and interest payments flowing into the EDF as well as
out-flows in the form of disbursements, would be reviewed periodically, and
the US$35 million limit would be adjusted if necessary, to set it at about
the level of disbursements from the EDF over a six-week period.
107.      Disbursements for fixed investment and technical assistance
subloans would be made against full documentary evidence of expenditures, to
cover:
(a)  100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly imported goods and
services;
(b)  70 percent of total expenditures for imported goods purchased
off-the-shelf in Mexico; and
(c)  45 percent of the ex-factory cost of domestically manufactured
equipment and works.
108.      Based on estimated import requirements for exports, it is expected
that most of the EDF resources would be disbursed over a period of about 12
months after loan effectiveness (expected in the first quarter of FY 84) and
that resources under the fixed investment and technical assistance components
would be disbursed within 36 months after loan effectiveness. Accordingly,
the loan would be fully disbursed by September 31, 1986. Annex X provides
the estimated schedule of loan disbursements. Since a majority of loan funds
would be disbursed for short-term working capital financing of exporters
under the EDF, the above estimates of disbursement periods, rather than the
Bank's standard IDF disbursement profile, have been used as the basis for the
disbursement projection.



- 40 -
Approval Limits
109.      The Bank's prior approval of the respective annual export plans
would be required in the case of all subloans which imply more than US$2.5
million outstanding under the EDF to any single export enterprise. In
addition, the Bank's prior approval would be required for all tourism sub-
loans, the first two fixed investment subloans made by BNCE and by each of
the participating financial agencies, all other fixed investment subloans
involving more than US$1.5 million of Bank financing and technical assistance
subloans involving more than US$100,000 of Bank financing.
Auditing and Reporting Requirements
110.      FOMEX would submit to the Bank quarterly reports of the utilization
of the funds by the participating intermediaries and exporting firms, the
respective subloan repayments and interest payments under the EDF. The
accounts of the Borrower and the other principal financing agencies (FOMEX,
FONEI and FONATUR), including the specific accounts to be kept for the
purposes of the project, would be audited annually by independent and
qualified external auditors following accounting principles satisfactory to
the Bank. The accounts of these agencies have been audited in recent years
by the Goverrment's internal auditors as well as by external auditors, and
the audit reports have been free of major qualifications.
Project Benefits
111.      The proposed project would assist Mexico in a critical period to
revitalize its non-petroleum exports.   It would make an important contri-
bution to the formulation and implementation of a comprehensive export devel-
opment strategy, encompassing policy orientation towards exports,
improvements in administrative procedures, improved services to exporters and
export promotion activities, along the lines stated in the export strategy
paper (para. 80). Additional studies financed under the loan would help
refine the medium-term export strategy through further policy, administrative
and data base improvements. Taken together, the policy and administrative
measures are expected to help create an essentially free trade regime for
exports and minimize sources of anti-export bias (e.g., by reducing import
protection). The project is also expected to have a substantial institution
building impact, with the strengthening of the export promotion agency
(IMCE), the export financing mechanisms and institutions (mainly BNCE and
FOMEX), and the administrative systems of SECOFIN and related agencies.
Measures contemplated in connection with the project are designed to ensure
that the high priority and Government commitment being accorded to
non-petroleum exports development will be sustained in the mediumr to
long-term. In this way, the project is expected to help Mex:ico lay the basis
for achieving the stated goal of a four-fold increase of non-petroleum
exports over the next 5-6 year period.
112.      In the short term, it would provide Mexican exporting firms access
to critically needed imported inputs and equipment, ensure reasonable
incentives to export and would help install simplified procedures for
exporters with respect to import licensing, foreign exchange authorization,
duty drawbacks and financing. These latter measures should benefit the



- 41 -
entire spectrum of Mexican exporting firms. Most subloans, particularly
those providing export financing, would support activities which would result
in more than full recovery of the foreign exchange costs financed within a
6-12 month period. Moreover, in many cases the assistance received is likely
to enable viable production runs of the industries, thus helping to maintain
domestic industrial employmTent and to meet domestic consumption needs under
the difficult economic conditions. Four to six hundred recipient enterprises
covering a diverse set of activities, are expected to benefit from the
financing through t:he expc.rt development fund under the project. In addi-
tion, 12.0-150 firms are expected to benefit from the fixed investment financ-
ing under the project. About one hundred export firms can be expected to
receive technical assistance financing. The annual export plans of firms
supported by the project are expected to account for between one-quarter and
one-third of Mexico's manufactured exports during the project period. In
this way the project would help the Government's efforts to maintain a
minimum export base and alleviate the immediate foreign exchange crisis.
Project Risks
113.      Given the current conditions of internaLlonal recession, simulta-
neous export efforts of nany countries, possible protectionist sentiments
among potential importing countries and the difficulty associated with
opening up new markets, the expected increases in exports may not materialize
as rapidly as anticipated. A growth of non-petroleum exports of the magni-
tude envisaged would also require an important change in the prevailing
attitudes of manufacturers. The geographic and resource advantages now
enjoyed by Mexican exporters and implementation of the proposed comprehensive
export development strategy suggest that these risks are within acceptable
limits.   Performance under the project would also depend critically on the
Government's ability to achieve stabilization and to promote confidence
within and outside Mexico in the mediumr-term viability of the Government's
economic policies. In particular, export performance would be governed by
the extent to which the exchange rate, trade and import protection policies
and related administrative procedures assure adequate incentives for Mexican
industries to expand exports, and the Government's success in resolving the
difficult foreign liability and liquidity situation of industrial firms. The
actions taken to date by the Mexican authorities, including those covering
demand management, exchange rate reforms and external debt management, as
well as the apparent commitment to fulfill the understandings reached under
the IMF agreement, lend reason to believe that this risk is within acceptable
limits. The close monitoring of the implementation of the export development
strategy, as envisaged under the project, should also help limit this risk.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
114.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and BNCE, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the United Mexican States and the Bank, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conLi!tions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of the proposed loan's effectiveness would be
(a) the formal appointment of BNCE as the trustee of FOMEX (paras. 84 and
96); (b) evidence of arrangements satisfactory to the Bank between BNCE and



- 42 -
FOMEX for passing on the proceeds of the loan for the working capital
financing and technical assistance components (paras. 93 and 103); (c)
formal establishment of the EDF and approval by FOMEX of EDF Operating
Regulations satisfactory to the Bank; anOd fd) evidence of satisfactory
arrangements to allow exporters to isport che inputs required to carry out
their annual export plans and to retain a portion of their foreign exchange
earnings to service their EDF subloans (pare. 98).
115.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATIONS
116.           I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loar.
A. W. Clausen
President
By E. Stern
Attachments
May 31, 1983



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
IUDICATO!S DATA SW                   Pate  1  of  5
a 2UI. UDCllc   annul sr                  S(SI D143
ILCO -                   ____       _o_  (IIUC0D         as
ACRICULTlUAL    971.2             196O /b   1970 lb ESTDMTE /b    ATINS AmrIc& A CUANER
CWI PIE CAPITA (056)               670.0       U60.0   2000.0               1902.0                  2323.9
gaRl? CENiSUNPTIoN PtS CAPITA
(cILOWAnS or CUAL EQUIVALENT)    712.7      1066.5   1534.6               1259.9                  2107.4
POPULATIUN AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULTIN   D-TAN (TSAU) 3161.0             51167.0  h9752.0
m an poLTION (PERcErr or TOTAL) 50.6          59.0     66.7                  .7
POPULATION PRO=CTIObS
rOPUlATION in EAR 2000 (HILL-ONS)                   115.0
STATIONARY POPUtLATION (MILLWS)                     202.6
YEAR STATIONAR   POPULATION IS REC                 2075
POPULATION DRSrry
PER SQ. Ki.                     18.7        25.9     34.3                 35.2                    83.3
PEAt SQ. JR. AGRICULTURAL LAD   34.9        52.4     69.3                 92.5                   155.6
POPUIATION AGE sTRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 US.                       45.6        66.5     45.1                 39.7                    3 1.
t5-64 US.                        51.0       50.0      51.4                5f.1                    61.2
65 US. AND AODE                   3.4         3.5      3.6                 6.2                      7.7
pOPUATION   RM  RATE (PERCEN)
TOTAL                            3.2         3.3      3.1                  2.4                     1.6
sAt                              6.9         4.8      4.3                  3.6                     3.5
CRODE SIRTI RAlE (rEt TH0USAND)    45.2       42.9     37.0                 31.                    23.6
CRUDE DEArN RAT (PER THOUSAND)    11.7         9.4      7.4                  6.4                     9.2
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.3         3.1      2.5                 2.1                      1.6
FAInL? PLANIN
ACCErTORS. ANNUAL LjROUSAINS)     ..        25.1    642.0/c
USERS (PERCENT Of MARRIED  )O)    ..          ..     o0.-0
OD0 AND NUTRITION
ItNDEX OF FOOD PRODUICTIONi100                                                                       1.
prR CAPITA (1969-711-(E)        97.0       100.0    103.0                110.0                   116.0
rER CAPlTA SUPPLY OF
CALOILS (RPER0CENT OF
REqUIREMXNrS)                117.7       110.5    112.9/c              I0U                     125.1
PR.OTEINS (CRAMS PE DAT)        69.1       64.7      65.27;              66.0                     92.7
OF WNICH ANIMAL AND PULSE     28.6        26.7     27.171               36.0                    35.9
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MCRTALITY RATE    10.3        6.5      3.7                  5.6                     9.2
H*ALTH
LIFEXPECTAICY AT 81RTH (EARS)   57.7         61.7      65.4                66.2                    67.6
INFANT HoRTAIT RATE (PER
TIOISAND)                         91.1        73.6     56.0                64.2                     45.1
ACCrSS To SAFE VATER (PWEaNr OF
POPMLATION)                                                                6.
TOTAL                           23.5        54.0     62.0/d              65.6
UAN                               ..        71.0     70.071              70.9
IIIRAL                                     29.0      69.07;              63.9
ACCSS TO EXCgEA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATIONI)
TOTAL                             ..          ..       ..                 59.3
URBANl                            ..          ..       ..                75 .3
RURAL                             -         13.0     14.0/d              30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        1823.4     I506.3   1255.7/0             1617.3                   1105.4
POPULATION PER NUSING PERSON    3634.1      1640.2   1423.671             1063.5                  634.4
POPULATION PER DSPITAL RED
TOTAL                          55.1        N44.8    866.3/e             477.4                    26.
URBAN                             ..      1012.1   10OR.07;             679.5                    192.0
RURAL                                     1294.3   1121.1/e             1903..
ADMISsIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..          ..        .                27.3                     20.0
HOUSING
AVEiRACE SIZE OF HOUSEHDLD
TOTAL                            5.4         5.7
URBAN                            5.1        5.7
RURAL                            5.2         5.8
AVERAGE NUD ENE OP PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                            2.9        2.5
URBAN                            2.6        2.2
RURAL                            3.6        3.2
ACCESS To ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DRELLINCS)
TOTAL                              -        58.9
URBAN                             b. Uo.7.
RURAL                             ..        27.3



- 44 -
ANNEX I
ISRICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DUTA SHMET             Page  2  of  5
SICO                         RERENCZ GROUPS cwlECRTuD AVYRAqES
-IIDST RECENT ESTIMATE)  *
NOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  nb   1970 lb ESTIMATE lb   LATIN AMERICA 6 CARSBEAN           IaIROP
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ESOLIMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL .0.0                      104.0    124.0                104.3                    102.4
MALE                82.0       107.0    127.0                 106.4                   107.1
FEMALE              77.0       102.0    122.0                 103.3                    99.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                11.0        22.0     45.0                 41.3                     60.2
HALE                ''.0        27.0      49.0                40.4                     66.4
FEMALE               b 0        17.0      41.0                41.8                     54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY) 23.6        26.7      8.9                 33.7                    31.6
PUPIL-TEACIER RATIO
PRIMARY                          44.0        45.9     40.7                 29.9                    25.8
SECONDARY                        13.1        14.5      17.0                16.7                     22.2
ADULT LITERACF RATE (PERCENT)      b5.4        74.2     81.0                 79.1                    7S.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       12.9        24.1     42.0/c               42.8                    51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       89.5      273.6    291.2                 270.5                    157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       17.6        58.5    110.7                107.7                    123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAIlIY GNRAL
INTEREST") CIRCUIATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                73.7          *-     64.5/f               63.7                   112.3
CINEMt ANNUAL ArIENDANCE PER CAPITA 10.0       5.0       4.1                  2.7                     4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   11132.7    14724.8  20187.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 15.2        17.4     19.5                 24.4                    36.6
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)            55.1        45.2      35.6                31.3                     38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               19.5       22.9      25.8                 23.9                    25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              30.2        28.8     28.9                 33.6                    44.5
HALE                               51.1        47.4     46.4                 50.4                    56.3
FEKALE                              9.2        10.1     11.4                 16.8                    32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.6         1.7      1.7                  1.3                     0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDs    ..
HICHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS  61.1/     60.7      57.7/1c
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.9j       3.3      2.97;*
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9.84      9.9       9 97
POVERTY TARGlT GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..
RURAL                              ..          ..       ..                184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..         ..    471.0                 518.0
RURAL                              ..          ..    471.0                371.1                   406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..
RURAL                              ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted aritlhetic meens. Coverage of countries
among the Indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb  Unless otherwise noted. data for 1969 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Estimate between 1971 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1975;  /e 1974;  /f 1976; Ig 1963.
Nay, 1982



- 45 -
HWaIMnin owAu.  mm                                                              ANNEX I
Soiree. SASWpp  ch. dm  am.  man loem desom  emaI1, jef41  go. ovl mab            ls.al..n dm Iaa4..14       14 *Lw 4. 44444 .ba  b .34,m  ,Z UKL           o       5
Cetse- 17 e4Odeal We be  4 11. 1mb 41 bledalia  4411-111 6.4- ma ....4  4  dI-I                 ... 144 deae   W -11M2144 lb. dam.   Th. 4.4d 444. ed
Ibam.    .1 Om 4-44.3.4 able44  at sput"  Le441a44  S.4-d. ma a3-.4raql   Mea4.  Mier4udrabbe.  b.4  .e mrk..
lb. a.I..m    .4a e.. 31) a"  dd  .47ee ew   of ch- -0j.S 444414? -a (13 C .lp  ONee  -la& re-M   hIo.  -." &.-  Code 3. aba.. gp.
ee lb. dbm3.4  ones  Om-a   lw   'NO  84m~  IPLI bg.44               d   ble. 'bum. t..4  4.444 41.1.. -a Mal4. Son'~ S. 1.444aded 444.4.   314
ma1-dmLW   AElIa.             .48 C.    mm. lWP "W lU. -Wft  bee P 1..3.4 .41,44  d&.%dMI. -.de  1.. -b  Waited  CMa Obbe -AT
.4dmleat .4 41. 1b-IA" 84 4. P %0. dftP 1441. 44844444O. 38446 lbA MMqp Of CMMWM -MS lb. 4444.4... a.WAG M tb. 444i44il1134 .l 4.44
-a    ma .411.44* .CM84  dea  14 beALMA 3. raids USe .a-e . .alma &"4Malbead1  m 4   Tlb.. abarb  4... -1y Met1a1 3. e.pwade tb. "44.4.1
1e.L. magm.  ra, Campts. 3s -A mm -  3a1ma decde  ,OP du..                       I.    Me         41rb.4I a h-.M...     .44n.L    4    4..1  .14.41.4.4.
sedgeded8.44   .4   adbAd_eA41  ea..  _ma  _M_wAAV M pay.m.mely                  44414414 Ia  4*8. mad P.14-44 B4,...     Me ma .-141a1.   .p13
444-. beeftb aea  h413.d  pawem  -  C. 1. I.14.4. 3919 44ve.               b*11..l 3.4  ml....          al  ded,31.4  CMb41 44.44-44 p:g.8h.a
m.5fl& uI-   mIPread44L4. belleadde M4  wleft W4444  P.444. .44                  44.4144 - Me4 aw      3aa.3         beeps.44.. b-,. 1m34." W33ip
....dym.4adve M   moodm - 4.1 Ld MM  Idk.  (ION41m 44.84a18  0.                  ma    I..I .ini.. maf Odwea l,  6.4.1W. bg 4 44k"1 4.4 lbe. by
19.  a    , a.                                                                    _aal4.1-44. .4g4. 48d4L4.. M4.8.)  4.b .1.1-ma                   a
4.11.4 ma w..34C. IRMAMU CCCO,di at maa-. 1.411848.L... 44434-
ma  8a.......L4.. .~m-    I   ma 'win7.-. ... -. ma 9..l-CawI 4.4--ma..38418. Me  -.Aa.L 4.14  44 a..1 4 ma Mattel mad m.a.411
ZM.14,  J. k81.4,m .4  -1. .qI.14-    L484;  .. 1OLD. CMa14 LIPP                              S. P.eL41t.I  b..i.l.4.441d -IF .mad 1r
Me4..14..4    r Meet1 B" - T.4.  ..b   .1 wCA1448    . .ia3mh..u.
M         _ 4  41U -v148.4 44.4 14abbA 4414  "S.848Me                       lm CAe d ..  . barded .1  W    e.8 adm Ml.  dm iji  1.1. 4-.1rd.Si
babb..u.  144. Iola. ma LO 1dead4.                                             .41  babeeku 1.-              Peav.eadd4444.
O-aw P""Mi- P-3bauee we blees3lm            IV   .5 =       11r=.m  E4 4M   -111,.44.44444                   m.w
LIS11. eaple4adee  M bulb 3444444444  R1b .4ma-73 v-  143 m4.4   a8..84  4..plma .4 dm11434.  ft  I4,8 4dM. .44, 1..  -
red.. m  4    ll 1. depsaaaw  .444114a1ag .4 11.1 p.m..  lb. Pm-            ~                 m.8.  14.13411   11.qedyge. adpbradat44
m..41 14us.8, l444 .1g. 84.k-.    Ae. 141   .in...a   4.4114., L4.  .4.Wbee.. ma 44.8  m81L44,id    1.4p417.ly
ma ..d818i = 141  144oc 44144 4dm  aPass g                                                                        .44imal,- 4414 1.41.r.r.  .4.4.
sl Age.         1 1844.4  144. mLa .1..lba. 4w4.4...                              .     1. M.4 all  a. 44l-  114 4.34-q..  -..  .4e 4..L.4 -.3 - 4.37
lb.  maIIn  3MI 41  L.41  ma    was1.dm  3.4    d  b.    ml MIMS  m               444.1be.48d MA     .M. 8  Cim   1m..84 .i  p.3.44-.dm4 144  147.I
44 m    .4,1.... 44L. 14    .p.d  444 art4.4441UU 'ml41a- *-1. See                    .m4r N-W    44 .ms..1  mlswe.4. basual1.4.4.?  bade, 104444.44
44.Ma.1...m   1  m. 1 dm14 ke..441181?a .4441 44434,3444.                         as"4.4, 444 Twat44.  .41W 44 I    m- . - Cama4. -4.-4. eo.mm
L. 344   P   ANN. =,.h. F-a &  144.4- lb.  74.4  mL .14wer  4e ..P441-                24-144 wakeel           d4.4  1amI1444   44441. 144,8
4144 4183      L   A,rqq1b          p       l  ldes i ne.    .be".448?4  I  * abaee.                    43 b.1 Mw  -.144,4in  4441-4444  34. Peelle
"M pF  m                                                                           IL?'14  4  qn3.11atm    mmI.  744.4  .4..88    lamamI almma  -.P-44- =   Me.44 0.434.
34two   [nMa 1419  sm4                                                 * L.a.44.41 IW.4I1    44ber .?i P                .~-4844 -eded4  449
U744.1   4" 40-44                             F-awbo              (L3..            444.447ma                                                    L. 4  .
14 444448.  - ~  (Gy 44A.M    -3 44 444444444, 41 48-pMr pap.-                    Mwee44344484  LOMA8..
144dm; 34.. 3197. ma 1dmO 4-4.1  1114.44.4.44 (4,W:g                                                                          eM8. S44.... felt4.- readma 41ar.)
-                      fI47h3bAm1     ue0 I         b ..4    4.4  441i                    4      C."1.4 in% gb"Ide P.M.1,a's" 1m...  D.  -a. mbawgb
Laclede    l.a11U  Mr1W- .ma190-l
C.Waal,  ed-   11-bt-A  Pe    b-.d .9Wd--                              L"Lead M-.&.M. P4.-14dm  ,_M. ..              -       b...ed 
C.'"1    134..mdmI  ma.-AAere1                           b 3e    41  mad--d...              %~L=13             434,1 4444.                               ra   M
44p41448.43 1444. 14.4. ..J am  a.a..        VVO                          ..11144 dear  441age.434.1ad  bo
-4    I  m8  444 4b.4abb .1 .4-.                        .1   4....14  d44  4.4148-434414   b-d484.1  t.44.
ma 1d  6.44.                                                                       4.a-!M v   M44...   -34kp1  4n4  .   4..1.;448444
L-b-          L4.44                   a 4  444.444m  41   m   4               11.4    A.484   44414 4444, ma..                  144141l4TV .0166441.
4411m    4l.ml441P.  44414441                        18..34-A    44114.444 ...41.   - IdV_     M* 414 ,M-44 di1
444111dmamtad44M4417           L.,4144 " It4441 C.    3  41444
4.b   .Laa  Few4Sale.       44adelai   P'-' 84 ..44   4 44,844 .iI          Cind41  4m -it..3..43.  -4m  .44mla
L-AM  9   M.  Mth-    3b.                                                      ___I_______.___t-  -
1-  -  -cLM") _llol-seed           el.84  C0Mal   Lo4  mao  mad              LA44.M    .4 PM"4p4.  444.3.4444.441.-44n
3444 1   44413  444    Plate48414 ma 4in141. mailm. 3..0 & 44  mae
A"44  ma8m3"41    4i1m.   a   iI   44 44444le  wd
44le444. 444 114414  L.4911t.4 4dm4d "OPI14  pal.4. -awl redm44  144ma44,4                               144. 843 ma 31     ...P.-bdeCwt    lel -
4*. ma-   44C  1, 44.4p4.-A.4 -ald    m8..  48.1i.  ses"..                                  MMLJ ,d=.4i8    Pik 9.4. 1dea. 1.fed. 4444444   a.1 44481.4. 44.4.
mm 141 l.b41  Ima4-       44    m  3.amaab-          "V4444.14 badar.81-dm*ldJdL)m  - L 44.4 44-l4 34 14444a.    4..pd415m
-.444   a13a4  Ip 444 4Ler4. we  na.48..W ..le 51- -iMI:                            we4-34.4 4-  4414444 dr.1 14148 3444  444.4;p 1d.   3 ma6 116re.a.l
dm444    L,4413 31434. 343 -a [Off A"..                                            8440. 3430 .44 310 d44..
kw .44.4.41  = r4443  Lea444 to. 447  - P-Ab 4414         - 44 W4441    a 4,4  4?4.ld    .4141.    - 1443"'            1. 4  lin"1,    .44444
....p ,dr.    mdea 14p`4. .dm" P., "va 1. 441 "1m l444I. 3m                     44444? 14        I'M4 date444  Tied4. -   . mabe   in'.8  3444419 W..,.
-0.     1-44  .       .4 hea 444t 114   4  ma ma 3 uma..    .le.    2 44.1m           1dm.1t3. m   39444 bbgel    4-.. 4          4   1.  4444434 
44144t 414441. 4144  10 SIn 44414  .444. ba.U. F    b      1844e. littl             ICE4438C M     w     41441.4. 1. p"..1444 -.  t6 344  144  1m.d    4
444  ..3. 444  113m41.  41i  -a illy 1 p4.. .am   3g.   144444.4444                                               .       44
1.4 '141441144414    p   ma   l~~~~~~ - ft.d1ma  pml fte-dma a.-.
41.4  ... .1.41  md pl...  4 47 444 4?. 141-4M  43 ma 444?by am..e
I.1    ma14  .C.4 I.-.(.  8..4          I4~.413 m    .                         41444.4341   4m4.43                       ma 41448__    -L ::4344  470 43114.
Mr,144  3-4 -41.i blmaI.4444m.                         Me1~.  4.414,  - -          - ...m.  .4ILV 1W 4411..  444_4P_        _   41444 __Ce   44414a.4 A.041i
934                                                                       4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'41T T3adC   1.fa,al.T  444
1.4.444411413. 34  1 3 1              44.4 444a4   44.40444i M44l144e-.4  4.4.4.4...4 br4ma  -44                                 1_3434  W*44     3.44   It
b- 4444 1444  - .44 d14 -44 -41- 443-1. F-    1he 1. g1i4. fm 74448 .1 in43  841   4444-144.  44431.444   .4.44443 
-.A4.414P I448 t 4...4411   44   ~44               4443444444*4
11444.34a. .3..   -,c.4.p..Ieb  14.4&d 20 ma.b.. i. ,e-b e.   4.78.               1.446  43.t4  431,, 44.   3441 31.4 44.44.
14l.4.14  *4 843441- .841 -dWel           na  4.   4..    .r..  44.                 11444   ....3.   .. M34A. l.t. -&.'r4Y3.L4ma  ft.p4e.4 1444461 - 4
14ea     1 44   mld14.44444.  31.4441 444.4e by     4.....44e                  -    ,.     ..4  44A.444444.4 P-W.  ma .ft, &OS 44   3.414
44-4441           44beA4e           41  1  4  4   861-   Me-44 -4.



- 45 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VW4o 
Neslonet AccG"ons                     CmossuIwi  1    Prices. as9 *hitc%"
10v                      91434.3     131,431.7    MOM,01.    13,530.9    D15.96Lt7       0,345.9      34,315.0    23.6.9    21144.1           4.2      5.3    0.3  100.6    100.01    90.0
swons. lI.%. Mrs)         3.33.       13,301.2     194m4:      5,1544        934.        22,464.      22.0113      22,772.3     5.33         11.6      6.9   -2.1   1.1       15.i    10.0
3604cm Om                 041.        13,09        2,19.9       5,37.3      V.32.4       a9,510.       52,03.4    33,0.1    135..1            3.3    13.4    2.9   101.6       ias      14.4
uw..o.t.13                               i,.       -2,975.     -2,10.       -2,30.3       7,122.0      9.93.9      11,11741    Q1,3.         29.7      1.1    -       1.1       1.1      4.4
Coe-.ti 5w.              7,460.    101,146.3    132411.5  104,612.8   143,770.9   15('0,9-.    149,534.4    I"4,766.    116o.0W.             6.1      4.5   -2.?    "J.        "7.     7M.
Isse-eme                 14.303.1     13,61.1    416,215.4    52,33.4    60,79.9    43410.1           46,631.4    54l1.1I    62411.9         9.4      1.5   -03    2as.        31.1     MT.
0=...   , hoe S. t.      24 036S      920.          634.3    10.316.I    40,131.         54410.2      54,7010.6    52,692.0    71,53.        4.9    10.4    3.6   22.1         27.0    V7.?
dross Net. beings  ~~22.?51.  *155.4       41S0.0    46,A".7    34,01.3    42,37.5             42,703.9     5,0.3       10,272.9      L.a    n1.m1    t.i    21.2       24.7    3.1I
Sonora L blast                                                                                                                                                             Am2at Tof 79.
9.4.0.7                  11,110.6    13,445.4    11,65.7       11430.?      V.152.2    14,104.4       1,1.             .            .         1.7      3.5    .      11.1       5.4      7.6
sacondep"                35,131.3    41,021.1    49476.5    69,112.1         ,maZ..    njus3.*        7m,7,a.3         .            .        7i       74      .      34.5      57.2    54.33
lorer.                   5,3.3n    74,449.6    90,134.5   101,3W.?   112,651.    117,65.9    110,795.7                A.            .         .       4.3     .       640      56.0    15s3
nodet in Smood md Non-locter Solitos                   Consul 1.Imft. Ws3 Nhlriis
Io.ar., Vogel Ic. i.E.;    3434.3    8114701.4    16.7Q7.0     5.7364.6     33.31.4     20.63.0       _2,900.0    ZS-Nfl        3200.01    23.1    25.4   -,l  100.0    110.0   100.0
Cro.I C-oed                 23.3         493.7     I.m2.9       2,15.41R     5,1"19.        a.            .            .            .        23       9PA    ...      5.1       u.s      .
lOtOoodIorp Coeds         1,561.4      5,13.3      7,341.9    11,790.3      11232.4        s.            .             ....                   .       5.9    ..      43.3      45.7    11.6
capital bode                146.9      1,919.3     3,737.0      S,3@j        6,3.           *. P                       ....                   4.1      5.au.21                 2.       a9.7
let.. co-                   WI.,       1,921.6     4,134.6      3,M6.9      1,01M.5      4,700.0      5,3000       630. ,.0          0       4.4     4.3   ...it   2,2.3      24.2    23.6
t.oort.  lotM1 (i.o.b3    3.2)4.0      6.0*3.6    13.030.4    13.49.3       3413.5       21,9a.0      293w         34a0.=       3.4m.0       19.3    25.4    2 6   1010.0    10O0    10.0 
rleolcoro           261~~~a&.3  391.6        M13.51       701.9        713.1        ...          ..            ....                  2.1      3.2    ...      4.        2.9
Pott.oloe/lee-L.            196.9        7466.2     4.20.3     10,505.1    15,350.7      11,23.0      16,100.0    11,900.       19,000.       4.5     7.7    ..    1.          44.3    15.3
ose-f-ct-                   529.4      1,02N.1     3,797.6      4,129.6      4,101l.? 7                                                        . ... ...             291       17.4      ..
I.. I...                  1,464.2      3,105.7     6,233.0      3,361.1      1,957.0      5,300.0      6,6001.0     5,010.       9,100.0     3.2    '4.2      .      5.        35.3    23.7
Price Indices digS * 10
tq,ort *r5c. lee.    ~14.3        21.1         67.3        10.0        104.2         92.6          "A.         101.        13.4
(sort 9,4.. (edo.     2~~.3       34.7        57.2        102.0         95.2         95.1         101.9       111.1        119.4
Tone of bred.        ~~~67.3     7?.           "A.         10.0         13.5         itS           913.3       91A          3.9
up30 soerll..                             335         77.7        100.0        121.0        .3,          113.         S37.2        759.
hcso*  ec               12.41        23.49        22J31       22.91        24.5         54.0
CoscetldLosod Public Sector froat.. 421091
toren  Nocelpt.              IsU7   2.n  23.0           .31        27.76       2via         27.0
Corrool Iseolts's            14.46        19.73       23.35        25.53        10.90       53.90
Curr-" Surplt,s               4.11        3.10         2.96i        2.43       -3.10        46.10
CopIlot leotse                6.20        10.69       10.04         9.94        11.30        10.40
5.94914 (Mt c                -1.10       -7.31        -7.3         -7.51      -14.901       -111.10
4(10CMl 1. of Eroo PublIc                                                                                                                        As      70319a
T-now   rrao co.o.o1-ctis.           33 105:3:0   375,3.0    U02,436.0    ZI31179.1g2J
leclel Isod cor tn                    51,241.0     29,417.      359,152.0    116,746.0                                                                14.1
Ie.dra'                        .     35,111.0      60,72.0    142,92.0    31,469.0                                                                     7.1
ArIc. s.d Os-oL Coselsoeol           34,916.0      3,104.0    151,195.0    13,351.0                                                                    7,5
Con Adoiit  se.5.e                    3410         14440         4,680       25,7.0                                                                   21.9
Cerc.                .    ~~~~~~~~~~~305.9.0  73,577.0    113,1111.0    33,761.0                                                              1.6
b"Ioore                                 ,7.          3.53.        4,1113.g      961.0                                                                  0.a
beteL                          .    400.&560.0 S1        ,  2-.017.934.0    3139.11.0                                                                100.0
IC=                           2.32        3.60          1.94          1.61         1.37
(spor Iteectlciy              ZAO         0.O           3.35          3.34        2.3
((motel 196 135
LoSer Portp,                    mn 0111 onofs.I                                                      -o
soiclcoret                     3 .4        4.9                       34.9         21.1                        0.5                          2,107.5       3,194.61          22.4        9.
lnaotry                        2.          .4                        30.9        23.5                         1.                          1,s63          1,2.317.                    154
ler..ceta                     3.Z         9.5                        44.f        1.                           LI1                         16,37.7       11,194.9          163.9      134
1,101                         10.7        13.3                    .2UA           100.                         1.5                          9-B-         JLJ7"J           2f2         110.0
D-1,i ostlOeato
a    t  ltsM   CelnaL'eld .itt. the Loent eGOMM mtibod.
Mot &voltobe voperototy, 301 itecd i,Is locl.
197  fIr.- we et ocotabI. In a conol.eee  eerIe. .4th the fottoulsg year.
2  '7 13  4 ue   r     =wl  'oLeSt. Po to the lI,vt qoetor.
27 ~"SI      meS  of mts4Ssr
He 4 1963.--a   '-iedm'



- 47 -
4 t
BALANCE  OF  PAYNENTS  EXTERNAL  ASSISTANCE  AND bESIT
(US  S         tiLLion,   Current   Pric a s)
ACTUAL                                Estltes          P  o i er. t1on8
Sumry alance of PWmerits              1970        1975        19W9        1980        1B1          152          t          tS8        t
Enxprts (inctudirg NFS)             2,754.0     6,C8.6    15,C50.4    2391.3    a3,615.5        3B,S86.0     2,33.0   34,5.0    3,400.u
li,ports (incLuding NFS)            3,434.5     8,470.4    16,7Q.0    375,4.6       3,iA1.4     2D,63.0      20,9C.0   25,3M.0   27,7(3.0
Resaurce Batane                      40.5    -2,401.8    -1,66.6    -2,173          4,6Q9        7,S.0        8,400.0    9,;2M.0   10,700.0
Net Factor  int                      -352.8      -t4.4    -3,012.7    4,48550    -7,Cl.9    -10,aB.0    -10,7ao.0  -13,1(.0  -13t00.O
Net Trasfers                           55.4       140.0       223.8        a4.6       14.1         15.0        m3.0        3m.0       m3.0
Currnt Accosnt BLance               457.9    -3,1C.2    -4,485.5   -6,3;.7   -11,4U.7            2,45.0       2,10D0  -3,6(3.0   -2A1(.0
Direct Im,estnt                      332.8       76.8        9P1.9      1,313.0     1,1421         ...          ...        ...        ...
RFbLc ltd. t Lag Tenm Loos, net   Z5 A          3,565.8     3,1D.1      6,03.3      9,557.0      6,840.6      5,0l.0    4,000.0    3,00.0
(Disbur sonts)                   821.3     4,418.6    0,415.0    10,0b1.2    13,W3.5      10A6            .....
tRsaamt)                        -562.7      452.8    -7,235.9      4,04.9    -3,782.0      -3,767.0
Net ILW                                -           -           70.0        73.5        69.6         M.0       1,1(3.0    1,33.0    1,33.0
Other CqpitaL                         43.6    -1,A.3          733.4        78.1       5D.4       9,813.1    -4,01.0        33.0       3l.0
Chlr in Reserves (- = incrase)      -t10i1       -165.1     -418.9      1,150.2    -1,5..5       6,3M.0      -2,1.0    -2,0O.0   -2411.0
Grat ard Low Ctmitunlts
Rbtic Ved.   tmg Term La's
ID                                  53.7       116.2       527.0       635.0     1,,C.0         69.3
IDA                                 -           -            -           -           -            -            -
Other MuttiLateraL                  175        40.2        274.5       3S.0        D1.5         156.5
Gvwwt s                             79.9        903        274.2        8336       61.7         46725
S=Wiers                            122.5       2DD.1        as.0        5S.6       133.9        1W.7
Swks ad FinriciaL Irstitutim       370.4     1,10.5    11,762.2      5,179.0    11,W6.5      10,Z5.2
Debt ad    t Service                                                                                                  ExtetnL Drbt
Rtbtic Debt Outstandirg ard         3,43.5    10,512.4    D,241.8    33,5Z65    42,42.2         48,614.0
Disbursed Cerd of period)                                                                                         an Dec. 31, te
Interest cn Pibtic Debt              216.4       831.8      2,854       3,841.9     4,699.       6,2153
Repaymnt an tbic Det                 475.6       761.1      7,111.7     4,M.4       3,782.1      3,761.0    Rbtic MSLT U iLtiws         I
Ptblic Debt Service                  692.0      1,%29       9,966.4     7,1683      8,41.9       9,9Z23         Lon
Ekrden an EMort Earnings CS)                                                                                mm              2650.4    5.5
a. Rhlic Debt Service             25.1        as.3        66S2        33.2        2P.6         35.4    Oder Off.       4,987.6   t0.2
b. Pttlic Debt Service ad         35.2        37.9        84.8        51.1        53.3         3.5       Sores
Direct Inrestment lInr                                                                            Oatr Privte  40,976.0   84.3
Average Term of PibLic Debt
a. Interest as S of prior year's    7.4       10.4        11.1        13.4        12.9         14.6    Totat          48,614.0  10010
D.0. aid D.
b. bDirtizaticn as X of prior     16.3         9.2        27.8        13.8        10.4          8.8
year's D.O. ad D.
I31  Evcre
a. IS  D.0. ad D. as   of         19.1        15.0         8.3         83          5.7          5.6
Pubtic D.O. and D.
b. Il   Debt Service as S of       7.8         7.3         2.2         32          3.3          2.7
Public Debt Service
a/ ALL debt fites refer to mediun rd long-term public dbt cnLy.
/ Estimates are frim IW.
.tt avaitabte smpratety, but inctLud in the total.
May 4, 1563



- 48 -
Annex II
Page I of 8
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 1/
A.  Statement of Bank Loans (as of March 31, 1983)
Loan                                                               Amount _eas    Undis-
No.       Year      Borrower                 Purpose              Cancellations   burned
50 loans fully disbursed                    2,724.6
1053-5    1974       W INSA                  Integrated Rural
Development              29.0          3.6
1111-5    1975      NAFINSA                  Irrigation                50.0         12.7
1186      1975      BANOBRAS                 Water Supply              40.0         10.4
1462-5    1977      NAFINSA                  Integrated Rural
Development           120.0           1.8
1553-5    1978      NAFINSA                  Agriculture               56.0         27.2
1554      1978      BANOBRAS                 Urban Development         16.5          0.1
1643-5    1979      NAFINSA                  Small-scale Agri.         60.0         38.0
1671      1979      BANOBRAS                 Highways                 120.0         51.4
1686-5    1979      FERTIMEX and NAFINSA   Industry                    80.0         10.6
1706-5    1979      NAFINSA                  Irrigation                92.0         74.8
1712-5    1980      NAFINSA                  Industry                 175.0         73.8
1820-5    1980      NAFINSA                  Small and Medium
Scale Mining           40.0         35.1
1858-5    1980      NAFINSA                  Irrigation               160.0        155.5
1881      1981      NAFINSA                  Small and Medium
Scale Industry        100.0         30.7
1891-5    1981      NAFINSA                  Agricultural Credit    325.0          186.0
1908      1981      NAFINSA                  Irrigation                23.0         16.3
1913      1981      BANORRAS                 Water Supply             125.0        105.1
1929      1981      BANOBRAS                 Railways                 150.0        94.0
1945      1981      NAFINSA                  Rainfed Agri.            280.0        226.9
1964      1981      BANPESCA                 Port Development          14.0         13.4
1990      1981      BANOBRAS                 Urban Development II   164.0          161.1
2042      1982      NAFINSA                  Technical Training        90.0         56.5
2043      1982    NWFINSA                    Integrated Rural
Development           175.0        166.4
Irrigation. Rehab II   1.80.0        177.3
2100      1982      NAFINSA                  Capital Goods
2142      1982      NAFINSA                    Industry               152.3
2154      1982      NAFINSA                  Pollution Control         60.0         59.1
2191      1983      NWINSA                   San Fernando Agri.       138.4        136.4
2194      1983      BANOBRAS                 Urban Enginering           9.2          8.5
TOTAL                                            5,749.0 2/
Of which has been repaid to the Bank               953.2
Total nov outstanding                            4,795.8
Amount sold                   92.3
of which has been repaid    92.3                     0.0
Total now he-d by Bank 1/                         4,795.8
Total undisbursed                                             2,085.0
1/  Loans 2262, for US$115 million to NAFINSA for an Agricultural Marketing Project
and 2281, for US$100.3 million to BANOBRAS for a Third Medium Size Cities &
Sinaloa State Water Project, have not yet been signed.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 49 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B. STATEMNT OF IFC INVESTHENTS (as of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                                                   US$ million
Year          Obligor                    Type of Business          Loan  Equity  Total
1958/59  Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. /1              Industrial Equipment         0.8    -       0.8
1958     Bristol de Mexico, S.A. /1    A.C. Engine Overhaul          0.5    -       0.5
1961     Acero Solar, S.A. /1           Tvist Drills                 0.3    -       0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidora Fierro
66/68    y Ace-o de Monterrey, S.A. Steel                          2.3   21.4   23.7
1963     Tubos de zz--ro de Mexico,
S.A. /1                      Steel                        0.9    0.1    1.0
1963     Quimica del Rey, S.A. /1       Sodium Sulphate              0.7    -       0.7
1964/66  Industria del Hierro, S.A. /1 Construction Equipment        -       2.0    2.0
1970     Hinera del Norte, S.A. /1      Iron Ore Mining              1.5    -       1.5
1971     Celanese Mexicana, S.A.        Textiles                    12.0    -      12.0
1972     Promotora de Papel
; eriodico, S.A. de C.V. /1  Pulp and Paper                /2     /2      /2
1973/79  Cemento Veracruz, S.A.         Cement                      15.9    -      15.9
1974/81  Cancun Aristos Hotel           Tourism                      1.0    0.3    1.3
1975/78  Mexinox, S.A.                  Steel                       12.0    3.2   15.2
1978/81  Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.        Pulp and Paper               9.0    3.5   12.5
1978     Tereftalatos Mexicanos, S.A. Petrochemicals                19.0    -      19.0
1979     Cementos Tolteca, S.A. /3      Cement                     100.0    -    100.0
1979!81  Hotel Camino Real Ixtapa,S.A- Tourism                       -       3.1    3.1
1979     Conductores Moiterrey, S.A./3 Electrical Wire and Cable  18.0    -        18.0
1980     Industrias Resistol, S.A. 13  Particleboard                25.0    -      25.0
1980     Vidrio Plano de Mexico
S.A. /3                      Flat Glass                 114.9    -    114.9
1980     Minera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V. /3             Mining                      110.0    -    110.0
1981     Celulosicos Centauro, S.A./3  Pulp and Paper               59.5    -      59.5
1981     Corporacion Agroindustrial,
S.A.                        Agri-Business                11.3    3.0   14.3
Total Gross Commitments                                   514.6   36.6  551.2
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment
389.5   22.1  411.6
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                         125.1   14.5  139.6
f       == ===,
Total Undisbursed (including participants)                 34.1    1.5   35.6
===   ===_  _fiS
J1    Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
/2    US$25,000.
/3    Gross commitment including amounts sold to participants.



- 50 -
ANNex II
Page 3 of 8
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION (March 31, 1983) 1/
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:  US$50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Subsequently reduced to US$29
Million; Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1975. Closing Date:
December 30, 1982.
The undisbursed amount will be cancelled as soon as
applications in transit are processed.
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Project - Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio San
Juan: US$150 Millior Loan of May 8, 1975; Subsequently reduced
to US$50 Million; Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
Following initial delays in implementation, the project was
redesigned in 1977. In August 1978, the Fxecutive Directors
approved the modified program which is now close to comple-
tion. Disbursements, altbough lagging behind, are now proceed-
ing at an improved pace and the loan is expected to be com-
pletely disbursed by the extended closing date.
Ln. No. 1186   Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40
Million Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April
26, 1976. Closing Date: January 14, 1984.
Five out of the seven subprojects have been completed, but
project completion has been delayed in 1982 as a result of the
budgetary constraints of Mexico this year. To accelerate
disbursements, some of the civil works to be financed under
this loan will be financed under loan 1913-ME , while some of
the equipment and material related to subprojects under loans
1913-ME will be disbursed under this loan. The disbursement
percentage has been increased to 70% as announced in the R83-48
Report to the Executive Directors.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 51 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II:  US$120
Million Loan of July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date:  October 28,
1977; Closing Date: January 31, 1983.
The undisbursed balance will be cancelled as soon as
applications in transit are processed.
Ln. No. 1553   Tropical Agricultural Development Project:  US$56 Million Loan
of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The six pilot projects have been approved by the Bank. Project
authorities are making good progress in the agricultural
development program of each pilot project. The applied
research programs are proceeding on schedule. The project area
under the credit component of the project has recently been
expanded. Disbursements are improving.
Ln. No. 1554   Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Project:  US$16.5
Million Loan of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
February 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The loan funds have been almost fully disbursed.
Ln. No. 1643   Small Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Project:  US$60 Million
Loan of February 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 13, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Most livestock and irrigation subprojects for financing under
the Project have been approved by the Bank, and the Government
is accelerating preparation of withdrawal applications.
Ln. No. 1671   Highway Sector Project:  US$120 Million Loan of August 23,
1979; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Commitments are on target, but preparation of withdrawal
requests is still delayed; the loan will likely be fully
disbursed by the end of FY 1983.
Ln. No. 1686   Second Fertilizer Project - Lazaro Cardenas:  US$80 Million
Loan of May 18, 1979: Effectiveness Date: September 21, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The loan is now fully committed to finance contracts with
foreign suppliers of equipment, but disbursements are not
expected to be completed before the end of the year.



- 52 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Lu. No. 1706   Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  US$92 Million Loan
of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October c, 1979; Closing
Date: July 31, 1986.
Project implementation would, in the normal course, experience
delays of one to two years due to budgetary constraints.
Special action program is under examination.
Ln. No. 1712   FONEI IV: US$175 Million Loan of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness
Date: October 5, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Demand for industrial project financing has softened as some
sub-projects of this previously fully committed loan have been
cancelled. Close monitoring indicates, however, that net new
commitments have outpaced cancellations in recent months, and
the full loan amount is expected to be committed again by mid-
1983.
Ln. No. 1820   Small and Medium Scale Mining Development Project:  US$40
Million Loan of August 18, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
December 4, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Project execution has been initiated, and agreement on revised
interest rates is expected. Demand for credit has been less
than originally anticipated due to softening of mineral prices.
Ln. No. 1858   Apatzingau Irrigation Project:  US$160 Million Loan of
September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 19, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
After some initial delays detailed plans for the Chilatan Dam
were completed in February 1983. Technical assistance and
agricultural development activities will require
strengthening. The Project is facing problems due to
counterpart funding constraints. The Government and the Bank
are studying special actions to help project implementation.
Ln. No. 1881   Second Small and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project:
US$100 Million Loan of September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
December 22, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
About two thirds of the loan have been committed and over one
half of it has been disbursed. The program is making
satisfactory progress, and the loan is expected to be disbursed
before the closing date.



- 53 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Ln. No. 1891   Seventh Agricultural Credit Project:  US$325 Million Loan of
August 15, 1980; Effectiveness Date:  November 17, 1980
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
No major problems in implementation are foreseen.  Sublending
rates to be revised shortly by the Mexican authorities.
Ln. No. 1908   Ocoroni Irrigation Project: US$23 Million Loan of March 2,
1981; Effectiveness Date: July 1, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
Project implementation is ahead of schedule with a fair chance
of its completion two years before schedule. Disbursement is
also catching up with the fast progress; however, some cost
overruns can be expected.
Ln. No. 1913   Second Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:
US$125 Million Loan of January 23, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
June 23, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
To accelerate disbursements, some of the civil works to be
financed under this loan will be financed under Loan 1186-ME,
while some of the equipment and material related to subprojects
under Loan 1186-ME will be disbursed under this loan. The
disbursement percertage has been increased to 70 percent, as
announced in the R83-48 Report to the Executive Directors.
Ln. No. 1929   Fourth Railway Project:  US$150 Million Loan of February 12,
1981; Effectiveness Date: June 9, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The proceeds of the loan have been reallocated to speed up
project implementation.
Ln. No. 1945   Rainfed Agricultural Development Project:  US$280 Million Loan
of March 2, 1981; Effectiveness Date: July 1, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986.
Civil works are proceeding on schedule with exception of the
drainage component and a portion of the local development
centers. District operational committees are now functioning
to review credit programs in the eleven PLANAT districts.
Disbursements are behind appraisal estimates.
Ln. No. 1964   Ports Development Preparation Project:  US$14.0 Million Loan of
May 7, 1981; Effectiveness Date: August 24, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
Progress of port project preparation work is somewhat delayed
by budgetary limitations imposed on all transport work, but the



- 54 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
new Administration has now indicated its desire to procede with
two specific items, which will be the subject of study by
consultants now in the field. improvements at the existing
industrial port of Lazaro Cardenas, and terminal facilities at
the new port of Altamira are under study.
Ln. No. 1990   Second Urban and Regional Development Project:  US$164 Million
Loan of August 13, 1981; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Project implementation delayed due to managerial problems and
to the lack of counterpart funds in 1982. The situation is now
improving and disbursements are expected to accelerate in the
near future.
Ln. No. 2042   Technical Training Project:  US$90 Million Loan of July 31,
1981; Effectiveness Date: November 25, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Project implementation on schedule.
Ln. No. 2043   Integrated Rural Development (PIDER III):  US$175 Million Loan
of November 6, 1981; Effectiveness Date: May 5, 1982; Closing
Date: September 30, 1985.
Micro-regional offices have been established and staffed.  The
Government has prepared the monitoring and evaluation plans for
all micro-regions under the project and these are satisfactory
to the Bank. Preparation of the training programs is now
substantially completed.
Ln. No. 2100   Bajo Rio Bravo/Bajo Rio San Juan Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project II: US$180 Million Loan of September 5, 1982;
Effectiveness Date: March 4, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31, 1988.
Project implementation underway. Special action to provide
relief on counterpart funds under consideration.
Ln. No. 2142   Capital Goods Industries Development Project:  US$152.3 Million
Loan of September 5, 1982; Effectiveness Date: March 7, 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The creation of a $100 million export development fund under
the project was approved by the Executive Directors on April 1,
1983. Loan financing for the original project component has
been temporarily reduced to $50 million.



- 55 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 2154   Pollution Control Project:  US$60 Million Loan of July 16,
1982; Effectiveness Date:  February 11, 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1988.
Project executing agencies are now preparing the first
implementation phase.
Ln. No. 2191   San Fernando Rainfed Agricultural Development Project:
US$138.4 Million Loan of September 5, 1982; Effectiveness Date:
March 4, 1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1989.
Project implementation underway.
Ln. No. 2194   Deconcentration Program for the Mexico City Region:  US$9.2
Million Loan of August 9, 1982; Effectiveness Date:
October 15, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Several studies have been contracted and the project is
progressing satisfactorily.
Loans approved after March 31, 1983:
Ln. No. 2262   Agricultural Marketing Project for Perishables:  US$115 Million
Loan of               ; Effectiveness Date:
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
This loan, approved by the Executive Directors on April 19,
1983, has not yet been signed.
Ln. No. 2281   Third Medium Size Cities and Sinaloa State Water Project:
US$100.3 Million Loan of                ; Effectiveness Date:
; Closing Date; June 30, 1990.
This loan, approved by the Executive Directors on May 17, 1983,
has not yet been signed.



- 56 -                          ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare project:    About six months
(b)  Project prepared by:                  Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior
(c)  First Bank mission:                            June 1982
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:                January 1983
(e)  Negotiations Completed:                        May 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                 September 1983
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
Disbursement of US$27.5 million into the EDF Special Account as loan
effectiveness and related disbursement conditions are fulfilled.
Section III - Special Conditions
Ca) The following would be conditions of loan effectiveness:
i)  evidence that arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, have been
made between the Borrower and FOMEX for the transfer to FOMEX of
the proceeds of the loan to finance the EDF and the technical
assistance subloans (paras. 93, 103 and 104);
(ii)  formal transfer of the trusteeship of FOMEX to BNCE (paras. 61 and
96);
(iii)  formal establishment of the EDF and adoption by FONEX of EDF
Operating Regulations satisfactory to the Bank (para. 95);and
(iv) evidence of arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, that would
enable exporters to import inputs required to carry out their
annual export plans and to retain a portion of their foreign
exchange earnings to service their EDF subloans (para. 98).
(b) The following would be conditions of disbursement of the fixed
investment financing component:
(i) formal adoption by BNCE of the Operating Regulations for this
component (para. 100);



- 57 -                                ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(ii) evidence of satisfactory contractual arrangements with FONEI
(para. 100);
(iii) in respect of any investment subloans channeled through financial
agencies other than FONEI, evidence of satisfactory contractual
arrangements between the Borrower and the respective financial
agency (para. 93).
(c)  The Government and BNCE would review together with the Bank once every
six months progress in implementing measures under the export strategy
paper, the project's execution, onlending interest rates and the
justification for transfer, in part or in full, of the resources
allocated to the Export Development Fund to the fixed investment
financing component of the project. The first such review would take
place no later than March 1, 1984 (para. 89).



- 58 -
mnXICO - EDXORT DEVELOMP r PROJECT
Suwuary of the Stabilizatlon Proaram: 1983 - 1985
I - Targets (in per cent unless otherwise ludlested)
1983         1934          1915
-1/         3.0           6.0
Intlation 2/                                                    5.-01/       30.0          16.0
Current Accownt Deficit/CUP                                      2.2(T.1)1    1.8           1.2
Overall balIance of payments murplue
(in billions ot U.S. dollars)                                  2.0          2.0           2.0
11 -  Kt  Assumptions Cin US5 billions unlse otherwime iadicated)
Exports                                                         23.7(22.4)3/ 26.5          2.3
011 (including derivativea)3/                                     .;.1(1S.0)/ 17.9        17.4
Imports                                                         15.2(14.S)/ 17.3          19.0
Average Interest rate on .ternal debt (In Z)                    14.5(12.2)31 13.9(11.8)31 13.1(i1.3)if
III -  Principal Elements
External Policies:
Exchang  Rate:  To be rmaned flexibly so as to maintain en adequate level of coeptltivenum  for
exports. curb imports and discourage speculative capital movemets; liberalization
of exchange yetem so as to preclude the emergnce of new urrman.
Protective System:  tationalization of the protective sytes  throbuh chnges in the tariff strue-
ture, *xport incentves and i*oprt permit require_mnts.
Net Foreign lorrowing:  Qurterly limits establisbed on net offictal external borromaXg so ae
not to  eeed USSS billion in 1983 as a whole. Commitment to continue
to reduce the use of net external financing by the public sector as a
proportim of CDP in the following two years.
External Debt Policies: Reschedulng of Mexico's external debt wae to be sought, including the
short-tern debt. so as to ease the balance of peyents pressures; there
was to be an orderly reduction of the external payments arrear (at
least US56O million to be repaid during 1963).
Doestic Policies:
Public Sector Deficit:  The overall public nectnr deftict wan to be ltimted to ex5I.500 blillr-
or the equivalent of b.5 per cent of COP-iln 1983. and to decline further
to the equivalent of 5.5 per cent of COP in 1984. nd 3.5 per cent of CGP
tn 1985. Qurterly Imettations were placed on the cu_lActI- defitcit of
the pubiLc sector tn 19833 with aubceilinag established for credit to the
pubilc sector fre the lank of Mexico.
Puble Sector Savings:  Were expected to be strengthened by the  qui-valent of at least 4.4 per
e nt of CDP through a combination of Incre-aen cu eurrent receipte-
Including subetanttIl adjustments In the prices charged by public sector
enterprises-and a curbing of current expenditure-through the reduction
of subhedies nd the growth of the wage bill.
Credit Policies: Ouwrtvrly ceilings placed on the expansion of net domestic assets of th* fank of
Mexico. wtth subceiimngn-as noted above-on the credit to the pubitc sector.
The limitation on domestic credit use by the public sector is expected to allow
a greeter volume of credit to be channeled to the private sector. Interest
rates for domesttc financial instruments are to be managed no as to nake them
compettttve with other Inventment alternatives end the external objectives of
the program: In addition tbeir lewels should be compati'ble with the exchange
rate .policy.
Incomes Policies:  Wage policy Is to be directed to the achievement of mediumr-ter  employment
objeettves In the framework of the adjustment effort. Price controls are to
be revised In order to avoLd the discouragement of production and emplorynt.
while assurinx that proftt nargina are kept within reasonable bounds.
1/ The Rexiten authortties are now projecting a decline of 2 to 4 percent In CDP and a rete of inflation
not exeredtng 70 per cent.
2I 122e-nth rate of Increase by the end of the year.
T/ The f tgurus In parenthents for 1991 repraent recent revistons tn the balance of paymwnts estimates re-
flecting the limart of the drop in the average price of hexiran oll crudee and lower intereat rates on
the external debt.
*l It was assumed that the price of petroleum would remain stable in 1963 end increasw thereafter at an
average annual rate of 3.2 per cent. The volume of petroleim exports wea assumed at 3.5 mSd (millions
sf barrels daily) in 1963. 1.55 mbd In 1934 and 1.6 *bd tn 1985.



PIINCIPAL SOURMS Of FOREIGN ucNANct 1xaN i oe cuum  Accoutr
19700 1974-1982
(USS dillio  equivalent)
1970         1974        1975          1976         1977         1978         1979        1940          16l           1912
1. Total merchandise exports                          1289.6       2653.2       3062.4       3655.5       4649.8        6063.1       8798.2      15307.5       19419.6       21006.1
A. Crude petroleum 6 natural ges                    38.4        123.1         437.6        539 9        903.4       1773.6       3784.6       9676.4       13829.7       15100.7
S. Total Non-p.troleuu morchandise exports        1251.2       2730.1       2624.6       3115.6        3746.4      (269.5        5033.6       5429.1        5589.9        4905.4
Unprocessed mterial.
Agriculture, livestock & fishing            622.6        854.0        892.3       1175.1        1312.6       1500.9       1778.6       1545.5        1460.9        1233.2
Htierals (excluding petroleum)              184.1        376.0        207.6        209.3        217.0         212.3        317.2        495.3         677.2         501.0
Manufactutes                                   444.4       1499.6       1524.5       1729.6        2125.1       2574.0       2936.0       3382.9        3427.3        3167.5
Islacellaneous                                   -            0.4          0.2           1.7          1.6          2.0          2.0          3.3           4.4           3.7
11. Tourism (nat)                                       223.6        450.S        354.3        412.5        470.5        602.0         730.5        626.2         -iJ           618.2
Ill.  Border transactions (net)                          221.9        397.2        335.9        419.6        714.9      7 3l.6          6713.5       592.7   .7fl                572.5
IV. Net incoae from tranfaoruatiom
services ("squiladoru")                          82.9        375.1        332.4        365.6        344.6         452.3        MA              .          . l631.6
SOkCtat  Banco de Meuico. UP. Saga mq tot be coleteLy cnua?1  NM  %%seoPthi          A    m I Am _       ereant sources and deant1Loa.
IC
'.4
0



MEXICO EXPCOT DZVTlOYZT PROJECT
KANWACTURED EXPORTS BY PRODUCT GROUP, 1970-1982
(US$ million equivalent)
1970    1971    1972    1973    1974         1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1961       1962
TOTAL MANUFACTURED EXPORTS  a/              444      545      677      960     1I0_0    1,525        1,730      2.125      2.574      2.936      3.383      3.427      3.167
Food, beverages and tobacco                 144      161      L79      220       349        455        531        638        737        799        770        679        791
Textiles, clothing and leather goods          39      51       78      168        268        168        182       180        189        209        201        181        150
Wood and wood products                        10      12       20       23         35         26         36        51         73         72         58         59         52
Paper, printing and publishing               20       16       23       32         32        40         62         64         67         74         86         e1         78
Petroleum derivative.                       n.a.    n,a.    n.a.    n.a.         ni.a.        26        16         39         25         96        427        611        261              S
Petrochemicals                              n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.         n.a.         16          a          5        64        113        117        133        116
Chemicals                                    81      90       102      152       261        205        236        241        250        335        395        457        441
Plastic and rubber products                 n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.         n.a.          7          9        16         20         20         21         23         26
Non-metallic aineral products b/              12      18       24       29         33        62         82        140        156        136        129        125        160
Basic ferrous metals                         37       61       73       43        83         48         54         92        137        132         7'.        64       .112
Basic non-ferrous metals                    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.         n.a.        123        87         85        136        146        121         70         75
Ketal products, machinery & equipment         49      76      106      177        226        326        399       542        680        755        938        894        e8a
Other industries                              53      59       73      117        213         22        28         32         40         47         48         50         36
*  I|
a/ Data do not include exports of "maquiladoras" and may not be completely comparable vith those shown in Annex I due to different sources and definitions.                       *
b/ During 1970-74, includes only ceramic tiles and glass manufactures.                                                                                                            o
SOURCE: Bank of Mexico. Foreign trade data were re-classified in 1975. Data for prior years are not completely comparable.



MEXICO: EXPORT DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
FOS: Total Financing and Guarantee Programs, 1964-82
(Kex$ million)
Total Financi_n____________ Sale                                                               I1ort Substitution                 Guarautaes
Year                       Acotau-                     AccUM-                          AuLu-                                      e_-                     Ac w
Annual  2    lated    Z   Annual   X    lated  X          Annual           Z                 a..l aA,tu lAtd                 z    A-.,I
1954                 t57100         75   100     -      -       _      _          57 100         57 100           -        _-                           13      14
1957                 640  100   1,228   100       165  25.8   215    17.5        470  73.4    1,000  61.4         8         1.2        21       1.7    181     382
19970               2,083  100   5,685   100      398  19.2  1,030    18.1    1,523  73.1    4,368  76.8          161       7.7        286      S.0    123      720
1973               4,526  100  15,941   100   1,245  27.5  3,534    22.2    3,152 69.6   11,860  74.4            129       2.9        547      3.4    196   1,475
1976              10,268  100  39,266   100   2,654  25.8  8,782    22.4    7,418  72.2  29,526  75.2            196       L9         958      2.4  1,042   3,430
1977              17,770  100  57,036   100   5,174  29.1 13,956    24.5  12,287  69.1   41,813  73.3            309       1.7      1,267      2.2  2,431   5,861 l
1978              20,931  100  77,967   100   6,997  33.4 20,983    26.9  13,281  63.5  55,094  70.7             653       3.1      1,920      2.5  2,757   8,618
1979              21,138  100 103,105   100   9,860  33.8 30,813    28.8  17,539  60.2  72,632  67.8           1,740       6.6      3,660      3.4  2,118  10,736
1980              43,343  100 154,448   100  10,652  22.5 41,465    26-8  24,072  50.8  96,704   62.6    12,619           26.6    16,279      10.0  2,932  13,663
1981              74,793  100 221,241   100  13,415  12.9 54,880    23-9  37,835  50.6  134,539   58.7    23,543          31.S    39,822      17.4  3,101  16,769
1982             179,605  100 408,846   100  21,488  12.0 76,368    18.7 129,779  71.3 264,318   64.6    28,338           15.6    68,160      16.7  8,419  25,188
Sourca: FOMEX Annual Reports.
P



- 62-                                  ANNEX V
Table A of 6
MEXICO: EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BNCE Lending by Principal Programs, 1981-82
(Mex$ million)
1981                     1982
Program                              %                     z
(1) Exports
Private Sector                2,776          2.3         4,450      4.0
Public Sector                 9,107          7.7        11,148    10.0
Sub-total                  11,883         10.0        15,598    14.0
(2) Import Substitution
Private Sector                8,201          6.9         7,821      7.0
Public Sector                    985         0.8           611      0.5
Sub-total                   9,186          7.7         8,433     7.5
(3) Imports
Private Sector                 1,882         1.6         2,771      2.5
Public Sector                28,523         24.0        36,727    33.0
Sub-total                  30,405         25.6        39,498    35.5
(4) Equipment Financing
Private Sector                 1,037         0.8         1,081      1.0
Public Sector                22,660         14.1         3,131      2.8
Sub-total                  23,697         19.9         4,212     3.8
(5) Basic Products
Private Sector                 -              -          3.6         -
Public sector                  ---_-
Sub-total                    -              -          3.6        -
(6) Other
Private Sector                7,568          6.4         5,566      5.0
Public Sector                36,102         30.4        38,021    34.2
Sub-total                  43,670         36.8        43,586    39.2
TOTAL                               118,841        100.0      111.363   100.0
Source: BNCE



- 63 -
AME  V
Table 5 of 6
MEXICO: EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FONEI's Lending Operations
1977      1978       1979      1980       1981      1982
Commitments         1,159.1   2,288.4   3,193.9   4,648.7   7,283.7  11,437.8
(Mert million)                -- --      =======              ===m=   ==mm ==
Equipment           1,158.8   2,284.6   3,004.5   4,598.1   6,624.8   9,785.0
New Projects   1,073.6   1,375.6   1,093.4   1,263.5   2,401.9   3,5B7.7
Expansion         85.2      908.6   1,911.1   3,334.6   4,222.7   6,197.3
Pollution Control      -         -         100.0       43.3     464.0   1,152.7
Technology
Development          -          2.0       88.7       4.6      185.6      487.9
Other                   0.3       2.2        0.7        2.7       9.4       12.2
Disbursements         724.9   1,282.8   2,062.4   3,327.8   4,405.4    6,363.1
Number of
Operations           34        61         66        80         104        139
Number of Parti-
cipating Banks         15        15         16        21          19         21
Nunmber of Jobs
Generated          4,573      4,883    11,116    11,184       10,603     11,708
(estimate)
Source: FONEI



- 64 -
ANNEX V
Table 6 of 6
MEXICO: EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FONATUR'S Lending Operations
1977      1978       1979      1980      1981       1982
Total Investment   1,838,9   5,956.4   6,192.7   13,580.0  21,887.4  15,530.0
(Mex$ million)
Credit Approved    1,309.4   3,085.1   3,382.2    6,683.9  11,147.7   8,346.8
Mex$ million)                         -                               =UMMMUM
New Hotels       399.6   2,409.9   2,429.9    4,682.6   8,916.9   3,005.3
Expansion        197.0      238.7     849.0    1,516.6   2,002.3   4,792.0
Renovation        70.1      103.4      57.8       105.2     259.6      410.0
-3ther           642.7      333.1      45.5       379.4      18.9      139.5
Number of Rooms
Financed         3,401      9,526    11,089      15,027     17,336    6,746
====        -         ==        mR=SE      ==
New Rooms      2,183      8,347     9,753      13,506     15,244    4,745
Upgrading      1,218      1,179     1,336       1,521      2,092    2,001
Number of
Operations          58        135       188         185        196       126
Number of Parti-
'-ipating Banks     33         34        32          25         24        17
Number of Jobs
Generated         1,773     6,235     6,826      10,035    12,320      3,823
(estimate)
Source: FONATUR



- 65 -
MEXICO - EXPORI DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                    ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 4
Government's Export Policy Letter
(Translation from Spanish)
SECRETARIAT OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOP1M4T
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
Note No. 2430                                     Mexico, D.F., April 25, 1983
Dr. Nicolas Ardito Barletta
Vice President
World Bank
Dear Dr. Barletta:
We would like to inform you of the principal guidelines and activities
that have been decided upon in connection with the foreign trade policy to be
implemented by the Government of Mexico during the period 1983-88.
The basic objective of the new foreign trade policy is to make
non-oil exnorts one of the mainstays of Mexico's development, by stimulating
production and employment and thereby generating sustained foreign exchange
earnings. Structural changes will be promoted to ensure that this activity is
continuous and of benefit to national industry.
Accordingly, economic policy instruments will be employed to increase
non-oil exports approximately fourfold during the period 1983-88.
The Integrated Export Development Program has been designed to meet
this goal, incorporating the elements discussed below.
The Government regards the maintenance of a realistic exchange rate as a
priority, to facilitate the expansion of non-oil exports and the efficient
substitution of imports. The medium-term objective is the convergence of the
two foreign exchange rates now in effect.
The policy on interest rates is consistent with the foreign exchange
policy, so that domestic savings will be encouraged and a greater volume of
funds will be available for domestic financing of the country's development.
Although at present almost all items of the General Import Tariff are
subject to the system of prior licensing, in the medium term protection will
be provided through both duties and prior licensing, but with greater emphasis
on the former. The change in protection will be gradual, programmed and
selective.
Tariff levels will be adjusted so as to afford adequate protection
for the country's production system, in line with developments in the
international economy and changes in the domestic situation. The first
adjustment of General Import Tariff rates will be completed during the current
calendar year.



- 66 -                                 ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 4
Tariffs and export permits will be applied selectively and only to a
minimum number of products. In accordance with this decision, an Order was
published in the Diario Oficial on April 6 exempting exports of 294 tariff
items from the prior licensing requirement. These, added to the 2,594
exempted previously, represent 95.4Z of the export tariff positions. In terms
of the value of exports, those items accounted for 94.3Z of the total
registered in 1982.
At the same time, the Government has decided to suspend the
requirements of prior licensing for temporary imports of 469 tariff positions
when the products are to be re-exported. These items represent 71.62 of the
total subject to that requirement. Similarly, it was decided to exempt 47
positions from the export tax, and to reduce duty levels for an additional 46
positions. This makes it possible to import the inputs required by the
country's production -Ystem, provided that their purpose is processing and
subsequent re-export. She effective period of the authorization for temporary
imports is extended to one year, giving the system a maximum degree of
responsiveness similar to that now enjoyed by the in-bond asserbly industry.
This applies both to the final exporter and to the industry s:.pplying inputs
to that exporter, to an extent commensurate vith the latter's share. A
specific regulation under the Tariff Law will be issued this year to make the
use of government bonding, industrial deposit and inventory replenishment
schemes even more attractive.
In addition, approval has been given for reduction to a minimum of
the products subject to pre-export review by the Secretariats of Agriculture
and Water Resources and of Health and Public Welfare. In the former case, it
has been decided that only the Directorate General of Agricultural Economics
will issue opinions; in the latter case, only exports of blood-based and
psychotropic products will be reviewed.
The financial programs of the Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior
(BNCE) and FOHEX have now been approved. These are intended to provide credit
for export production, clearly-defined and efficient import substitution, and
the rationalization of imports of raw materials, components and spare parts
tequired to manufacture goods for export as well as for the domestic market.
The total credit budget, excluding overlapping between the two
institutions, is nearly Mex$600 billion (USg5 billion), which will be made
available to Mexican entrepreneurs and producers through the banking system;
the aim is to simplify procedures and avoid duplication of activities.
Likewise, in order to regularize the outstanding debt situation of
Mexican firms as soon as possible, thereby improving their ability to obtain
the inputs required for operation and reducing the implicit foreign exchange
risk, on February 25, 1983 the Banco de Hexico authorized a procedure whereby
Mexican industrial firms may deposit in local currency the payments of
principal and interest due to international suppliers. The regulations for
this type of operation were published in the Diario Oficial of February 25,
1983. In addition, a trust fund was set up recently in the Banco de Mexico,
known as the Foreign Exchange Risk Coverage Fund (FICORCA), which will
administer the Foreign Exchange Risk Program. The program will be open to
public and private enterprises that restructure their foreign debt contracted
prior to December 20, 1982, and have obtained a minimium period of six years
(including a three-year grace period) for payment of their external debt. The



- 67 -                                 ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 4
operating regulations for this mechanism were published in the Diario Oficial
of April 6, 1983.
AI-j planned is a revision of the operating regulations for credit
insurance and guarantee schemes in support of exporters, in order to reduce
the risks they assume.
The exchange control system has been revised to avoid slowness or
imbalance in the international transactions required for the country's
economic development. Thus, new formulas have been devised to assist
exporting companies in drawing up to the total of their foreign exchange
earnings from exports, provided that they use those earnings to pay for
imports of goods required for production; to cover expenditures incurred in
connection with their imports and exports; to pay sums due to foreign
suppliers registered with SECOFIN; to carry out exchange or swap operations
abroad, and other activities regulated by the decree published in the Diario
Oficial of March 4, 1983.
With regard to tax incentives, the coordination among the
Secretariats of Finance and Public Credit and Commerce and Industrial
Development, and the Mexican Foreign Trade Institute (IHCE), is aimed at
providing tax incentives for the productive sectors. For the time being, it
has been decided to continue the rebate of the general import tax applicable
to imported inputs used in the manufacture of products for export.
As part of the export promotion program, steps will be taken to
strengthen the supporting infrastructure by improving port and warehousing
facilities and streamlining customs and port administration.
Enhancement of the international competitiveness of the productive
sector requires changes in technological processes. Accordingly, this type of
development will be encouraged in the country's research centers, and in
industry itself to the extent possible. A regulation concerning this matter
will be issued in the near future. Moreover, the operations of the Industrial
Export Promotion Fund (FOMEX), the Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) and the
Industrial Development Trust Fund (FOMIN) will be expanded and streamlined to
foster research and development related to exports and import substitution, in
conjunction with intermediary banks.
The Government of President Miguel de la Madrid has decided to
centralize the management of all matters pertaining to industry and foreign
trade in a single administrative sector, because of the close functional
relationship between the two types of activity.
In support of the export promotion policy that the Federal Government is
implementing, a "single window" has been established in IMCE, with the
functions of liaison, guidance and support to exporters. Besides simplifying
procedures, the INCE promotional support package will include matters that are
essential to export activity, such as the timely dissemination of foreign
trade information, technological adaptation, design and development of
products for sale on the international market, support for trading consortia
and companies, the holding of trade fairs, shows and exhibits, support for the
export of technology and engineering and construction services, and the
pooling of export commodities.



-68 -                               ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 4
The Mixed Advisory Commission on Foreign Trade Policy (COMPEX) will
be responsible for coordinating the activities of the public sector and
private business in relation to export programs and projects. The member
agencies of the Commission, acting in their areas of competence, will carry
out the activities required to fulfill the export targets established.
At the same time, we have begun to concentrate the financial agencies
involved in foreign trade support in BNCE, with the aim of simplifying and
unifying their operating procedures so that the granting of credits to
exporters will be more expeditious and efficient. In this connection, it is
particularly important that FOMEX is being incorporated in the Banco Nacional
de Comercio Exterior as of April 1983.
Finally, other instruments will be employed to complement the
policies and measures mentioned above. Noteworthy among these are the
channeling and generation of demand through public sector procurement,
development of the in-bond assembly industry and of border area trade, and
promotion of industrial parks and of foreign investment in export projects, to
mention only the most important ones.
We are enclosing two speeches given by the Secretary of Commerce and
Industrial Development to the highest levels of the Mexican business community
in the areas of industry and foreign trade. These speeches set forth, within
the general framework of economic policy, the principal guidelines of foreign
trade policy discussed in this letter. We are also enclosing the preliminary
version of the Integral Export Development Program.
We trust that the foregoing information will prove useful.
Sincerely yours,
Isl Jesus Silva Herzog                     /s/ Hector Hernandez Cervantes
Secretary of Finance and                    Secretary of Commerce and
Public Credit                               Industrial Development



- 69 -
MEXICO - EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT          ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 22 pages
The following is the text of the third attachment to the
Government's letter in Annex VI. The document, entitled "Integral Export
Promotion Program", is intended to provide details of the various elements of
the proposed export strategy. As expressed in the Government's letter, this
version of the document is considered preliminary, and is subject to revision
based on further economic and other developments. A revised version of the
document is expected to be incorporated into the National Industrial
Development and Foreign Trade Program.
INTEGRAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROGRAM, 1983-1988 (DRAFT)
(Translation from Spanish)
I.  GENERAL OBJECTIVES AND GOALS
The Integral Export Promotion Program has been prepared in order to
implement points two, six and eight of the Immediate Economic Adjustment
Program announced by the President of Mexico, and in the context of the
Productive Plant and Employment Protection Program and the general criteria
for economic policy embodied in the Mexico's Revenue and Expenditure Budget
Law.
The basic aims of the Program are to achieve a sustained increase in
foreign exchange receipts from non-oil exports, to stimulate production and
employment, and to make export activities one of the pillars of Mexico's
economic development through enhanced productivity and efficiency.
Mexico's current economic and financial crisis demonstrates that the
development models followed in the past are no longer applicable. Our
development strategy requires rapid growth of non-oil exports in order to
finance our import needs. This export-oriented development will compensate
for the expected shortage of funds in the international markets in the years
ahead and at the same time will lighten the burden of Mexico's foreign debt.
The Integral Export Promotion Program contains short, mediunu and
long-term measures designed to orient our productive apparatus more in the
direction of exports. It is also planned to bring about a change in the
attitude of the producers so that they will be more disposed to export their
products.
The short-term objective is greater complementarity between domestic
and foreign demand as a means of stimulating supply and employment and
obtaining foreign exchange for the purchase of imports of raw materials and
intermediate inputs required by our productive apparatus. The need for Mexico
to take rapid advantage of the situation at present prevailing and to export
as much as possible represents the country's most important short-term
challenge and demands rapid implementation of the Program as a whole so that
greater use can be made of unutilized capacities.



- 70 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 22 pages
The medium and long-term objective is to eliminate the anti-export
bias created in the past by the industlialization process, which made the
domestic market- more attractive than the external market. In concrete terms
this will be reflected in a substantially greater contribution by non-oil
exports to Mexico's economic growth.
The program is thus oriented towards solving the problems facing
producers in selling their goods and services in external markets, when these
take the form of inadequate imports required for the production of exportable
goods, the existence of external barriers, and shortcomings in international
marketing arrangements.
In order to achieve greater coordination and flexibility in promoting
Mexico's foreign trade, strengthening the machinery of consultation between
the various sectors involved, and providing better services and sustained
support to exporters, DMCE has been made the sole window for all matters
regarding export activities. In the past this responsibility has been shared,
because of issues involving other departments, among an excessive number of
agencies; this decision has therefore been taken with a view to establishing
better coordination in this area, and has led to a program containing the
various legal and Institutional support measures to enable the institute to
take on this task in a gradual but sustained manner.
The notion of a sole (single) window implies giving precise
definition and substance to the export incentives policy and provides greater
certainty concerning the granting of those incentives, thereby encouraging
changes of attitude and making producers more willing to export.
COMPEX is the natural forum for promoting a coordination of export
programs and projects and for simplifying all the relevant procedures, from
design of the project at the production phase to international marketing of
the product.
If past trends are extrapolated at constant prices the estimated
deficit of the manufacturing sector would increase 20Z annually between 1983
and 1988, which indicates the urgent need to stimulate exports with a view to
the achievement of greater sel'f-sufficiency within the sector.
Without prejudice to the definition by the responsible authorities of
the possible economic scenarios facing Mexico in the medium and long term,
which will affect the behavicr of the principle economic variables and thus
the amounts to be exported, the present program is based on the hypothesis
that the principle sources of foreign exchange in the past have now become
significantly more restricted. It is therefore necessary to give the maximum
impetus to our non-oil export capacity. For this purpose preliminary
macroeconomic estimates were made and then complemented by an analysis of
growth capacity by sectors and products and of projected external demand for
Mexican products. This analysis has shown that for Mexico to recover its
historic growth rate there must be around a fourfold increase in non-oil
exports between 1983 and 1988. This program is intended to provide the means
to achieve this target.



- 71 -
ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 22 pages
The analysis of efficiency and profitability by branches and classes
of activity and the capacity of exports to respond to changes in relative
prices, through a price sensitivity study, made it possible to establish
separately the expected growth of the different branches and to determine the
specific contribution to be made by 213 classes of activity.
In addition, the information on the demand for Mexican products at
home and abroad obtained through trade representations and IMCE promotional
offices has been consolidated in order to estimate external demand according
to category of activity and make it compatible with the data on the supply of
exportable goods.
All this data has been brought together in order to estimate the
export potential of the various sectors of the Mexican economy. Past
experience in these areas has been analyzed in order to quantify gains and
losses in the various markets for Mexican products; the results reveal the
need for an intense promotional effort to recover these markets. For example,
in the last four years the reduction or cessation of some companies' export
activities in the US represented in 1982 loss of US$750 million. The
corresponding figures for Japan and Brazil were US$61 million and
US$12 million respectively.
Consultations will soon begin with the business sector to prepare a
timetable for establishing micoreconomic targets at sector level by type of
activity and specific product so that these can be harmonized with
macroeconomic targets.
II. BASIC FRAMEWORK FOR STIMULATING EXPORTS
1. The Exchange Rate and Exchange Control Measures
(a) The exchange rate
It has been decided to retain an appropriate margin of undervaluation
in the exchange rate or of export sector competitiveness so as to increase our
capacity to pay for imports of inputs and capital goods required by Mexico's
productive apparatus.
In view of the new exchange rate pattern and anticipated developments
in 1983 in the relationship between Mexico's prices and those of its main
clients, it is expected that there will be a gradual reduction in the wide gap
currently existing between the free exchange rate and the controlled rate. It
is therefore possible to envisage the gradual disappearance of the problem of
evasion of exchange control regulations.
In addition to the international competitiveness of the Mexican
economy (measured through the undevaluation of exchange rates), there are
fiscal and credit incentives for exports; these must be taken into account in
weighing the real margin or margins of price-competitiveness of our exports of
goods and services.



- 72 -
ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 22 pages
The real margin of price-competitiveness of the external sector will
be maintained at an appropriate level, particularly when productive apparatus
is capable of a permanent increase in exportable surpluses.  Howeer, it will
be necessary to redouble our efforts to promote and diversify non-oil exports,
principally manufactured products, so as to reduce the high degree of
dependence on foreign exchange earned from hydrocarbons and the risks entailed
by the fall in world prices.
(b) Exchange control measures
The present government's policy is therefore directed to creating and
preserving a realistic and functional exchange rate system as an instrument
that properly reflects existing market conditions.
In this context the government, acting through the national financial
system, has taken various steps to restore the exchange market, to maintain an
exchange rate that encourages exporters and promotes the foreign exchange
earnings required to finance imported inputs of capital goods, to eliminate
irrational exchange rate subsidies (involving overvalued exchange rates), to
maintain a strict and rational control over imports, and to establish
conditions conducive to sustained internal savings.
The business sector has proposed to the authorities that foreign
exchange generated by non-oil exports be quoted automatically at the free
exchange rate, so as to provide the greatest possible incentive, and that they
also be allowed to import at the same rate.
This proposal is inappropriate since it would not properly reflect
present-day exchange market conditions. In addition, departure from the
controlled rate would have a serious impact on our economy over the short term.
As the Immediate Economic Adjustment Program has moved ahead it has
been possible to gradually reduce the gap between the free and the controlled
rate. During the first four months following adoption of the new exchange
system this gap in fact narrowed by 28%. The Adjustment Program provides for
a continuation of this trend until the gap finally closes altogether. The aim
of the present Program is to contribute to the rapid achievement of that goal.
It is pointed out that this Program is conceived as a cohesive,
articulated and inter-related whole. It would be unrealistic to claim that
the exchange policy is capable by itself alone of correcting the structural
imbalance and laying firm bases for the dynamic equilibrium of the external
sector, while at the same time contributing to achievement of the goals of
those other government programs with which this Program has to mesh. For this
reason, of all the measures provided for herein the exchange policy has to act
as the basic irn3trument, one that must properly reflect existing market
conditions if it is to be used effectively.
The new exchange control system is designed to ensure that the
controlled exchange rate reflects not only price trends in Mexico and in the
rest of the world, especially in the United States, but also the imperative



- 73 -
ANNEX VII
Page 5 of 22 pages
.ieed to encourage structural change in the Mexican economy. This is essential
to eliminate the traditional current account imbalance on goods and services,
in the light of our slender international reserves and the serious limitations
we face in obtaining external loans.
The exchange control system has been adapted so as not to unbalance
the international transactions required by Mexico's economic development. New
arrangements have been established to support exporting firms by giving them
the maximum facilities to import the goods needed in their productive
processes.
Measures recently adopted establish rules enabling exporting firms to
use the full amount of the foreign exchange generated by their overseas sales
without any obligation to sell them to lending institutions in Mexico,
provided that these funds are used: to pay for imports of goods required for
their productive processes; to cover other costs related to their imports or
exports; to meet maturing obligations to foreign suppliers registered in
SECOFI; to carry out exchange or barter operations overseas; to open demand
deposits in Mexican lending institutions; to acquire, at the controlled
exchange rate, up to the full amount of foreign exchange held in demand
deposits; to transfer wholly or in part the right to acquire the foreign
exchange generated by exports and sold to Mexican lending institutions; to
make selective use of the above-mentioned facilities, including the
possioility of obtaining import permits valid for one year for products not
necessarily included in the list of authorized products, with the right of
access to foreign exchange at the controlled rate; and to use up to 100% of
the proceeds of additional exports or of sales in new markets or of new
products to pay registered debts, through a foreign exchange generation and
utilization program.
To enable exporting firms to use the above-mentioned facilities
simple procedures have been devised, reducing administrative procedures as far
as possible.
In addition to the adjustments being made to the exchange control
scheme, special systems are being devised to help firms pay debts denominated
in foreign currencies and payable outside Mexico, to Mexican lending
institutions, external financial entities or foreign suppliers registered with
the Secretariat of the Finance and Public Credit or the Secretariat of
Commerce and Industrial Development.
In this connection a mechanism already exists whereby, as regards
debts to suppliers where there is an agreement to postpone payment for two
years, debtors deposit payment in Mexican currency covering the principal and
interest, which the Bank of Mexico undertakes to transfer abroad on the due
date.
Recently a trust was established in the Bank of Mexico to administer
the Exchange Risks Coverage Program which is open to companies -- public and
private -- that manage to restructure their external debt contracted before
December 20 last and that have obtained a minimum repayment period of six



- 74 -
ANNEX VII
Page 6 of 22 pages
years and a grace period of three years. This program provides four options
for covering Lhe exchange risk, as regards payment of principal and payment of
principal and interest.
2. Restructuring of protection
In the past protection against foreign competition has been the most
powerful force determining the direction of sectoral development. It has also
been the main factor making the domestic market more profitable than the
external market. Its structure led to discrimination in favor of certain
sectors and industries to the detriment of others, favored capital-intensive
production processes and created a significant anti-export bias.
The structure of protection will therefore be revised so as to help
increase the efficiency of our productive plant, promote effective and
selective substitution of imports, and encourage exports by making the
external market as profitable as the domestic one. To this end the Foreign
Trade Tariffs and Controls Committee will immediately begin preparing a
program to rationalize protection. The Commission has determined that in the
short term tariff protection will be restructured to provide adequate rates of
effective protection to achieve desired objectives, through the gradual
replacement of prior authorization by tariffs. In this rationalization
program elimination of the anti-export bias is a central objective.
To guide this progress IMCE has been asked to update on a continuing
basis the Study on Effective Protection which, under the initial coordination
of the Secretariat of Commerce end Industrial Development, was carried out for
the years 1979 and 1980. This study enables identification of the inter-
sectoral and intrasectoral discrimination and the bias against exports
resulting from protection and subsidy arrangements to be identified in a total
of 72 sectors and 213 branches of activity and thus will allow appropriate
changes to be made according to the priorities established.
Tariffs and export permits will be applied selectively and to a
minimum number of products. As a general rule export duties will be applied
to products with low price sensitivity on the international market and to
those which, after relatively simple and efficient processing, can be exported
with a higher value-added component; duties will also be applied to products
whose domestic price is much lower than their international market price, so
as to avoid internal supply problems. For the same reasons prior approval
will be required for the export of certain products.
This system of prior approval will also be applied to products where
Mexico has signed an international agreement to regulate supply.
Meanwhile, to avoid under-invoicing in the export of certain
products, official prices will continue to be applied on a selective and
flexible basis.



- 75 -
ANNEX VII
Page 7 of 22 pages
The Foreign Trade Tariffs and Controls Commission has concluded the
studies required to remove from the system of prior authorization for export
294 tariff categories, including oil and natural gas, whose total value during
the period January to November 1982 is calculated at US$17,142 million, or
8L.6% of total exports.
Likewise it has been decided to eliminate the need for prior
authorization for temporary importation for export purposes of 469 tariff
categories, or 71.6% of the total items subject to this requirement; meanwhile
47 items have been exempted from the export tax, and tariff levels have been
reduced on 46 categories.
To complement these measures steps will be taken to facilitate the
export of the products contained in 236 tariff categories for which the SARH
will no longer issue rulings; about 100,000 products will be removed from the
system of special permission from the SSA for exports of foodstutffs and
beverages, which had an export value of US$446 million in the period January
to September 1982. Likewise, the time required to process health permits for
import purposes has been reduced from 15 days to 72 hours.
3. Technological development policy
A fundamental element in international competitiveness is rapid
change in technological processes. Therefore our policy in this area must be
adjusted to the main national priorities, so increasing our capacity to
respond more effectively to basic needs. For the same reason technological
development must support efficient import substitution and growing penetration
of the export sector, in line with basic and strategic national priorities.
Expenditure on research and development for export products will be
substantially increased as a proportion of GDP. This expenditure will be
exempt from payment of income tax and incentives will be provided for the
development of applied research projects in research centers and in industries
themselves whenever possible. Regulations will shortly be issued on this
matter. Likewise the operations of FOMEX, FONEI and FOMIN will be extended
and overhauled to stimulate research and develcDment associated with exports
and import substitution, in conjunctiotu ;:h t'.z 4t.Luediary banks.
4. Infrastructure Expansion Policy
Government actions will be designed to reduce the anti-export bias
through improvements in transportation and services, warehousing, port
management, port and customs administration and communications.
The present government will put special emphasis on better
coordination of the transportation network, especi.Lly the elimination of
bottlenecks caused by shortcomings in the network, equipment and
installations. Preferential treament will be given to exports by adjusting
interconnections between different modes of transportion and applying
realistic and appropriate tariffs.



- 76 -
ANNEX VII
Page 8 of 22 pages
More efficient use will be made of road transport, through permission
for vehicles to depart from established routes and to return loaded when they
have carried goods for export, and through the granting of con'.ssions to new
transportation companies linked with producers who export. The system of
highway freight transportion terminals, including collection and distribution
services and other common services, will be revised so as to provide proper
facilities to freight for export.
Railway and merchant marine services will be improved to help develop
exporting activities, their expansion being encouraged through projects based
on loan-term freight contracts and on increasing the capacity of the
commercial ports, involving extension and improved maintenance ot storage
facilities and of installations for loading and unloading operations at ports
of exit. At the same time, port administration is being modernized to make it
more secure and efficient and less complex. A specialized air freight
enterprise will soon begin operation which will provide access to new markets.
As part of these plans the development of multimodal transportation
will be strengthened through increased integration, which will reduce costs
and increase efficiency.
III. SPECLFIC INSTRUMENTS TO SUPPORT EXPORTS
1. Fiscal Measures
(a) Inputs
To enable exporters to obtain inputs on the same competitive
conditions as in the international market, the temporary imports system has
been completely liberalized; inputs may now be imported whether produced in
Mexico or not, provided that they are for processing and subsequent reexport.
This applies both to the final exporter and to those intervening in the
process, in other words to those providing the final exporter with inputs in
proportion as they are intended for export. Specific regulations will shortly
be issued to the Customs Law to facilitate even further the utilization of the
in-bond assembly system, industrial warehouse facilities and inventory
replacement schemes. The validity of prior authorization for temporary
imports is being extended to one year, giving the system the same maximum
flexibility as currently enjoyed by the assembly in-bond industry, and the
controlled exchange rate is being applied to encourage greater use of the
system.
In accordance with the law that establishes, modifies, supplements
and revokes various fiscal provisions, as published in the Official Gazette on
December 31, 1982, the General Import Tax on inputs used in the manufacture of
products for export is being refunded, as an alternative available to the
exporter to the temporary imports system.
The CEDI on petrochemicals will continue to be granted to companies
exporting products that directly incorporate petrochemical items sold by
PEMEX. This CEDI enables these exporters to absorb the price differential



- 77 -
ANNEX VII
Page 9 of 22 pages
between Mexican raw materials and international prices resulting from the 15%
tax that PEMEX must pay on its gross income in accordance with the Income Tax
Law, which is included in the price paid by companies to acquire inputs
intended for processing and subsequent export.
(b) International commercial intermediation
In addition to the above-mentioned measures, foreign trade consortia
and companies will for a five-year period be exempted from income tax on the
part of their income applied to coinvestment operations with foreign companies
that demonstrably possess established distribution channels in the countries
for which the investment and the exports are destined, so as to avoid double
taxation; likewise, the expenditure of such companies on establishing
representations overseas will also be deductible from the tax on total
income. Regulations to this effect will be issued shortly.
Coordination procedures have been estabished between the Secretariat
of Finance and Public Credit, the Secretariat of Conmerce and Industrial
Development, and IMCE to detei-mine fiscal incentives by the pre4_uctive sector
and a branch of activity. This system has been introduced to identify the
cost of fiscal incentives in comparison with the benefit to be obtained in
terms of exports of a product, by sector and branch of activity. These
incentives will be provided in accordance with international practice, bearing
in m.nd MeAico's status as a developing country.
2.  Financial support
(a) Increase in resources
Various financial measures have been taken to support and strengthen
the generation of foreign exchange by the non-oil export sector. For 1983
there is to be a significant expansion in fina cial programs of the
development trusts and the national banks engaged in foreign trade, especially
FOMEX and National Foreign Trade Bank (BNCE, also referred to as BANCOMEXT),
so as to channel more loan funds, on appropriate term and interest conditions,
towards the pre-exporting and exporting of primary and manufactured products.
FOMEX's financial program provides for Mex$230 billion to support
preexports and exports, a 52% increase over 1982. These loans will be
supplemented by the owr funds of the intermediary banking institutions. It
should be stressed that measures for the selective channeling of credit to the
export sector, particularly for manufactured products, include a higher rate
of growth in the operations of FOMEX and the leader banks, both as regards
their seczrities portfolios and the amounts lent.
(b) Institutional adjustment
As part of the measures to bring about greater specialization in the
operations of Mexican banks and to ensure that the channeling of credit
towards priority activities is administerea in close coordination with the
banks specializing in these same activities, from April 1 onwards the FurL for



- 78 -
ANNEX VII
Page 10 of 22 pages
the Development of Exports of Manufactured Products will be administered by
the National Foreign Trade Bank.
Additionally, the financial authorities have decided to give BANOOMEX
complementary instruments to expand its capacity for financial action in the
field of foreign trade. To this end its function as the financial agent of
the Federal Government has been strengthened in order to emphasize its mission
as Mexico's national bank for the development of foreign trade.
(c) Adjustment of terms and conditions
It is envisaged that the conditions for these loans will be similar
to those offered by suppliers in other countries in the international market.
Moreover FOMEX has extended the maturities of its loans to take account of the
needs of the productive process; at the same time it has increased the max'imw
amount of working capital for exporting firms from Mex$16 million to Mex$28
million and extended the financing period for certain products suitable for
export to adjust them to the conditions prevailing on world markets.
Within the framework of credit to preexports and exports of primary
and manufactured products, measures have also been taken to support the
economic cycle of firms that undertake to carry out an annual export program.
For seasonal products inventories can be financed with certificates of deposit
to facilitate the issue of bank acceptances at the international level.
Disbursments on these operations will be made in pesos to cover costs within
Mexico and in foreign currency for the acquisition of imported inputs.
The National Foreign Trade Bank has established a mechanism for
financing the acquisition of Mexican products by foreign firms, through
leading international banks, so that the Mexican producer can receive payment
when his goods are embarked and the financing provided to the purchaser is
processed via the participation and guarantees of the bank in his country.
Meanwhile BANCOMEXT will allocate resources in the amount of
US$1,800 million from its financial program for the current year for the
timely supply of production for export and to meet domestic demand. These
resources, provided principally by the Eximbanks of developed countries --
through lines of credit on preferential and commercial conditions -- have been
arranged to eliminate rapidly the bottlenecks arising out of the lack of
foreign exchange to import the inputs required by the productive apparatus.
To finance equipment designed to increase efficiency, raise
production and reduce the operating costs of manufacturing firms, resources
will principally be provided from the proceeds of rediscounting with FONEI,
FOGAIN and FOPROBA, complemented by resources from BANCOMEXT and the banking
system and supported with resources from a loan program being negotiated with
the World Bank.
To support the establishment of new firms to participate in the
assembly in-bond industry and the development of border zones and to encourage
the development of existing firms (including production, stocks and the sales



- 79 -
ANNEX VII
Page 11 of 22 pages
period), FOMEX, FOGAIN and FONEI resources will be used, backed by funds from
BANCOMEXT and the banking system. A subprogram has also been included to
support imports of the inputs and capital goods required in border areas to
stimulate development and expand sources of work.
(d) Additional facilities in credit insurance
Likewise, the insurance machinery for export credit is being
strengthened so as not to cause serious problems to exporters and prevent them
being considered an unacceptable risk by Mexican banks. In 1983 FOMEX will
provide export guarantees in the amount of Mex$12,500 million and will extend
COMESEC coverage, thus substantially increasing its capacity for larger
participation in the export credit insurance market, so that it becomes a more
important mechanism of financial stimulation.
3.       Promotional Support
(a) Simplification of procedures
The establishment of single export facility or "window" within the
Mexican Foreign Trade Institute (IMCE) to provide incentives to and support
for exporters includes in particular assistance with the procedures they have
to follow. These are being simplified to the maximum possible extent by
eliminating all that are not essential or are not justified.
The "window" also includes activities related directly or indirectly
to exports, in response to such proposals as may be submitted to IMCE, in
accordance with its functions, by the business sector in respect of the
various types of sipport, both structural and operational, that it requires.
Appropriate attention is already being given to a wide range of
matters related to foreign trade through the issue of rulings and opinions on
questions concerning exports, imports that affect exports, exchange control in
relation to foreign trade, fiscal incentives, financial incentives,
coordination of targets by means of comprehensive projects and programs, and
simplification of procedures. Certificates of origin are also issued through
this channel.
Both the Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial Development and the
Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources have decided to create units
within IMCE's offices to consider, process and authorize matters within the
jurisdictions of those Secretariats on which IMCE has issued rulings or
opinions. The Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit and the Bank of Mexico
have arranged that exchange matters related to foreign trade shall also be
channeled through the INCE "window"; for this purpose IMCE will act as
Technical Secretariat to the Exchange Control Committee in foreign trade
matters. In addition, the Secretariat of Finance and the Technical Committee
of FOMEX have arranged for export-promoting projects that qualify for
financial support to be appraised and approved through a single
foreign-exchange mobilization and utilization program.



- 80 -
ANNEX VII
Page 12 of 22 pages
Furthermore, the Department of Foreign Trade has decided that each
public-sector agency involved in exports shall deal with all export-related
matters through a single channel, thereby avoiding multiple handling by
different sections of a given agency.
Agreements have been initiated with other Federal Government agencies
involved in foreign trade in order to strengthen this line of action and
enable it to be implemented, so far as possible, through IMCE's offices at
headquarters and in the interior of the country, having regard to the need for
IMCE forge an increasingly intensive and effective service of technical
assistance and active promotion.
(b)      Compilation and distribution of information
IKCE's system of compilation and distribution of information on
foreign trade will be substantially strengthened. This will extend to both
general information (including economic and other data relevant to trade
operations) and specific information of interest to the export sector. In
addition, under agreements concluded with international institutions that
produce information relevant to foreign trade, a program will be developed for
expanding the pertinent information services and increasing their efficiency.
This collaboration with various institutions will extend also to the
interior of the country so as to expand the amount of information available
and facilitate the taking of decisions. Specifically, agencies thaL will
collaborate with the Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial Development in the
information area include the Secretariat of Programming and Budget, the
Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit, the Bank of Mexico ar-d IMCE.
IMCE will also strengthen its information collection and distribution
system by utilizing both its headquarters and regional offices and those of
its Commercial Councellors abroad to provide exporters with a more rapid and
comprehensive service on markets, prices, buyers, national suppliers, export
supply, world demand and trade opportunities, national and international
legislation, obstacles to trade in other countries, import and export
procedures, sources and availability of financing, coinvestment opportunities,
services provided by national and international institutions related directly
or indirectly to foreign trade, and the various export incentives and support
services.
Information will be disseminated, through appropriate mass media,
with the object of helping to form, guide and develop a national "exporter"
mentality so as to stimulate Mexican producers to secure and retain a place on
world markets for their products, in line with the goals and targets of the
comprehensive Export Promotion Program. The information program includes the
issue of bulletins to the mass media; awareness-arousing, guidance and
publicity campaigns; publication of journals, summaries and abstracts,
guidelines, leaflets and so on; and supplemental audiovisual presentations on
general and specific aspects of the export promotion program.



- 81 -
ANNEX VII
Page 13 of 22 pages
(c)      Technological adaptation, design and development of export products
Specific resources will be assigned for assistance with the
technological adaptati.=, design and development of export products to meet
international standards basic and advanced training designed to enhance
productivity, quality and ability to compete; and the development of
technical, administrative and commercial assistance programs to improve
utilization of installed capacity. This assistance, which is furnished
directly by DICE for specific cases, will be stepped up to include not oniy
guidance to exporters about specialized institutions that provide these
services but also assistance in recruiting or training experts, when this is
justified. FOMEX has set up a line of credit at preferential rates for
support of this kind.
IKCE will also furnish advisory assistance on product packaging and
presentation, quality standards and requirements, and technological adaptation
in line with the market promotion and diversification strategy. The
negotiation of conventions and agreements with specialized institutions for
the provision of such assistance will be stepped up, and a publication
summarizing the services offered in this area through IMCE will be issued
shortly.
Cd)      Support for foreign-trade consortia and enterprises
The role of the foreign trade consortia and enterprises will be
strengthened with the object of channeling a stubstantial part of domestic
production to external markets in a stable and businesslike manner. Thus, in
addition to the fiscal and financial incentives already referred to, these
consortia and enterprises will be eligible for blanket permits covering their
provisional and final import needs, in light of their annual work programs;
authorization to effect direct processing and clearance of goods of their
members, and authority to operate load consolidation, packing, storage and
reshipment facilities.
They will also be given additional powers to establish offices for
identifying and assessing new markets in countries or regions that lack
agencies of IMCE or of the consortia but are considered to be good potential
sources of foreign-exchange earnings.
Mechanisms will be set up for direct financing of operations for
marketing the products of the foreign trade enterprises and their members or
agents.
Generally speaking, the structural support furnished by the Program
to foreign trade enterprises will be maintained until they are able to
generate sufficient internal resources through their operations to act as
foreign trade irtermediaries.



- 82 -
ANNEX VII
Page 14 of 22 pages
(e)      Information about possibilities for the export of technology and
engineering and construction services
The export of technology, engineering services and turnkey systems
has grown rapidly in recent years. In this Mexico enjoys clear advantages,
stemming from the development of intermediate technologies through which
export activity can be stepped up. To this end, timely information will be
provided about world demand for services of this kind. IKCE will strengthen
its systems for providing prompt information on timetables and other details
of international bidding competitions. It will also expand its system of
technical assistance in response to applications it receives.
(f)      Fairs, missions, demonstrations and other trade events
The organization of fairs, exhibitions and missions continues to be a
most important means of promoting exports by drawing attention to Mexican
products and their quality and prices. IMCE will assist public and private
entities in the design and construction of exhibition modules, components and
devices to enable them to take part in Mexican and international fairs and
exhibitions, and will promote the organization of missions on specific lines
of production. To ensure that these promotional events have the maximum
impact, special emphasis will be placed on events designed to promote specific
products on specific markets previously pinpointed as possible buyers. All
these elements will be welded into an overall promotion strategy.
(g)      Consolidation of export supply
To concentrate and consolidate supply and foster scale economies,
producers can utilize the advantages offered by the Export Promotion
Committees (ComitEs para la Promocicn de las Exportaciones -- COMIEXPOS),
which Mexico has been setting up with the aim of consolidating and organizing
supply. This mechanism offers a basis for concerted action and the
implementation of specific export programs in which support for projects is
furnished on a package basis, at times and in amounts geared to efficiency of
the program, securing the market footnold gained by the various products, and
local market conditions.
4.       Comprehensive Support for Specific Projects and Programs
The various forms of support refered to in Parts II and III of this
Integral Program are available to all export products. However, it is the
Federal Government's intention that export shall increasingly be effected
through joint activities of the public and entrepreneurial sectors, in the
form of specific projects and programs.
(a)      Selectivity
Exports will be promoted selectively through specific projects in
sectors, branches and products that offer relatively high export potential.
This calls for .ppraisal criteria to identify projects that can yield net



- 83 -
ANNEX VII
Page 15 of 22 pages
foreign exchange earnings by stimulating present or potential exporting
enterprises able, with an effort, to improve their net foreign exchange
positions and to operate on a higher scale in the border areas. A list of
products that offer short-run export potential and meet the requirements
indicated is appended. Also appended is the scheme of promotional support at
the enterprise level, which shows the number and potential, for both 1983 and
1988, of enterprises that are net earners of foreign exchange, those that can
be converted into such, those that are net expenders of foreign exchange but
are capable of improving their positions, and those that are potential
exporters. This is the nucleus around which the promotional support strategy
has to be built.
(b)      Comprehensive approach
Through the comprehensive approach attention will be given to all
problems of each specific project, fromi conception of the project through the
production and marketing stages and on to penetration by the product and
consolidation of its position on world markets. The comprehensive approach
also requires that the project be examined simultaneously from the standpoints
of the various support measures the project requires and the various problems
it faces.
(c)      Adoption of supportive and incentive measures
The public sector's ,upportive and incentive measures will be geared
to the specific needs of e4c% export project so as to facilitate and support
its implementation. For each project, the fiscal, financial and promotional
support measures will be coordinated, as will administration of the external
trade policy instruments that affect exports and the joint industrial
development programs relating to exports.
(d)      Development of projects
The new approach to support for exports and border-area
competitiveness seeks to enhance the efficiency of promotion by making it a
more active instrument and thereby producing a greater response from the
export sector in the present cyclical situation.
Each export project will be assigned very specific objectives, based
on short, medium and long term export targets and embodying the commitments
that the State would enter into to foster their achievement.
Integration of the project in the manner described will make it
possible to support exporters' efforts through specific incentives and other
measures enabling Mexico to increase its sales on traditional markets, to
recover its position in export lines where sales have declined, to launch new
export lines, to compete on new markets, or to halt the downward trend of
certain products.



- 84 -
ANNEX VII
Page 16 of 22 pages
The priorities and types of support allocated to the various projects
will be linked to the net exchange earnings and job creation targets that each
can achieve.
In this new export promotion structure IMCE is acting in coordination
with the agencies that administrate the various instruments that affect
exports.
The possibility of achieving an enduring and expanding export
activity is based on systematic and comprehensive management of supply. To
that end, the competent authorities participate not only through the
conventional mechanisms they have been using but also directly, in matters
fundamental to exports.   This assistance will include identification, jointly
with the producers, of a price strategy that enables them to maintain a more
aggressive position on foreign markets, in order to meet competition from
other countries, and in general all forms of support necessary to ensure that
an export goal previously identified as feasible is achieved in practice.
(e)      Coordination of lines of action
In the context described above, the exporter will be encouraged and
helped to prepare an export program. If he is convinced of the soundness of
this kind of program he will be given advisory and other assistance in
preparing and executing it. IMCE will issue opinions to guide tLie decisions
that have to be taken by the responsible agencies in their various fields of
activity. The opinions will be submitted to COMPEX (on which all these
agencies will be represented), which will be responsible for approving the
recommendations deriving from each joint action commitment.
IV.      OTHER SUPPORT SYSTEMS
1.       In-bond Assembly Industry
Promotion of in-bond assembly activities will be stepped up in order
to make efficient use of productive plant and help create jobs. It will be
sought to identify possibilities for and interest in manufacturing or
assembling products for export in existing plants. This work will continue to
be performed by SECOFI with the support of IDCE, particularly through the
Commercial Counsellors' offices.
In addition, action will be taken to publicize among the business
community the advantages offered by the border area for the establishment of
new plants producing primarily for export markets.
The Program of Promotion of the In-bond Assembly Industry wil' be
strengthened in order to publicize the advantages of this activity more
intensively abroad, particularly among businesses in Europe, the East and
other regions that at present export to the United States and whose products,
given the advantages offered by our assembly system, can be assembled in
Mexico.



- 85 -
ANNEX VII
Page 17 of 22 pages
A second segment to be promoted - the one most exploited at the
present date - is United States industry itself.
As a means of effective action separate from the activities carried
out by the Commercial Counsellors' offices, promotional trips to the United
States, the East and Europe have been scheduled, jointly with the in-bond
assembly industry and coinvestment-promoting enterprises, backed by all
necessary support and coordinated by SECOFI and IMCE, with the objective of
expanding their sales operations.
2.       Promotion of the Border-Area Market
It is necessary to expand the capacity to supply the border areas
with Mexican products so as to create jobs, promote utilization of installed
capacity, foster import substitution and set up pre-export activities. To
that end, the promotion of events in the border areas and in the interior of
the country will be stepped up in order to link the supply of products with
their border-area distribution. Programs will be developea for the sale of
specific products, and action will be taken to promote the establishment of
service enterprises. A specific program under this heading will be announced
very soon, under which producers in the interior of the country will be
invited to broaden their presence in the border areas through more
demonstration events in those areas, coordinated visits by border-area
businessmen to the main production and distribution centers of the interior,
and holding regular and more frequent exhibitions on specific topics, aimed at
bringing together producers, distributors and final purchases of products and
in fields where it is possible to increase export production, supply to the
border areas and assembly, including increased production in Mexico of imputs
used in those processes.
To promote the sale of under-publicized Mexican export products among
United States consumers, a publicity campaign will be conducted in border
cities of the southern United States, jointly with business organizations in
the region.
3.       Promotion of Industria'l Parks
To strengthen L&le infrastructure of the industrial parks that have
been developing, particularly in the border area, and to enable them to offer
services that meet the requirements for the establishment of enterprises, the
schemes described above will be supplemented by support enabling industrial
parks to install the services they need to attract greater utilization, such
as telephone, telex, water supply, electricity and other energy services,
together with financing of urban planning and plant construction projects and
of their foreign promotional expenses.
4.       Promotion of Foreign Investment in Export Projects
Given the present foreign-exchange shortage, measures will be taken
for selective promotion of foreign investment in export projects. The objest
is to join the interests of the exporter with those of the distributors and



- 86 -
ANNEX VII
Page 18 of 22 pages
final export-market purchasers through coinvestments. This will raise market
penetration capacity, help consolidate and expand export operations in the
long range, and insure greater secruity of access to external markets by
Mexican products.
To foster the implementation of programs of this kind, the
Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial Development will examine specific
projects submitted to it (channeled through IMCE when the main purpose of the
project is production for export). Through this means it will be possible to
provide broader support for implementation of projects of this kind which
takes due account of the special features of the sector concerned, the
prevailing conditions on world markets, and the need to exploit Mexico's
competitive advantage.
5.       Trade Negotiations
As part of the active promotion strategy, legal support for exporters
who face problems of imposition, or the threat of imposition, of tariff and
non-tariff barriers on export markets w.ll be resolutely strengthened.
Linkage between exporters in a given branch is being reinforced through
guidance on how to handle the problems and to arrange to be legally
represented in such countries, through careful monitoring of export
enterprises, closer contact with them, and surveillance of trends, proposals
and measures in other countries that effect or could effect Mexico's export
interestr.
In addition, bilateral and multilateral negotiations are being
conducted with a view to obtaining greater security of access by minimizing
and regulating the application of these non-tariff barriers, so as to avoid
the imposition of conditions that impair or jeopardize Mexico's sovereign
capacity to define its trade policy and strategy.
Regional integration is particularly important in a situation of
world recession. Mexico will therefore continue to press forward firmly with
the negotiations within ALADI with the aim of substantially reinforcing trade
and integration with the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean.
In addition, Mexico will continue to stress, with increased
intensity, through multilateral forums, particularly UNCTAD and overall
negotiations in the United Nations, the necessity that the developed countries
liberalize their imports from developing countries, in the interest of greater
global harmony and stability.
6.       Promotion of Foreign-Exchange Earnings by Public Enterprises
The export possibilities of each of the public enterprises will be
assessed and it will be sought to plan their foreign sales directly through
compulsory programs. For the rest, the public enterprises will receive the
same treatmEnt as those in the private and socidl sectors, whose participation
in the export and import trade must contribute to strengthening of our



- 87 -
ANNEX VII
Page 19 of 22 pages
mixed-economy system by fostering greater external equilibrium in each of the
various sectors.
A procedure of coordination between SEMIP, SECOFI and IMCE has been
installed for the purpose of promoting specialization and establishing
coordination machinery with the object of improving the system of world
marketing of the products of the public enterprises, through consolidation of
export supply and/or coordination of activities abroad.
V.       TIMETABLE FOR THE PROGRAM
In order to fix the timing of the various activities included in the
Integral Export Promotion Program, thereby welding them into a cohesive and
coordinated schedule, a number of measures need to be taken, some of them
immediately and others in the medium or long term. It is necessary also to
define the entities and agencies that will participate in the various tasks.
(See Annex VIII for timetable of key actions related to the proposed
export development program.)
VI.      COORDINATION, MONITORING AND INSTITUTIONAL CHANGES
1.       Coordination
on the basis of the policy guidelines established by the Department
of Foreign Trade, and without prejudice to any ensuing measures that it may
decide to apply, COMPEX, a public sector body will be the inter-institutional
mechanism providing operational coordination for implementation and monitoring
of the program. Being a mixed commission, it will also be responsible for
coordinating actions between the public sector and the business sector in
connection with export programs and projects and the generation of foreign
exchange.
Without prejudice to the participation in its meetings of other
agencies of ths Federal Government, when t e topics for discussion are related
to their particular functions and fall within their sphere of competence, the
Commission will be chaired by the Secretary of Commerce and Industrial
Development, with the Undersecretaries of Foreign Trade, Industrial
Development, Finance and Public Credit, Programming, Parastatal Industries and
Agriculture and Operations as members. Other members of the Commission will
be the General Managers of the Bank of Mexico, the National Foreign Trade
Bank, IMCE, and the Technical Secretary of the Department of Foreign Trade.
Tne business sector will be represented by the Chairmen of the Federation of
Chambers of Industry, the National Chamber of the Processing Industry, and the
National Council on Foreign Trade. Meetings of the Commission will be chaired
by the Secretary of Commerce and Industrial Development or by the
Unders-cretary of Foreign Trade, and technical secretariat services for the
Commission will be furnished by IMCE.



- 88 -
ANNEX VII
Page 20 of 22 pages
In order to properly perform its function as coordinator of public
and business sector interests in the matter of foreign trade, the Commission
will meet as frequently as required.
The Comm.ission will be able to bring an integrated approach to the
export and foreign exchange generation programs and projects submitted by
individuals and enterprises through IMCE.
The projects and programs may be submitted by enterprises or by
individuals, groups of enterprises, or branch of activity, and will be
assessed with a view to obtaining a consensus of business-sector interests and
observing, the priorities identified by the trade sector in this connection.
All the necessary orchestration will be the responsibility of
COMPEX. When the project is autnorized, all the government agencies on the
Commission will carry out in their various spheres of competence all those
activities and assignments agreed on and designed to achieve the export
objectives of the project concerned. IMCE will have the task of receiving
applications from the interested parties; encouraging and advising those
part es on the preparation of their programs and projects; preparing the
corresponding studies; submitting to COMPEX its opinions, advice and
recommendations, and implementing and monitoring the progress of the projects
and programs approved and orchestrated by COMPEX.
Within the framework of the National Plannin:; System, contacts and
consultation will be permanently maintained with the various pertinent sectors
of society, particularly the social and the private sectors, to provide
feedback on the program, ensure the necessary follow-up and facilitate
assessment of the results.
2.       Institutional restructuring
In order to be able to properly implement the present
Integral Program, IMCE has been restructured in such a way as to emphasize its
function as a public agency responsible for promoting foreign trade and
fostering the harmonization of criteria for ensuring efficient implementation
of the program. In addition, to ensure that the desired export projects
actually materialize, experts have been recruited from the upper civil service
echelons as study and project coordinators, so that the export projects will
have the proper continuity right from the design stage up unLil they are fully
operational.
In addition to the centralization of functions in the Institute, a
measuire designed to help the exporter by preventing the duplication of certain
expirt formalities and eliminating those that are not necessary, technical
assistance will gradually be increased with a view to strengthening IMCE's
specialized departments, decentralizing promotional activities and assigning
them to its regional offices, and concluding agreements with specialized
institutions.



- 89 -
ANNEX VII
Page 21 of 22 pages
Close coordination has been developed among all agencies directly and
indirectly involved in foreign trade, a coordination that finds its practical
reflection in the activities of COMPEX.
In addition, a start has been made on centralizing in the National
Foreign Trade Bank those financial institutions that provide support for
foreign trade, with a view to reducing their number and simplifying their
operating mechanisms.  The incorporation of FOMEX is particularly import.nt.
3.       Monitoring
The monitoring system represents a basic component of the Program
that will enable it to be kept constantly up to date and to serve as a basis
for assessment of the impact of its various component activities and of the
extent of compliance with the Program's goals at the national, sectoral and
individual enterprise levels. Since May 1980, IMCE, with the cooperation of
the agencies handling the preparation of official statistics on the foreign
trade activities of the business sector, on tax, financial, promotional and
other incentives, and on export-related programs and projects, has perfected a
system for monitoring and evaluating the impact of the various foreign trade
policy measures. The business-sector data, already reconciled with the
official foreign trade statistics, are available on a monthly basis.
The data gathering and processing system, which is continually being
upgraded, will facilitate the monitoring of trade balance trends and
identification of the principal enterprises responsible for the performance of
the non-oil export sector, and of those that receive some form of incentive.
In addition, whenever there are any major deviations from anticipated targets
and trends, DMCE's promotional machinery will be brought into action, mainly
for the purpose of helping the enterprises to achieve their objectives and to
periodically adjust their targets at overall enterprise, product and branch
level. It will also be possible to assess the benefit and impact of the
incentives received by the enterprises and to decide on the general and
specific application of the changes and adjustments required by the export
support policy.
This data will be supplemented by the research and studies now being
carried out on other aspects of foreign trade, and represents a basic element
of the enterprise monitoring and support system.
With this in mind, the Program schedule will show the expected
implementation dates of the individual Program activities (summary of the
schedule presented is reflected in Annex VIII).



-  90  -                              ANNEX  VII
Page 22 of 22 pages
Note: Among the attachments to the above document, not included herein,
are the following:
- Sectors, branches and products offering export potential.
- List of Export Promoticn Committees (COMIEXPOS).
- Financial program for foreign trade development.
- Promotional program to boost exports, including the program
of promotional events and promotional activities abroad.



- 91 -                        ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO - EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Timetable of Key Actions
(Based on timetables provided in the Government's policy letter, export
strategy docutents and understandings obtained in connection with the
proposed lozn)
Dates Actions taken
I.   Foreign Exchange Regime                                or expected
1. Reform of the exchange rate system and              December 13, 1982
floating of the exchange rate to maintain          February 15, 1983
competitiveness of exports.
2. Special treatment of exporters under
the foreign exchange control regime:
(a) right for exporters to retain                 March 4, 1983
foreign exchange earnings from
exports (or obtain privileged
access to previously surrendered
foreign exchange from exports)
in part or in full for purposes
of obtaining imported inputs,
other expenses related to export-import
operations, and some past debt service;
(b) permission for exporters to                   April 1983
transfer their foreign exchange
rights to others including
-indirect exporters.
II. Rationalization of Protection
1.  Update of effective protection study               To be complete by
to cover 1981/82 data.                             the last quarter of
1983
2.  Restructuring of import tariffs to                 Starting in the
decrease the average level and                     beginning of 1984.
dispersion of tariffs, and progressive             Proposals for first
substitution of import permit                      stage of restructur-
requirements by tariffs.                           ing to be complete
by the last
quarter of 1983
3.  Studies on productivity, technical efficiency   Studies to be
and international competitiveness of               initiated in 1983
Mexican industries, and implications               and expected to
to policy                                         extend through 1985



- 92 -                     ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 4
III. Temporary Import Regime (de facto free
trade regime) Applicable to Exporters
1.  Issue formal regulations and administrative        By the tnird quarter
instructions to implement liberlization           of 1983
of temporary import procedures for exporters.
2. Automatic reimbursement of import tariff           By the last quarter
for items imported under the temporary             of 1983
import regime.
IV. Export Permits and Certifications
1. Liberalization of export permit requirements.   Apre1 6, 1983
2. Eliuination or substantial reduction               April 20, 1983
of export taxes.
3. Formalization of administrative arrangements    By last quarter of
for simplification and streamlining of            1983
export certification procedures, including
required arrangements with other
ministries and agencies.
V.   Other Administrative Measures
1. Simplification of alI procedures affecting
exporters, including installation of
single-window- service through IMCE:
(a) SECOFIN related procedure- and                May 1983
establisbment of SECOFIN-IMCE
liaison unit;
(b) SARH related procedures;                      June 1983
(c) liaison of IMCE with other agencies           By the third quarter
(including financing agencies);               of 1983
(d) Full introduction of  single-vindow-          By the third quarter
service (including in provinces).             of 1983



- 93 -                    ANNEX VIII
Page 3 of 4
V.   Other Administrative Measures (cant')
2. Issue of regulations to implement the               Basic r-gulations
Special provisions of the 1982                     and detciled time-
customs law (e.g., industrial deposit              table for implement-
and inventory replenishment schemes),              ation to be issued
particularly as they affect exporters.             by the last quarter
of 1983
3.  Strengthening of information gathering             Initiated in
and dissemination system for exporters             February 1983
and data base on imports and exports.
4.  Reform of regulations on trading companies         April 1983
and export consortia.
5. Strengthened coordination of fiscal                 Starting June 1983
measures for export consortia.
6.  Study of the foreign exchange, financing           To be completed
and other needs of indirect exporters              by March 1984
(suppliers of production inputs to
final exporters) and tie feasibility of
an administrative system which would
extend the  de facto  free trade regime
to indirect exporters.
VI. Export Financing.
1. Rescheduling of public debt and arrangements    December 1982
for payment of interest on public and
private debt.
2. Establishment of mechanisms to enable               February 25, 1983
servicing of short-term supplier credits
to pri-ate sector in arrears including
cover for foreign exchange risk.
3.  Rescheduling of other private debt in              March 4, 1983
arrears, including foreign exchange
risk cover and associated financing.
4.  Strengthening of export insurance and              Formation of tech-
credit guarantee mechanisms.                      nical group under
BNCE coordination by
October 1983 to
study the issue.
5.  Formal transfer of FOMEX to BNCE and              Measures announced
institution building of BNCE as a                 officially on
consolidated export-import bank.                  April 26, 1983 and
expected to be
formalized by
September 1983



- 94 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 4 of 4
VII. Other Measures
1.  Program and projects to consolidate               Under preparation
available production from exporters
and strengthenen export consortia.
2.  Strengthening of infrastructure faci-             Finalize terms of
lities to support export activities.              reference for the
required studies by
August 1983



ANNEX  IX
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO - EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Principal Policy Measures Affecting Trade
1982 through April 1983
Date
1982     February 18:  Bank of Mexico withdrew support from exchange market;
peso depreciaced from 26.89 to 44.64 per US$1 by the
end of February.
March 10:     Announced a program to reduce import duties to levels
prevailing in June 1981 for 1,500 items.
June 5:       Bank of Mexico announced it would intervene once more
in exchange market and would allow peso to depreciate
at 4 centavos per dav.
August 5:    Dual exchange market was established; preferential
rate to be applied to priority imports, servicing
public sector external debt and interest payments on
private sector external debt; non-petroleum exports
and all other transactions to be converted at freely
floating rate; peso quoted at 48.41 per US$1 in pre-
ferential market and 75.77 per US$1 in floating market
August 11:  CEDI payments for specified non-traditional exports
were suspended.
August 12:    Commercial banks authorized to purchase foreign ex-
change at rate of approximately 70 pesos per US$1.
August 18:    Commercial banks authorized to buy and sell foreign
exchange at the free market rate.
September 1:  All foreign exchange transactions were subjected to
official control through the Bank of Mexico; two
basic exchange rates established, a preferential
rate to apply to foreign obligations of the public
sector and domestic credit institutions, interest
and principal payments for private sector obligations
contracted before September 1, 1982,and specified im-
ports to be determined by Ministry of Commerce; all
other transactions (including exports, tourism receipts
and border transactions) to be effected at ordinary
rate; most imports were made subject to prior licens-
ing; foreign currency denominated deposits in the
Mexican banking system were no longer permitted;
banking system was nationalized.
September 6: Preferential exchange rate established at 50 pesos to
the US41 and ordinary rate at ?0 pesos to the US$1.



- 96 -
ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 3
Date
1982     September 17: Prior license requirement established for all imports
except certain personal items and goce- with small
value; list of imports eligible for preferential ex-
change rate announced.
October 11:   Regulations issued to permit exporters to establish
compensation accounts linking their payments for ex-
penses associated with exporting to their foreign ex-
change receipts.
October 29:   Free exchange market authorized in border and free
trade zone areas.
December 10:  Exchange system revised and controls on foreign ex-
change transactions lifted; two exchange rates estab-
lished, to be operational on December 20; a "controlled"
rate to be fixed by the Bank of Mexico would be applied
to all merchandise exports, payments for imports
specified by the Ministry of Commerce, certain specified
capital transactions, transactions of the "maquila"
industries and other transactions to be specified;
free exchange market authorized for banks and exchange
houses and would be used for all other foreign trans-
actions subject to specified limits; import duties
reduced on imports to be effected at controlled rates.
December 17: Regulations established regarding opening of special
accounts by exporters based on export proceeds.
December 19:  Regulations issued concerning establishment of accounts
by fcreign commercial banks for the settlement of in-
terest payments on foreign obligations by Mexican
private sector.
December 20:  Controlled exchange rate set at 95 pesos per US$l, free
market rate quoted at 150 pesos per US$1.
1983     January 17:   Import duties on approximately 2,000 items, accounting
for about two-thirds of the value of imports reduced
by about 11% on the average.
Tebruary 8:   Prior license requirements removed for imports of spare
parts for machinery and equipment costing less than
tUSS1,500 per transaction.
February 25:  Regulations issued allowing enterprises to establish
deposits denominated in USdollars acquired at official
exchange rate for servicing of suppliers' debt incurred
prior to December 20, 1982, and coming due prior to June 30,
1983. The option would be available until July 15, 1983,
with Banco de Mexico announcing the repayment schedule prior
to August 15. 1983.



-97-                           ANNEX IX
Page 3 of 3
March 4:      Regulations issued authorizing exporters to use the
foreign exchange proceeds of their exports to meet all
expenses associated with exporting and iroduction for
export, to pay for imports for which licenses have
been obtained and to transfer the proceeds (at the con-
trolled rate) to third parties to pay for imports for
which licenses have been granted. Exporters also
authorized to engage in barter transactions approved by
SECOFIN. Exporters with approved annual export pro-
gramscan obtain import licenses for their import re-
quirements on a yearly basis.
April 6:      Formal announcement of a forti-gn exchange futures
scheme and associated financing offered by Banco de
Mexico to facilitate rescheduling of private foreign
debt.



- 98 -
AN!'EX X
NMEXCO - EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year and              Disbursements             Cumulative
Quarter (Ending Date)             in Quarter                Disbursements
1983-84 (FY84)
December 31, 1983                     60.0                       60.0
March 31, 1984                        60.0                      120.0
June 30, 1984                         60.0                      180.0
1984-85 (FY85
September 30, 1984                    70.0                     250.0
December 31, 1984                     40.0                      290.0
March 31, 1985                        20.0                      310.0
June 30, 1985                         10.0                     320.0
1985-86 (FY86)
September 30, 1985                    10.0                     330.0
December 31, 1985                     10.0                      340.0
March 31, 1986                          5.0                     345.0
june 30, 1986                          5.3                      350.0
LCPI2
May 1983



'   Mt  \                                            a~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNIIEC    STATES   OF   AMERICA
/r" m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                                                                                       -D   -D 
!^, |.< F *, ,, ,, * . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                                                                           flav  erMr;fl o;- a-* 
0a~~~~~~~I  -  I                                                                                                                                                                S.~~~~~~~~~EX I   
I~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~e" >                                                                A .'s   .b  t '  4                                                                      Fame cie ' i''  ,n-,   &
CA I ON'    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                   -    OD.ed hn.I.syi
i=;~~~~~~~~~~~~ ----- r                                                                                                                                                                  HNDURA
I  0IUi ' 
sits.  m ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o.                                                                                                    vrCo
PA C --             OCEAN
-   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~-   V. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* a~~~~~~~~e~t  A                                                                                          V ~ RA
1W~~~~~                                                                 *0*~~~~






