Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Date: January 27, 2011 
Report No.:  AB6254 
Operation Name 
Third Program 135 Phase 2 Development Policy Support Operation 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Country 
Vietnam 
Sector 
Sub-national government administration (46%); General agriculture, 
fishing and forestry sector (20%); Other social services 
(18%);Central government administration (16%) 
Operation ID 
P117610 
Lending Instrument 
Development Policy 
Borrower(s) 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
Implementing Agency 
Committee for Ethnic Minorities Affairs 
80 Phan Dinh Phung 
Hanoi 
Vietnam 
Tel: (84-4) 3733-3510 Fax: (84-4) 3823-0235 
Email: 
ubdt@cema.gov.vn
Date PID Prepared 
January 27, 2011 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal 
January 26, 2011 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 21, 2011 
Corporate Review 
Decision 
Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to proceed 
with the appraisal and negotiations for the operation. 
Other Decision  
Macroeconomic situation is being closely monitored.  
I. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Vietnam’s comprehensive economic reforms since the launching of Doi Moi in 1986 have led to 
rapid economic growth and remarkable progress on poverty reduction and other development 
outcomes.  The share of the population living below the poverty line fell by nearly half; from 28.9 
percent in 2002 to only 14.5 percent by 2008.  Many of the remaining poor are from disadvantaged 
groups (e.g. ethnic minorities) or live in more isolated regions. 
 
It is widely recognized that poverty among ethnic minorities is multidimensional. Ethnic minorities 
are often found in remote areas where access to roads and transportation is poor. Restricted physical 
mobility has been identified as a key factor in poverty. Access to education, health care, credit, and 
other services is also constrained, although there have been significant improvements recently, 
mostly through targeted interventions. Income gains through alternative livelihoods, however, remain 
a
serious challenge. Although ethnic minorities in upland areas have on average larger agricultural 
landholdings than the majority groups, their farmland is mostly of low quality (typically sloping land 
with no irrigation) and planted to staple food and other low-value crops. Limited attention is paid to 
upland agricultural research and extension, reducing chances for poor minority farmers to switch to 
more-profitable farming systems. Market opportunities are limited due to physical remoteness and 
Page  2
underdeveloped market information. In addition, people’s livelihoods in the remote and upland 
regions are highly vulnerable to natural disasters and risks. Their participation in nearby labor market 
also appears to be limited – whether due to language barriers, limited skills and education 
attainments or other factors. 
 
Government uses its national targeted programs (NTPs) focused on poverty reduction as the primary 
instruments for channeling resources in support of the poverty reduction strategy, especially for the 
focused targets of ethnic minority.  Essentially, the national poverty reduction programs consist of 
various combinations of ‘policies’ and ‘mechanisms’ that are brought together to target particular 
population groups and/or geographical areas. They provide the primary means through which 
supplementary resources from the national State Budget are redistributed to ‘top-up’ and boost 
implementation and impacts of these targeted policies and mechanisms.  
 
The series of operations is designed to complement and build on both the Poverty Reduction Support 
Credits (PRSCs) and ongoing investment operations. It bridges the gap between the macro-reform 
agenda of the PRSCs and the micro-operational foundations of ongoing investment operations by 
supporting a set of meso-level policy and institutional actions between these two levels to scale-up 
and institutionalize a programmatic reform agenda for improved delivery of critical public services 
targeted to addressing the needs of marginalized ethnic minority communities concentrated in the 
poorest, most remote areas of the country. It draws on the demonstrated results from directly 
relevant, community driven development (CDD) -type investment operations supported by IDA and 
other donors that may be readily be applied under P135-2 and other NTPs and thereby significantly 
improve their results and effectiveness. 
 
II. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The proposed operation is the last in a series of three Development Policy Credits (DPCs) to support 
the Government’s Program 135 Phase 2 designed to reduce poverty among disadvantaged groups, 
and implemented during 20062010.  The re-designed ‘Program for Socio-Economic Development in 
Communes Facing Extreme Hardship in Ethnic Minority and Mountainous Areas (2006-2010),’ 
known more familiarly in Vietnam as ‘Program 135, Phase 2’ (P135-2), is Vietnam’s National 
Targeted Programs (NTP) for poverty reduction.  P135-2 represents the best available entry point to a 
wider, emerging agenda for addressing one of the main remaining challenges in poverty reduction, 
and for systemic change in the way NTPs in Vietnam are conceived of and implemented. The 
reforms that this credit aims to support seek to promote greater and more informed participation at 
community levels in Government’s targeted public investment programs, as well as to improve 
targeting, fiduciary management, transparency, and monitoring and evaluation, as primary means to 
achieve the poverty reduction results of these programs.
 
III. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
P135-2 is an important policy instrument for the national government to address regional disparities 
in access to basic services and productive opportunities.  P135-2 encourages the adaptation of 
approaches at the provincial level that reflect an understanding of local needs, specific cultural 
attributes and opportunities to enhance labor mobility. At the same time, the program recognizes that 
such mobility-enhancing efforts need to be complemented by support to the many ethnic minority 
groups which have important ties to their current geographic locations and therefore prefer to seek 
improved livelihoods 
in situ
.
Page  3
The series of operations provides a vehicle for development partner coordination around a 
programmatic reform agenda. Consistent with the Hanoi Core Statement on Aid Effectiveness 
(Vietnam’s localized version of the Paris Declaration), the Government and the development 
community agreed that a policy-based budget support, complemented by parallel technical assistance 
(TA), provides the most promising financing modality to help bring about the outcomes P135-2 is 
designed to achieve. 
 
The Bank’s engagement on P135-2 has contributed substantively to the recorded reforms and 
improvements in the program, although the pace of reforms has not been as fast as expected at the 
beginning of the series.  The development impacts of the program will become clearer in a few years 
time after implementation of more recent reforms takes effect and their implementation has a chance 
to bring about the intended outcomes. 
 
IV. Tentative 
financing 
 
Source:                              IDA  /   XDR xxx millions 
(US$50.0 million 
equivalent
)
Borrower/Recipient:         The Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
 
IBRD 
Others (specifiy) 
 
Total
US$50.0 million 
equivalent
 
V. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Committee for Ethnic Minorities (CEM) is assigned by the Government of Vietnam as the 
lead agency in managing and supervising the implementation of P135-2, with support from and 
in coordination with the other key ministries, such as: Ministry of Planning and Investment 
(MPI), Ministry of Finance (MOF), and Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development 
(MARD). These ministries have representatives on the Program Steering Committee, which is 
chaired by a Deputy Prime Minister. State Audit of Vietnam (SAV, which reports to the 
National Assembly), and the Vietnam Fatherland Front among other mass organizations, play 
the role of independent supervision bodies. At provincial level, a Steering Committee for the 
implementation of the P135-2 is set up with participation from all related agencies and the 
standing agency is the Provincial Committee for Ethnic Minorities, chaired by the Chairperson 
of the Provincial People’s Committee (PPC). The PPC creates an enabling environment for the 
effective implementation of the P135-2 by developing and issuance of provincial guidance 
regulations and implementation of capacity building. The same institutional setting is for the 
district level. The District People Committee provides guidance and supervision for planning 
and implementation at commune level. The Commune People Committee is the investment 
owner and makes decisions on implementation and supervision. At commune level there is a 
‘program management unit’ established by District People’s Committee. 
 
At provincial level, the PPC takes overall responsibility for quality, progress, and effectiveness 
of P135-2.  Every quarter the PPC takes the lead in supervising, monitoring and evaluating 
program implementation. The P-135 Provincial Standing Office serves as the key agency to 
conduct monitoring and supervision, and assists the PPC in synthesizing and reporting results 
Page  4
to the Central Standing Agency (CEM). A baseline study to permit meaningful impact has been 
conducted in a representative ‘treatment’ sample of P135-2 target communes and also in a 
‘control’ sample. The end-of-program survey is now prepared to be conducted and analyzed 
during 2011 to provide the evaluation of the program’s results and outcomes. 
 
Provincial Steering Committees synthesize reports from local levels and submit regular 
progress reports to higher level authority. Provinces send their reports to CEM on a quarterly 
and annual basis. CEM submits aggregated reports to the National Steering Committee every 
six months. 
 
A
Partnership Committee (PC) has been formally established by the Government to oversee 
and review of progress towards the agreed policy and institutional actions under the proposed 
series of operations. The PC is chaired by CEM, and made up of senior managers and 
specialists from all the relevant Government agencies having a role in P135-2 execution 
(including MOF, MPI, MARD, Office of Government, GSO, and MOLISA). All co-financing 
donor agencies, including IDA, are also being represented. The PC is co-chaired by a lead 
donor on a rotational basis with the World Bank leading in alternate years.  
 
Annual review missions and interim review missions are organized according to the following 
schedule, dictated by the Government’s budget cycle: interim review missions are held around 
April of each year, and full annual reviews conducted around September-October each year. 
Review missions involve field visits and form the basis for preparation of the next operation 
and involve an assessment of progress towards accomplishing the agreed policy and 
institutional actions/ triggers. 
 
VI. 
Risks and Risk Mitigation 
At the beginning of this series of operation, three categories of risks were identified:  institutional 
capacity, fiduciary, and policy choices which are not adapted to the needs of ethnic minorities.  
Specific measures were put in place to mitigate and manage these risks as a part of the overall design 
of P135-2 series.  The institutional capacity turned out to be a main factor in constraining effective 
implementation of the program.  The capacity constraints are addressed through the proposed 
operation by issuance of user-friendly manuals and guidelines, as well as setting up taskforces at 
subnational levels with TA from development partners to assist the activities.
 
Fiduciary risks have been mitigated through introduction of more rigorous auditing and strengthened 
transparency and social accountability mechanisms.  In particular, issuance of procurement manual 
and detailed instructions on community procurement is supported as prior conditions in this and 
previous operations in this series.    
Policy-related risks, particularly those associated with not paying enough attention to different needs 
of different ethnic minorities, were mitigated through diligent encouragement of community 
participation in all phases of program.   As the proposed operation is the last in the series, there is an 
additional risk of sustainability of the reforms that have been adopted or are underway.  While there 
is no easy way to mitigate this risk, the task team continues to engage with CEM and other relevant 
agencies, such as MOLISA, MARD, MPI and MOF to ensure that major elements of the reform 
agenda remain in place under P135-3 and other poverty reduction programs.
 
VII. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
Page  5
Poverty and Social Impacts  
P135-2 is expected to have a significantly positive impact on poverty reduction, however the 
program’s poverty reduction objectives are unlikely to be achieved within the five year program 
period.  Reducing poverty from 43% to 30% would require an annual rate of poverty reduction twice 
the 2% national average and as high as 7 to 8% amongst ethnic minorities.  As P135-2 interventions 
are focused on building physical and human capital which will only gradually facilitate greater labor 
migration and market integration, measured poverty rates are expected to decline more slowly in the 
mostly isolated target communities. 
Environment Aspects  
An examination of the environmental implications of P135-2 was undertaken by the Borrower with 
consultant support during the preparation of the first program support operation, building on an 
earlier, generally positive, assessment of the environmental impacts of Program 135 Phase 1 
conducted in 2005 with support from UK DFID. The environmental examination of P135-2 also used 
the findings of environmental safeguards compliance monitoring conducted under the IDA-supported 
Northern Mountains Poverty Reduction and Community Based Rural Infrastructure Projects. 
Experience under those investment operations, which finance very similar investments to those under 
the infrastructure component of P135-2, suggests that adverse environmental effects are very small, 
whether considered individually or in the aggregate, while positive environmental impacts are 
significant. 
VIII. Contact 
point 
 
World Bank  
Contact: Mr. Son Thanh Vo 
Title: Operations Officer 
Tel: 5777+383 / 84-4-3934-6600, Fax: 84-4-39346597 
Email: svo@worldbank.org 
 
Borrower 
Contact: Mr. Trinh Cong Khanh 
Title: Director, Department of Ethnic Minority Policy, CEM 
Tel: 84-4-37173180 
 
Email: trinhcongkhanh@cema.gov.vn 
 
 
 
IX. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
