Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB6102 
Operation Name 
Third Program 135 Phase 2 Development Policy Support 
Operation 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Sub-national government administration (46%);General 
agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (20%);Other social services 
(18%);Central government administration (16%) 
Project ID 
P117610 
Borrower(s) 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
Implementing Agency 
 
Committee for Ethnic Minorities Affairs 
80 Phan Dinh Phung 
Hanoi 
Vietnam 
Tel: (84-4) 3733-3510  Fax: (84-4) 3823-0235 
Date PID Prepared 
November 8, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 19, 2011 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April  21, 2011 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Vietnam’s comprehensive economic reforms since the launching of Doi Moi in 1986 have led to rapid 
economic growth and remarkable progress on poverty reduction and other development outcomes.  The 
share of the population living below the poverty line fell by nearly half; from 28.9 percent in 2002 to 
only 14.5 percent by 2008.  Many of the remaining poor are from disadvantaged groups (e.g. ethnic 
minorities) or live in more isolated regions. 
 
It is widely recognized that poverty among ethnic minorities is multidimensional. Ethnic minorities are 
often found in remote areas where access to roads and transportation is poor. Restricted physical 
mobility has been identified as a key factor in poverty. Access to education, health care, credit, and other 
services is also constrained, although there have been significant improvements recently, mostly through 
targeted interventions. Income gains through alternative livelihoods, however, remain a serious 
challenge. Although ethnic minorities in upland areas have on average larger agricultural landholdings 
than the majority groups, their farmland is mostly of low quality (typically sloping land with no 
irrigation) and planted to staple food and other low-value crops. Limited attention is paid to upland 
agricultural research and extension, reducing chances for poor minority farmers to switch to more-
profitable farming systems. Market opportunities are limited due to physical remoteness and 
underdeveloped market information. In addition, people’s livelihoods in the remote and upland regions 
are highly vulnerable to natural disasters and risks. Their participation in nearby labor market also 
appears to be limited – whether due to language barriers, limited skills and education attainments or 
other factors. 
 
Government uses its national targeted programs (NTPs) focused on poverty reduction as the primary 
instruments for channeling resources in support of the poverty reduction strategy, especially for the 
focused targets of ethnic minority.  Essentially, the national poverty reduction programs consist of 
Page  2
various combinations of ‘policies’ and ‘mechanisms’ that are brought together to target particular 
population groups and/or geographical areas. They provide the primary means through which 
supplementary resources from the national State Budget are redistributed to ‘top-up’ and boost 
implementation and impacts of these targeted policies and mechanisms.  
 
The series of operations is designed to complement and build on both the Poverty Reduction Support 
Credits (PRSCs) and ongoing investment operations. It bridges the gap between the macro-reform 
agenda of the PRSCs and the micro-operational foundations of ongoing investment operations by 
supporting a set of meso-level policy and institutional actions between these two levels to scale-up and 
institutionalize a programmatic reform agenda for improved delivery of critical public services targeted 
to addressing the needs of marginalized ethnic minority communities concentrated in the poorest, most 
remote areas of the country. It draws on the demonstrated results from directly relevant, community 
driven development (CDD) -type investment operations supported by IDA and other donors that may be 
readily be applied under P135-2 and other NTPs and thereby significantly improve their results and 
effectiveness. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The Program Development Objective is to improve the results of one of Vietnam’s National Target 
Programs for poverty reduction, the “Program for Socio-Economic Development in Communes 
Facing Extreme Hardship in Ethnic Minority and Mountainous Areas (2006-2010)”, known as 
“Program 135, through strengthening the four, main policy areas: (i) poverty targeting; (ii) 
decentralization, participation and empowerment; (iii) fiduciary transparency and accountability; 
and (iv) monitoring and evaluation. 
 
The proposed operation is fully aligned with the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy 2007 to 
2011 which is based on GoV’s Socio-Economic Development Plan (2006-2010).  The proposed 
operation specifically supports the “Strengthen Social Inclusion” pillar and particularly the 
outcomes of “better access to services and infrastructure for the rural poor”, and “ethnic minorities 
in rural areas more fully integrated into development processes” 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The proposed operation is the third and last of the three Development Policy Credits (DPCs) to support 
the government’s program designed to reduce poverty among disadvantaged groups, implemented 
during 2006-2010.  The re-designed ‘Program for Socio-Economic Development in Communes Facing 
Extreme Hardship in Ethnic Minority and Mountainous Areas (2006-2010)’, known more familiarly in 
Vietnam as ‘Program 135, Phase 2’ (P135-2), is Vietnam’s principal National Targeted Programs (NTP) 
for poverty reduction.  P135-2 and the particular policy areas that are the focus of the series of 
operations represent the best available entry points to a wider, emerging agenda for systemic change in 
the way NTPs in Vietnam are conceived and implemented. This reform agenda aims broadly to promote 
informed participation at community level in the Government’s targeted public investment programs, as 
well as to improve targeting, fiduciary management, transparency and monitoring and evaluation, as 
primary means to improve the results of these programs. 
 
The three DPCs are inter-related as follows (including financing information): 
·
DPC1 (US $50 million equivalent) supported critical aspects of the reform agenda which 
provided the framework for a program consistent with the agreed outcomes. The prior actions 
were primarily policy and institutional actions already shown to deliver results through 
Page  3
strengthening community-level ownership over the planning, execution, management and 
construction supervision, and operation and maintenance of basic infrastructure investments; 
·
DPC2 (US $100 million equivalent) supported additional actions that were anticipated at the 
initiation of the program and which were identified as needing additional emphasis to 
advance the reform agenda, based on the first two years of implementation and the recent 
mid-term review due to the need for additional clarity or delays in implementation.  The prior 
actions included revised policy and supporting procedures in key areas such as production 
support and competitiveness of local procurement to permit more effective implementation 
by provinces, districts and communes, as well as strengthening of the monitoring and 
oversight functions at the central level; 
·
DPC3 (US $50 million equivalent) supports further policy actions, including those identified 
through the mid-term review (November 2008), focused on strengthening implementation at 
the subnational level of the reforms supported under DPC1 and DPC2 to accelerate progress 
towards results in the final years of the program. 
 
4. 
Poverty, Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
P135-
2
is expected to have a significantly positive impact on poverty reduction, however the program’s 
poverty reduction objectives are unlikely to be achieved within the five year program period.
 
Reducing 
poverty from 43% to 30% would require an annual rate of poverty reduction twice the 2% national 
average and as high as 7 to 8% amongst ethnic minorities.  As P135-2 interventions are focused on 
building physical and human capital which will only gradually facilitate greater labor migration and 
market integration, measured poverty rates are expected to decline more slowly in the mostly isolated 
target communities.   
 
An examination of the environmental implications of P135-2 was undertaken by the Borrower with 
consultant support during the preparation of the first program support operation, building on an earlier, 
generally positive, assessment of the environmental impacts of Program 135 Phase 1 conducted in 2005 
with support from UK DFID. The environmental examination of P135-2 also used the findings of 
environmental safeguards compliance monitoring conducted under the IDA-supported Northern 
Mountains Poverty Reduction and Community Based Rural Infrastructure Projects. Experience under 
these ongoing investment operations, which finance very similar investments to those under the 
infrastructure component of P135-2, suggests that adverse environmental impacts are very small, 
whether considered individually or in the aggregate, while positive environmental impacts are 
significant. 
 
5. Contact point 
 
Contact: Son Thanh Vo 
Title: Operations Officer 
Tel: 5777+383 / 84-4-3934-6600 
Fax: 84-4-3934-6597 
Email: svo@worldbank.org 
Location: Hanoi, Vietnam (IBRD)
 
