                                                  CONFORMED COPY


                                            CREDIT NUMBER 4918-VN




      Financing Agreement
(Third Program 135 Phase II Support Development Policy Financing)


                            between


              SOCIALIST REPBLIC OF VIETNAM


                              and


      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                       Dated May 31, 2011
                            FINANCING AGREEMENT

        AGREEMENT           dated     May    31,     2011,    entered    into    between
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM (“Recipient?) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association?) for the purpose of providing
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The
Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the
actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described
in Section I.A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an
appropriate macroeconomic policy framework. The Recipient and the Association
therefore hereby agree as follows:

            ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to
        thirty one million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
        31,800,000) (variously, “Credit? and “Financing?).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the
        Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
        Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
        annum.

2.04.   The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
        shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment
        schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.07.   The Payment Currency is Dollar.
                                          -2-


                            ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01.   The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
        To this end:

        (a)    the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request
               of either party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
               framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)    prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
               Association for its review and comment a report on the progress
               achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association
               shall reasonably request; and

        (c)    without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
               Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any
               situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives
               of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any
               action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

              ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a
        situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
        significant part of it, will be carried out.

               ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
        the Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in
        carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient’s
        macroeconomic policy framework.

5.02.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
        Agreement.

               ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is the Governor, or a Deputy Governor, of State
        Bank of Vietnam.
                                         -3-


6.02.   The Recipient’s Address is:


               State Bank of Vietnam
               49 Lý Thái Tổ
               Hà Nội
               Socialist Republic of Vietnam

               Cable:                   Telex:         Facsimile:

               VIETBANK                 412248         (84-4) 3825-0612
               Hanoi                    NHTWVT

6.03.   The Association’s Address is:

               International Development Association
               1818 H Street, N.W.
               Washington, D.C. 20433
               United States of America

               Cable:                   Telex:         Facsimile:

               INDEVAS                  248423 (MCI)   (1-202) 477-6391
               Washington, D.C.
                                       -4-


       AGREED at Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year first
above written.



                              SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM



                              By: /s/ Nguyen Van Giau



                                                    Authorized Representative




                              INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                              By: /s/ Victoria Kwakwa



                                                    Authorized Representative
                                          -5-


                                     SCHEDULE 1

                Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds

Section I.      Actions under the Program

        The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:

A.      Decentralization, Participation and Empowerment

1.      The Recipient, through CEM, has issued official instruction Number 600/UBDT-
        CSDT dated August 20, 2010 setting forth: (a) a manual on participatory
        planning by communes including among other things guidelines for participatory
        operations and maintenance; and (b) minimum percentage requirement of women
        participation at thirty percent (30%).

2.      The Recipient has established, in at least eleven (11) selected provinces,
        technical task forces at province and district levels to support communes in
        acting as investment owners.

B.      Fiduciary Transparency and Accountability

3.      The Recipient, through CEM, has issued official instruction Number 600/UBDT-
        CSDT dated August 20, 2010 setting forth guidelines and procedures for
        procurement under community participation method in implementation of
        Program 135 Phase II in communes and villages.

4.      The Recipient, through MOF, has issued official instruction Number 319/KBNN-
        KHTH, dated March 4, 2009, setting forth guidelines to ensure capturing
        villagers’ paid labor and contributions in the management information system
        and commune accounts of Program 135 Phase II.

Section II.     Availability of Financing Proceeds

A.      General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in
        accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as
        the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient.

B.      Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing is allocated in a single
        withdrawal tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the
        Financing. The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out
        in the table below:
                                        -6-


                Allocations                   Amount of the Financing Allocated
                                                    (expressed in SDR)
      Single Withdrawal Tranche                          31,800,000
      TOTAL AMOUNT                                       31,800,000

C.   Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

     No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the
     Association is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient;
     and (b) with the appropriateness of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
     framework.

D.   Deposits of Financing Amounts. Except as the Association may otherwise
     agree:

1.   the Recipient shall open, prior to presenting to the Association the first request
     for withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain a deposit
     account in Dollar (“Foreign Currency Deposit Account?) on terms and conditions
     satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from the Financing Account
     shall be deposited by the Association into the Foreign Currency Deposit
     Account; and

2.   the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing
     into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account, an equivalent amount is accounted
     for in the Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
     Association.

E.   Audit. Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall:

1.   have the Foreign Currency Deposit Account audited by independent auditors
     acceptable to the Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing
     standards acceptable to the Association;

2.   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
     (4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified
     copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the
     Association shall reasonably request; and

3.   furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Foreign
     Currency Deposit Account and its audit as the Association shall reasonably
     request.

F.   Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the
     Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association
     determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a
                                      -7-


     payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice
     from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to
     the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be
     cancelled.

G.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 30, 2011.
                                        -8-


                                   SCHEDULE 2

                                Repayment Schedule

                                      Principal Amount of the Credit repayable
                                            (expressed as a percentage)*
        Date Payment Due
On each on April 15 and October 15:
commencing October 15, 2021 to and                      1.25%
 including April 15, 2031
commencing October 15, 2031 to and                       2.5%
including April 15, 2046

* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of
the General Conditions.
                                           -9-


                                      APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1.      “CEM? means the Recipient’s Committee for Ethnic Minorities, the Recipient’s
        central agency charged with managing and supervising the implementation of
        Program 135 Phase II with the support from and in coordination with the
        Ministries of Planning and Investment, of Finance, of Agriculture and Rural
        Development and of Construction; and any successor thereto.

2.      “Excluded Expenditure? means any expenditure:

        (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
                international financing institution or agency other than the Association or
                the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or
                the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or
                loan;

        (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
                International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
                by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
                (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
                revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the
                Recipient:

                         Group            Sub-group             Description of Item
                         112                                    Alcoholic beverages
                         121                                    Tobacco, un-
                                                                manufactured, tobacco
                                                                refuse
                         122                                    Tobacco, manufactured
                                                                (whether or not containing
                                                                tobacco substitutes)
                         525                                    Radioactive and associated
                                                                materials
                         667                                    Pearls, precious and
                                                                semiprecious stones,
                                                                unworked or worked
                         718              718.7                 Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                                thereof; fuel elements
                                                                (cartridges), non-
                                                                irradiated, for nuclear
                                                                reactors
                         728              728.43                Tobacco processing
                                                                machinery
                                      - 10 -


                     897              897.3                 Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                                            platinum group metals
                                                            (except watches and watch
                                                            cases) and goldsmiths’ or
                                                            silversmiths’ wares
                                                            (including set gems)
                     971                                    Gold, non-monetary
                                                            (excluding gold ores and
                                                            concentrates)

     (c)    for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
            consumption;

     (d)    for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
            which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international
            agreements to which the Recipient is a party;

     (e)    on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
            United Nations; and

     (f)    with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
            collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
            Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the
            Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate
            action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they
            occur.

3.   “Foreign Currency Deposit Account? means the account referred to in paragraph
     1 of Section II.D of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

4.   “General Conditions? means the “International Development Association
     General Conditions for Credits and Grants?, dated July 31, 2010 with the
     modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

5.   “MOF? means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance or any successor thereto.

6.   “Program? means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
     promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
     referred to in the letter dated March 9, 2011 from the Recipient to the
     Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the
     Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the
     Program during its execution.
                                          - 11 -


7.      “Program 135 Phase II? means the Recipient’s Program for Socio-Economic
        Development in Communes Facing Extreme Hardship in Ethnic Minority and
        Mountainous Areas (2006-2010), as approved by the Recipient’s Prime Minister
        under Decision No. 7/2006/QD-TTg of January 10, 2006.

8.      “Single Withdrawal Tranche? means the amount of the Financing allocated to the
        category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche? in the table set forth in Part B of
        Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.      The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
        Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.      Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
        in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
        accordingly.

3.      Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 4.09 (Financial Management;
        Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
        Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly.

4.      Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
        and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

5.      Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
        above) is modified to read as follows:

                “Section 4.06. Plans; Documents; Records

                …       (c)      The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
                under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The
                Recipient shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such
                records.?

6.      Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to
        read as follows:

                “Section 4.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

                …       (c)     The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
                furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing
                                     - 12 -


            Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
            reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by
            the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under
            the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
            Financing.?

7.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
     deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
     alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
     accordingly:

     (a)    The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure? is modified to read as
            follows:

             “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in
            support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
            pursuant to the Financing Agreement.?

     (b)    The term “Financial Statements? and its definition as set forth in the
            Appendix are deleted in their entirety.

     (c)    The term “Project? is modified to read “Program? and its definition is
            modified to read as follows:

            “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in
            support of which the Financing is made.? All references to “Project?
            throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
            “Program?.
