Domiasa of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6654
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 690-IN)
February 27, 1987
Projects Department
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oflcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
.(CREDIT NO. 690-IN)
ADA      -   Additional Director of Agriculture
ADAO     -   Assistant District Agricultural Officer
ADO      -   Agricultural Development Officer
AEO      -   Agricultural Extension Officer
AO       -   Agricultural Officer
APC      -   Agricultural Production Commissioner
ASDAO    -   Assistant Sub-divisional Agricultural Officer
CRS      -   Commodity Research Station
DA       -   Director of Agriculture
DAO      -   District Agricultural Officer
DLTC     -   District Level Technical Committee
DOA      -   Department of Agriculture (West Bengal)
EEI      -   Extension Education Institute
ETS      -   Field Trial Station
GDP      -   Gross Domestic Product
GOWB     -   Government of West Bengal
GOI      -   Government of India
HYV      -   High Yielding Varieties
IDA      -   International Development Association of World Bank
IRDP     -   Integrated Rural Development Program
JDA      -   Joint Director of Agriculture
KPS      -   Krishi Prayukti Sahayak (Village Level Extension Worker)
M        -   Million(s)
M&E      -   Monitoring and Evaluation
NAEP     -   National Agricultural Extension Project
NDO      -   World Bank New Delhi Office
NEC      -   North Eastern Council
PAO      -   Principal (or District) Agricultural Officer
PCR      -   Project Completion Report
PWD      -   Public Works Department
SARE     -   Sub-divisional Adaptive Research Farm
SAiU     -   State Agricultural University
SDAO     -   Sub-divisional Agricultural Officer
SLTC     -   State Level Technical Committee
SMS      -   Subject Matter Specialist
T&V      -   Training and Visits System of Extension
VEW      -   Village Level Extension Worker
VLW      -   Village Level Worker (multi-purpose)
WB       -   World Bank
WBAERP   -   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project
ZARS     -   Zonal Adaptive Research Station
ZRAC     -   Zonal Research Advisory Committee



THE WORLD BANK                 FO F omcIAL USE ONLY
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ok of DMuNtot.C.wal
Opat. Evaluatihun
February 27, 1987
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on India West Bengal Agricultural
Extension and Research Project (Credit 690-IN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on India West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research
Project (Credit 690-IN)" prepared by the South Asia Regional Office. Further
evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has not
been made.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of !heir oMcWa duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclxosd wthout World Bank authorzion.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 690-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .............04........... ....................0440940004               i
Basic Data Sheet ........* ,                                                   ii
Evaulation Summary                                                             iv
I,    INTRODUCTION                                                                      1
II.    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR          .......... 04.00490 0000...  ........  0004     1
Agriculture in India  .000004000000404000000000040000400004                 1
Agriculture in West Bengal .................................                2
III.  PROJECT FORMULATION ......... ............*....                                   3
Origin  0000000000 .     40 0 0 .0 4 00 0 04.    0 0 0.00 0 a 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 a  3
Project Appraisal *0o*oOooOOOOOO 040404000004444 000000000004              4
Goals and Targets  **40000000*440044004*400040 00004000000004               4
General Description of the Project                 ........................  4
Project Components         5....*oooooo*o 0                                5
IV.    IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERAIING PERFORMANCE .................e......o.    7
Start-up  *o00004040000000000000000000 0000400000040440000000              7
Revisions       00     4     0       00         0     0      0     0       7
Overall Performance  7..00.00..                ...............0            7
Physical Implementation ..................400.40000404004.*...             8
Inatitutional Improvement and Operating Performance 0040040                9
Input Supply and Credit .*0000000000000.004000941090400400*   14
V.     PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ......................o        oo      ...* o.    15
Project Provisions  0400400040000040040000440                             15
Financial Management ...004 00.................                           16
VI.    ASSESSMENT OF IMPACT .......... oo.oooo. *o              *****oo,**   *.oo   16
Impact on Production ..o0000000400404044000000000000000000                16
Institutional Impact  ***404         0000 . ............*#.    18
VII.  BANK PERFORMANCE .............  o..o.*o.*.oo....e.....*.***o*    19
This document has a restrict distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be discsed without World Bank authorization.



VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED ........       .......................   20
Project Justification and Objectives ..........*.....,,...    20
Project Content and Formulation ...........................   20
Evaluation of Implementation and Outcome         ..................   21
TABLES
1     Progress in Civil Works:  Extension Service
2     List of Equipment Procured
3     Staffing Progress:  Extension Service
4     Personnel Trained by Year:  Extension
5     Civil Works - Research and Training Components
6     Laboratory and Farm Equipment Procured (major items)
Research Component
7     Staff Position:  Research Component
8     Schedule of Technologies Developed/Proved in Commodity and
Zonal Adaptive Research Stations
9     Project Reporting
10     List of Publications of the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
11     Estimate of Annual Work Load of Monitoring and Evaluation Staff
in Man-Days
12     1984-85 Work Plan for Monitoring and Monitoring-cum-Evaluation
Surveys and Special Studies
13     Annual Work Program for Monitoring and Evaluation of Training
and Visit System of Agricultural Extension
14     Results of M&E Surveys:  Farmers Awareness of T&V System
15     Results of Monitoring Surveys:  Rate of Adoption of Recommendations
16     Monitoring Surveys:  Reasons for Non-Adoption of Recommendations
17     Relationship Between Yield Rate of Crops and Main Source of
-       Advice to Farmers
18     Relationship Between Yield Rate of Crops and Visits of KPS
19     Project Costs:  Comparative Analysis
20     Expenditure Statement under WBAE RP up to March 31, 1985
21     Schedule of Disbursements
22     Reimbursement Position (claimed) for Expenditure to March 31, 1985
23     Civil Works:  Visit Costs - Sanctioned Amount
24     Yield of Major Crops
25     Key Indicators
ANNEX I - Comments of the State Government on the Final Draft Project Comple-
tion Report for the West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research
Project (Credit 690-IN)
Map IBRD 12327R



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 690-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) of the West Bengal
Agricultural Extension and Research Project in India, for which Credit
690-IN in the amount of US$12.0 million was approved on March 22, 1977.
The Credit was closed on March 31, 1985, two and one-half years behind
schedule; an unuised balance of US$5.15 million was cancelled. The date of
final disbursement was November 18, 1985.
The PCR was prepared by PAO/IBRD Cooperative Program in collabora-
tion with the West Bengal Department of Agriculture following a mission to
West Bengal in March 1985. and is based on a review of the Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 1288-IN dated March 19, 1977), the President's Report
(No. 1938-IN dated March 10, 1977). the Credit Agreement of June 1, 1977.
correspondence with the Borrower; internal Bank memoranda on project   -
issues as contained in relevant Bank files, as well as interviews with
officials both in the Bank and in India who have been associated with the
project.
A copy of the draft report was sent to the Borrower on October 15,
1986 for comments. Comments received from the West Bengal Department of
Agriculture have been incorporated and are attached as Annex 1.
This project has not been subjected to an audit by OED.



-ii-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 690-IN)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Actual as X
Appraisal               of Appraisal
Estimate     Actual    Estimate
Total Project Cost (US Million)             28.2         18.22       64.5
Total Project Cost (Rs Million)            253.0       188.9         75
Credit Amount (US$ Million)                 12.0        12.0        100
Disbursed (US$ Million)                 12.0         6.9         57
Cancelled (US$ Million)                  -           5.1          -
Date of Board Approval                       -        3/22/77         -
Credit Agreement Date                        -         6/1/77         -
Date of Effectiveness                     5/30/77     8/30/77       250 /a
Date Physical Components Completed        3/31/82     3/31/84       140 /a
Proportion Then Completed (1)          l00oO        86.0         86 /h
Closing Date                              9/30/82     3/31/85       145 /a
Economic Rate of Return (X)               ---- Not Calculated…
Institutional Performance                    -          Fair          -
Number of Direct Beneficiaries
(million farmers)                         5.0        2.5           50 /b
STAFF INPUT /c
FY77  FY78  FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  PY85  PY86  TOTAL
Identific./Prep.   0.5     -     -      -     -     -     -      -     -     -    0.5
Appraisal         39.8     -      -     -     -     -     -      -     -     -   39.8
Negotiations       4.0     -      -     -     -     -     -      -     -     -    4.0
Supervision        2.6  16.2  15.5  15.4  14.8  11.0  12.3   9.6   2.8   3.9  104.1
Total        46.9  16.2  15.5  15.4  14.6  11.0  12.3   9.6   2.8   3.9  148.4
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
FY78  FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  PY85  FY86
Appraisal Estimate (US$ M)    1.6   5.0   8.3   10.7  12.0   -       -     -     -
Actual (US$ M)                 -      -     -     -     -    1.3   4.68  5.66  6.85
Actual as % of Estimate        0      0     0     0     0   10.8   39.0 47.17  57.0
Date of Final Disbursement    November 18, 1985



-ill-
MISSION DATA
Date    No. of   Specialization  Performance
Mission           (mo/yr)  Persons   Represented         Rating     Trend   Problems
Identification    11/75       3         Ext2/Eco /d       /e         If
Preparation         3/76      3       Agr/Res/Eco
Appraisal           5/76      7
Supervision I       8/78      2           Ext              3          3         P
Supervision II    12/78       2          Ext/Res           3          3         p
Supervision III   10/79       4         Ext3/Res           3          1         MP
Supervision IV      3/80      2           Res              -          -         -
Supervision V       1/81      5         Ext4/Res           3          1         M
Supervision VI      7/81      2           Ext              3          1         M
Supervision VII   11/81       2           Ext              3          1         M
Supervision VIII   2/82       2           Ext              3          1         M
Supervision IX      8/82      1           Ext              3          1         MF
Supervision X       2/83      2           Ext              2          1         KTF
Supervision XI      8/83      3        Ext/Agr/ME          2          1         MTF
Supervision XII    2/84       2          Ext/Res           2          2         M
Supervision XIII   8/84       2          Agr/Ext           2          2         MT
Supervision XIV    2/85       3          Agr/Ext2          2          3         MT
Completion          3/85      2
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower                             Government of India
Executing Agency                     Government of West Bengal
Fiscal Year of the Borrower          April 1-March 31
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)      Rupees (Rs)
Currency Exchange Rate
Appraisal Year Average       1977      US$1.00-Re 9.00
Intervening Years Average   1977-84  US$1.00Rs 8.8
Completion Year Average      1985      US$1.00Rs 12.0
Follow-on Project      None
/a  Calculated in terms of months from date of Board approval.
/6  Project covered 501 of the total area envisaged at appraisal.
Ic  Input as staff weeks.  Source:  World Bank Planning and Budgeting Department.
/a  Agr - Agriculturalist; Ext - Extension Specialist; ME - Monitoring and
Evaluation Specialist; Res a Research Expert, Eco = Fconomist.
/e 1 = Problem-free or minor problems; 2 - Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems.
If 1 - Improving; 2 = Stationary; 3 = Deteriorating.
/~ F = Financial; M = Managerial; T = Technical; P = Political; 0 = Other.
/h In terms of financial expenditure in respect of civil works, vehicles and
equipment and technical assistance.



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 690-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The Eastern Region, comprising the States of Assam, Bihar, Orissa,
West Bengal and Eastern Uttar Pradesh, is India's major rice growing area.
Most of the region has moderate to heavy monsoon rains and large areas of
relatively fertile alluvial soils. Yet foodgrain yields are generally
lower than elsewhere in India and production has barely kept pace with
population. Around 1974, special emphasis was given to the development of
agricultural projects in the Eastern Region States, aimed to achieve quick
increases in foodgrain production. One such project was the West Bengal
Agricultural Extension and Research Project.
.Objectives
The main objective of the project was to strengthen and reorganize
the extension service and related adaptive research activities in order to
increase agricultural production especially among small scale farmers.
That objective was appropriate at that time and remains relevant today.
Over a period of five years, the project was to extend the Training and
Visit system (T&V) in the entire state, improve extension training
facilities, develop and upgrade Commodity Research Stations, zonal Adap-
tive Research Stations and sub-divisional Adaptive Research Farms, and
establish a Monitoring and Evaluation cell to monitor the progress of the
T&V system.
Implementation Experience
The project was boldly conceived to bring the benefits of exten-
sion and research to the whole of the state. Unfortunately, the envisaged
institutional transformation has been only partly implemented. Introduc-
tion of T&V methodology along the project lines had already progressed in
six districts from August 1975, assisted by an earlier project, (West
Bengal Agricultural Development Project. Cr. 541-IN, August 8, 1975).
However, during 1977 the newly elected Government of West Bengal (GOWB)
reappraised the T&V-concept, which resulted in a reversal of the process
of transferring Village Extension Workers (VEWs) to the sole authority of
the Department of Agriculture (DOA). It took considerable time for new
senior state level officials to be convinced that the planned statewide
change into the T&V system of extension would be an effective means of
raising agricultural production. It was only in 1981, through continuous
dialogue with the State Government, that the project received renewed
endorsement and the program implementation started. The project formula-
tion seriously underestimated the magnituGe of the problems (mainly



- v -
administrative) related to staff appointments, transfers and promotions,
with the result that many planned posts of VEW, Agricultural Development
Officer (ADO) and subject Matter Specialist (SMS) remained unfilled
throughout the project period.
The institutional framework of T&V system is in place with only
about 50% of the personnel required, leaving extensive areas in every
district without extension staff. The general pattern which has evolved
is therefore, of scattered areas in which extension messages (generated
under the severe constraint of a weak research program) are reaching the
farmers through T&V system and are appreciated by them. Substantial
delays occurred in respect of civil works; there was considerable short-
fall in the numbers of houses constructed. The shortfall was partly due
to non-availability of suitable sites and partly because the eventual cost
for VEW house was three times the appraisal estimates due to design
change. The routine training activities of T&V system were properly
scheduled. However, the quality of training suffered from lack of ade-
quately trained SMSs and insufficient participation by senior officers.
Apart from the routine training, other special training for SMS and
trainers was not planned systematically except in the last two years of
the project. Implementation of agricultural research encountered serious
problems relating to delayed construction of laboratory buildings, and
inadequate research staff. The research work already in progress at
existing stations continued to produce valuable recommendations for exten-
sion. However, the effectiveness of adaptive research remained severely
constrained by the lack of staff. (overall 63% of existing and incremental
positions remained vacant). The final project costs are slightly below
appraisal estimates. The project was closed two and one-half years behind
schedule; an unused balance of US$ 5.15 million was cancelled.
Results
No economic rate of return has been calculated.  It is still too
early in the course of project implementation to expect & fully reliable
measure of project impact. The comparison of yield data collected by GOWB
of pre-project and project years indicates significant yield increases in
potatoes and oilseeds, decreases in wheat and pulses and slight increases
in the case of rice and jute. It is difficult to measure the impact of
extension on yields as the causality cannot be clearly established in view
of the many non-project factors, The M and E surveys, however, indicated
a positive response of farmers to extension advice and the yields obtained
by such farmers were higher than those of farmers who did not receive
extension advice.
Sustainability
The training and visit system has proved an appropriate vehicle
for increasing agricultural productivity; as a result of its introduction,



- vi -
new agronomic practices are found to spread more quickly than before.
Improvement has been found both in irrigated and rainfed areas. The
greatest constraint to sustainability is in respect of administrative and
operational problems which have been clearly identified, and for which
solutions are generally known. Strong commitment by the state government
is essential to ensure that these problems are effectively tackled and
sufficient funding is provided by the State. The state government has
indicated its full commitment to the T&V system and that steps will be
taken to strengthen extension services (Annex I).
Findings and Lessons
The project objectives of institutional development in terms of
developing a framework for extension have been generally achieved in
dispersed areas of the state. The time it would take to introduce and
consolidate major reorganization in the existing and already strong
institutions was, in retrospect, too optimistically assessed. Extension
alone is only one of the contributing factors to increased production, and
the project would have a significant impact on agricultural production
only after considerable further institutional improvement and manpower
development have occurred, and with simultaneous improvements in other
support services. such as input supplies, water management and irrigation.
It is too early to predict, witb any preciseness, what the degree of the
impact will eventually be. However. responses of farmers who have been
reached, and also those of staff of the Agriculture Department, have been
positive and new agronomic practices are found to spread more quickly than
before.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA - WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 690-IN)
I, INTRODUCTION
1.1     The Eastern Region, comprising the States of Assam, Bihar, Orissa,
West Bengal and Eastern Uttar Pradesh, is India's major rice growing area.
Most of the region has moderate to heavy monsoon rains and large areas of
relatively fertile alluvial soils, and there is a vast, underexploited sur-
face and groundwater resource. Yet foodgrains yields are generally lower
than elsewhere in India; production has barely kept pace with population
growth and most indicators of social and economic development are lower than
for the rest of India. Around 1974, special additional emphasis was being
given to the development of agricultural projects in the Eastern Region
States, aimed at achieving quick increases in foodgrain production while
paying particular attention to problems faced by small farmers.
1.2     One such project was the West Bengal Agricultural Extension and
Research Project (WBAERP). The core of the project was to reorganize and
strengthen the agricultural extension service and related adaptive research
in the State.
1.3     The estimated total project cost was US$28.15 M of which US$1.7 M was
met from Credit 541-IN and US$12.0 M was provided by IDA Credit 690-IN.
1.4     Information sources used for the Project Completion Report include:
the WBAERP Appraisal Report (No. 1288-IN of March 10, 1977) and supervision
reports; related Bank reports for West Bengal and other States; correspon-
dence and information files of the World Bank New Delhi Office (NDO); and
discussions with farmers, local government officials, the World Bank (WB) and
project staff. during a field visit in August 1985.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A8riculture in India
2.1     India has a population of about 750 M, growing at 2.1% annually,  The
total land surface is some 3.29 M km2, of whici 47% is cultivable. About 282
of the net cropped area is irrigated (1980-81) National income has grown at
nearly 42 per annum since 1950. Agriculture is the dominant sector and
engages about 702 of the labor force, contributes 40% of GNP and accounts for



-2-
602 of exports. During the past 15 years, GOI development plai.s have given
priority to agriculture and sought to raise foodgrain production by increas-
ing the use of irrigation, fertilizers, plant protection chem .cals, and seeds
of improved varieties. In support of this, the agricultural credit institu-
tions were strengthened and irrigation development was accelerated. From the
mid-seventies increasing attention was given to establishing improved exten-
sion services and upgrading the related research capabilities.
2.2     Since 1960, per capita income has risen at an annual rate of 1.52
reaching US$270 in 1985. Foodgrain production has grown at about 2.32
annually, slightly exceeding the rate of population growth. Living condi-
tions for many in the cities and among landowners have improved considerably.
However, for the rural and urban poor, who comprise around 502 of total
population, there has been much less change in living conditions. Conse-
quently, G0a has been emphasizing the need to raise the growth rate of
agricultural output from 2.3% to 3% per annum, in an effort to cope with the
growing population and to improve the lot of the poorest. Much of this
increase will have to come from rainfed agriculture, and an effective
agricultural extension service is considered by GOI to be a necessary vehicle
to achieve the desired result.
Agriculture in West Bengal
2.3     West Bengal has about 60 M inhabitants (1985) and a total land sur-
face of 88,000 km2. Population growth is some 2.3% annually (1971-81). 1
Population density is 680/km , second in India only after Kerala. The net
cultivated area is about 5.5 M ha or 63% of the total surfa.e area (1980-84).
Agriculture is the predominant industry. The State has just over 5.2 M farm
families with an average farm size of under 2 ha. Some 67% of the 'arms are
under 1 ha. The cropping intensity is about 142%. About 302 of the gross
cropped area is irrigated. 2/ The annual per capita income in the period
1980/81 to 1982/83 was Rs 1,644 or US$137, compared to the all-India figure
of US$270. In terms of agricultural income generated per unit area, West
Bengal is sixth among the Indian States with Rs 3,612 per ha (1981).
2.4     The State on the whole has a warm and humid sub-tropical climate with
about 70-802 of the rainfall concentrated over the four months of monsoon
(mid-June to mid-October). The rainfall varies from about 1,250 mm in the
drier western districts of Purulia and Bankura to over 3,000 mm in the
Sub-Himalayan Terai region. The temperature varies from a maximum of 40-42°C
l/ "Agricultural Production in India": The Center for Monitoring Indian
Economy. Economic Intelligence Unit.
2/ Draft Project Completion Report, GOWB August 1985.



-3-
in summer to about 8-100C in winter, with cooler conditions in the hill
areas.
2.5     Supplementary irrigation can contribute to higher yields.  Rainfed
paddy treas along the lower reaches of the rivers often do not have enough
rain. However. floods in the Hooghly valley are frequent. Paddy is the main
cereal crop with some 74% of the cropped area, followed by pulses with 7%,
wheat 4X, oilseeds 41 and vegetables (mainly potatoes) 2S; jute is the main
non-food crop with 9% of the total cultivated area.
III, PROJECT FORMULATION
Origin
3.1     Soon after independence, GOI began sponsoring a number of programs
designed to meet the need for more effective, countrywide agricultural
development: the Community Development Programs in 1952, National Extension
Service Blocks in 1953, Intensive Agricultural District Programs in 1960,
Intensive Agricultural Area Programs in 1963-64, and the Small and Marginal
Farmers Development Program in 1969-70. Despite their proliferation, these
programs reached only a part of the farmer population, and often, the rela-
tively better off.,
3.2     Foodgrain yields in India's Eastern Region have been generally low
and production bas barely kept pace with population. Moreover, National
Development Plan agricultural production targets looked to the Region to
provide around half of the nation's increase in foodgrain production during
the fifth plan period. However, it was recognized that, because of the
unusually severe constraints to development in the region, a concentrated
effort would be needed to realize the full potential.
3.3     In November 1974, GOI and WB agreed to undertake a joint review of
the Eastern Region comprising Assam. Bihar, Orissa, West Bengal and eastern
Uttar Pradesh, to assess agricultural potential, identify critical con-
straints and ascertain the opportunities to accelerate foodgrain production.
The region's claim for priority attention was accepted by WB in its April
1975 Economic Report (691-IN) and it was agreed to give special emphasis to
the development of agricultural projects.
3.4     Favorable experience of the training and visits system of managing
agricultural extension (T&V) had been obtained in India through pilot
projects. in the "Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project" and the
"Chambal Command Area Development Project" in 1974/75. The first state in
India to adopt T&V extensively (covering six districts) was West Bengal, in
the earlier (1975) West Bengal Agricultural Development Project (WBADP Credit
No. 541-IN). GOWB was so impressed with the results and decided to extend
the reorganization to cover the entire State. However, it became quickly



-4-
apparent that the new system needed considerably more managerial and techni-
cal support than was then available, in extension itself, in adaptive
research and in coordination at all levels. The WBAERP was designed to help
provide that support.
Project Appraisal
3.5     A WB project preparation mission visited West Bengal in March 1976,
to review GOWB proposals. Based on the findings of that mission and sub-
sequent reviews, the Appraisal Report No. 1288a-IN was issued on March 10.
1977.
Goals and Targets
3.6     The immediate target was to achieve early and sustained statewide
improvement in crop production by strengthening and expanding agricultural
extension activities in the T&V pattern. This action was to complement T&V
development over previous years in six administrative districts of the State.
Improvements in production would be sustained by the introduction of new
technologies to be developed through consolidating and strengthening the
State's applied and adaptive research capabilities.
3.7     The eventual goal of the project was to achieve a long-term,
integrated development of institutions and factors concerned with and con-
tributing to agricultural extension throughout the State. in order to maxi-
mize agricultural production.
General Description of the Project
3.8     The project objectives over a 5-year period were to:
-   extend the T&V system to all the 17 agricultural districts of
West Bengal;
-   provide additional staff, housing and transport to the Extension
Wing of the Directorate of Agriculture (DOA);
-   improve the existing seven (later revised to five) Gramsevak Training
Centers (later renamed Agricultural Training Centers) by constructing
additional classrooms and housing and providing them with vehicles
and modern teaching aids;
-   develop and upgrade six (later revised to five) Commodity Research
Stations (CRS), six Zonal Adaptive Research Stations (ZARS) and 50
Sub-divisional Adaptive Research Farms (SARFs) for spreading and
str.ngthening adaptive research in all the agro- climatic zones of
the State;



-5-
-   establish a Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Cell to constantly
monitor the progress of the T&V system and evaluate its impact on
agricultural production; and
-   provide training for research and extension officers in India and
abroad and up to 15 man-months of consultancy services.
Project Components
3.9     Extension.  By the introduction of T&V throughout the State, farmers
were to be provided, on a regular and systematic basis, with up-to-date
advice on farming practices best suited to their specific conditions, espe-
cially proven practices having immediate impact on income. Preconditions for
introducing T&V were the establishment of a single line of command from the
Director of Agriculture to the Village Level Extension Workers (VEWs) and the
transfer to the DA of 2,400 (75%) of the existing 3,200 village level multi-
purpose workers and merging them with 1,600 other DOA field staff redeployed
from "special schemes" into a unified service employed exclusively on
agricultural extension. Sufficient numbers of staff (about 450) of the first
supervisory level, the Agricultural Extension Officer (AEO), were already
in-service and available for deployment to the project, to give a supervisory
ratio of AEO to VEWs of 1 to 9.
3.10    Additional higher supervisory and specialist cadres were to be
provided to achieve staffing patterns in accordance with T&V norms, thus
enabling the extension service to react closely with selected contact
farmers, who would be representative of a cross-section of all crop farmers
and would comprise about one-tenth of all farmers (resulting in 800 to 1,200
farm families per VEW). Extension messages communicated to farmers were to
be simple and relevant to seasonal aspects of the area's crops and initially
would emphasize low-cost improvements in cultural practices; introduction of
higher cost inputs and practices would follow at a later stage. Visit
programs of VEWs, supervisory staff patterns, and training and technical
support of all extension staff, were to be in accordance with T&V methodol-
ogy. y/
3.11    To enable extension staff to maintain the required regular and fre-
quent farm visits, GOWB gave assurances that VEWs would live in their
assigned areas; in support of this, low cost suitably sited houses were to be
provided from the project for 25% of VEWs and 40X of AEOs and farm managers.
Also, loans for purchase of motorcycles for AEOs and bicycles for VEhs were
made available. Additional vehicles and equipment were to be provided at
headquarters, districts and subdivisions, including one mobile training unit
1/ Agricultural Extension: Training and Visit Syetem (World Bank, 1977,
revised 1983).



-6-
van per district for training and demonstration. Incremental vehicle operat-
ing costs and staff travelling allowances were also to be provided.
3.12    In order to strengthen field supervision and technical support, and
further decentralize extension activities, the project was to finance the
construction and equipping of 50 subdivisionel offices; also, infrastructure,
equipment and operating funds were to be provided for conversion of 50 DOA
seed farms into subdivisional adaptive trials farms.
3.13    Training.  The project was to support training of both new and exist-
ing staff, by providing equipment and extension aids, incremental attendance
costs for orientation, seasonal, and other short-term training, and scholar-
ships for advanced training of selected staff. For pre-service training of
future VEWs. the existing training centers were to be upgraded by provision
of civil works, equipment, vehicles and additional staff.
3.14    Research.  The project was to support adaptivt research in DOA by
strengthening five existing Commodity Research Stations (CRS) and estab-
lishing a new CRS for crop production research with emphasis on wheat; and by
strengthening two existing substations and establishing four new Zonal Adap-
tive Research Stations (ZARS), for zonal testing of improved varieties and
new c4ltivation practices for the various crops, in the main agro-climatic
zones of the State. Also, 50 existing seed farms, one in each subdivision,
were to be converted to Subdivisional Adaptive Research Farms (SARF).
3.15    The commodity-oriented adaptive research program, on a
multi-disciplinary basis, was to identify and select improved varieties of
important crops obtained from national and international research institu-
tions and develop packages of economically significant agronomic practices
directed to substantially increasing crop production. The zonal stations
were to develop improved cultural practices for the crops recommended by the
commodity stations, adapted to the particular agro-climatic zones. Promising
varieties were to be identified and schedules prepared for control measures
on pests and diseases. Studies on cropping patterns, crop rotation and
irrigation requirements were also to be undertaken.
3.16    The research component of the project was to provide for civil works,
including the construction of laboratory, office and station buildings,
houses for 652 of staff, fencing and irrigation development, together with
laboratory and other equipment, including 27 vehicles (two of them power
boats), books, journals, and auxiliary power generators. At fulh develop-
ment, professional staff were to be increased from 121 to 260 and support
staffing was also to be increased. Incremental salaries, allowances and
other operating expenses, amounting to 27% of total research costs, were to
be financed from the project.



-7-
3.17    Monitoring and Evaluation.  An M&E unit was to be created in the DOA
to carry out sample surveys and specia? studies which would provide informa-
tion needed for day-to-day project management and longer term policy plan-
ning.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATING PERFORMANCE
Start-up
4.1     The project received WB Board approval on March 22, 1977.  The Credit
Agreement was signed on June 1, 1977, and became effective on August 30,
1977. Reorganization of the extension service along project lines had
already progressed in six districts from August 1975, assisted by the former
project, WBADP. However, as 1977 progressed there was a complete reappraisal
of the T&V concept by the newly-elected GOWB. which resulted in a reversal of
the process of transferring VEWs to the sole authority of the DOA. Progress
on contracting of civil works for the project was also frozen. NDO reports
of April 1980 still reported lack of progress "because of the delay on the
part of GOWB in deciding whether or not to go through with the project". It
was only in 1981, through continuous dialogue with the State Government, that
the situation was resolved to the extent that effective action could be taken
to launch the project.
Revisions
4.2     No formal change was made in project design during implementation,
although there were changes in extension staffing. However, due to the
delayed start on civil works, and design revisions, a reduced building
program was agreed on between GOWB and NDO. As early as 1978 GOWB requested,
and WB agreed to an extension of the credit closing date by two years, to
September 30. 1984. This was later further extended to March 31, 1985.
Overall Performance
4.3     Introduction of T&V methodology had achieved reasonable overall
progress before the start of the project, especially under WBADP. However,
there was serious setback at the start of the WBAERP as indicated in
para 4.1. After having received renewed GOWB endorsement in 1980/81, the
program was again implemented with renewed enthusiasm on the part of DOA,
though progress was blocked by difficulties in staffing.
4.4     The general pattern which has evolved is of scattered areas in which
extension messages (generated under the severe constraints of a weak research
program) are reaching farmers through T&V and are appreciated by them, but
those progressive areas are interspersed with large tracts in which extension
is still very weak. However, after completion of the project, the GOWB has
appointed more field extension staff and now 3,646 VEWs are on duty against
the sanctioned strength of 4,000.



-8-
Physical Implementation
4.5     Civil Works.  Before work started, there were lengthy discussions as
to the agency which should be responsible for the planning and execution of
civil works. A Building Implementation Cell (BIC) was created in the Public
Works Department (PWD). To guide this unit a State Level Steering Committee
was formed (which later ceased to function). At first, the intention was to
use private architects, but their preliminary tenders were so high that the
task was returned to PWD for design by its own architects and also for execu-
tion of the construction work through supervision of Government registered
contractors.
4.6     Construction of VEW houses started in 1980.  Of the 1,000 planned,
only 299 were eventually constructed. The shortfall was due partly to
non-availability of suitable sites and partly because the eventual cost per
VEW house (Rs 45,000) was three times the appraisal estimate (Rs 15,000 "low
cost housing"), and construction of housing of the lower standard initially
proposed was not acceptable to the Government authorities. For the CRS,
ZARSs, SARFs, and ATCs, designs were cleared and construction started only in
1982, being completed in March 1985. Total civil works expenditure was about
75Z of the appraisal estimate.
4.7     Tendering procedures were conducted within the terms of the State
Government's regulations. No major defects in building construction have
been observed or reported. Constructions inspected by the PCR mission
appeared sound.
4.8     Procurement.  Virtually all items of vehicles and equipment (Table 2)
were procured more or less as planned. Vehicles were of local manufacture
and purchased under regular government tendering procedures. Small equipment
were purchased locally by prudent shopping, and no delays were experienced.
The use of personal loans for the pcrchase of motorcycles by AEOs was below
target, whereas it exceeded the appraisal estimate in the case of bicycles
purchased by VEWs.
4.9     Procurement followed standard procedures established by most states
in India. Tenders were advertised, bids received and items procured accord-
ing to the normal tender rules as specified under the procedures of the GOI
and GOWB. However, West Bengal is exceptional in the case of vehicles;
purchases had to be approved by the highest level, which is the Cabinet, even
to the extent of the brand names. Procedures were cumbersome and
time-consuming and a major cause of delays in implementation.
4.10    Staffing.  The staffing levels for extension, training and research
which were envisaged at appraisal were not achieved. As will be described
more fully later, the development of all project activities was severely
constrained by staff shortages. An overriding problem was the raising of
court injunctions by a few dissatisfied staff members who were passed over



-9-
for promotion. These injunctions effectively froze for several years the
whole process of the recruitment, promotion and transfer throughout the
agricultural service.
Institutional Improvement and Operating Performance
4.11    Extension.  Because of the reversal of GOWB policy in the first years
of the project (para 4.1), most of the original VEWs were returned to the
Panchayat Department.  Thereafter, posts for 1,600 new VEWs (starting in
1979) had to go through the lengthy procedure of sanctioning through the GOWB
budget, after which the personnel had to be recruited and trained. The first
batch of 500 VEWs was posted by January 1981. At that time, because of
confusion of the name. VEW, with the general purpose VLW, the title was
officially changed from Village Level Extension Worker to Krishi Praukti
Sahayak or KPS. By 1984 the number of KPS in the field was 1,927 as against
2,445 which had been sanctioned by GOWB and the appraisal target of 4,000
(Table 3).
4.12    The AEO rank of field supervisor was later upgraded to Agricultural
Development Officer (ADO). By 1984, 250 ADOs were in position (450 target at
appraisal; 335 posts sanctioned), but they were still not free to devote full
time to extension. In the middle supervisory levels, the Subdivisional
Agricultural Officers (SAO), the Principal Agricultural officers (PAO) in
charge of districts and the Joint Directors of Agricultural (JDA) at range
level were all responsible for the full range of DOA services which hampered
field supervision work relating to agricultural extension.
4.13    Repeated assurances were given by GOWB that constraints would be
removed, but it was proved to be beyond the power and/or will of the
Administration to comply. The court injunctions (para 4.10) still have not
been fully resolved and have seriously hampered the development of both
extension and research activities.
4.14    The fact that the extension service is still operating below poten-
tial is a reflection of the difficulties faced in effecting a major reor-
ganization of a strongly entrenched bureaucracy and of the time it takes to
change attitudes both within and outside the affected service, in favor of
the fundamentally different approach of the new structure. Project implemen-
tation suffered from poor internal supervision, partly due to staffing short-
falls and frequent transfers at top level, and partly to the failure to
deploy middle-level management staff whose principal task would be to imple-
ment the extension program.
4.15    An area of technical weakness was in the formulation of production
recommendations appropriate for different farming areas and situations. This
was a direct consequence of the staffing problems which made it impossible
during much of the project period to use to full effect, the expanded adap-
tive research facilities supported by the project. More recently, however,



-10-
there have been definite improvements in developing and communicating
relevant and specific extension messages through organization of training
workshops, seminars and joint field visits of extension and research staff.
4.16    Extension staff continue to spend considerable time on input supply
matters, particularly the distribution of improved seed. It is well recog-
nized by the DOA management that greater attention has to be paid to the
management and logistics of alternative input delivery systems to meet the
new demands of the situation.
4.17    A further problem concerns the amount of time taken in program
administration, fulfilling reporting requirements and attending meetings.
This is particularly a problem at middle management levels and is greatest
in relation to technical dissemination and follow-up and routine field
supervision.
4.18    The difficulties outlined above, though significant, should not be
permitted to obscure the steady progress which has been made in some areas
and the notable achievements which have begun in t*he institutional develop-
ment of research and extension.
4.19    Training.  The regular, routine training activities of the T&V sys-
tem, namely fortnightly training of KPSs and ADOs by SMSs and the SAO:
monthly workshops for ADOs, middle management and research staff; and
pre-season briefings for all personnel, have been properly scheduled and the
required meetings have been held. However, the quality of the training has
suffered badly from lack of adequately trained and specialized SMSs and
insufficient participation by senior officers. Apart from this routine
training, other special training was not planned systematically. However,
since 1983-84, some steps have been taken to arrange specialized training,
with the help of GOI. In 1983-84, 41 SMSs were trained, and 87 in 1984-85.
Also, during 1984-85 a series of special-subject workshops were held for
ADOs.
4.20    The provision for training the teaching staff of the ATCB was util-
ized about 50%, the deficit being due to shortage of trainers. The full
capacity of the ATC is required only for short periods. In fact, the ATCs
have a much greater potential capacity than needed just for the training of
extension staff.
4.21    The provision of 300 training fellowships was practically unused
(only six were used), largely because training was perceived by project
management not .to be feasible in view of short staffing. Also, procedural
requirements for clearance at GOI level acted as a disincentive.
4.22    The pre-service training of newly recruited KPSs was expected at the
time of appraisal to concern only replacement of normal attrition, because
sufficient village level staff were apparently available for transfer to T&V.



-11
As described in para 4.11, a need arose to train a large number of new KPSs.
The training course of one year (already cut from the two years previously
required for the general purpose VLW), was again reduced to a six months
period in the first instance, followed after about two years service by a
further six months training. This cut to six months allowed two groups per
year to be admitted to the seven ATCs, which were to be strengthened under
the project. In fact, the crash program of training was completed before any
of the project actions to improve the ATCs became effective. The change of
the training schedule to two separate periods of six months with field serv-
ice in between has, by general consensus, been more successful than the
previous continuous year of training. The second period of six months has
been judged the more fruitful, because the trainees have by then become more
aware of job requirements and are strongly motivated to learn.
4.23    The amount of new construction envisaged at appraisal for the ATCs
was reviewed by the new GOWB administration which ruled it to be excessive.
In that event, only some of the classrooms were provided, costing Rs 1.96 M
instead of the Rs 12.5 M included for this component in the appraisal
estimates. In retrospect, this revision appears fully justified, as the
original provisions were too large. The ATCs are still operating much below
capacity due partly to the overall short-staffing; also, the practical demand
and use for the type of short courses which this relatively low level of
training facility can offer is less than expected at appraisal.
4.24    Research. Agricultural research in West Bengal is primarily done by
the DOA which has long had Commodity Research Stations and a reasonably
competent cadre of research staff. However, in keeping with the policy
guidelines of the GOI Indian Council of Agricultural Reseatch (ICAR), the
GOWB established a separate State Agricultural University (SAU) in 1974, not
only to conduct teaching in agricultural sciences, but also to carry out
fundamental ard applied research in agriculture. Although the SAU has
launched all its teaching departments, its efforts in research activities
have yet to bear fruit. Recently, a high-level GOWB committee has looked
into the mechanics of transferring all aspects of fundamental and applied
research to the SAU, with the intention of retaining only adaptive research
with the DOA.
4.25    In consideration of the above situation, the project aimed to
strengthen research in DOA. Laboratory buildings, store houses, glass
houses, lath houses for field staff, threshing floors, dormitories and staff
quarters have been completed at all the research stations and farms where
work was taken up under the project (para 3.14). In seven of the CRSs and
ZARSs, the laboratories have started functioning and most of the staff mem-
bers have moved into the quarters constructed for them. In the remaining
four ZARSs the laboratories have not yet become operational, as some aspects
of work remain to be completed.



-12-
4.26    A statement of the staff position regarding research, giving the
number of existing professional posts, the incremental number provided in
the project, the number of posts sanctioned and the number actually in posi-
tion, is given in Table 7.
4.27    Of the 112 professional posts which were already sanctioned in the
pre-project situation, 60 (53%) have remained vacant throughout the project
period. Of the 159 incremental professional posts provided by the project,
106 (67%) were eventually sanctioned by GOWB, but only 32 have been filled.
Overall, 63% of existing and incremental sanctioned posts remain vacant.
This represents 69% of the staffing rate proposed in the appraisal target.
4.28    Research work already in progress at existing research stations at
the start of the project has continued to produce valuable recommendations
for extension (see Table 8). However. relatively little work has been done
on local adaptations to suit particular agro-climatic conditions. No trials
were conducted on farmers' fields under the control of the adaptive research
personnel. Overall, the effectiveness of adaptive research remains severely
constrained by the lack of staff. A major consequence was that research work
did not respond to problems transmitted by extension field staff and did not
adequately address real farm situations. Research input into the T&V system
was particularly limited because of the generally ineffective participation
of research staff in monthly workshops.
4.29    There has been no need for a formal committee, as proposed in the
Project, specifically to coordinate extension and research at State level,
because virtually all relevant activities are under the direct supervision of
the Director of Agriculture. Moreover, the Program Planning and Implementa-
tion Committee chaired by the APC, is concerned with all DOA activities,
including clearance of the programs of trials proposed by the seven Zonal
Adaptive Research Committees.
4.30    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E).  The M&E unit was incorporated into
the Socio-Economic Evaluation Branch of DOA which existed earlier. The M&E
office at Calcutta headquarters is still understaffed. The posts of Economic
Research Officer and Evaluation Officer are vacant. The Agricultural
Economist who is also ex-officio ADA in charge of M&E has had to look after
farm management and statistical affairs generally within the DOA. He could
not provide adequate time to project M&E problems. He has been closely
assisted by the Rural Sociologist JDA, who has written most of the M&E
reports, giving about 75% of his time to M&E work. A JDA Statistician
attached to a separate office, has also worked about 20% for M&E. Thus, all
higher officers of the M&E unit must be considered as working only part-time
for M&E. Moreover, one supervisor and one compiler are now working
full-time.
4.31    The Socio-Economic Evaluation Branch of the DOA works rather inde-
pendently and totally separate of other offices, in all 17 districts. This



-13-
branch is comparatively better staffed than various other DOA units and thus.
prepared to also do M&E work. The time allocated to M&E can be estimated at
25%. Always, an Assistant Statistical Officer (a University graduate) is in
charge at the district level. One qualified supervisor assists him together
with a computer and several assistant investigators. But also here, not all
posts are filled. As an example, out of the 60 posts sanctioned in GOWB
budget for investigators, 39 were filled at the time of completion of the
project. (Now 59 have been filled.)
4.32    Government did not sanction all the additional posts foreseen in the
project for M&E. Then it took considerable time to find suitable candidates,
after some lengthy formulating of recruitment procedures. Training of can-
didates took further time. Eventually work started in mid-1982. There was
also delay in the finalization of the questionnaires, printing of forms. etc.
Thus, M&E work started late and with an incomplete team; full work only
started in 1983.
4.33    Mobility of M&E staff has always been limited.  Only the HQ office
for M&E received three jeeps. The appraisal report did not make provision
for transportation of M&E staff at the field level, The provision for field
extension staff to obtain loans to purchase motorcycles and bicycles was not
extended to M&E staff. This must be considered an oversight of the
appraisal.
4.34    The first report published was for Rabi 1982/83 and so far 10 reports
are out (see Table 12). One special study was carried out in 1984 on the
situation of contact farmers; the report was published in June 1985.
4.35    The methodology and statistical procedures recommended by WB were
usually followed (e.g., use of statistically unbiased samples). There were
some constraints; for instance, sam.pling was confined to areas covered by T&V
which was only about 50% of the total area, as there were not enough KPSs for
all areas. The areas not covered by T&V were scattered all over the State.
Crop cutting experiments were also done by the M&E unit, by the assistant
investigators, with an output of 2 crop cutting experiments per day. In
addition, the Bureau of Applied Economics and Statistics of GOWB is respon-
sible for estimates of production and productivity for 20 major crops. These
are separately published.
4.36    M&E crop cutting is limited to the purpose of the evaluation of the
T&V system. The work load and work plans are shown in Tables 11 to 13.
4.37    The M&E surveys may be broadly divided into:
-   those monitoring the operational implementation of the project, and
-   those concerned with the adoption of technology.



-14-
4.38    The aim of the first group of surveys was to obtain knowledge on the
progress and status of the introduction and institutionalization of the T&V
system. Analysis of farmer's reactions to and awareness of the T&V program
is shown in Table 14 (see also para 6.8).
4.39    The other group of surveys assessed if farmers were familiar with
recommended practices and whether they had adopted them (Table 15). If they
had not, they were asked why. In Table 16, reasons for partial or
non-adoption of recommendations are given. Lack of capital or
non-availability of inputa rank among the most frequent replies.
Input Su2ply and Credit
4.40    West Bengal's agricultural technology is relatively well developed,
compared to quite a number of other Indian states. Bullocks are the main
source of draught power, though there is a generally small plot size; there
is some mechanization by tractors, Food crop production plays a major role
in terms of contribution to GDP. Fertilizer consumption in food crops is
some 52 kg/ha (1985) which is among the highest in India and compares to the
all-India figure of 35 kg/ha (1982). Foodgrain yields are higher than
average (1,232 kg/ha). But per capita foodgrain production was low (133
kg/year) in the period 1979/80 to 1983/84, against the all-India average of
187 kg. In the years 1979/80 to 1983/84, West Bengal experienced an annual
food production growth of 1.4%, while that of all-India was 2.22.
4.41    Effective agricultural development requires adequate availability of
credit to support input supply and marketing processes. While in West Bengal
the input delivery system for seeds, fertilizers and pesticides continues
to place relatively too large a burden on the extension staff (see also
4.16), it is fairly well established and by and large, meets the State's
requirements for credit supplying agencies. However. and particularly in
the cooperative sector, they have not performed well in recent years, with a
substantial fall in the repayments (only about 35-40X of demand) and heavy
accumulation of overdues (60-65%). This has resulted in the virtual choking
of the credit channels so that only 20-25 of the short term credit used is
now coming from institutional agencies, while the rest comes from more expen-
sive non-institutional sources and private input suppliers themselves.
4.42    Recently, the GOWB has revamped the credit institutions and
strengthened the collection drives, so that the situation should improve in
the coming years. As regards marketing, both the GOI and GOWB participate in
price support operations for major crops like rice, wheat, potato and jute.
Except for potato, there has been no major problem in price support opera-
tions in recent years. The GOWB is considering steps to improve the market-
ing of potato by increasing the cold storage capacity. In recent years
selected rural markets have been developed and linked with feed#-tr roads,
which has helped farmers to market their produce and buy their necessities
locally.



-15-
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Provisions
5.1     The estimated project cost was US$28.15 M of which US$3.55 was met by
carryover from the pravious WBADP, including US$1.7 M reimbursed from Credit
541-fN. Of the remainder US$12.6 M was to come from GOWB and US$12.0 from
IDA Credit 690-IN. The proportions allocated to the components were:
Percent
Extension                                             55
Upgrading training centers                             5
Adaptive research                                     39
Evaluation unit and farm surveys                       1
100
and allocations by expenditure category were:
Civil works                                           40
Equipment and vehicles                                14
Training and consultancy                               5
Incremental salaries, allowances
and operating costs                               41
100
The disbursements under the Credit were to be:
Foreign expenditures for laboratory equipment        100%
Training and consultancy services                    100%
Civil works and locally procured equipment
and vehicles                                       90z
5.2     It may be noted that there were to be no disburseemets of the Credit
for salaries, allowances and operating costs. Also, the Credit Agreement was
rather vague on which items could be included for reimbursement under the
heading of training, though it was taken as being restricted to training
outside the State.
5.3     Actual disbursements were slow.  The project became effective in
August 1977 and no disbursements were made up to June 1982, reflecting the
serious start-up problems noted in para 4.1. After six years only 10.8% of
the Credit was used. The Credit was closed on March 31, 1985, and the last
disbursement was made on November 18, 1985.



-16-
5.4     According to the statements received from DOA, the total project
expenditure, including staff salaries, was Re 188.9 M up to March 31, 1985,
compared with the appraisal target of Rs 195.2 M (Table 21). The schedule of
disbursements is contained in Table 21. Unit costs of construction are shown
in Table 23. It was proposed to construct cheap (Lath) houses for VEWs in
the rural area, at a cost of Re 15,000 per house. But the actual cost came
to about Rs 45,000 per house; although the number of civil works constructed
was much lower than proposed (see key indicators) therefore, the disbursement
against this category reached 86% of appraisal target.
Credit Allocation      Disbursement
---(US$ million--…
Civil works                                       7.1                   6.12
Overseas training/consultants                      1.1                  0.08
Equipment and vehicles                            2.6                   0.65
Unallocated                                        1.3                   _
12.0                  6.85
Financial Management
5.5     In the years 1976-79, adequate budget provisions were granted.
However, because each year's provisions were under-utilized, the amount for
the following year was reduced. When project activities accelerated in 1979,
the budget provision was then too small and could not be increased because of
general budgetary constraints. Project developments therefore had to be cut
back. By the closing date less than 60% of the Credit had been utilized.
5.6     Funds for the project were provided on the basis of annual alloca-
tions in the State budget (Annual Plan), following approval by the GOWB
Cabinet. Thereafter, work programs were initiated by the DOA subject to the
budget provision. The project is also included in the Five-Year State
Development Plan, which was indicative and used for general coordination.
Sanctioned funds were released to the Director of Agriculture, or to the
Engineering Department (in case of civil works).
VI. ASSESSMENT OF IMPACT
Impact on Production
6.1     For an assessment of the growth of production, natural conditions
prevailing in recent years as well as levels of inputs have to be taken into
consideration. Besides variable factors (amount and timeliness of rainfall,
utilization of improved seed, fertilizer and agro-chemical application rates)
there are those factors like soil quality which remain more or less constant
but which still influence production. Also, average crop yields may decline



-17-
as areas of less-favored soils are broughL into production. Furthermore, the
effectiveness of supporting services like credit, marketing and agricultural
extension as well as linked research are all relevant. In West Bengal the
following factors affecting production are particularly significant:
-   there were floods in 1978/79 and 8 drought in 1979/80;
-   abouv 1.2 M ha of land in the Ganges/Hooghly 'galley is endangered
by frequent flooding, while another 202 is low-lying and affected
by salt intrusion;
-   irrigated areas are producing much below their potential;
-   high yielding variety seeds are already widely used; however,
further expansion of their use is possible;
-   although input supply is generally well developed, there are
constraints caused by uneven distribution;
-   there is great pressure on land, caused by high population density.
and a high incidence of share-cropping. About 87% of farmers have
operational holdings of less than 2 ha, distributed over an average
of 8 fragments.
6.2     Although it is still too early in the course of project implementa-
tion to expect a fully r*:iable measure of project impact, the West Bengal
official yield data of the pre-project and project years have been compared
and indexed (Table 24). (It should be noted that, given the range of vari-
able affecting production and limitation on the quality of data available,
the information on pre-project and project years is only a poor substitute
for information on, with and without, project conditions). Tvo crops, namely
potatoes and oilseeds, show significant yield increases, rice and jute show
an indication of an increase and two of the major crops (pulses and wheat)
show decreases in yield.  The index figures of rolling five-year averages,
taking the pre-project period 1971/75 as the base line, for major crops are
as follows:
1971/75    1976/80    1977/80      1978/82     1979/83
Rice               100         109        109          102          104
Wheat              100          92         90           91           98
Pulses             100          85         84           82           87
Oilseeds           100         106        107          105          110
Jute               100          97         99          103          105
Sugarcane          100         108        108         104           101
Potatoes           100         116        119         126           135



-18-
6.3     It may be observed that by 1985, average yield trends did not indi-
cate a clearly significant impact of the project for all the major crops.
Only potatoes, which is an important crop for West Bengal, and oilseeds show
significant increases. However, as noted above, there are many problems in
assessing or isolating the impact of one factor (the project) alone and
factoring out the impact of other variables, such as the timeliness of rain-
fall and the often devastating flooding and soil erosion going with the heavy
rainfall of West Bengal. Also population pressure leading to expansion of
cultivation into marginal soils plays a role. Besides, the effect of
agricultural extension and research on growth also depends on infrastructural
improvements, such as drainage or development of minor irrigation.
6.4     Lack of uniformity over time in the bases of official statistics
hamper long-term analysis. Also, the standard error in district level
estimates is often in exce-3 of the normally accepted 5%. Further, the
disaggregation of project and non-project factors presents considerable
difficulties. Although a multi-factoral regressional analysis is theoreti-
cally possible, it would only be worthwhile after improving the accuracy and
uniformity of data.
6.5     It is not useful to apply an economic rate of return calculation for
the extension activities. The yield increase of 1 - 2% by 1985 which would
generate a rate of return of above 50% (as postulated in the appraisal
report), may well have occurred, but causality cannot be clearly established
in view of the many non-project factors.
6.6     Though the economic results of the proj'ct cannot be expressed mathe-
matically, changes of farmers' attitudes about improved farming methods, and
in the rates of adoption were enthusiastically stated by farmers in areas
where organized system of extension was implemented.
6.7     Crop cutting experiment results have been compiled from various
reports in Table 17 and 18. In general, rice yields are on the low side.
Wheat, which is a recent introduction in West Bengal, also has not shown
improvement in yields. However, while to start with, the wheat was grown on
the more suitable soils, recently wheat cultivation has expanded into less
suitable areas where soils are marginal, thus having a depressing effect on
average yield.
Institutional Impact
6.8     The long-term effect of the project on institution building in the
DOA is only expected to be positive and significant if continued, and greater
commitment is shown by GOWB to the underlying objectives. The build-up of
operational capability has been much slower than planned and achieved only in
limited areas in spite of the extension of the project period.   At the time
of project completion the institutional framework of T&V was in place but
with only about 50% of the personnel required, leaving extensive areas of



-19-
every district without extension staff. Since then the position has improved
and about 90% of the sanctioned posts have been filled up. In areas where it
does operate, the mechanics of T&V are becoming accepted and practiced,
training sessions are becoming increasingly well prepared and staff are
receiving training. Farmers' response has been positive to the extension
advice and the yields obtained are higher than those who received or did not
receive advice from other sources. Similarly, farmers who were visited by
the extension staff twice or more in the crop season, obtained higher yields
than those who had one or no visits. The results of surveys on the relation-
ship between source of advice and the trumber of visits are shown in Tables 17
and 18. The gains achieved lack momentum however, and will require reinfor-
cement, combined with development of effective backstopping by the Direc-
torate of Agricultural Extension (GOI).
6.9     Research work in DOA was already well established before the project,
although it was not strongly committed or directed to adaptive research. As
yet, the project has had little impact on research, because civil works have
only recently been completed and only 40X of proposed staff are in position.
VII. BANK PERFORMANCE
7.1     The World Bank, mainly through supervision missions (Table 1) and
other technical back-stopping by NDO staff, has contributed significantly
to project achievements by patiently and persistently encouraging GOWB to
adopt the project concept and improve performance. The comprehensive field
reports prepared during supervision appear to have been particularly valu-
able, going far beyond the scope of the usual supervisicn report, and having
provided specific observations and recommendations which have given con-
tinuity and substance to the supervision/development process.
7.2     With hindsight, some of the delays in civil works implementation
could have been avoided by including a professional assessment of the
capabilities and capacity of the building construction industry early in the
project cycle. This might have resulted in a more timely completion of the
civil works component and might have been achieved by the inclusion of an
architect at appraisal or with an early supervision mission. An architect
would have helped to identify and predict the constraints and promote viable
courses of action to circumvent the problems. However, as noted earlier in
this PCR, fundamental concerns about the project design and about some of the
building design standards by the new state administration which took over
shortly after project negotiations and approval were also major reasons for
delays, and involvement by an architect would have helped solve only part of
the problem.
7.3     Insufficient attention was given during project preparation and
appraisal to the details of administrative mechanisms needed for achieving
the substantial staff reorganization and redeployment required by the



-20-
project, mechanisms which would be viable within the unavoidable confines of
the civil service personnel regulations.
VIII.  CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
Project Justification and Objectives
8.1     The main objective of the project was to strengthen and reorganize
the extension service and related adaptive research activities in order to
increase agricultural production especially among small-scale farmers. That
objective was appropriate at the time of project formulation and remains
relevant today.
Project Formulation
8.2     The project was boldly conceived to bring the benefits of extension
and research to the whole of the State. Unfortunately, the envisaged
institutional transformation has been only partly implemented and the process
of reaching and maintaining a consensus on project concepts w.ith changing
senior State authorities has proven to be more time consuming and difficult
than expected. Especially regarding staff appointments, transfers and promo-
tions, the project formulation seriously underestimated the magnitude of the
administrative problems arising, dith the result that many planned posts
remained unfilled throughout the project period.
8.3     A related problem arose, mainly because it was wrongly assumed that
old-style VLWs could easily be transferred to (pure) extension duties and
therefore, relatively few new staff would need to be recruited. As no dis-
bursements against the Credit were permitted for incremental staff salaries,
allowances and operating costs (this being the only agricultural extension
project in India to ha,d that restriction), and the state had considerable
difficulty in sorting out administrative complications of transfers, DOA was
necessarily hampered in obtaining extra funds through the GOWB budget when it
was realized that substantial new extension staff recruitment was necessary.
8.4     The project was over-optimistic in assessing the time it would take
to overcome bureaucratic inertia and to introduce and consolidate major
reorganizations in the existing already strong institutions. Also, much more
time than planned was necessary to get the civil works under way.
8.5     The expansion of all seven ATCs in the State, as proposed in the
project, would have resulted in substantial over-capacity of the facilities.
Fortunately, GOWB realized this and, as a result, did not implement most of
the construction program at the ATCs. Even so, there is probably still
excess training capacity. It would probably have been more economical to
provide for fewer ATCs, properly staffed and under full utilization.



-21-
8.6     Some of the delays in the civil works component could have been
foreseen and perhaps forestalled by the involvement of a professional
architect during project formulation (or at least during the early stages ot
supervision'.
Evaluation of Implementation and Outcome
8.7     It is too early for an evaluation to be made of the impact of the
project, which would have to be measured in terms of improvements in yields
and production. The project objectives in institutional development in terms
of manpower and operational framework, have been achieved only in dispersed
areas of the State. The generation of an adequate amount and quality of
technical knowledge and packages of practices for transfer to farmers, has
been-- and continues to be-- slow.
8.8     The GOWB appears always to have had reservations on the need for
field extension staff to be used solely on extension, which is probably an
added reason for slow implementation. The project should have paid more
attention to the need for parallel development of means to carry out other
essential agricultural servicing which would not be covered by the new exten-
sion-only cadre.
8.9     The project can have a major impact on agriculture only after con-
siderable further institutional improvement has occurred and the system has
built up greater momentum. It is too early to predict with certainty what
the impact will be. However, responses of farmers who have been reached, and
also of DOA staff have been enthusiastic and new practices are found to
spread more quickly than before. The improvement has been noticeable in both
irrigated and rainfed areas.



xt
k



lN)IA: CREDIT NO. 690 - IN
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXtENSION & RESEARCU PROJECT
PROGRESS IN CIVIL WORKS: EXTENSION SERVICE
Category of Works       Appraisal   Allotted      Completed       Completion yeartVia  by P.1WD.              Under          Crand Total
Construction           Target         to             by            1981-      1982-     1983-    1984-     Construction
Total       P.WUD.        P.14D.             82         83        84       85      August 1985
.P.S. Qtre.               1000        299            280              ,41         ?4       136       29           19              299
Farm  mnager Qtrs.          45         45            45                 -          -        39        6           -                45
Conference Rall             25         24              1              Nil         NIl    N"l          1           23               25
H.S.  Expenditure after March '85 will be borne by the State Government.
Source; Superintending Engineer. P.U.D. Butilding Implementation Cell.
er
0-A
0)



- 24 -
Table 2
INDIA: CREDIT 690-IN
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
List of Equipment Procured
1977-79   1979-81   1981-83   1983-85   Total
Vehicle                        53          3         6          26        88
Power tiller                   30          8         -           6        44
Calculator                     67          -         2          14        83
Projector                      10          -        38           8        56
Screen/Board                2,000          -         -           -    2,000
Camera                         10        .14         -           -        24
Tape recorder                   -         73         -           -        73
Cassette                        -      2,190         -           -    2,190
Generator                       -          -         -          10        10



INDIA: CREDIT 690-IN
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Staffitna Proaress, Extension Service
Total Emoluments
Basic               at the Mi nimu  of         Aonr±jais     Posts Sanctioned    PostL.Filled
Nae  f Post                   Scale of Pay                tlelarSar1et If   1978-79  1984-85                          1984-85
Bps/month
ExtensionRp/ot
JDA (WBP)                     1.600 to 2.250                 3.000                   1            1        1               I
JDA (Ronge)                   1.600 to 2.250                 3.000                  a            6         7               7
PAO/DAO                       1.100 to 1.900                 2.500                 17           17        17              17
SUS - District                1.100 to 1.900                 2,500                 St           10        25             23
SAO                             660 to 1.600                 1,500                 50           50        50             SO
SOS - Subdivision               660 to 1.600                 1.500                150           60       ISO            130
A*O/)                           660 to 1.600                  1,500
)                                                                            450           335      335             250
AEO )                           500 to 1.360                  1,200
XPS                             300 to   Bas                   700              4,000        1.600    2.445 l/        1.927 lI
JOA (RS) i/                                                                         I            _         t               Ia
JOA (Statistics)                                                                    1            1         I               I j                 U!
OA (EMfU) 41                                                                        1            I        1               I iI
Research Officer (Econ.)                                                            I            1         I               - j/
Statistical Officer (Eval.)                                                         1            l         1
Assistant Suprvlsor                                                                 6            -         6               1
Field Supervisor                                                                   10            9        18              16 7/
Computir                                                                           23            5        23              17 j/
Investigstor                                                                       60           60        60             39 2/
Jlt A group of SOO KPS are In process of recruitment to undergo pro-service training. Also steps are being taken to
transfer a substantial number of extension DOA staff to T&V duties.
.Z/ aS - Rural Sociology - originally a JDA (evaluation) was planned to head the M&E unit,
I/ i.e. Including all regular allowances.
4/ E&FU a Economics and Farm Managment - Today a ADA (ELFi) is in charge of the M&E unit.
It Posts were created In 1978 and actually filled In March 1984.
SI Posts vacant since creation in 1970.                                                                                                   l
2/ N1ne posts were created in 1978 and nine were created in t983.
A/ Five posts were created in 1978 and 18 were created in 1983.
II Posts were created in 1978.



INDIA* CREOIT £00-IN
WEST KENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
PqrsonneI Trained b  Year   Extension
1677-76    71-79    ls-so    60-61    61-62    62-63    S3-84    p4-eS
K. P. S.
a) Preservice (6 months)             -         -         -        752      734       4S9        20        -
b) Refresher  (6 months)             -         -         -         -         -       248       480       472
Special courses. all ranks             240       215       254       226       288       292      348       499
Overseas Training I/                    -         -         -         -         -         - 1                  7
I/ Funded by projects others were awarded scholarships from other sources.



- 27 -
Table 5
INDIA: CREDIT 690-IN
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Civil Works - Research and Training Components
A. Commoditv and Zonal Research Stations:
Appraisal        Completed
TaLret           March
1.  Laboratory Building                         9                   9
2.  Godown                                     10                  10
3.  Glass House                                10                  10
4.  Threshing Floor                             9                   9
S.  Dormitory 25 beds                           7                   7
6.  Net House                                   7                   7
7.  Lath House                                  2                   2
8.  Senior Staff Qtrs.                         16                  16
9.  Junior Staff Qtrs.                         58                  58
1O; Research Officers Qtrs.                    60                  60
11. Field Staff Qtrs.                          92                  92
12. Class IV Staff Qtrs.                       86                  86
13. Inspection Bungalow                         3                   3
B. Agricultural Training Centres: i/
Class Room.                                15                  10
1/ Plans to construct 5 hostels, 3 workshop-hostels,
3 workshops, 2 auditoriums and 20 staff houses at
the ATCs were dropped after review by GOWB.



28 -
Table 6
INDIA: CREDIT 690-IN
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
LaboratorY and Farm Equioment orocured - (maJor items)
Research Comoonent
Vehicles                                  Nos. procured
Jeep                                           13
Jeep-Trailer                                   *8
Minibus/Station Wagon                           2
Truck                                            1
Laboratory Equipment
Cal=culator                                    62
Duplicating machine                            14
Typewriter                                     26
Voltage Stabilisers                            35
Flame Photometer                                4
Projector & Screen                             14
Research Microscope                            18
KJeldahl Apparatus                             13
Balances                                       40
Camera Lucida                                   4
Plant Grinder                                   3
Refrigerator                                    8
Oven                                            15
Therno hygrograph                                1
Inubator                                        5
Camera & Flash Gun                              2
PH meter                                       10
Generator                                      11
Seed Drier                                      6
Colorimeter                                     3
Seed Cabinet                                    9
Single Plant Thresher                           3
Conductivity Bridge                             3
Centrifuge                                      6
U.V. Lamp                                       4
Autoclave                                       6
Air Conditioner                                 4
Mo1sture meter                                  5
Soxlet Apparatus                                3
farm Equipment
Tractor                                         7
Tractor Trailer                                 4
Power Tiller                                   14
Pump Set                                        9
Sprayers & Ousters                             20
Plough                                          3
Thresher                                        12
Paddy Weeder                                   25
Seed Drill                                      9
Seed Bin                                       35
Avery Scale                                     14



INDIA* CREDIT 690-1N
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Staft posit-ins Resaarch Component
basc
Cctnorx       ~    Shae of           Existing staff                                                        total
af  Staff             Pav            from Aporaisal                  Incretental Staff                    A
Rps/month                   Stattin e                                  Staf _in
aonitio      Provided                     Oosititjgb
Sancto1na      as at kf                  Sanctioned       s on
by GOWB   31.3;85      Appraisal    by GOW8          21-1,1982   (3*6)(447)
(3)           (4)          (5)           (6)              (l)
Co 1 dity Statfons
Senior         (a) 1600-22S0/-        12            10            8             6              6          la    16
Professionals (b) 1100-1900/-
Junior
Professionals  Rs. 660-1600/-         34            16           26            22              5          56    21
Research
Officers        Rs. 500-1360/-        57            26           34            23              6          80    32
Supporting
Field &
Lab. Staff                            46            30           as            42             1S          88    48
Zonal Stations
Senior
Professionals  Rs.1100-1900/-         Nil           Nil           6             6              5           6     5
Junior
Professlonals  Rs. 660-1600/-          6            Nil          31            26             Nil         32   NHt
Res.
Officers        Rs. 500-1360/-         2              1          36            16              5          1      6
Support ino
Field &
Lab. Staff                             7             3           90           55              tO          62    13
Heaaguuarters and UistiLts
Senior         (ci Rs.2000-ZZJ5/-
Professionals (b) Rs.1100-1900/-    -                -            18            6              6           6     6
Junior
Professionals      Rs. 660-1600/-    -               -            2            2               1           2      1



- 30 -
Table 8
Page 1
INDIA: CREDIT 690-IN
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PRWECT
Schedule of T hnolocies Develooed/Proved in
Cownoditi a,nd Znal Adaotive Research Stations
(used as recoimendations to farmers and In the process of adoption)
Low Cost Technology :
- In Boro rice, increase in number of seedlings per hill from 2 to 4
gave increased yield of grain.
- If mustard is to be grown under rainfed conditions, -85 is to be
chosen in view of its better performance over other varieties.
- Where irrigation is limited, one irrigation at pre-bloom stage of
pea will be beneficial for the crop.
- Rai, toria, barley and pea can be profitably taken as a second c p
after harvest of maize in the hills, provided the sowing is done
just after the monsoons.
- Very  short  duration  high  yielding  varieties  of rice have been
identified for red and lateritic zone.
Maize intercropped with soyabeen in rainy season and rai or toria
in winter season is remunerative.
-Pre-sowing  soaking  of seeds with potassium metabisulphate, sodium
hydrogen phosphate and sodium chloride increases yield of direct
sown upland paddy.
- Use of Azella and Blue Green Algae reduces the requirement of
chemical nitrogenous fertilizer.
- The promising varieties of wheat for the lateritic zone are BW-43,
HD-2285,  UP-262  and HP-1209 and the optimum sowing time Is second
fortnight of November.
- Promising varieties introduced of arhar, mung, lentil, soyabean and
till. -
In  sugarcane planting of sets in double row, triangular method, is
better than end to end/eye to eye method of plantation.
- Optium spacing between rows in sugarcane is 90 cm.
- Pure crop of Aus paddy followed by pure crop of rabi Arhar gives
better economy than the traditional method of mixed cropping with
paddy and Arhar.



- 31 -
Table 8
Page 2
- The optimum spacing for sowing gram upto second fortnight of
November in alluvial zone is 45 cm x 20 cm. For late sowing (to
December), the spacing should be 30 cm x 10 cm.
- A gain of Rs. 3860/- per h can be made by shifting mustard sowing
from end November to first week of November.
- Sesamum 867 if sown after potato, can yield 8-10 quintal/ha without
application of any fertilizer e
- A 30 cm x 10 cm spacing gives optimum yield for the popular mustard
Bonoy (B-9).
- In banana, shorter spacing in short duration plantations and higher
spacing in long duration plantations are recommended.
Medium Cost Technolo2Y :
- Serpentine method of irrigation in potato has been found to be
economic and superior to traditional method of irrigating through
all furrows.
- Application   of  NPK e 80 : 40 : 40   kg/ha  results  in  dramatic
increase in yield of wheat under irrigated conditions.



- 32 -
Table 9
INDIA: CREDIT 690-IN
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Reporting
REPORTS REQUIRED
No.     .TVe               Frequency     Entity Reporting       Format Agreed
1     Progress Report    Semi-annual   DOA                           Yes
2     M&E Results         Annual        M&E Unit                     Yes
3     Audit of Project
Accounts          Annual        GOWB Auditor General        Yes
REPORTS RECEIVEO
REPORT NO. 1                 REPORT NO. 2                 REPORT NO. 3
Required       Received      Required        Received    Required V/  Received
(period endlng)              fperiod ending)             (per        end ing)
03.31.78            6/78     03.31.83           Rec.     03.31.82          2/84
09.30.78           11/78     03.31.84           Rec.     03.31.83
03.31.79                     03.31.85                    03.31.84
09.30.79                                                 03.31.85
03.31.80            3/81
09.30.80 )
03.31.81 )
09.30.81     not received
03.31.82
09.30.82 )
03.31.83            7/83
09.30.83             _
03.31.84            8/84
09.30.84            2/85
03.31.85
/ Required within six months after end of financial year.



- 33 -
Table 10
INOIA: CREDIT 690-IN
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
List of Publications of the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
A. MONITORING SURVEYS
1. Rabi 1982-83
Crop  (a) Wheat                      15 Nov. 82 - 15 Jan. 83    Published
2. Kharif 1983
Crop  (a) Winter Paddy (Aman)        15 July 83 - 15 Sep. 83    Published
3. Rabi 1983-84
Crops (a) Mustard                    01 Oct. 83 - 01 Nov. 83  )
(b) Potato                    10 Oct. 83 - 10 Dec; 83  ) Published
(c) Wheat                     15 Nov. 83 - 15 Jan. 84  )
4.  Kharif 1984
Crops (a) Jute                       01 Mar. 84 - 01 June 84  )
(b) Maize                     01 Mar. 84 - 15 July 84  ) Published
(c) Aus (Autumn)              01 Mar. 84 - 01 July 84  )
(d) Aman (Winter)             15 July 84 - 15 Sep. 84  )
5. Rabi 1984-85
Crops (a, Mustard                    01 Oct. 84 - 01 Nov. 84
(b) Potato                    10 Oct. 84 - 10 Dec. 84    Tabulation
(c) Wheat                     15 Nov. 84 - 15 Jan. 85    Started
(d) Boro (Sunmer)             15.Jan. 85 - 15 Mar. 85
B.  MONITORING-CUM-EVALUATION SURVEYS
1. Kharif 1983
Crops (a) Jute                       25 June 83 - 01 Sep. 83  )
(b) Aus (Autumn)              01 July 83 - 15 Nov. 83  ) Published
(c) Aman (Winter)             10 Nov. 83 - 10 Jan. 84  )
2. Rabi 1983-84
Crops (a) Mustard                    20 Dec. 83 - 20 Feb. 84  )
(b) Potato                    15 Jan. 84 - 15 Mar. 84  )
(c) Wheat                     01 Mar. 84 - 01 Apr. 84  )
3. Kharif 1984
Crops (a) Maize                      01 June 84 - 15 Sep. 84  )
(b) Jute                      25 June 84 - 01 Sep. 84  ) Publishee
c) Aus (Autumn)              01 July 84 - 15 Nov.84  )
(d) Aman (Winter)             10 Nov. 84 - 10 Jan. 85  )
4. Rabi 1984-85
Crops (a) Mustard                    20 Dec. 84 - 20 Feb. 85  )
(b) Potato                    15 Jan. 85 - 15 Mar. 85  ) Tabulation
{c) Wheat                     01 Mar. 85 - 01 Apr. 85  ) Started
d) Boro (Summer)             15 Apr. 85 - 15 June 85
C. SPECIAL STUDIES
1.  Survey on Characteristics of         01 Jan. 85 - 01 Mar. 85  ) Published
Contact Farmers in West Bengal



[sliohUot ££1iLfttrLa.Xtt uALa t!iXiLf tAslm
WilOLW-d    sSi,^t,Kb    oil1 uSbt:
I!IUIAII!i1t                  '    I!:QifiGLO        il!UiJt iou U!   oLkatii£( meiist    SMtI.  J                                       !sio r
bustioaiv" dnip                           -                  3
edlificatsea of qeutiom t                 -                  2 2
Sanpe dsiii                               -                  I                                                              -            -
Sulecieoef  1e-                                                                 134                       128               -           41
TraiDui,                                                   e1                    5                        360        .    170          31
putisum  of itsI                          -                 05               .1, 429                                        _
Fied wed  d srs                           -                  .-_  
Scrwlep of d1aa                           -                 10                  136                       "f9           1,36
tabotatim  ad  eal,sis of das             -                 to                 544                       ,4             2,652            -
Repwi witio                               7                 3S                    -                                 -
Adeduistratis                            25                 21                  782
euetlg vitl ether offices                30                 25                 816
Nisc,ilausu                              15                 if                  468
total vteking days per imdividoal Z2    .__....     -_   p5 .1. _ 4-               _       -_--



VEST _GAM_LALC   I        . EK       F
!tt£s  £X^t ti*ci 1,                             l"iWJ aettig 2.  !                     -                 r              StdEs
it.Sl      S. 3/CEI                          ".                        .5
ouestioneari  iuip            2.1.04 -  5.1.04      10.4.84 - 21.4.84                                     -               16.11.04 - 2.10.04
llodificalio  of question     6.1.04 - 7.1.04       23.4.64 - 24.4.04            --                       --              29.11.04 - 31.10.84
Printing of schedules         9.1.64 - 21.1.04      25.4.84 -  6.5.84   24.7.64 - 10.8.84                 --               7.11.84 - 28.11.84
Desiping of Ike serng        12.1.84 -13.1.04       26.4.64 - 36.4.84   13.8.84 -16.8.84                  -               27.11.84 - 1.12.84
Dravdg of samples            24.1.04 - 13.2.84      14.5.84 - 15.5.84   25.8.84 - 16.3.84          6.12.4 -  7.12.84    3.12.84 - 10.12.04
Training of field staff      22.2.84 - 24.2.84      22.5.04 - 25.5.84   23.9.84 - 25.9.84         14.12.84 - 15.12.84      7.12.64 - 24.12.64
Field wtbo                    1.3.84 - 15.9.64       1.6.04 - 16.1.84   1.10.84 - 15.3.84         20.12.84 - 1I.1.85       2.1.05  - 31.3.8S
Scruliny ard amlpsis        15.11.84 - 15.11.85    25.2.85 -  4.5.85   15.5.85 - 36.8.15          30.7.65  - IS. 10.85    16.445  - 15.5.85
epat wrioing                 16.1.05 -14.2.6 r        .5.95 - 22.5.65    2.9.65 - 15.1.65         14.10.85 - 31.10.85    16.5.5  - 21.5.65
?filting of tepts            15.2.05 - 2.4.85       23.5.85 - 27.6.85   16.9.65 - 25.10.8G         1.11.85 -  2.12.05   21.S.85  - 21.6.65
I/  Crops covered for tharit seasons are As,s Jute, Saite, and Ama.
2/  Cops covwed for Rabi soer seasons are Wheat, Mustard, Potato ad Pare.
V/  D.S. - hnitorinq survey.
U   I.E.S. c IStorisgcw-EvaI,aiin serve,.
5/  lestiomnairs designed for Karif are also ose  for surveys in following seasons.



INDIA!s CREDIT 690-lN
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSIOtl ANO RESEARCH PROJECT
Annual Wor u Pr   pmap.e fur MonitrtIno and Eval stlon of
Trainina and Visit System of Ancicultural Extension
-FIELD. SURV y,__ QRK
Monitoring-cu.-
Monitoring Survey         Evaluation                  Target date tor submission of tabulated
c:rop Season      C R 0 P       l(S)                 Survey (WES)                rasults to  -Q.O  (Cacutta)
____________________________                                  M~~~~~~~~~S-      MES
*  W'ster Paddy Aeon          July 16 to Sep. 15        Nov. 10 to Jan. t0          Oct. t5             Feb. 10
6. Pobi Crops   Mustard       Oct. 01 to Nov. 30        Dec. 20 to Feb. 20          Dec. 33             Mar. 20
Potato       Oct. 10 to Dec. 10        Jan. 15 to Mar. IS          Jan. 10            Apr. 15
Wheat        Nov. 16 to Jan. 15        Mar. 01 to Apr. 30          Feb. 15             May  31
0'
t  Summer Paddy Doro          Jan. I5 to Mor. IS        Apr. IS tO June IS          Apr. 15             July 15
S districts of  ,12 districts of   S districts of    12 districts of
North Sosnal      South Negal         torth Oenoal       South Sonoal       1 t   )   I . )   ( rp )   t 5  )
I' Atitamen Paddy Aus   Mar. 01 to        Juno IS to          July 01 to         Oct. 01 to         June 30  Aug. 31  Sop. 30  Oec. 15
Apr. 30           July 31             Aug. 3t            Nov. 15
6  *ibse (Pro-  Jute  Mar. 01 to          May  Of to         June 25 to          Aug. 01 to        May  31  Jul. 31  Sop. 10  Oct. 30
IshOvt & aharif)   Apr. 30             June 30            Aug. 28             Seop. 30
*  Maine (tu  some North Bengal districts and Purulia)s
,al "Its Sub div.      Uai. 01 to                            June 01 to                            Julie 01            Aug. 31
Apr. 30                               July 30
*ti lFu  Put..d 1 zlmay  tS to                                                   July  t5 to                 Aug. 15             Oct. IS
Maida                                 July t5                                Sep. 15
P4
4A)



IfttDl^ CREOIT 690-1N
WEST BENGAL AGAiCULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
ResultA of MiE Surveys : farMers Awareness of 7iV System In S
M.S. abi~ _1/ M.S. Karif   LiE.S. ihari! ~I M.S..Rob          M.E.S. Rabi    U.S. Kharif    M.E-S. Khsri
1982-83         1983             9too           1983-84        1983-84           1984             1984
Farmers knowing KPS5
Contact farmers                   89.6          99.0             90.5              91.6.         B5.2              7t.4           78.2
Oon-contact farmers               78.6          85.6             74.5              79.7          70.5             54.7            56.4
Frequency of visits of KPS
during previous four weeks
*) Nil visits
Contact    .                11.0           6.0              10.7             11.2           16.1             25.8           26.9
Won-contact                 22.7          20.4              26.8             23.5           30.3             48.3           48.9
b) One visit:
Contact                      3.9           2.9               b.6              14.4          10.1             16.6           20.I
"on-contact                  5.8           9.0              It.8             19.3          t1.5              18.0           22.4
c) Two and more visits:
Contact                     85.1          91.1              80.7             74.4          73.8              57.6           53.0
Mon-contact                 71.4          70.6              62.4             57.2          58.2              33.7           28.1
Regularity of visits on the
fined deys
Contact                     81.2          93.0              82.3             80.6          74.6              56.8           48.7
Mon-contact                 68.2          77.1              61.S             67.3          58.6              37.2           26.3
Place of visit:
a) field -
Contact                     17.5          41.7              32.4             42.0          44.3              35.           30.5
Won-contact                 20.0          50.1              38.1             40.6          39.6              25.1           21.8
b) Other places:
Contact                     82.5          58.3              f7.6             58.0          39.6              38.5           42.6
Mon-contact                 72.0          49.9              63.9             59.4          30.1              26.6           29.4
j/ U.S. * Monitoring Survey.
,i M.E.S. a Monitoring-cum-Evatuation Survey.
0x



IHDIRA CREDlt 690-IN
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Results of Monitorina Surveys i Rate of adoption of Recommendation
Size of Sample   Seed  Rote                               CheCmicl                             -.
S u r v ao                                      S d nter wed      Orannie  anure      fert1ifiec       tcrRa-t1in         MegsurJei
CF     NCF       CF   NCF            CF    NCF        CF      NCF      CF     ICF       CF      MCF
Kheritf 193
1) Winter Paddy (Amen)    415        367    13.8    17.4        8.9    t1.7        4.1      5,7   11.6    14.7        -        -
fu lly adopted
Partially adopted        4t5      367    81.9    70.a       63.4    74.4       89.6    78.6   86.3    77.9         -        -
Rabi (1903-64)
*) Wheat
fully adopted            900      924    75.9    71.0       26.2    21.5       25.1    20.0   50.0    44.6        8.9     4.0        1
*Partially adopted        900     924    13.9    14.0        47.0    49.4      41.0    43.2   34.5    2S.9    31.7    28.0            w
ii) Mustard
fully adopted            299      298    68.0    82.6       11.4      9.9      34.1    20.8   56.6    42.7    31.6    32.2
Partially adopted        299      298      4.0     3.3      25.6    28.3       19.4    26.2   27.9    26.4    18.7    10.7           I
lii) Potato
fully adopted            341      3S4    57.2    51.4       35.1    31.5       36.1    29.6   44.9    43.8    32.0    29.1
Partially adopted        341      354    40.5    45.5       63.1    64.0       42.6    47.2   37.5    38.7    4t.9    39.6
n ari  1984
i)Au$
fully adopted           1550    1863    81.5    75.$        46.1    41.2      22.1    17.3   44.7    43.7         7.5    10.3
Partially adopted       1550    1863      8.2      8.5      30 2    26.0       38.2    35.4   21.9    21.1    38.9    40.0
t*) Jute
fully adopted           1303    1308    75.7    70.6        40.8    38.0      22.7    17.6   43.2    40.9    10.4    16.7
Partially adopted       1303    1308    12.0    13.1        29.0    24.0       31.7    31.4   ;1.9    17.0    23.2    23.2
III) Aman
fully adopted           2527    2517    22.4    82.3        32.3    29.2       27.5    20.9   37.5    37.1    26.9    19.4
Partially adopted       2527    2517      5.2      3.8      27.5    27.2       29.2    26.2    8.9       9.0    19.7    19.6
IV) Maite
fully adopted            152      160    50.6    56.3       40.8    36.7        0.7       -      -        -        -       -
Partially adopted        t52      160    41.4    43.7       52.0    51.9       12.5    10.0      -                3.3      1.2
00X
a-.



INDIA: CREDIT 690-IN
WEST BENGAL AGIlICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEQRCH PROJECT
Monitorin  Sgrvevst Reasons foc Non-adootton of Recommendationu
(Percentage of Faraers)
fagaMndation                              Sampl                   R E A S 0 N S                        an-avai lability
harif 198p4              Crop             Size       Too Expensive        Shortane of Labour            of lnnita
Contact farmers
Seed Rate              a) Aus               l6t             70.9                  23.6                       5.6
b) Amen             313             70.3                   10.5                      10.2
c) Jute               6             76.6                   20.2                      3.2
d) Naise             -
Orgonic manure         a) Aus               J41             54.6                  36.1                       9.1
b) Amen             6e6             39.5                   32.8                     27.9
c) Jute             369             57.6                   22.2                     20.3
d3 Naite             Is             90.9                    9.1 
Chemical               a) Au*               612             63.t                  34.1                       2.6
Fertiliaer             b) Amen              931             56.6                  31.6                      #$.6
c) Jute             537             73.6                   22.S                      3.7
d) Maito            132             84,1                   16.9                        -
Irrigation             a) Aus               294             46.6                  St.?                       1.7
b) Amen             669             48.9                   25.3                     25.6
c) Jute             221             36.9                   45.3                     16.6                q.
d)  aize             78            100.0                     -                        -
P.P. Measures          a) Aus               594             65.8                   9.3                      24.9
b) Amen            1041             78.6                   15.0                      6.4
c) Jute             571             79.6                   20.1                      0.9
d) MaIze            147             76.2                   21.1                      2.7
Non-Contact Farmers
Seed Rate              a) Aus               237             99.1                  30.6                      10.1
b) Amen            3S0              55.7                    1.7                     42.6
c) Jute             214             56.8                   10.6                      2.3
d) Ma                -                __
Orgdnic manure         a) Aus               424             50.2                  43.4                       6.4
b) Alan             720             40.0                   24.4                     3S.6
c) Jute             446             63.9                  21.1                      15.0
d) Maise             Is             66.7                   13.3
Chemical               a) Aus               714             69.3                  29.6                       0.9
Fertilizer             b) Amen             1104             53.2                  28.1                      18.7
c) Jute             593             76.I                   17 7                      6.2
d) Maize            144             79.2                  20.8
Irrigation             a) Aus              292             46.9                   51.7                       2.4
b) Amen             6S1             38.1                  37.9                      24.0
c) Jute             249             39.4                  40.1                      20.6
d) Naoie             62            100.0                     -
P.P. measurae          a) Aut              6(n3             70.2                   n t                      23.4                0
b) Amato           1141             78.2                   11.6                     10.2
c) Juto             'S7             76.1                  2.6                        1.3
d) Naitz            t5U             75.3                  22.2                       2. 5o



- 40 -
Table 17
Page 1
INDIA: CREDIT 690-IN
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL ETENSION AND RESEA   PROJECT
RelatioshigD Between Yield Rate of Croes and Nain Source of Advice to Farmers
Survey                  Source of Advice    Irriaated        Rainfed      Total
(Kg/ha)        (Kg/ha)
KHARIF 1983
Aus (Autan paddy)        Extension personnel    3,237           638       2,408
Other farmers         2,145            -         3,145
Other sources         3.007                      3,007
No advice             2.839                     2.839
Total                 3,142           638       2.667
Man (Winter paddy)       Extension personnel   3.534          2,5B8       3.137
Other farmers         3.50B         2.550        3.073
Other sources         3.362         2,496        2.802
No advice             2,844         2,001       2,100
Total                 3.508         2.473        3,009
Jute                     Extension personnel    1.688         2,105       1,984
Other farmers           -           1.49        1.849
Other souroes           -           1.724        1.724
No advice               -           1.701        1.701
Total                 1.688         1.899        1,8U
RBt 1983-84
Wheat                    Extension personnel   2.677          1.791       2.,70
Other faners          2.295          1.729      2.159
Other sources         2.221          1.804       2.147
No advice             2.046         1,604        1,866
Total                 2.602          1,751       2,470
Mustard                  Extension personnel   1,411            889       1.278
Other farmers          1.062          681          926
Other sources           955            -           955
No advice             1,120           691        1,022
Total                  1.343          842        1.212
Potato                   Extension personnel  23,113         11,617      20.528
Other farmers        24,447        15.315      20,912
Other sources        13,4SB        11.054       12,857
No advice             14,514       10,061       11,100
Total                22.213         11,883      19.346



- 41 -                               Table 17
Page 2
RelationshiP  etween Yield Rate of Crops and Main Source of Advice to Farms
KNARIF 1964
Aus (Aub. paddy)        Extension personnet   4,076         1,967      3,132
Oth0r famers       * 3,952          1,972      2,962
Other sources         4,0O0         1.577      3.277
No advice             3,46          1.457      1.732
Total                 4.020         1.814      2,884
Aman (Winter paddy)     Extension personnel   4.101         2.848      3.423
Other farme           3,794         2.569      3,077
Other sources         3,910         2.489      3,200
No advice             3,M           2,018      2.372
Total                 3.983         2,564      3,133
Jute                    Extension personml   2.636          1.724      2.137
Other farer           2,357         1.698      1,856
Other sources         2.041         1.586      1,659
No advice             1.396         1.421      1.419
Total                 2.532         1,655      1,944
maize                   Extension personnel     -           1.663      1.683
Other farmes            -           1.416      1,418
Other sources           -           1.769      1.769
No advice               -           1.503      1.503
Total                   -           1.591      1.591



- 42 -
Table 18
INCA: -0,TfL1
mmS gmSA  ASRICLTURA EXRNION aND RE   Ro PWJC-T
Relat10M 2  tWM  Yield abt of  rss and Visit$      PS g
Se0,f ot Y1s1ts-  1          RIa1inf     Total
(Kg/h)       (Kg/ha)
KIARtF 1983
Aug (Aftb  PAdY)          o11              2,03-                    2.038
One             3,100                    3,100
Two & me        3.320           638      2.718
Total           3,142           638      2,667
_As (Vinter p086))         Nil             3,371         1,923      2.56
One             3.38          2.552      2,832
Tw & we         3,S3          2.597      3,118
Total           3.506         2,473      3,009
Jute                       Nil                _          1,754      1.Y54
one                           1.941      1.941
Two & more      1.6'          1.9n       1.896
TotIl          16'8          1.,89      1.183
?|N 1938
et                         Nil             2.051         1.610      1.919
on              2,354         1.6"       2.148
Two or me       2.7Z0         1.889      2.638
Total           2.606         1.781      2.470
Nustvt                     Nil             1,082           833        919
One             1.332            -       1.332
Two or mr       1,3396          910      1,270
Tota            1.343           842      1.212
potto                      Nil            18,690        10.324     14.714
one            22.248        12.108     16.243
Two or we      22.797        12.837     22.343
Total          22,213        11,883     19.346
EMIF 1984
AuS (Aut  padd)             il             3.M12         1,615      2.286
One             3.915         1.690      2.824
Two or aon      4.175         2.095      3.803
Total           4.020         1.314      2.884
jute                       Nil             2.235         1.561      1.689
One             2.430         1.673      1,961
Two orm         2.707         1'm        2,184
TotAl           2.532         1.65      1.944
aite                       Nil                           1,468      1.468
On                            1.601      1.601
Two or or          -          1.733      1,7n3
Total                         1,591      1,591
Aba (Witnter pm*)          Nil              3,643        2.237      2.709
one             3.185         2.469      2,975
Two or me       4.260         3,033      3.636
Total           3,3           2564      3.133
/ KPS a Krishi Projukti Sahayik.



INDIAl SCREDIT 690-IN 
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Prolect Costs t Comosrative Analysis
Reieburspblet-      Progressivc Exo.      Actual Exo.        Expenditure        Total Estimate as oer
it-a              Credit Aeesoment 1  up to 30.090.2       u      103-04      up to 31.03.85 jI  Amoraisal Reoort 3/
S ..................... U................. Rs Million .......................I
Civil Works                ?.1     63.9             7.243             63.112               74.862               79.14
Equtipent IL Vehicles      2.5     22.5             0.844              5.3S9 4/             7.248 J4            27.31
Training & Consultancy    1.1       9.9            0.266               0.429                0.8t7               10.20
Incremental staff costs  NIl        "it           29.310              68.850              105.990              78.55
Unallocated                1.3     11.7
GRAND TOTAL               12.00   108.0           37.e63             127.750              188.917              195.206
jgurcag BOWS information to mission.
.L See pare S.5 for actual d1sbursements.
Z/ Figuros of sependiture up to 31.03.65 are provisional.
V Estimate of total project costs: base costs only.
Al VaSidity of this data unsure in viow of very low credit disbursements for the item.
0N
a.



- 44 -
Table 20
INDIA
WEST BENCAL ACRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
CREDIT 690-IN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Expenditure Statement Under WBAE RP up to March 31. 1985
Total Project Expenditure
1977-78 to  1980-    1981-    1982-    1983-    1984-    Crand
Item                1979-80      81        a2       33        84        85       T.tal
----------…------RP Millions-------------------------
Civil Works           Nil       0.860    1.288    10.190   40.774   21.750   74.862
Equipment and
Vehicles            Nil         -      0.464      0.760    4.135    1.889    7.248
Training and
Consultancy        Nil       Nil      0.133      0.265    0.031    0.388    0.817
Incremental
Staff Cost          Nil       5.079   12.986    22.609   28.236   37.140  105.990
188.9-7
Note: Figures of expenditure for 1984-85 are provisional.



- 45 -
Table 21
INDIA
WEST BENCAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
CREDIT 690-IN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Schedule of Disbursement
Cumulative Disbursements
ctuaL/
Actual        AppraisaL         as % app.
FY                       Total          Estimate          Estimate
…(U --)-------…(US  M)-^---------------
1977
1978                                       1.6
1979                                       5.0
1980                                       8.3
1981                                      19.7
1982                      0.0             12.0
1983                       1.3
1984                      4.7
1985                      5-.66
1986                      6.85
Note: US$2.2 million was allocated for extension under
Schedule 2(c) of Credit 541-IN (West Bengal) Agriculture
Development Project). At project closing, US$1.7 million
of this had been disbursed.



INDIAi CREDIT 690-EN
WEST UEaGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AMR RESEARCH PROJECT
taimbgusement Position (claimad1 for Exopanditurp to 31 March 1905
1977-78 to 1979-00      l 910-J      198l-02      1982-83    1983-84      .984-L S    Car.n  Total
.... ..., Rp Millions ..............                                      -     .---
Civil works                        "MI               0.775          1.150      9.170       36.695       19.575      67.365
Equipment and vehicles              Nil              Nil           0.417       0.684        3.721 1/    1.700 I/    6.522 1/
Training and consultancy            Nil              Nti           0.133       0.265       0.031        0.388        0.017
Incremental staff cost                                                  N O T   R E I M O U R S A O L E
ftgjA  Claims for a further sum of about Rs2S M will be preferred within August 1965.
j/ Validity of this data unsure in vlew of very low credit disburseeent for the item.



- 47 -
Table 23
INDIA: CREDIT 690-IN
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Civil Works : Unit Costs - Sanctioned Amounts
Si                                             Rate per
No.    Descrigtion                 Nos.          unit        Amount in lakhs
K.P.S. Quarters             251      * Rs.45,000/-          112.95
25      * Rs.59,000/-          14.75
24      * Rs.60,000/-          14.40
-do- for
Electrification             203      * Rs. 4,000/-           8.12
Total Cost a        150.22
2.     Farm Managers'
Qtrs. (including
Electrification 4            45      * Rs.61,500/-          27.67
Water supply.etc.
Additional expenditure
as per different sites                                        1.36
conditions
Repair of Farm Managers
Qtrs. at Kalimpong                                            1.19
Total Cost *         30.22
3.     Conference Hall
(including sanitary
& plumbing electri-          25      * Rs. 2,00,000/-       50.00
fication)
Additional Cost for Maldah                                   0.96
Total Cost -         50.96



INDIA: C4IT 690 - IN
WEST BENCAL MARICULTURAL EXENSION AMD RESEAC  PRRWIT
YIELD OF  M    CROPS
(Ka/hee.)
71-72    72-73     73-74    74-75    75-76    76-7'   77-78    78-79    79-80    80-e1    81-82    82-83    83-84
1.  Annul wield
Total RIce       1314    1127        1112      1207     1265     1143      1382     1401     1200     1442      1120     1018     1478
Total pulses      530      522        528       550    * 964      567       592      477      544      454       532      527      650
Total ollseeds    392      396        397       428      433      42;       475      396      421      444       449      442      490
Jute bales *        7.53    7.38        8.78      7.05     8.03     7.88      7.24     7.67     7.49     7.28      8.84     8.62     6.56
Ulbet            2181    1869        1905      1984     2100     2040i    2140      1916     1518     1672      1819     2274     2595
Potate          14S59   12533       11991    16754    14322    1441(0   15152    15144    18612    17057    16500    20013    21008
Sugarcane       48873    50575      52818    58010    58468    61431    60726    58720    49051    60566    61337    51403    50435
11. 5-year Average                                          71-7S                                76-80    77-81    78-82    79-83
Total Rice                                              1205                                          1309      1236     1252
Total Pulses                                             619                                  527      520       507      541
Total Olleseds                                           409                                  432      437       430      449
Jute bales                                                 '.75                                 7.51     7.70      7.98     8.16
Wheat                                                   2008                                 1857     1813      1839     1976
totato                                                 13832                                16075    16493    17465    18638
Sugarcane                                              53749                                58100    58060    S6215    545S8
ltl. lAes Figures
Total RIce                                               100                                  109      109       102      104
total Pulses                                             100                                   85       84        82       87
total Oilseeds                                           100                                  106      107       105      110
Jute bales                                               t00                                   97       99       103      105
Wheat                                                    100                                   92       90        91       98                              $4
Potato                                                   100                                  )16      119       126      135
S$grcaee                                                 100                                  toS      108       104      101
* 81. * 360 bp*.



- 49 -
Table 25
Page 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
CREDIT 690-IN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KEX INDICATORS
Appraisal           Achievements
Indicators                         Target         as at February 1985
Staff Position
Extension
KPS                            4000 (2445)               1907
ADO                             450 (335)                 250
SDAO                             50 (50)               -   50
SMS                             203 (182)                 155
FARM Manager                     45 (45)                   34
JDA, ADA                          2 (2)                      2
Research
Snr. Profess-GRS                 20 (20)                    8
(Grade I & II)-ZARS               6 (6)                     5
Junior Profess-CRS               60 (24)                    4
(WBAS) - ZARS                    42 (26)                    0
Rebearch Officers-CRS            91 (23)                    6
Research Offficers-ZARS          41 (16)                    5
SMS (HQ)                          2                         2
ADA                               1                          1
Training Centers
Lectures and'Snr. Lecturers      77 (16)                   N.A.
M and E
JDA                               1 (2)                     2
Statistician/eco.res./DDA         3 (3)                     1
Field Supervisor                 18 (18)                   18
Assistant investigator           60 (60)                   28
Asst. Supt. OPS                   8 (6)                      4
Computer                         23 (23)                   23



- 50 -
Table 25
Page 2
Training Completed
KPS Pre-service                  3.000                    1965
KPS refresher                    2.000                     992
KPS induction                      N.A.                   1230
KPS-AED in-service                  280                   2219 (1907 KPS
& 312 AOs)
SMS-in-service                      180                    142
KPST and extension staff            120                     42
Fellowships                          90                      4 (oversaas)
Civil Works Completed
KPS houses                         1000 (700)              299
Other extension houses              250 (0)                  0
Subdivision office                  50 (0)                   0
Farm houses                         45 (45)                 45
Research houses                    477 (325)    )
Research other building              57 (50)     )          11
KPSTC houses                         20 (20)                 0
KPSTC other buildings                28 (28)                 0
Classrooms in trg. centers            5 (5)                  5
Training halls                        0 (25)                25
Vehicles Procured
Sedan                                 3                     8
4WD - extension                        86                    50
research                        24                    14
Vans                                 17                     0
Minibus (KPSTC)                       1                     0
Truck (research)                      1                     1
Motorcycles (loans)                 150                    63
Bicycles (loans)                    750                  1850
Note: In ( ) are the number of posts sanctioned in GMB budget as of 1983.



ANNE! T
AUl Cousaucatlos to       Government of West Bengal
GovOMAw t should give the
Nm  Date and Subject of              4griculture
snypreviousCorrespondence
a2a beoddressed to the              Credit & £ xtension  B h
Secretay of the 5eprtmnt
_Lewuad.                                 tN8215aCro & AXtn,/7&-3/85
From    a  $hri N.K.Zutshi, Joint Secretary.
Mr.Grahaa lbonaldso,f
Chief, Agriculture & Human Resources biviLions
To      s  Operations £valuation ApartmeanttWorlQ Bank,
1818 H aitreet NIMdd. Wdshington, 1h.r.20433
'Datd Cace  9
Subs kroject Completion Report on India
West Bengal Agricultural Extension
and Research klroject (Credit 690-IN).
Sir,
1 am directed to refer to your letter dated
15.10*86 on the subject mentioned above and to
forward herewith our comments oA the final draft
project Completion Report.
Your4ai thfullys
Joint becr    y.
£nclo Aas above.
madhuri. 9ziL86



-52- A-EXI
Page 2
Comments of the state Government on the
Fnal -ra Trojest meton  *or
and KGOseOrO JrrJo1ct {credie t69C1117
Points raisod In the PeCBo                 Comuents of the State Govto
Overall norforrance
5xteneion is still very            Ixtenuion mossages are being
weak ln large tracts.               disseminated throughout the State
by our extension functLonaries
under the T & V system. 3646 KPSo
out of the sanctlonod strength of
4000 are In position enabling us
to cover almost the entire farming
community. Steps are, however,
being taken to flll up the remaining
vacancies of KPSs.
PhXsicaL iminitmanitaton
The use of personal loans          63 motor cycleslmopeds were
for the purchase of motor          purchased for an amount of
cycle/aopeds by A..EOe was         rn.4,98Oooo/- advanced as loans.
praetically nil.
Procedure for purchase Of           The procedure followed for
vehicles is time-consuming.        procurement of vehicles has been
laid down by the Finance Veptt. of
the State Govt. in order to effect
economy In expenditure in this
respect.
Ins-titutional i3maoemant
and qPerat&na Derfosaing a
Middle level supervisory            The middle level supervisory
officers find little  time for    officears via, Range J*.De, tPOaOS
supervision of extension in         and S.h.Os, I#splpts of their non.
the field*                         extension responsibilities, devote
reasonable time for supervlsion of
extension In the fields They also
regularly attend the monthly work.
shops under the T & V system* There
io some shortfall In the roquired
number of lastrict & Sub-divisIonal
I . 



_ 53 -                   ANNEX I
Page 3
Polnts ralood in tbg P?OG&.         CGoata  of-th, State Govt.
level S.M.Ss; steps are being taken
to sitigate this problem. 335 AwbaOO
pouts and not 3535 are sanctioned
out of which 269 are In position.
k proposal for creation of additional
posts of 94 &1U.O  in order to
enable the existing AmiP.On to devote
full time to extension work is under
active consideration of the Govt.
ga 4e 4.Il
Poor Internal supervision         There is hardly any staffing
has adversely affected lroject  shortfall at the middle-level exton-
Implementation.                   sion pereonnel. The requisite
number of Range J.lD.As, P.A.Os and
Am Os are deployed. It may elso
be stated that the T & V systom
with Its single lina of command
ha achieved full acceptance by
all organs of the State ad=lnIs-
tratioa.
-eujL 4,16 t
Extension staff spend             Steps are being taken to provide
considerable time on input        (as already stated above) additional
supply.                           staff support for such purpose so
that the existing extension staff
can devote full time to extension
work.
Undue time is spent by             There is a continuous effort
middle management levels in       to rationallis  reporting require.
reporting meetings ate.           ments, meetings etc. so that the
concerned officials can devote
sufficient time to supervision
and field visits.
Shortage of trained S.M s         Efforts are being made to
and insufficient participation overcome the difficulty.
by sentor officers badly affec-
ted quality of training.
PR T* q.



-54 -                       ANNEX T
Page 4
Palu   AflteAdti     s h P*. G&           Commentg o~f thq State Govto
Transfer of fundameal              I .  It has since been decided by
applied research to  MU ti         tho GovtCof West Baugal to transfer
under consideration of Govtio f   fundamental & applied research to
West Bagen     & Wovtoof 10dl4g     the SI in a phased manner.
Laboratories tn 4 zMo              di1l the hZalkot exzeept the
are not operational as yet.        one at Mobituaga! are  - operation
at present.
There ts lack of progress          There to a zonal committee for
in dadptive leselsar.              each agro-climatic sons. The Commt.
ttee, headed by the Range J.D.*&.,
consists of P, M0S, some o.d.Os
and the Research staff of the
Ze. RoSe.lh2is Committee decides
items of research to be conducted
by SO 41Re and fixes up priorities*.
Therefore the research work condue.
ted at the Z         t14o  striltly accor-
ding to the requlrement of the
farmaer as commualceated by the
extension staff. The field trials
were not conducted by the existing
research staff as such trials were
not originally onvirsged in the
Project and also due to staff
asortages. Understaffing at Ca.R.s
& ZO&44488 Is a serious difficulty
and efforts are being made to man
the C.ReR 8i 2el. it8. fully. The
Research work in the C..Ss is
conducted on the basis of general
problems and the problems faced
by the research staff during their
field visits as well as directly
leatnt from the farmers visiting
the CSBs. The problems thrown by
the farmers are sorted out at the
origin and specific problems are
passed on to the scientists who
work on tbem and once the solutions
are available they are regularly
passed on to the farmers through
T & V oystom.
COUtd. . ep13J.e



_55 _                     ANNEX I
Page 5
ntaote raiged in the I.CR.             =Comnsof th8 StaeGo
1'ArLa ~  ,0& 31k 
There is undergtaging           Two vacant posts of Sconouie
in the H 6 B Unit.              Research Officer and £valuation
Officer have been filled up. J.D.h*&
(Statistics) Is under the &.gricultural
Seconomist and looks after all statio.
tical *atters. M 6 3 staff sanctioned
under the Project devote full time
to M & a work. 59 posts of &ssistant
Investigators out of 60 sanctioned
posts have been filled up.
.sess_mmt of Imnac
ZnstitutOlRMA  Imast
There is need for coati-        This suggestion is well taken.
nied strengthening end  ein-  The State Govt. is fully committed
forcement of extension orga-  to make the T & V system the kingpin
nisation and Its functioniago of the agricultural development
programmes and will therefore spare
no effort to overcome the operational
obstacles In this regard. It may,
however, be stated here that almost
all the sanctioned posts of Range
JolD.o., k.Ae.Os and 8.&oOe, 807 of
the sanctioned posts of AwDe1Os and
907 of the sanctioned posts of the
4 .8s have been filled up by now.
Efforts are beIng made to fill up
gY.L alIN and leso              the remaining vacancies.
Awaluatio of imnalielmatson
LoA" - &a j. && 
gxtension machieLry                 already stated In the prece-
requires to be adquately        ding paragraphs the State Govto is
manned and earmarked for        taking all at,&pc to solve the problems
exteneion work only.            of staff shortage/deplijyment wi1t  the
objective of sufficiently manning the
extension network as also enabling it
to exclusively devote Itself to
extension work.



N E P A L                                                                                   H U T A N
INDDI A
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
AND RESEARCH PROJECT                                                                                                                                         /
Agro-climatic zones, Agricultural districts,
Research stations and Training centers
*    COMMODITY ORIENTED RESEARCH STATIONS                                      W  E T  T
A     ZONAL RESEARCH STATIONS                                                 D I N A J P U
*    VLW TRAINING CENTERS                                                 A '/ / /,    PUR >
HILL ZONE                                                                                         AL
TERAI ZONE                                                                               8 /  BALURGKAT0
Li   OLD ALLUVIUM ZONE
NEW ALLUVIUM ZONE                                     :                 L  D  A
LATERITIC ZONEj
COASTAL SALINE ZONE                                                                                                        7
- - -DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
-       STATE BOUNDARIES
-'   INTERNATIONAL SOUNDARIES                                                                                                     C)
B /  //                        A         R                                                                                                                2



g=]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                                                                   ~   N                      G=                   ' . -            Z A/,M 
__= _                          _ _                              B U R D W A N , 
CHIN$                   t I
.23* 0                ________ =__                     9                            - -_                       -                          f *
-a ^t ,8+'ss ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H    0  G H L y   
)_                              77W ..7 V-  W  bW'v sdby
jmthe   &,*vno  o.f V
24-PARGANAS i'                                                   
* * ak H  0 W R A Ht$ ,a
.,A ............................................  -  =f Th     S*s - the
s_<>    J   P O R   E     (WEST)   0    |t 0                                     C^A°   \ ts  %~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ f gerat
FE-                                                                                                                                     of     , ty ,  'd,y
O R     J         S         S A                  8                M ID  NIA PO R E   (E A -ST )                                            / :        -W^. ' '                           0. -1
\~~~~~~~~~ :t                                                                                                         A?°; ;;
0           20   40          6 0       13 0      t o o                                        A     )  -                                <  |            (  -
KilOMRETERS        'CIOo                                                                                                                                                                h
87P                               B A Y   S                °f        8 E IV G A -                      )                              -



