FILE COPY
Report No. 1288a-IN
India: Appraisal of the West Bengal
Agricultural Extension and Research Project
March 10, 1977
Soukt. Asia Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distributioni and may be used bv recipients
only in the pertormance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                   =         Rupees (Rs) 9.00
Rs 1 = Paise 100       =         US$0.111
Rs 1 million (M)      =          US$111,111
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 kilogram (kg)                                 =  2.20 pounds
1,000 kg                  =  1 metric ton       =  0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)                                     =  1.09.yards   = 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                     2          =  0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)        2   = 10,000 m            =  2.47 acres
1 square kilometsr (km )    100 ha              =  0.39 square mile
1 cubic meter (m )= 35.39 cubic feet
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADA       -   Additional Director of Agriculture
AEO       -  Agricultural Extension Officer/s
ARDC      -  Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
BDO       -   Block Development Officer/s
CD        -   Community Development
DA        -   Directorate of Agriculture
DAO       -   District Agricultural Officer/s
GOI       -   Government of India
GOWB      -   Government of West Bengal
HYV       -   High-Yielding Variety/Varieties
ICAR      -   Indian Council of Agricultural Research
JDA       -   Joint Director of Agriculture
LDB       -   Land Development Bank/s
M         -  Million
PAO       -   Principal Agricultural Officer (District)
PPC       -   Program Planning and Implementation Committee
RBI       -   Reserve Bank of India
SAO       -   Subdivisional Agricultural Officer/s
SE&EB     -   Socio-Economic and Evaluation Branch (of Directorate of
Agriculture)
SCB       -   State Cooperative (Land Development) Bank/s
SMS       -   Subject Matter Specialist/s
TO        -   Training Officer
T&V       -   Training & Visits
VLW       -   Village Level Worker/s
WBADP     -   West Bengal Agricultural Development Project (Report 463a-IN)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CROP SEASONS AND RICE CROPS
kharif        -  rainy season       -  June - October
rabi          -  dry season         -  October - March
aus rice      -  mostly broadcast  -  Sown -- April-May
Harvested -- August-September
aman rice     -                     -  Transplanted -- July-August
Harvested -- November-December
boro rice     -  irrigated dry
season           -  Transplanted -- December-February
Harvested -- April-May
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .......................i-iv
I.    INTRODUCTION ..................................                    1
II.    BACKGROUND ....................................                    1
A.  General ...................................                    1
B.  West Bengal ...............................                    2
III.    THE PROJECT ...................................                     6
A.   General Description .......................                   6
B.  Detailed Features .........................                    7
IV.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING ........ .. ........                 12
A.   Cost Estimates ............................                  12
B.  Proposed Financing ........................                   13
C.   Procurement ...............................                  14
D.  Disbursements and Audit ....              ...............     15
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ....              ...............     15
VI.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ....................                   18
VII.    RECOMMENDATIONS ...........................                       20
ANNEXES
1.  Agriculture in West Bengal
Table 1: Size Distribution of Land Holdings
Table 2: Monthly Normal Rainfall in West Bengal by District
Table 3: Acreage, Yield, Production of Major Crops, 1964/65-1974/75
Table 4: Consumption of N, P, and K, 1964/65-1974/75
2. Agriculture Extension and Training
Appendix: Upgrading of Training Centers



-2-
3. Agricultural Research
Appendix 1: Research Program for Rice
Table 1: Rice Research Costs
Table 2: Existing and Incremental Staffing of Rice
Research Station
Table 3: Staffing of Rice Research Station at Full
Development
Appendix 2: Research Program for Pulses and Oilseeds
Table 1: Pulses and Oilseeds Research Costs
Table 2: Existing and Incremental Staffing of Pulses and
Oilseeds Research Station
Table 3: Staffing of Pulses and Oilseeds Research Station
at Full Development
Appendix 3: Research Program for Horticulture
Table 1: Horticulture Research Costs
Table 2: Existing and Incremental Staffing of Horticulture
Research Station
Table 3: Staffing of Horticulture Research Station at Full
Development
Appendix 4: Research Program for Sugarcane
Table 1: Sugarcane Research Costs
Table 2: Existing and Incremental Staffing of Sugarcane
Research Station
Table 3: Staffing of Sugarcane Research Station at Full
Development
Appendix 5: Research Program for Water Management of Crops
Table 1:  Water Mlanagement of Crops Research Costs
Table 2: Existing and Incremental Staffing of Water
Management Research Station
Table 3: Staffing of Water Management Research
Station at Full Development
Appendix 6: Research Program for Crop Production (Wheat)
Table 1: Crop Production (Wheat) Research Costs
Table 2: Existing and Incremental Staffing of Crop
Production (Wheat) Research Station
Table 3: Staffing of Crop Production (Wheat) Research
Station at Full Development



- 3 -
Appendix 7: Research Program for Six Zonal Stations
Table 1: Six Zonal Research Stations Costs
Table 2: Existing and Incremental Staffing of Six
Zonal Research Stations
Table 3: Staffing Pattern of Six Zonal Research Stations
at Full Development
Table 4: Distribution of Civil Works at Six Zonal
Research Stations
4. Agricultural Credit
Table 1: West Bengal Central Cooperative Land Mortgage
Bank Ltd, Condensed Statement of Net Income
Table 2: West Bengal Central Cooperative Land Mortgage
Bank Ltd, Condensed Balance Sheet
5. Agricultural Produce Marketing
6. Agricultural Inputs Supply
7. Project Costs Summary
8. Agricultural Extension and Training Costs
Table 1: Land, Civil Works, Furniture, Other Equipment
and Extension Aids
Table 2: Vehicles, Travelling Allowances and Expenses
Table 3: Subdivisional Adaptive/Experimental Farms
Table 4: Training
Table 5: Incremental Staff Salaries and Incentive Honorarium
Table 6: Upgrading of Training Centers
9. Summary of Research Costs
10. Price Contingencies
11. Organization and Management
12. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements and Implementation Schedule
Table 1: Cumulative Schedule of Staff Appointments
13. Evaluation Unit and Farm Surveys
14. Economic Impact and Rate of Return
Tables 1 and 2: Economic Analysis
Table  3       : Economic Price of Rice
CHART: Organizational Chart
MAP: Agro-climatic zones, agricultural districts, research stations and train-
ing centers. IBRD 12327






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        West Bengal, despite its small size, ranks fourth in India's
foodgrain production. Although production of rice and wheat has increased
significantly over the past decade, increases have come largely from irri-
gated crops. Yields from rainfed areas, totalling some 70% of the cropped
area, have largely remained stagnant. This project, through reorganization
and improvements in agricultural extension, research and staff training seeks
to redress this position and to provide the means for sustained increases in
agricultural production from 320,000 contact farmers and through them most of
the four million farm families in West Bengal. This would be achieved by
setting up a system of regular farm visits by systematically trained village
level workers (VLW) who would encourage the adoption of improved agricultural
practices by farmers.
ii.       During preparation and appraisal of the West Bengal Agricultural
Development Project (Credit 541-IN), which supports a four year agricultural
program in six of the States' seventeen agricultural districts mainly for
minor irrigation, one of the major constraints preventing optimum use of
existing and proposed water resources was identified as the lack of effective
agricultural extension. Consequently, the project included a component to
reorganize and strengthen the extension system in the six districts along the
principles established in the Chambal and Rajasthan Command Area Development
Projects (Reports 430-IN and 447-IN). GOWB were so impressed with the re-
sults that they have since extended the reorganization to cover the entire
State. Within a short time it has become apparent that the new extension
system, if it is to maintain its initial momentum needs considerable support;
transportation for new extension staff is scarce, staff housing training and
office facilities are extremely poor and very limited, there is a critical
need to strengthen adaptive research and coordination at the State level
needs improvement. This Extension and Research Project is designed to remove
these constraints.
iii.      The five year development project would:
(a) Provide additional staff, housing, offices, transportation
and training fellowships to consolidate the reorganization
of the extension service.
(b) Improve about seven existing training centers by construc-
ion of hostels, classrooms and housing and by the provision
of staff, teaching equipment and vehicles.
(c) (i) Develop and upgrade about six commodity oriented and
about six adaptive agricultural research stations by farm
development, provision of staff, equipment, laboratory



- ii -
facilities and vehicles and by training fellowships (in-
cluding about 90 foreign fellowships) for research workers
and (ii) provide up to 15 man-months of consultancy serv-
ices to assist with development of the research stations.
(d)  Provide staff, equipment and funds for studies to monitor
project progress and evaluate its impact.
iv.       Total project costs are estimated at Rs 253 million (US$28.1
million) including US$3.5 million already financed under IDA Credit 541-IN
for improvement of extension and adaptive research. The proposed IDA Credit
of US$12 million would, therefore, finance about 50% of the additional proj-
ect costs of US$24.6 million, net of duties and taxes. Including funds pro-
vided under Credit 541-IN, the proposed financing would cover foreign ex-
change costs of US$2 million and about 47% of local costs.
v.        The main items to be financed are:  civil works, mainly construc-
tion of houses and offices, purchase of vehicles, including motorcycles and
bicycles; and equipment. Civil works contracts (US$10.4 M) would be small
and widely dispersed, both geographically and over time; and would, therefore,
be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding following local adver-
tising. A special cell would be established within PWD to assure efficient
implementation and speedy disbursements of the buildings component. There are
numerous qualified local contractors to carry out civil works. About 100
motor vehicles of various types (US$0.8 M), including two power boats, would
be required under the project and would be purchased in small quantities over
four years and would be widely dispersed in rural areas. As adequate main-
tenance and availability of spares would be of paramount importance, this
would necessitate purchase of locally made vehicles of types already widely
used by Government Departments. Procurement would be by local competitive
bidding; motorcycles and cycles (US$0.4 M) would be purchased by individual
staff, according to their preference as they would be expected to repay the
purchase price. Scientific equipment for research stations (US$0.7 M) would
involve small contracts, from different suppliers of specialized items, and
international competitive bidding would, therefore, not be practical. As most
of the world's leading manufacturers of scientific equipment are represented
in India, are competitive, and could offer local maintenance services, GOWB's
established local procurement procedures, utilizing competitive bidding when
appropriate, would be employed. Orders for purchase of minor equipment and
furniture (US$1.0 M) would be bulked wherever possible and purchased following
similar competitive bidding procedures, except where orders are valued at less
than US$50,000, when they would then be purchased by prudent shopping through
normal trade channels. Employment of consultants (US$0.1 M) would be on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The balance of additional project costs
(US$11.2 M) would consist of land purchase (US$0.5 M), local and overseas
training (US$1.4 M), incremental staff salaries and travelling allowances
(US$5.5 M) and other project operating costs (US$3.8 M). As bulk procurement
is not involved, expenditures would be according to existing GOWB procedures.



- iii -
vi.       Overall responsibility for project implementation would lie with
the GOWB Department of Agriculture, through the Commissioner and Secretary for
Agriculture. All extension, research and training activities would be carried
out by the Directorate of Agriculture under the Director of Agriculture, who
is responsible to the Commissioner. The Director of Agriculture would be res-
ponsible for day to day administration of the project assisted by two Additional
Directors of Agriculture (ADA), one each for extension and research. In turn,
these Additional Directors would each be assisted by a Joint Director of Agri-
culture and supporting staff. Appointment of full time staff for the unfilled
posts of ADA (research) and JDA (extension) would be a condition of credit
effectiveness. The Commissioner, through the Director of Agriculture and
Additional Directors of Agriculture for Extension and Research would set
policy guidelines for all research and extension programs.
vii.      Neither extension nor research can function effectively without
close coordination at all administrative levels. A Program Planning and
Implementation Committee chaired by the Commissioner and Secretary for Agri-
culture, and comprising research and extension staff as well as representa-
tives from the Finance Department and the Agricultural University would,
therefore, be set up to provide a mechanism to evaluate seasonal research
results, define programs for additional crop trials, approve detailed district
programs for extension, and propose annual programs of farm level field demon-
strations of already proven agricultural practices. Monitoring and evaluation
of the project would be the responsibility of the existing Socio-Economic and
Evaluation Branch of the Directorate of Agriculture in conjunction with the
Agricultural University. Details would be finalized by July 1977.
viii.     Total project costs over the five year period, including physical
contingencies, amount to about US$11.5 per farm family affected (assuming 2 M
farm families benefit) or about US$2.2 per capita. Incremental costs follow-
ing project completion would be about US$2.2 M per annum, or US$1.1 per farm
family per annum. This additional requirement compares with GOWB present
budgetary allocation to agriculture of about US$73 M per annum equivalent
and would be met without difficulty.
ix.       Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type of project is
difficult since the expected benefits of improved agricultural practices,
which also require additional inputs, cannot be attributed solely to exten-
sion and research. Moreover, there is not enough experience in West Bengal
to estimate acceptance rates with any degree of accuracy. However, there is
no doubt that the substantial improvement in the efficiency of utilization of
resources which would be brought about by the project, would generate a high
rate of return. Assuming that only 25% of the farmers participate by year 7,
and that their yields are no more than 75% of those now obtained at the best
operational farms, the rate of return would be over 100%. To illustrate the
high rate another way, if by year 7 yields of rice state-wide increased by
15 kg/ha, or by less than 2%, over the "without project" situation, the eco-
nomic rate of return would be 50%. In the IDA-financed Chambal and Rajasthan
Command Area Development Projects provisional figures indicate that over a
three-year period yields of rice increased by an average of 60%, wheat by



- iv -
80% and those of mustard and gram more than doubled as a result of improved
extension services of the type this project would provide. While these are
largely irrigated areas, it shows the magnitude of the possible response.
There is little risk that project induced yields would not increase by an
average of at least 15 kg/ha since the best farmers in West Bengal already
obtain nearly twice the current average yield and on research stations sub-
stantially higher yield levels than these are achieved. Furthermore, while
no quantitative evaluation has been carried out in West Bengal to assess
the impact of the new extension system since its introduction in 1975, pre-
liminary observations indicate that yields have increased substantially where
recommendations have been followed. These high rates of return should, how-
ever, be treated with caution since, as improved agricultural practices spread,
further investments in infrastructure and services would become necessary.
x.        Experience in other areas suggest that all farmers benefit from this
type of extension, small farmers benefitting the most. Aside from generating
high economic benefits at low cost the project would, therefore, also have
considerable beneficial impact on income distribution.
xi.        The project is considered suitable for an IDA credit of US$12
million.



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Eastern Region of India, comprising the States of Assam, Bihar,
Orissa, West Bengal and eastern Uttar Pradesh, is the country's major rice
growing area. Most of the region enjoys moderate to heavy monsoon rains and
large areas of relatively fertile alluvial soils, and there is a vast, mainly
unexploited, surface and ground water resource. Yet foodgrain yields are
generally lower than elsewhere in India and production has barely kept pace
with population growth. Rural institutions are generally weak, and most
indicators of social and economic development are lower than for the rest of
India. During discussions between GOI and the Bank in New Delhi in November,
1974, it was agreed to give special emphasis to the development of suitable
agriculture projects in the Eastern Region States. The proposed project was
identified in line with this new direction of Bank Group agriculture oper-
ations in India. It was prepared by a GOWB working group, assisted by Bank
staff and consultants. It embodies a new and successful approach to extension
which was pioneered under the following Bank Group projects: Chambal Command
Area Development Project (Loan 1011-IN); Rajasthan Command Area Development
(Credit 502-IN); West Bengal Agricultural Development Project (Credit 541-IN);
with the assistance of Mr. D. Benor (Senior Agriculture Extension Consultant).
1.02    This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission which
visited West Bengal in May, 1976, comprised of Messrs N. Krafft, Y. Elkana and
B. Woods (IDA) and Mr S. Freiberg (Consultant). The mission was assisted
part-time by Mr P. Nelson and Ms. R. Mason (IDA) and Mr P. Pohland (IDA) of
the Bank's Resident Mission in India, who also contributed to the report.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      India's 610 M population is growing at 2.3% per year and per capita
income (US$115 in 1975) at 1.4%. About 70% of the employed population is
engaged in agriculture, which accounts for about 45% of GNP and produces
the raw material for the major commodity exports: jute, tea, sugar, leather,
cotton goods and cashews. The current ten year growth rate in agriculture
is about 3%. Compared with previous decades, increases in yield have contri-
buted more to growth than increases in cropped area. Improved yields have
largely resulted from more intensive use of seed of high-yielding varieties
(HYV), fertilizer, pesticides and irrigation.



B. West Bengal
2.02      West Bengal, situated in northeast India, is bordered by the Hima-
layas in the north, Assam, and Bangladesh in the east, the Bay of Bengal in
the south and Bihar and Orissa in the west. It has an area of about
87,000 km2 and a population of nearly 50 million. West Bengal is the second
most densely populated state in India, with 8% of the country's population on
only 2.7% of its land. Although the State has the second largest industrial
base in India, centered around Calcutta with its population of about 8 million,
agriculture provides nearly 50% of State income and 60% of its jobs.
Topography, Climate and Soils
2.03      On the basis of topography, soils and climate, West Bengal  can be
divided into six agro-climatic zones: hill, terai, old alluvium, new allu-
vium, lateritic and coastal saline (Map 12327); details are given in Annex 1.
The distinctions between the various zones are important since extension re-
commendations have to be carefully tailored to local conditions (para 3.06).
Generally 70-80% of the rain falls in the four monsoon months between June and
October. Erratic scattered showers between March and May grow in intensity
until they merge with the monsoons. November to March is dry. Mean tempera-
tures vary from. about 370C maximum in May to to about 10°C minimum from
December to February, though in the northern Himalayan districts temperatures
drop to below freezing.
Land Tenure and Distribution
2.04      Many of the difficulties of raising agricultural productivity in
West Bengal stem from the large number of small farms and the tenancy arrange-
ments. "Small" and "marginal" farmers with holdings of less than 2 ha operate
about 82% of all holdings, many of which are fragmented, yet control only 47%
of cultivable land. These small and fragmented farms are frequently ineligible
for economic investments because they seldom justify, for instance, groundwater
exploitation on an individual basis. Despite land tenure legislation, it is
estimated that 40% of farmers are sharecroppers or tenants, with neither in-
centive for permanent improvements (because of insecurity under oral tenancy
arrangements) nor access to institutional seasonal credit. The proposed pro-
ject would help tackle problems faced by these small farmers by providing them,
through the extension service, with suitable low cost technology to increase
yields and cash income (para 2.15).
Agriculture (Annex 1)
2.05      Despite its relatively small size, West Bengal ranks fourth in
India's foodgrain production (first in rice) and accounts for 60% of the
country's jute and 25% of its tea (apart from sugar, the two most valuable
agricultural exports). Of the State's 8.7 M ha, 5.5 M ha are cultivated with
a cropping intensity of 138%, giving a total area under crops of 7.6 M ha in



- 3 -
1974/75. Production of foodgrains (rice and wheat) in the decade to 1974/75
increased at about 3.5% p.a. to 7.4 M tons. Preliminary estimates for 1975/76
indicate a record harvest of about 8 M tons.
2.06      This growth in foodgrain production has resulted mainly from in-
creases in cropped area and yield of irrigated rabi (dry season) crops, in
particular wheat and rabi rice (boro), which, however, constitute only 17% of
the area harvested. Production and yields of wheat increased dramatically
from 34,000 tons (0.8 tons/ha) in 1965/66 to an estimated 1.1 M tons (2 tons/
ha) in 1975/76 and of boro rice from 37,000 tons (1.2 tons/ha) to over 1 M
tons (2.7 tons/ha) in the same period. In contrast, yields of the main kharif
(wet season) crops and of crops grown on residual moisture (kharif and autumn
rice, jute, pulses and oilseeds), constituting about 83% of the area harvested,
have remained more or less static for the past decade. Of these, kharif rice
(aman) is the major single crop in West Bengal (4.8 M tons in 1974/75) contri-
buting over two-thirds of total foodgrain production and involving nearly every
farmer. It is, therefore, essential to increase yields of these kharif crops
if the majority of small and marginal farmers is to benefit. The strategy
for future development is discussed in para 2.15.
Agricultural Extension (Annex 2)
2.07      The Director of Agriculture, working under the Commissioner for
Agriculture and Community Development, is responsible for agricultural exten-
sion. Prior to the reorganization of the extension service in late 1975, how-
ever, responsibility for implementation of extension activities was divided
between Community Development through the Block Development Officer (BDO) 1/
and the Directorate of Agriculture through the Agricultural Extension Officer
(AEO). The AEO was meant to guide and supervise the work of about 10 multi-
purpose Village Level Workers (VLW) per block but had no administrative con-
trol over them. As a result the VLW, who was directly responsible to the BDO
in Community Development, spent only a fraction of his time on agriculture
and much of this on non-productive report writing and regulatory work. The
Directorate of Agriculture found it difficult, therefore, to implement agri-
cultural programs using extension staff and came increasingly to rely on
departmental staff appointed for "special schemes", such as jute and cotton.
Special schemes, however, only served to weaken the effects of extension staff
still further, dissipating efforts and obscuring the need for fundamental
reform. In sum, most VLW and AEO had two, if not three masters and lines of
command, supervision, and technology flows were so complex and diffuse, that
many staff, however capable and competent, were not fully effective. This
resulted in few farm level contacts and low impact on yields, particularly of
small farmers.
1/   The State is divided into 335 Development Blocks, the local rural
administrative unit, headed by a BDO. The BDO is directly responsi-
ble to the District Magistrate or Deputy Commissioner for development
programs of the different State Departments (Animal Husbandry, Public
Health, Education, Cooperation and small and cottage industries).



-4-
Training of Agricultural Extension Staff (Annex 2)
2.08      AEO are generally direct recruits from colleges who subsequently
receive minimal in-service training. VLW are generally secondary school
graduates, recruited after a two-year pre-service course given by one of the
Directorate of Agriculture's seven (gramsevak) training centers. Many of the
older AEO and VLW received their basic agricultural training before many of
the recent technological advances. Because of the lack of emphasis on agri-
cultural extension in the past, these staff have received little upgrading
training.
Agricultural Research Institutions (Annex 3)
2.09      Several institutions are devoted to agricultural research in West
Bengal. These include the Department of Agriculture, the Agricultural Univer-
sity, and the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). The Agricultural
University was recently established (1974) and is in the process of construct-
ing buildings and facilities at Kalyani, to be completed by 1979. It is re-
sponsible for basic research but has yet to establish a major effort in this
area. ICAR conducts basic and applied research in West Bengal at the Jute
Agricultural Research Institute at Barrackpore and at its substations for
potato at Darjeeling and for soil salinity at Canning. It also provides
financing for certain research schemes on maize, potato and wheat at the
University and on rice, pulses and oilseeds, sugarcane, water management and
jute at the Department of Agriculture's five commodity oriented research
stations. Most schemes are financed 75% by ICAR and 25% by GOWB. Overall,
about 22% of the funds required to operate the Department of Agriculture's
research stations are provided by ICAR.
2.10      The major agricultural research effort in the State lies with the
Department of Agriculture, with an annual operating budget exceeding Rs 3M
and a professional staff of 155 (mostly with PhDs or MSc). Its research
activities are primarily adaptive, with most of the research carried out at its
commodity oriented stations on rice, pulses and oilseeds, horticulture, water
management and sugarcane (details of their major accomplishments are in Annex
3, Appendices 1-6). The commodity oriented stations operate on a multidisci-
plinary approach but are ill-equipped, understaffed and lack proper field
and laboratory facilities for effective research. There is a lack of research
to evaluate and adapt agronomic practices under the different agroclimatic
regions of the state. The program is run by a Joint Director of Agriculture
(Research), responsible to the Director of Agriculture.
Agricultural Credit, Marketing and Inputs
2.11      An effective extension and research project cannot be seen in iso-
lation from the input delivery system, and credit and marketing arrangements.
Fortunately, the input supply system for fertilizer, seed, pesticides, and
credit (particularly short-term production credit) appears adequate to meet
the increase in demand that the proposed project will generate in the short



run. In the longer run, however, further investment in irrigation combined
with an intensive extension and research program is likely to generate an
effective demand for those inputs which the system would have difficulty in
handling. Therefore, in subsequent phases of agricultural development in West
Bengal particular attention will have to be paid to these aspects.
l
2.12      Credit.  Most institutional credit comes from the cooperative move-
ment; the State Cooperative Bank (SCB) for short term and medium term and the
State Cooperative Land Development Bank (LDB) for long term. Commercial
banks provide all three types of credit but are still mainly urban-oriented
and have made little impact on agricultural credit. Till 1972/73, the volume
of business through the cooperative banking system was low; over the past
three years, however, the cooperative sector has been revitalized. Short-term
credit loans increased nearly tenfold from Rs 41 M in 1972/73 to Rs 385 M in
1975/76. This was accompanied by a striking reduction in overdues, from 80%
of demand to 20%. LDB advances also increased markedly and are expected to
reach Rs 55 M in 1975/76; similarly overdues were reduced from 65% of demand
to less than 25%. Despite this rapid expansion of credit and reduction in
overdues, a continuing and sustained expansion of short and medium term credit
will depend largely upon sustained political support for collection of over-
dues, upgrading managerial capabilities, streamlining operational procedures,
and rationalization. GOWB, the Agricultural Refinance Development Corporation
(ARDC), and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) are aware of these needs and are
implementing appropriate programs (Annex 4).
2.13      Marketing and Procurement.  Agricultural production and marketing
have been dominated by the major food crop, rice and the major cash crop,
jute.  In recent years, however, wheat and potatoes have gained considerable
importance in the rural economy.   While at present there are no major over-
all marketing problems, the situation varies from crop to crop (Annex 5).
Under the West Bengal Agricultural Development Project, IDA is associated
with the development of three selected markets, and strengthening of the State
Marketing Board to provide the legal and institutional framework for regulated
marketing, as practised successfully in other states. The purpose of this
pilot operation is to analyze the impact of improved infrastructural facilities
and to provide guidelines for future market development.
2.14      Fertilizer, Seed and Pesticides:  Fertilizer use at 17 kg/ha is
slightly above the all India average. Distribution is through the West
Bengal State Cooperative Marketing Federation, the Agro-Industries Cooper-
atives and private dealers; retail outlets number about 16,000. Fertilizer
shortages, serious until mid-1974, have been alleviated and presently pose
few problems. HYV seed availability and distribution are generally well
catered for and the situation should further improve with the recent ratio-
nalization and proposed expansion of the seed industry under the Bank-assisted
National Seed Project (1273-IN). A major constraint to wider use of pesticides
relates to the weakness of the extension services. Provision of plant protec-
tion specialists under the proposed project (para 3.04) should help remedy
this. However, while there should be no problem meeting input requirements in
the short run, problems could arise in the longer term requiring a careful
examination and strengthening of the physical distribution system.



- 6-
Strategy for Agricultural Development
2.15      Production increases over the past decade have come largely from
irrigated crops, while yields from rainfed areas have remained stagnant. In
the past, emphasis has been placed on raising production through use of inputs,
including HYV, fertilizer, and irrigation, thus benefiting the larger farmer
and bypassing the majority of marginal and small farmers. To redress this
balance and to raise foodgrain production in the short run, emphasis will have
to be placed on raising yields largely through better agricultural practices,
such as seed treatment, timely sowing, optimal plant populations and weeding.
The main priority for increasing agricultural production thus lies in closing
the gap between the present practices of the majority of farmers and existing
technology by transferring to farmers the knowhow of already proven but simple
improvements and making better use of existing inputs and water. This can
largely be achieved by improvements to present agricultural extension methods.
However, such improvement needs to be backed by an effective and responsive
adaptive research program as a successful extension service will quickly
generate demand for more sophisticated advice. Existing technology will
suffice for the next two to three years, but additional research is needed
to bring new technologies forward after that time. In the longer term there
is need to expand thes area under full irrigation. Considerable potential also
exists for increasing production of non-foodgrains, in particular sugarcane,
potatoes, vegetables and fruits. The West Bengal Agricultural Development
Project (Credit 541-IN) and the proposed project are aimed at building on
these opportunities.
2.16     West Bengal Agricultural Development Project.  This Development
Project, financed under Credit 541-IN, supports a four-year agricultural
program in six of the State's seventeen agricultural districts, mainly for
minor irrigation. It included a component to reorganize and strengthen the
extension system in these six districts. Results were so impressive that
GOWB extended the reorganization to the entire State (with the exception of
the mountain district of Darjeeling) in July/August 1975, becoming the first
State in India to do so. This reorganization has now been successfully
completed. Early disbursements have been slow due mainly to poor inter-agency
coordination at the state level. Measures to overcome these problems have
been discussed with GOWB and disbursements are now picking up.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The project would consolidate and strengthen West Bengal's re-
organized extension services and upgrade and develop the State's adaptive
research facilities with the objective of achieving early and sustained



- 7 -
improvements in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains. The pro-
ject would be part of a program designed to introduce efficient systems of
agricultural extension and adaptive research in West Bengal initiated under
the West Bengal Agricultural Development Project. It has become apparent
that the new extension system, if it is to maintain its initial momentum,
needs additional support; transportation for the new extension staff is
scarce; staff housing, training and office facilities are extremely poor and
very limited, and there is a critical need to strengthen technical supervision
and adaptive research. To alleviate these constraints the proposed project
would comprise:
(a) Provision of additional staff, housing, offices,
transportation and training fellowships to consolidate
the reorganization of the extension service.
(b) Improvement of about seven existing training
centers by construction of hostels, classrooms and
housing and by the provision of staff, teaching
equipment and vehicles.
(c) (i) Development and upgrading of about six commodity
oriented and about six adaptive agricultural research
stations by farm development, provision of staff,
equipment, laboratory facilities and vehicles and by
training fellowships (including about 90 foreign
fellowships) for research workers and
(ii) provision of up to 15 man-months of consultancy
services to assist with development of the research
stations.
(d) Provision of staff, equipment and funds for studies
to monitor project progress and evaluate its impact.
B. Detailed Features
Extension (Annex 2)
3.02      The Extension Methodology.  The objective of the project would be
to provide farmers, on a regular and systematic basis, with up-to-date advice
on farming practices capable of having an immediate impact on yields. The
primary instrument to bring about this change would be full-time village level
agricultural extension workers. Each VLW would cover some 800 to 1200 farm
families, divided into 8 smaller groups of 100-150 families, the number vary-
ing according to population density and communication network. In West Bengal
population density is high and communications good, hence the number of farm
families in each group is higher than would be practiced elsewhere in India.
Each group would be visited by its VLW on a fixed day of the week, once every



-8-
two weeks. Each VLW would work primarily through about ten contact farmers
selected from amongst each group. The message communicated to farmers would
be simple, concentrating on the most important crops of their locality and
initially on improved cultural practices of immediate relevance (para 2.15).
The VLW would receive the extension message at training sessions held one day
in the two-week period by his supervisor, the AEO, supported by Subject Matter
Specialists (para 3.07). On the three days remaining in the two-week period
(one rest day a week), the VLW would participate in demonstrations, field
trials and administrative work.
3.03      The crux of West Bengal's reorganized extension program is a direct
line of command from the Director of Agriculture through to VLW. During the
1975 reorganization, this was achieved by transferring 75% of VLW (2,400) from
the Community Development and Agriculture Department to the Directorate of
Agriculture, and incorporating another 1,600 by abolishing all "special schemes"
(para 2.07). Thus 4,000 VLW cover an estimated 4 M active farm families (aver-
age ratio of 1:1000). 450 AEO, already part of the Directorate of Agriculture,
support and supervise the VLW (ratio of 1:9) and they, in turn, are responsible
to a newly created subdivisional organization (para 3.04). The existing numbers
of VLW and AEO are adequate.
3.04      Technical Support.  To ensure satisfactory supervision, training
and control of field staff, the existing 17 agricultural districts would be
further divided into 50 sub-divisions, each to be headed by a subdivisional
officer appointed by upgrading existing AEO or transfer of district staff.
To strengthen technical backup, the project would provide for (a) three Sub-
ject Matter Specialists (SMS) at each of the new subdivisions, one each in
crop production, plant protection and training, and (b) specialists at dis-
trict level dependent on crops grown. The project makes provision for three
per district, probably a research agronomist, a water management specialist
and an entomologist or pathologist. Specialists would spend their time about
equally between field visits including checks on lower level staff; research;
and training. Provision under the project has also been made for other super-
visory and supporting staff (details, see Annex 8, Table 5). Salaries would
not be increased. However, based on experience in other states, extension
staff would work harder than at present; provision has, therefore, been made
for an incentive honorarium to be awarded to about 25% VLW and other selected
staff.
3.05      Housing, Subdivisional Offices and Transportation.  The new exten-
sion methodology is based on regular and frequent farm visits by extension
staff. It is essential, therefore, that field level staff and their supervi-
sors live near their work and that they are sufficiently mobile to enable them
to function effectively. At present, housing available for rent in rural areas
is limited and extension workers rely on public transport, thus spending much
of their time travelling. Assurances were given that GOWB would ensure that
VLW would live in the area assigned for their operations, and for this pur-
pose GOWB would provide such low cost housing as may be necessary. The project
would provide low cost housing for 25% of VLW, 40% of AEO and farm managers.



- 9 -
Deductions would be made from salaries in lieu of rent. Assurances were also
given that within three months from the date of the Project Agreement, GOWB
would (i) complete a survey to determine the exact number and location of such
housing and (ii) furnish the Association for its review the standard design and
cost estimates for such housing. The project would finance construction of 50
subdivisional offices and associated land, equipment and furniture. The project
would also provide for additional equipment, vehicles at headquarters, subdivi-
sional, and district levels, including one mobile van per district for training,
demonstration, and plant protection, and bicycles for VLW and motorcycles for
AEO. Motorcycles and cycles would be sold to staff on credit, which is the best
means of ensuring proper care and maintenance. On purchasing a motorcycle the
AEO would be required to attend a short training course covering motorcycle
handling, maintenance and simple repairs, the highway code and insurance laws.
At present maximum credit advances are insufficient to cover cost, and loans
are not available to temporary Government servants unless they have at least
10 years continuous service, and then only to those whose pay exceeds Rs 500
per month. Assurances were given that GOWB would (i) provide credit to all
staff needing it to purchase transport, on terms and conditions sufficient to
create incentive for purchase of such transport, and (ii) provide such finan-
cial incentive as required to ensure optimum use of such transport. Provision
has been made in project costs for operating costs of incremental departmental
vehicles and staff travelling allowances. Assurances were also given that
GOWB would make adequate provision of funds to cover all other operating
expenses.
3.06      Technology Development and Establishment of Experimental Farms.
The extension methodology, based on full-time extension workers, and simple
and relevant technological messages, requires the development of an appropri-
ate technology suitably adapted to locality, size of farm, and the ability
of the farmer to invest and take risks. In addition to adaptive research
at commodity and zonal stations that would be strengthened under the project
(para 3.09 ff), one Department of Agriculture seed farm in each of the 50
subdivisions would be converted into an experimental farm so that recommen-
dations would be based on local trials, involving both extension and research
personnel. The project would provide necessary infrastructure, equipment and
operating funds to establish these farms. A farm manager would be responsible
for day-to-day operations.
3.07      Training.  Fortnightly training of VLW by AEO and SMS would be a
major feature of the extension system. AEO would be trained for two days each
month at sub-divisional and district level by district staff, backed up by
staff from the zonal and commodity research stations. Limited equipment and
extension aids would be required for staff training and these would be included
in the project. Existing staff would be upgraded and new staff recruited by
the Public Service Commission (para 3.04). The project provides 300 fellow-
ships of over three months, incremental costs of inservice and short-term
training, and scholarships for advancement training for a few VLW.
3.08      Upgrading Training Centers.  The project would strengthen existing
training centers to enable them to provide pre-service training of future VLW,



- 10 -
upgrading courses for older VLW, and short-term training of other field staff
by providing classrooms, dormitories, staff housing, furniture and equipment,
vehicles, renovation of existing facilities and additional staff and trainee
allowances.
Adaptive Research (Annex 3)
3.09      The project would support six commodity-oriented adaptive research
programs by strengthening five existing adaptive research stations and estab-
lishing a new station for crop production research with emphasis on wheat. It
would also establish six zonal stations by strengthening two existing sub-
s,ations and establishing four new stations for testing improved varieties and
new cultivation practices for the various crops under the main agro-climatic
zones of the State. These stations are listed in the Annex, and identified on
Iap 12327.
30 10    The commodity-oriented adaptive research program of the Department of
Agriculture would seek to identify and select improved varieties of the most
important crops obtained from national and international research institutions
combined (through ICAR), with a package of economically significant agronomic
practices directed to substantially increasing crop production of rice, pulses
and oilseeds, fruits and vegetables. sugarcane and wheat. No jute or potato
research station would be established since jute research is presently carried
out by -CAR at the Jute Agricultural Research Institute and potato is studied
adequately at an ICAR testing station in Darjeeling and by the Agricultural
University.  Each of the research stations would be organized on a multidis-
_ip'inary basis and would work on a variety of problems (see Annex 3 for
cietails).
3411      The zonal stations would develop improved cultural practices for
the major crops recommended by the commodity oriented research stations and
ada?ted to each of the agro-climatic zones. Promising varieties would be
oientified and schedules prepared for controlled measures on pests and disease.
Studies on cropping patterns, crop rotation as well as irrigation requirements
wcould be undertaken under the guidance of the crop production and water manage-
ment research stations. The project would provide for two agricultural eco-
nomists at each of the zonal stations, to evaluate the impact of new cultiva-
tion practices and varieties, to conduct farm management studies, and to
assist in development of seasonal recommendations.
3.12      The project would provide for civil works, including the construction
of laboratory and office buildings at all the above-mentioned stations except
those covering Rice and Sugarcane which have adequate facilities. The building
at Krishnagar would be shared by Horticulture and the New Alluvium Zonal Sta-
tion. The project wouldi also provide fencing, irrigation development, construc-
tion of godowns, green-houses, net-houses, screen-houses, and lath-houses at
some of the stations. Housing at research stations is currently inadequate
and the project would, therefore, provide accommodation for about 65% of the
staff, which, taken with present housing, would provide living quarters for
about 75% of all staff. Deductions would be made from salaries in lieu of
rent. A 25-bed dormitory would be constructed at each commodity oriented
stations and two of the zonal stations for visiting extension personnel and



- 11 -
farmers. The project would also finance laboratory and other equipment, 27
vehicles, including two power boats to facilitate transport to the many neg-
lected coastal islands, books and journals, limited office and laboratory
furnishings and auxiliary power generators because of frequent power failures.
Incremental salaries, allowances and other operating expenses, amounting to
27% of total research costs, would also be financed as part of the project.
Assurances were given that throughout the life of the project GOWB would
make adequate provision of funds to cover operating expenses.
3.13      Staffing, Training and Consultancy Services.  At full development,
professional staff would be increased from 121 to 260, an increase of 139.
Of this 67 would be at the commodity oriented stations and 72 at the zonal
stations. Support staff would also be increased. Most professional staff
would be directly recruited through the Public Service Commission. To pro-
vide intensive training in relevant adaptive research for new and existing
research staff the project would provide for 90 fellowships abroad for periods
of between one month and one year and about 40 research fellowships in India.
It would also provide for up to 15 man months of short-term consultants during
the five years of the project for assistance in organizing and developing
research programs and solving problems arising during implementation of the
research programs.
Evaluation Unit and Farm Surveys
3.14      An essential feature of the project would be the monitoring
and evaluation of its progress and impact (details are in para 5.10). For
this purpose, the project would provide for strengthening of staff of the
Socio-Economic and Evaluation Branch of the Directorate of Agriculture, pro-
vision of equipment and funds for surveys.



- 12 -
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01      Detailed cost estimates, which include duties and taxes estimated
at about US$1.1 M, are given in Annexes 7-9, and are summarized below:
Thousand Rupees          Thousand US Dollars
Local   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total
Extension
Land                         3,425     -       3,425      380     -         380
Civil Works                32,125      -      32,125   3,569      -       3,569
Equipment and Vehicles    11,207   2,587   13,794   1,245         288    1,533
Training                     3,931     -       3,931      438     -         438
Establishment /a           53,645   1,233   54,878   5,960        137    6,097
Subtotal             104,333   3,820  108,153  11,592        425   12,017
Upgrading Training Centers
Civil Works                 6,704      -       6,704      744     -         744
Equipment and Vehicles       1,258     122    1,380       140      13       153
Establishment /a            2,153      -       2,153     240      -         240
Subtotal              10,115      122   10,237   1,124        13    1,137
Adaptive Research
Civil Works                36,886      -      36,886   4,099      -       4,099
Equipment and Vehicles       6,832   5,304   12,136       759     589    1,348
Training and Consultancy   1,657   4,613    6,270         184     513       697
Establishment /a           21,064      460   21,524   2,340        51    2,391
Subtotal              66,439  10,377   76,816   7,382   1,153    8,535
Evaluation Unit and Farm
Surveys                      1,648     -       1,648      183     -         183
Total Before Contingencies  182,535  14,319  196,854  20,281   1,591   21,872
Physical Contingencies    10,840       584   11,424   1,205        64    1,269
Price Contingencies        41A475   3,547   45,022   4,614        395    5,009
Subtotal              52,315   4,131   56,446   5,819        459    6,278
Total Project Costs           234,850  18,450  253,300  26,100   2,050   28,150
/a   Establishment costs include incremental operating cost, incremental
salaries and allowances, and taxes.



- 13 -
4.02      Cost estimates are based on findings during appraisal and relate
to prices in September 1976. Physical contingencies have been applied at
appropriate rates on civil works, equipment and furniture and average about
5%. Price contingencies have been applied cumulatively as follows (Annex 10):
(a) Local equipment, vehicles local training and incremental
operating costs, other than (d), 3.5% for the remaining part
of 1976; 8% per annum 1977-1979 and 7% thereafter;
(b) Civil works 4% for the remaining part of 1976, 12% per annum
1977-1979, and 10% thereafter;
(c) Imported equipment, overseas training and consultants
4.5% for the remaining part of 1976; 8% per annum 1977-1979,
and 7% thereafter; and
(d) Incremental salaries and allowances 6% per annum from
1977 onwards.
B. Proposed Financing
4.03      Finance to cover total project costs of Rs 253 M (US$28.15 M) would
be provided as follows:
IDA      GOWB        Total
------US $ Million-------
IDA Credit 541-IN             2.2       1.35         3.55
Proposed Project             12.0      12.60        24.60
Total Project Cost           14.2      13.95        28.15
(50.4%)  (49.6%)       (100%)
The proposed IDA Credit of US$12.0 M would be to GOI on standard terms and,
would finance about 50% of incremental project costs. Together with the
US$2.2 M from IDA credit 541-IN, this would cover foreign exchange costs of
Rs 18.45 M (US$2.05 M) and about 46.6% of local costs. No disbursements
would be made under the proposed project until funds provided by Credit
541-IN, category (2)(c) of Schedule I of the Development Credit Agreement,
had been fully disbursed. IDA funds would be channelled through GOI to GOWB
Department of Agriculture, in accordance with GOI standard terms and arrange-
ments for the financing of state development projects. The balance of project
financing would come from GOWB.



- 14 -
C. Procurement
4.04      The main items to be financed are:  civil works; vehicles, including
motorcycles and bicycles; and equipment. Civil works range in size from small
low cost houses for VLW to larger research and training buildings. A special
cell would be established to assure efficient implementation of the buildings
component (para 5.01). Civil works contracts (US$10.4 M) would be small and
dispersed, both geographically and over time, and would not be suitable for
international competitive bidding. Assurances were obtained that contracts
would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding following local adver-
tising. There are numerous qualified local contractors to carry out civil
works,
4.05      About 100 motor vehicles of various types (US$0.8 M), as well as two
power boats, would be required under the project. They would be purchased in
small quantities over four years and would be widely dispersed in rural areas.
As adequate maintenance and availability of spares would be of paramount
importance, this would necessitate purchase of locally made vehicles of types
already widely used by Government Departments. Thus procurement would be by
local competitive bidding under existing procedures which are satisfactory;
assurances were given accordingly. Motorcycles and cycles (US$0.4 M) would be
purchased by individual staff, according to their preference.
4,06      Scientific equipment for research stations (US$0.7 M) would involve
small contracts from various suppliers of specialized items. International
competitive bidding would, therefore, not be practical. As most of the
world's leading manufacturers of scientific equipment are represented in
india, are competitive, and could offer local maintenance service, GOWB's
established local procurement procedures utilizing competitive bidding where
appropriate would be employed. Orders for purchase of minor equipment and
furniture (US$1.0 M) would be bulked wherever possible and purchased following
similar competitive bidding procedures, except where valued at less than
US$50,000, when they would be purchased by prudent shopping through normal
trade channels. Suitable assurances were given.
4.07      Assurances were given that consultants employed (US$0.1 M) would
have qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment
satisfactory to IDA. The balance of incremental project costs (US$11.2 M)
would consist of land (US$0.5 M), local and overseas training (US$1.4 M),
incremental salaries and travelling allowances (US$5.5 M) and operating costs
(US$3.8 M) not involving procurement. The above amounts exclude components
financed by funds from 541-IN category (2)(c) of Schedule 1 of the Development
Credit Agreement, which would be procured in accordance with the existing
Credit Agreement.
4.08      Assurances were given that for contracts in excess of US$100,000
draft tender invitations and bid documents would be submitted for IDA review
before issue.



- 15 -
D. Disbursements and Audit
4.09      Disbursements under the Credit would extend over five years for:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for laboratory equipment;
(b) 100% of cost of training and consultancy services
excluding taxes; and
(c)  90% of cost of clvil works and for locally procurred
equipment and vehicl½s-
4.10      There would be no disbursement against land acquisition, operat-
ing costs or incremental staff salaries and travelling allowances. Disburse-
ments against expenditures for locally procured equipment costing Rs 20,000
or less, and payments under civil works contracts for one or more progress
payment not exceeding Rs 50,000 would be against a certificate of expenditure,
the documentation for which would not be submitted for review but would be
retained by GOWB. It would be available for inspection by IDA during the
course of project supervision missions. Disbursements against all other items
would be fully documented. Certificates of expenditure would be audited at
least once every six months and a report submitted to IDA promptly thereafter.
Suitable assurances were obtained. A schedule of estimated disbursements is
in Annex 12.
4.11      Assurances were given that the Department of Agriculture would
keep a separate account of expenditures made under the project to be audited
annually, for each fiscal year, in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied by independent and qualified auditors. Audited accounts
would be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the end of each such
year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      Overall responsibility for project implementation would be with the
GOWB Department of Agriculture, through the Commissioner and Secretary for
Agriculture (see organization chart no. 16449). All extension and research
activities would be carried out by the Directorate of Agriculture under the
Director of Agriculture, who is directly responsible to the Commissioner.
The Director of Agriculture would be responsible for day to day administra-
tion and control of the project assisted by two Additional Directors of Agri-
culture (ADA), one each for extension (posted prior to negotiations) and re-
search. In turn, these Additional Directors would each be assisted by a Joint
Director of Agriculture (JDA) and supporting staff. Appointment of full time
staff for the unfilled posts of ADA (Research) and JDA (extension) would be a
condition of credit effectiveness. The Commissioner of Agriculture, through
the Director and Additional Directors of Agriculture would be responsible for



- 16 -
monitoring, recruitment and training of staff, construction, budgeting,
procurement and disbursement of funds, and prompt submission of quarterly
project progress reports in a form acceptable to IDA. To assure efficient
implementation of the building's component of the project and timely disburse-
ment of the Credit, assurances were obtained that, within three months from the
date of the Project Agreement, GOWB would (i) establish a buildings implemen-
tation cell within the Public Works Department, or such other department as the
Association shall agree and (ii) appoint a suitably qualified and experienced
person to head the cell. A buildings implementation schedule is in Annex 12.
5.02      The reorganized extension program would involve a single line of
command from the Director of Agriculture through the Director of Extension,
range, district, sub-division and AEO to the VLW. In the case of research,
each station head would report to the Addition Director of Agriculture (Re-
search) (see Organization Chart).
5.03      Neither extension nor research can function effectively without
close coordination at all levels. Relationships between extension and re-
search, already good, would be enhanced by regular meetings and training
sessions, in particular involving subject matter specialists, specialists from
the district, and research staff from the zonal and, to a lesser extent, the
commodity stations. A Program Planning and Implementation Committee (PPC),
comprising the Commissioner and Secretary for Agriculture, Director of Agri-
culture, Additional Directors of Agriculture for Extension and Research, Range
Directors, the head of each commodity research station and the evaluation
unit, and representatives of the Finance Department and Universities con-
ducting agricultural research, would meet at least four times yearly.  It
would provide a formal mechanism to, inter alia, review seasonal extension and
research results, particularly field trials and demonstrations; approve a
basic program for additional trials; approve detailed district programs for
extension; approve an annual program of field demonstration of practices
already proven; and assess requirements for further coordination of research
and extension and review input and credit supplies. Policy guidelines and
agenda for meetings would be prepared by the Commissioner and Secretary for
Agriculture through his staff. Recommendations and plans submitted for review
and approval would be formulated through a series of meetings from the range
down to the subdivision; details are given in Annex 11. Suitable assurances
were obtained.
5.04      The Commissioner and Secretary for Agriculture, through the Director
of Agriculture, and Additional Directors of Agriculture for Extension and
Research would work out detailed plans and targets for short term credit and
input supplies biannually and would finalize such plans in consultation with
the Medium and Short-term Credit Subcommittee of the State Level Coordination
Committee, already functioning satisfactorily. The other subcommittee, for
long-term loans and ARDC schemes, is responsible for coordination of the West
Bengal Agricultural Development Project (Credit 541-IN). The 22-member State
Level Coordination Committee was set up in February 1974 to keep under con-
tinuous review the overall progress of institutional finance for agriculture
and to suggest measures for eliminating deficiencies. The subcommittee on
medium and short term credit would ensure that problems of seasonal credit were
given due attention, and would incorporate plans and targets developed by the
Commissioner in its estimates of seasonal credit requirements.



- 17 -
5.05      A Policy Coordinating Committee, chaired by the Chief Secretary,
would be set up to meet at least once a year and as required. It would be
responsible for ensuring cooperation between the various government organi-
zations and the university (para 5.08). The Commissioner and Secretary for
Agriculture, the Director of Agriculture and the Additional Directors of
Agriculture for Extension and Research would act as its permanent secretariat.         a
It would also ensure that problems of markegti   rd--IAi-if supp"ies were given   n X
due attention. The Policy Coordinating Committee would include its permanent
secretariat and representatives from GOI, ICAR, universities conducting
agricultural research, the Engineering Directorate and the State Water Board
of the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Cooperation, The West
Bengal State Cooperative Marketing Federation, the State Marketing Board, and
West Bengal Agro Industries Corporation. Suitable assurances were obtained.
5.06      Difficulties faced by farmers in marketing produce and obtaining
inputs would be identified by the VLW and reported to the assistant subdi-
visional officer (in addition to the 450 AEO for extension, each subdivision
would have one AEO to assist the subdivisional officer). He would be mainly
responsible for administrative work and for helping to solve marketing and
supply problems through the appropriate agency, such as the Agro Industries
Corporation, the Food Corporation of India and Cooperatives and Marketing
Societies. Problems he is unable to solve would be channelled to the
Commissioner and Secretary for Agriculture.
Cooperating Institutions, Research
5.07      West Bengal's Agricultural University, ICAR and other national
agricultural research institutions would furnish material and information to
the commodity and zonal adaptive research stations for screening, testing and
evaluation. Problems requiring basic and applied research would be relayed
by these stations to the agricultural universities and ICAR. Collaboration,
through ICAR, would be encouraged with international institutions such as
International Research Center for Rice (IRRI-Philippines), Wheat (CIMMYT-
Mexico), Vegetable Research Center (Taiwan), Semiarid (ICRISAT-India), and
with key institutions of countries such as Australia, Israel, Japan, and USA.
Provision has been included in the project (para 3.13) for training of re-
search and extension staff at national and international institutions.
Research Responsibility
5.08      The GOWB policy decision to place the commodity-oriented and zonal
adaptive research stations, that would be developed and established under the
project, under the Department of Agriculture rather than the Agricultural
University was taken (a) because research undertaken would be adaptive, thus
falling within the purview of the Department of Agriculture; (b) because they
wanted to help foster the already good working relationship between extension
and research presently existing in the Directorate of Agriculture and (c)
because the university is still relatively new and has yet to demonstrate its
research capability. GOWB have submitted a memorandum of understanding, which
set out the research responsibilities of the university and of the Department
of Agriculture and the means of coordination and collaboration.



- 18 -
Promotion
5.09      Technical specialists and research scientists, currently have limited
avenues for promotion except in non-technical fields. Thus their technical ex-
pertise is frequently wasted. Assurances were obtained that specialists and
research scientists would be able to continue working in their discipline with-
out being transferred to general administrative posts.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.10      Monitoring and evaluation to measure the degree of achievement of
project goals, as well as to generate data concerning the performance of
various project components, would be the responsibility of the Socio-Economic
and Evaluation Branch (SE&EB) of the Directorate of Agriculture. A Joint
Director of Agriculture (Evaluation) would be appointed to supervise work
of the SE&EB related to the project. Evaluation would be carried out in con-
junction with the Agricultural University. Because of the need for uniform
procedures for monitoring and evaluation of the proposed project, of the
Orissa Agricultural Development Project (Report No. 1301-IN) and of similar
projects in other States, GOI, concerned States and IDA are currently working
out detailed monitoring and evaluation procedures. This is expected to be
completed by April 1977.  Assurances were given that GOWB would carry out
monitoring and evaluation of the project in a manner mutually agreed with
IDA by July 1977. Results of such monitoring and evaluation would be sent
to the Association at least once each year.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      Financial.  Total project costs, including physical contingencies,
amount to about US$23.1 M or US$11.5 per benefitting farm family--about
US$2.2 per capita--(assuming 2 M farm families benefit, para 6.02). Incre-
mental costs to be met from GOWB budget sources, following project completion,
would be about US$1.1 per benefitting farm family per annum.  This additional
requirement of US$2.2 M per annum compares with GOWB present budgetary alloca-
tion to agriculture of about US$73 M equivalent annually and would be met
without difficulty.  Incremental costs would be partly recovered through taxes
on paddy (or rice) and other agricultural produce entering commercial markets.
6.02      Experience in Chambal and Rajasthan Command Area Development Projects
indicates that after two years more than 50% of farm families followed some or
most of the extension recommendations. The project would, therefore, directly
benefit about 320,000 contact farmers and, through them, at least 2 M of West
Bengal's 4 M farm families within the project period. Ultimately most of West
Bengal's farming population are expected to benefit, cultivating a total of
7.6 M ha statewide.
6.03      Economic.  The design of the project, its timing, scope, relative
size of project components and organizational arrangements are based on past



- 19 -
experience with similar successful agricultural extension and research reor-
ganization in India. Budgetary and organizational constraints have been taken
into account. Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type of project
is difficult since the expected benefits of improved agricultural practices,
which also require additional inputs, cannot be attributed solely to exten-
sion and research. Moreover, there is not enough experience in West Bengal
to estimate acceptance rates with any degree of accuracy. However, there is
no doubt that the substantial improvement in the efficiency of utilization
of resources which would be brought about by the project, would generate a
high rate of return. Assuming that only 25% of the farmers participate by
Year 7, and that their yields are no more than 75% of those now obtained at
the best operational farms, the rate of return would be over 100%. To illus-
trate the high rate another way, if by Year 7 yields of rice state-wide in-
creased by 15 kg/ha, or by less than 2%, over the "without project" situation,
the economic rate of return would be 50%. Details are in Annex 14. In the
IDA-financed Chambal and Rajasthan Command Area Development Projects provi-
sional figures indicate that over a three-year period yields of rice increased
by an average of 60%, wheat by 80% and those of mustard and gram more than
doubled as a result of improved extension services of the type this project
would provide. While these are largely irrigated areas, it shows the magni-
tude of the possible response. There is little risk that project induced
yields would not increase by an average of at least 15 kg/ha since the best
farmers in West Bengal already obtain nearly twice the current average yield
and, on research stations substantially higher yield levels than these are
achieved. Furthermore, while no quantitative evaluation has been carried
out in West Bengal to assess the impact of the new extension system since
its introduction in 1975, preliminary observation indicate that yields have
increased substantially where recommendations have been followed. These
high rates of return should, however, be treated with caution since, as im-
proved agricultural practices spread, further investments in infrastructure
and services would become necessary.
6.04      Social.  In the past the agricultural development strategy has been
aimed at achieving production increases mainly through investment in irriga-
tion and through use of "optimal" packages of practices, involving HYV with
substantial doses of fertilizer and pesticides. These improvements are fre-
quently financed by credit, often not available to small and tenant farmers;
with recommendations that are unsuited to the majority of farmers. The
extension service under the project would focus first on improved cultural
practices and farm management combined with low cost inputs; this would
primarily involve more labor -- an asset most small farmers have in abundance.
It, thus, provides an equal opportunity for small and marginal farmers to
enjoy the benefits of increased productivity. Aside from generating high
economic benefits at low costs, the project would, therefore, also have
considerable beneficial impact on income distribution.



- 20 -
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      At negotiations GOWB confirmed that:
a competent and full-time Additional Director of Agri-
culture (Extension) had been appointed to head the ex-
tension service (para 5.01).
7.02      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following major
points, that:
(a) GOWB would ensure that VLW would live in the area assigned
for their operations and for this purpose GOWB would pro-
vide such low-cost housing as may be necessary (para 3.05);
(b) within three months from the date of the Project Agreement
GOWB would (i) complete a survey to determine the exact
number and location of such housing, and (ii) furnish to
the Association for its review the standard design and cost
estimates of such housing (para 3.05);
(c) to ensure mobility of extension staff GOWB would (i) provide
credit to all staff in need of it to purchase transport on
terms and conditions which shall be sufficient to create
incentive for the purchase of such means of transport, and
(ii) provide such financial incentive as required to ensure
optimum use of such transport (para 3.05);
(d) no claims for reimbursement would be made against the pro-
posed project until funds provided by Credit 541-IN, cate-
gory (2) (c) of Schedule I of the Development Credit Agree-
ment, had been fully disbursed (para 4.03);
(e)  to ensure efficient implementation of the buildings component
under the project and to expedite related disbursements, GOWB
would, within threee months from the date of the Project Agree-
ment (i) establish a buildings implementation cell within PWD,
or such other Department as may be agreed with the Association,
and (ii) appoint a suitably qualified and experienced person to
head the cell (para 4.04);
(f) consultants would be employed whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be mutually agreed
between GOWB and the Association (para 4.07);
(g)  a Program Planning and Implementation Committee be set up to
meet at least four times annually (para 5.03);



- 21 -
(h) the Commissioner and Secretary for Agriculture would prepare
detailed short-term credit and input plans biannually and would
finalize such plans in consultations with the Medium and Short-
Term Credit Sub-committee of the existing State Level Coordina-
tion Committee (para 5.04);
(i) a Policy Coordinating Committee would be set up to meet at
least once a year and as required (para 5.05); and
(j) GOWB shall monitor and evaluate the project in such form as
shall be mutually agreed with IDA by July 1977, and results
would be sent to the Association at least once a year (para
5.10).
7.03      Agreement was also reached on the following condition of credit
effectiveness:
appointment of one full-time Additional Director of
Agriculture (Research) and one full-time Joint Director
of Agriculture (Extension) (para 5.01).
7.04      Subject to the above condition and assurances the project is suitable
for an IDA credit of US$12 million to GOI.
March 2, 1977






ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Agriculture
A. Background
General
1.        West Bengal, situated in northeast India, with a total area of
close to 88,000 km2, is bordered by the Bay of Bengal in the south, Sikkim
and Bhutan in the north, Assam and Bangladesh in the east and Nepal, Bihar
and Orissa in the west. At its narrowest point only about 10 km separate
Bihar from Bangladesh. The greater part of the State consists of a flat or
gently undulating alluvial plain with elevations below 30 m. The western
portion of the State consists of uplands, part of the crystalline rock area
extending from Bihar; and the north consists of steep hilly country, part
of the Himalayan zone. Alluvial plains cover most of the State and can be
divided into various soil types (para. 8). The Ganges river separates the
north from the south. Other important rivers are the Hooghly, branching off
from the Ganges, and the Damodar in the south, and the Tista in the north.
2.        With an estimated population of close to 50 M (44 M in 1971 census),
West Bengal ranks fourth in population among Indian States but only twelfth
in area. The population density of some 570 per km2 is surpassed only by
Kerala. With a rural population of about 37 M and a cultivable area of
55,700 km2 (about 63% of the total land area), rural population density is
660 inhabitants per km2. About 2.0 M ha are irrigated (35% of the net cropped
area of 5.5 M ha); mostly tank and canal irrigation, but latterly an increasing
area has come under tubewell and riverlift pump irrigation which gives a more
reliable year round water supply. The gross cropped area is reported to be 7.6
M ha, giving a cropping intensity of 138% (including intensive growing areas
which are triple-cropped).
Land Distribution and Tenure
3.        Table 1 shows land distribution (1970/71 census).  This indicates
that 60% of holdings in number, representing only 21% of the cultivable area,
are less than 1 ha; and 82% of holdings, comprising about 47% of the land



ANNEX 1
Page 2
are less than 2 ha. In addition, individual land holdings are highly
fragmented with an estimated average of 8 separate areas per holding. Con-
trary to official statistics, (cadastral records are not up to date), about
40% of farmers are believed to be sharecroppers, required to give the land-
owner between 25% and 50% of farm produce. Land ceilings are 5 ha irrigated
or 7 ha unirrigated lands and holdings in excess of these amounts are to be
acquired by Government. The West Bengal Estate Acquisition Act, the West
Bengal Reforms Act, and the West Bengal Land Reforms Act are among Government
land reform measures taken to ensure that cultivators became owners of their
own holdings and to make the rights of sharecroppers comparatively more
secure.
4.        Cadastral records in West Bengal are being brought up to date in
9 of the 17 districts, and will take 4-5 years. The inadequacy of land
records makes the assignment of water rights, the management of tubewells
and riverlifts, and the management of tanks for irrigation and fish farming
more difficult.
Climate
5.        Rainfall in the State averages about 1750 mm ranging from 2500-5000
mm in the Himalayan region to 1125-1875 mm in the plains. There is consider-
able variability in length, timing, and total rainfall even of the main monsoon
rains (Table 2). 75%-80% of the rain falls during the four months monsoon
season between June and October followed by four to five months' dry weather
(November-March) with rainfall inadequate for crop production. Erratic scat-
tered showers fall between March and May, grow in frequency and intensity, and
merge into the monsoons. In the plains areas, over a ten year period, the
minimum for March, April and May is nil and the maximum is 100 mm, 300 mm, and
300 mm respectively. Consequently, jute and aus rice sowing which should take
place as soon as rainfall is reliable for crop growth, does not usually take
place till mid-April and often May when, without irrigation, only one crop a
year is possible.
6.        Temperatures are highest between March and September when mean
0                     0
temperatures vary from a minimum of 26 C to a maximum of 38 C. November to
February are the colder winter months when mean temperatures are between
10°C-260C. Extremes range from 40C in winter to 460C in summer. The warm
rainy season is climatically suited to most tropical crops while the cool
season is suitable for temperate crops including wheat, potatoes and temperate
zone vegetables. Paddy grows year round but in winter growth is retarded by
low temperatures.
7.        Sunshine hours vary sharply between the relatively cloudless dry
season when, despite shorter winter days they average 8.5-9.5 hours a day
to the cloudy monsoon months when sunshine averages only 4.5-5.5 hours a
day. The small amount of sunshine reduces crop yield potential, particu-
larly crop response to fertilizers. High humidity, high temperatures and



ANNEX 1
Page 3
cloudy conditions during the rainy season, favor plant pests and diseases
from which the cool season is relatively free. Given irrigation water,
the cool, dry, cloudless rabi season offers near ideal conditions for high crop
yields. This has been amply corroborated by high average wheat and (boro) rice
yields (2.5 tons/ha and 3.3 tons/ha respectively) achieved by farmers in recent
years. It is more difficult to achieve high yields from rainy season crops.
However, there are possibilities of developing techology such as variety
tailoring to adapt paddy to different hydrological conditions, introduction of
pest and disease resistant crop strains and better water control through irri-
gation and drainage, which should help farmers also obtain high yields for
rainfed crops. Since these crops account for 70% of the sown land in West
Bengal, even modest yield improvements would have a major impact on
production.
Soils
8.        There are broadly four soil types in the State:
(i) brown forest soil of the hills and mountains in the north;
(ii) lateritic soils in the drier hilly areas in the west;
(iii) deltaic and saline soils in the south; and
(iv) alluvial soils in the remaining parts of the State, which
include Old (Vindhya), New Gangetic, Teesta alluvium,
and Gangetic delta soils.
The alluvial soils form the bulk of the agricultural land of the central
plains where most of the irrigation is located. The lateritic soils are
predominant in the somewhat lower rainfall and mostly rainfed areas in
the west.
Agroclimatic Zones (Map 12327)
9.        Based on climate, soils and physiography, West Bengal can be divided
into six agroclimatic zones. Crops, cropping patterns, varietal requirements,
cultivation practices, diseases and pests, soil fertility and rainfall may
differ widely from one zone to another. Hence recommendations have to be
carefully tailored to each of these zones:
10.    I Hill Zone comprising most of the Darjeeling district, with sandy and
acidic soils, and an annual rainfall varying from 2,800 to 3,900 mm. At lower
altitudes rice, wheat, maize, potatoes and vegetables are grown extensively.
At higher altitudes (1,000 meters) maize and potatoes are the main crops.
Vegetables are grown year round, ginger and cardamon are important cash crops,
and mandarin oranges are the main fruit crops. Temperate fruits such as
apples, pears, plums and peaches can be grown successfully.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
11.       Terai Zone comprising the northern Districts of Jalpaiguri and
Coochbehar, Siliguri sub-division of Darjeeling and Islampur subdivision of
West Dinajpur. Soils are highly leached because of high rainfall varying from
2,000 mm to 3,600 mm. Rains begin about March and continue until September-
October. Soils are poor in bases and available plant nutrients, and are also
highly acidic and sandy in nature. The main crops are aus, aman and jute in
the kharif season and wheat, mustard and kalai in the rabi season. The area
under boro rice and potatoes is increasing. Yields of most of the crops in
this zone are low. It is, however, possible to increase productivity with
careful selection of variety and cultivation practices.
12        Old Alluvium Zone comprising the districts of Malda, Hooghly and
parts of Birbhum, Burdwan, Midnapore and West Dinajpur. Rainfall varies from
1,500 to 2,000 mm. Soils are acidic. In some areas drainage is poor but over
most of the zone soils are generally fertile allowing a broad range of crops.
The major crops are rice and jute in the kharif season and rice, wheat,
pulses, oillseeds, potatoes and sugarcane during rabi. Yields are generally
high.
13.       New Alluvium Zone comprising the districts of Nadia, Murshidabad,
Howrah and parts of Hooghly and 24-Parganas. The soil reaction is neutral.
Annual rainfall varies from 1,400 to 1,550 mm. This is the most fertile tract
of the State and yields are high. The main kharif crops are direct sown
upland rice, aman and jute. Wheat, boro, pulses, oilseeds and potatoes are
grown in rabi. Sugarcane is also important. In the unirrigated areas barley
and safflower grow well.
14.      Lateritic Zone comprising the districts of Purulia, Bankura and
parts of Mindapore, Burdwan and Birbhum. The soil is red lateritic, with
honey-comb type ferrogenous concretions at a depth of 15 to 30 cm. Rainfall
varies from 1,100 to 1,400 mm and is spread over only three months, from
mid-June to mid-September. The undulating terrain makes it necessary to have
cultivation on terraces. There is little rabi cultivation as there is limited
scope for irrigation. Frequently short spells of drought occur during kharif
causing damage to the rice crop. The important crops of this zone are rice,
maize, millet and certain pulses. Recently, soybeans and groundnuts in kharif
and wheat in rabi have been Introduced using tank and dugwell irrigation. The
cropping system in this zone differs considerably from the other zones so that
recommendations from different zones are not applicable.
15.       Coastal Saline Zone comprising the districts of 24-Parganas, Midna-
pore and part of Howrah. Soil pH ranges from 6.5 to 7.5 with electrical con-
ductivity varying from 3.0 to 18.0 mmhos mainly due to accumulation of sodium
chloride. The soil is otherwise fertile due to continuous silt deposits, but
drainage is poor. Annual rainfall ranges from 1,450 to 1,925 mm. This area
is mainly monocropped with rice during the kharif season. Only tall indica
rice varieties are grown as HYV suited to flooded conditions are not yet avail-
able. Salt tolerant crops such as barley, cotton, sugarbeets, sunflowers,
chillies and watermelons can be grown as a second crop after rice but research
needs to be expanded. The area is agriculturally very important as it is one
of the surplus rice areas in the State. Yields can be increased provided
further suitable varieties are found and pest and disease problems overcome.



ANNEX I
Page 5
B. Agricultural Production
Performance
16.       Agricultural production in West Bengal compares favorably with
other States. Foodgrain production in 1975/76, estimated at 8 M tons, ranks
fourth in India. The average rice yield of 1.2 tons/ha ranks fifth, and the
wheat yield, 2.0 tons/ha, third. Rice is the most important crop. It
occupies over 70% of the total crop area and accounts for 80-85% of
total grain production. Wheat is a comparatively new crop and, from negli-
gible production in 1967/68, has increased to over 1 M tons a year. In
addition to foodgrains, West Bengal produces 55-60% of the entire Indian
jute crop and about 25% of tea production. Jute products and tea account
for about half the value of Indian agricultural exports. Farmers also grow
considerable quantitites of horticultural crops, including potatoes, chillies,
a wide variety of kharif and rabi vegetables, mango, lichi and excellent
citrus. Also, parts of Malda and Murshidabad Districts are important silk
producing areas.
17.       Despite high grain production (by all India standards) West Bengal
must import food: about 0.4-0.5 M tons of rice and between 1.1 and 1.3 M
tons of wheat annually. During the 20 year period 1951-1971, foodgrain
production doubled from 4 M tons to 8 M tons, an overall growth rate of
about 3.5%. After a period of slow growth, production accelerated from
1967/68 onwards, increasing at an annual rate of about 7% to 1971/72, with
most of the increase accounted for by rabi wheat and rice. Rabi grain pro-
duction remained more or less static from 1972/73 to 1974/75 at 1.5-1.8 M tons
and increased substantially in 1975/76 to an estimated 2.2 M tons (wheat and
boro rice). Production of kharif rice (aman), which accounts for over 4 M tons
of grain, and that of oilseeds and pulses has remained static for over ten
years (Table 3).
18.       The increase in rabi grain production is due to a combination of
factors. Firstly, reasonable political stability following a period of tur-
moil which saw five State legislature elections in three years. Next, the
crash program of installing privately owned shallow tubewells and state-
owned deep tubewells, culminating in the 1972 drought relief program.
Thirdly, the introduction and rapid spread of HYV rice and wheat varieties.
Over the past decade using HYV, varieties boro rice yields have increased from
about 1.2 tons/ha to 2.5 tons/ha and wheat yields from 0.6 tons/ha to over 2.0
tons/ha. Kalyansona and Sonalika wheat varieties are capable of high yields in
West Bengal, previously considered too warm for wheat, even if sown in December
following the all-important aman rice crop. Wheat sown in December is har-
vested in March-April and has proved suitable for areas with canal and tank
irrigation, which can supply water only till March. In addition much wheat
is grown without irrigation, on residual moisture, albeit at low yield levels.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
19.       Fertilizer consumption has increased sharply.  Total nutrient con-
sumption increased from 44,000 tons in 1967/68 to 127,000 tons in 1974/75--
a growth rate of 20% per year (Table 4). Fertilizer use per ha is 17 kg,
slightly above the all India average of 16 kg/ha. Further details are given
in Annex 6.
20.       The State technical services must be given much credit for the
expansion of minor irrigation and of HYV rabi grain crops. However, insuf-
ficient attention has been given to water utilization, particularly utilization
of water from public facilities. Misuse of water is a serious problem in most
irrigation command areas. Causes of low irrigation efficiency include over-
irrigation, wild flooding, and transmission and seepage losses. Intensive re-
search is necessary to provide information on optimum moisture regimes for
important crops in different agro-climatic zones, irrigation scheduling, depth
of irrigation, optimal cropping patterns, and field management aiming at effi-
cient water use. Simultaneously, it is necessary to extend this information
to farmers for large-scale adoption.
21.       While the main development thrust has been on irrigation and
increased production during the dry season, the rainfed aman crop remains the
main source of foodgrain and will continue to play a major role in the agricul-
tural economy of the State. Aman yields can be increased with better cul-
tivation practices and the introduction of improved varieties. Applied re-
search and improved agricultural extension are, therefore, basic to increasing
production in West Bengal in both irrigated and rainfed farming.
Crops
22.       Area, yields and production for the major crops of West Bengal during
1974/75 were as follows -- (for the period 1964/65 - 1974/75 see Table 3):
Area        Yield        Production
('000 ha)     (kg/ha)       ('000 tons)
Rice - aus                972          899             874
- aman            4,107        1,172            4,812
- boro              340        2,516              856
Wheat                     422        1,984             837
Jute                      370       12,679           4,694
Pulses                    682          550             375
Oilseeds                  197          390              76
Potatoes                   86       15,760           1,355
Sugarcane                  29      58,010            1,682
The major constraints and potential of these crops is discussed below.
Rice
23.       Of an estimated 7.6 M ha under crops in West Bengal, rice alone
covers 5.5 M ha (72%). Total rice production in 1974-75 was 6.5 MI tons, and



ANNEX 1
Page 7
is estimated at a record 7.2 M tons in 1975-76 (details of rice production,
yields and area are given in Table 3). Rice is grown in three different
seasons, depending on soil type and availability of irrigation:
(i) Aus: Grown on about 1 M ha under rainfed conditions --
mostly broadcast in April-May on uplands. Yields at
about 900 kg/ha have been static for the past decade,
though production increased by about 3.7% p.a. in the
period 1964-75 to 1974-75, due to increased area cropped.
Production reached 874,000 tons in 1974-75.
(ii) Aman: Grown on about 4.1 M ha, and by far the most important
crop. Is transplanted during July-August and harvested during
November-December and involves nearly every farmer in West
Bengal. Yields, however, have been more or less stagnant for
more than a decade, averaging about 1.15 to 1.2 tons/ha.
Production has averaged about 4.6 M tons over the past five
years, reaching 4.8 M tons in 1974-75.
(iii) Boro: Grown on about 340,000 ha, transplanted from the
end of December until early March and harvested in April-May.
Grown only with irrigation, yield is much higher than either aus
or aman, at about 2.5 tons/ha as more than 95% of the area is
covered by HYV. Production in 1974-75 was 850,000 tons.
24.       Potentials.  Boro (dry season) irrigated rice has increased in area
and production from 22,000 ha and 27,000 tons in 1964-65 to 340,000 ha and
850,000 tons in 1974-75, primarily due to increased irrigation and the spread
of dwarf HYV. By contrast, yields of aman and aus have been static over
the past decade with only 22% and 14% of the area of aus and aman crops,
respectively, planted to HYV. Yet the entire area of the direct sown aus crop
could be brought under HYV and yield increased two to three times above the
present level. Similarly, 40% of the aman crop could be planted to HYV with
present levels of technology. In low lying areas, not suitable for HYV, new
tall varieties could be grown, increasing yields by about 20%.
25.       Constraints.  There are, however, several constraints to increasing
production arising primarily from varied agro-climatic conditions found
throughout the State. Rice is grown from sea level to about 1,400 meters above
sea level, on well drained light loam soils or ill-drained heavy soils, and
under humid and waterlogged conditions to chronically drought affected areas.
Furthermore, rice is grown under different land situations ranging from direct
seeded upland conditions to deep water conditions where water levels rise to
three meters. Major constraints to higher production are:
(a) ill drained, water stagnated land affecting about 60% of rice
areas in the kharif season.
(b) increasing incidence of diseases and pests. Rice Tungro Virus,
bacterial leaf blight, and blast diseases are now widespread
and sheath rot, sheath blight, stem rot, stem borer, gall midge,



ANNEX 1
Page 8
mealy bug, brown plant hopper and nematode infestations increas-
ing. Selection of suitable varieties having multiple field
resistance is necessary and proper plant protection schedules
need formulation.
(c) drought. Aus rice generally suffers from long spells of drought
resulting in reduced yield, particularly in unirrigated areas.
It is, therefore, essential to develop and use appropriate
drought-tolerant varieties.
(d) low temperatures. Rice sown late, for example after a jute crop
or after a flood, and rice sown in the hills frequently flowers
when temperatures are low causing spikelet sterility and reduced
yields. Similarly, cold weather at the seedling/early vegetative
stage of the boro crop during December to mid-February prolongs
maturation of the crop with high demand on scarce irrigation water
in April-May. This delay in maturity makes rice followed by rice
the only viable rotation in major boro areas. Such a practice
affects soil fertility and reduces yields. Cold tolerant varieties
mature early and enable a short duration legume crop to be grown,
thus breaking the rice-rice rotation and improving soil fertility.
(e) deep water and flood areas. There are many localized pockets
where water depth varies from one to three meters. Flood is
also an annual problem in one part or another of the State.
Over-flooding of irrigation canals in River Valley Projects
also causes complete submergence of rice crops in many areas.
(f) soil salinity in coastal areas. It will be necessary to de-
velop salt tolerant varieties.
Other Grains
26.       Wheat.  Ten years ago, wheat was virtually unknown in West Bengal.
In 1974-75, wheat was grown on about 400,000 ha, reaching 560,000 ha in
1975-76. (Details of wheat production, yield and area are given in Table 3).
It is estimated that the area under wheat can be increased further to about
800,000 ha provided irrigation facilities are available. The existing average
yield of 1.9 or 2.0 tons/ha can also be increased to about 3 tons/ha with
improved cultivation practices.
27.       Pulses are important as one of the main sources of protein and
for their soil ameliorating properties (nitrogen fixation). The area sown
to pulses, however, has shown a consistent decline over the past decade.
(Details of production, yields and area of pulses and oilseeds are given
in Table 3). In 1974-75, 680,000 ha produced 375,000 tons with an average
yield of 550 kg/ha thus meeting only about 50% of West Bengal's requirements.
The major pulses grown include pigeon peas, mung bean, phaseolus lentil,
lathyrus Sp., chick peas, soy beans and peas.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
28.       Oilseeds.  Vegetable oil is the main cooking medium and, of the
different oilseed crops, mustards are the most important. Production, at
76,000 tons in 1974-75, fulfilled only about 8% to 10% of present requirements.
Area, at 196,000 ha, has increased at about 2% p.a. over the past decade.
Oilseeds are frequently grown as a catch crop between two rice crops and which
helps break the disease and pest cycles, while improving the economic condi-
tions of farmers.
29.       Pulses and oilseeds are generally grown without irrigation and
fertilizer. With increased irrigation, areas which used to be planted
to pulses have been diverted to wheat, and, as a result, pulses are now
grown on more marginal lands resulting in lower yields. Average yields of
pulses and oilseeds can be increased to nearly 1,000 kg/ha. Improved varieties
of chick peas (B-108) have a potential of 2.5 tons/ha even without irrigation
while mustard T-59 can yield 2.2 tons with irrigation and fertilizer. Without
irrigation, mustard yields can be increased to about 800 kg/ha with improved
practices and application of fertilizer. The main constraint to increased
production has been the lack of adoption of improved varieties (partly due to
lack of availability) combined with poor management practices. Traditionally
little emphasis has been placed on these crops. In 1975, however, the Direct-
orate of Agriculture set up a 40 ha farm for multiplication of seeds of
improved varieties of pulses and oilseeds. With better availability of
improved seeds, and adoption of improved cultivation and plant protection
practices, significant production increases could be achieved.
Horticulture
30.       Because of the diverse agroclimatic regions in West Bengal ranging
from the Himalayas to the seacoast, the State can grow a large variety of
fruits and vegetables. Pineapple covers about 4,000 to 5,000 ha, mandarin
oranges about 2,000 ha, bananas about 5,000 ha and mangoes about 12,000 ha.
In addition, West Bengal also grows spices, jackfruit, litchi, sapota, black-
berry and various limes and lemons in relatively large areas. Estimates of the
area under vegetables other than potatoes are not available. But, various
types of leafy vegetables, cucurbits, cauliflower, cabbage, eggplant, spinach,
beets and carrots are extensively grown. These also form an important item of
the daily diet since eggs, fish and meat are not available to the poorer
section of the community. Thus, horticulture plays an important role in
supplementing diets, while sales of fruits, vegetables and spices, add con-
siderably to farmers' income.
31.       Conditions are suitable for growing tropical, sub-tropical, temperate
and sub-temperate fruits and vegetables. Research support however, is limited,
particularly for vegetables, and ongoing research is constrained by inadequate
research facilities and results do not reach farmers because of lack of horti-
cultural extension. If improved varieties and optimum packages of practices
could be determined, production could be increased manyfold fulfilling State
needs and releasing lands for other agricultural purposes. Diseases and pests,
such as die-back disease in Mandarin oranges, also need investigating. In
banana, the currently grown variety 'Champa' has poor yield and low produc-
tivity but other introduced varieties are susceptible to 'Bunchy top' disease.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
Potatoes
32.       An important cash crop, potatoes are grown mainly in Burdwan, Hooghly,
Midnapur and Darjeeling districts, though with availability of irrigation they
are spreading to other districts. Production in 1974/75 was about 1.35 M tons
from an area of about 86,000 ha, an average of 15.8 tons/ha, the record
production in West Bengal. During 1975/76 production is expected to increase
further, and the State should become self-sufficient. (For marketing and
storage see Annex 5).
Sugarcane
33.       Sugarcane occupies about 29,000 ha with a total production of some
1.68 M tons. Average yield is about 58 tons/ha (details of sugarcane produc-
tion, yields and area are given in Table 3). It is an important export and
cash crop, and also provides outside employment. The crop is also a source of
gur (molasses), a daily requirement in most households, as very little pro-
cessed sugar is consumed in rural areas. Many small gur making units operate
in rural areas from the end of October to March employing a large number of
persons. Present yields of sugarcane compare favorably with those obtained
in other northern States, yet they can be increased by at least 40% leading to
increased production of gur for local consumption and sugar for exports (about
80 tons/ha with suitable disease and pest resistant varieties).
34.       Although disease-free seed cane varieties have been identified
by the Sugarcane Research Station and are cultivated by farmers in at least
60% to 70% of the area, their supply has been a major constraint to increased
production, in particular the supply of red-rot free seed. Studies on pests
and diseases, screening of different clones against them and formulation of
control measures have not been adequate. In addition, further studies are
required on companion cropping with wheat, potatoes and other crops.
Jute
35.       Jute is an important cash crop in West Bengal.  Of late, however,
the general trend has been a decline in the jute area as rice grown in the
same season has become more profitable. Jute competes directly with rice with
a result that the area sown to jute varieties varies from year to year,
from about 370,000 ha to 420,000 ha, owing to fluctuations in raw jute prices
relative to rice. In the Gangetic plains the production season of C. Olitorious
jute is the same as that of aus rice. Similarly, in north Bengal, where C.
Capsularis is the main jute variety, the growing season coincides with that of
aus (Capsularis jute, unlike Olitorious, can withstand waterlogging). Neverthe-
less, West Bengal grows more than 50% of the jute produced in India and yields
are higher than elsewhere, averaging 7.05 bales/ha (1 bale = 180 kg), with
research stations and many progressive farmers obtaining yields of 13 to 15
bales/ha.



ANNEX I
Page 11
Conclusions
36.       West Bengal has the climate, rainfall, fertile soils, and water
resources to make it potentially one of the most agriculturally productive
States in India. If presently known technology were widely applied, average
yields would increase 20 to 25% for most crops, using existing resources.
With additional resources, and with the continuous development of new tech-
nology, yield increases substantially above this could be achieved. Farmers'
incomes would rise, more farm labor would be employed, input supply and
produce marketing activities would multiply and processing industries would
grow; in sum, there would be a real growth in the rural economy. The pro-
posed project is expected to act as catalyst for such a process.



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Size Distribution of Land lioldings
-----------Wholly Owned and Self Operated -----------              --------       Partly Owned and Partly Rented---------             --W-----------     W holly Ren,ted--------------------
Number    % of Holdings          Ares       % of Area in           Number    % of Holdings          Area .        of Area in          Number    % of Holdings            Area       % of Area in
('000)    in Size Class       ('000 Ha)       Size Class           _200)      in size Class    ('000 la)          Size Class          ('000)    is Size Class    ('00 Llia)           Size Class
Size Class (Ha)
Below 0.5                  1,420          39.27               339            7.90                105           20.55              32            4.63                   33          36.67               9           11.62
0.5-1.0                       802         22,18               583           13.59                142           27.79             107           15.48                   27          30.00              20            25.82
1.0-2.0                       759         20.99             1,047           24.40                161           31.51             227           32.85                   22         24.44               28            36.17
2.0-3.0                       343          9.49               806           18.78                 63           12.33             149           21.56                    6           6.67              13            16.79
3.0-4.0                       124          3.43               422            9.83                 20            3.91              70           10.13                                 *LO               4             5.19
4.0-5.0                        86          2.38                376           8.76                  11           2.15              47            6.80                    1           1                  2             2.60
5.0-10.0                       78          2.16               490           11.42                  9            1.76              57            8.27                    0.1         0.01               1             1.29
10-20.0                         3          0.08                 33           0.77                -               -                 2            0.28                  -              -               -                -
20-50                           1          0.03                  3           0.07                -                                                                                                       4-
50 and Over                     0.3        0.01               192.3          4.48                -                -            -                  -                   -                                0 .           0.52
3,616.3       l00               4,291.3         100                  511           100               691           100                     90.1        100              77.4            100
---------------------TOTAL HOLDINGS----------------
Number    % of Holdings          Area        % of Area in
('000)    in Sice Class       ('000 Hla)       Size Class
Size Class (Ha)
Below 0.5                       1,558          36.95              381             7.53
0.5-1.0                           971          23.03              709            14.01
1.0-2.0                           942          22.34            1,302           25.72
2.0-3.0                           412           9.77              969            19.14
3.0-4.0                           145           3.44              496             9.80
4.0-5.0                             98          2.32              425             8.40
5.0-10.0                           87           2.06              548            10.83
10-20.0                             3           0.07               36             0.71
20-50                                0.5         -                  3             0.06
50 and Over                          0.3        0.04              193             3.81                                                                                               i
4,216.4        0o0             5,062            100I 
Source: Calculated from the World Agricultural Censes, 1970-71, West Bengal.



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
District-Wise Monthly Normal Rainfall in West Bengal
(in mm)
Districts           January    February    Marcel    April    Ma      June    July    August    September    October    Nov.    Dec.    Annual
1. 24-Parganas          12.6        24.3        34.5      52.8   127.1   274,2  343,9    338.8         228.7        135.9      30.5    4.9      1607.7
2. Nadia                11.4        24.2        32.2      62.1   13209   227.6  249.1    263,1         186.0         99.6      19.0    3.2      131004
3. Murshidabad           9.8        20.2        22.0      45.6   125.6   231.9  279.7    280,1         209.3        106.4      15,2    3.4      1349.2
40 Burdwan              10.4        26.5        2806      41%5   110.8   240.8  291o8    293.9         192.7         93.2      17.2    3.2      1350.6
5, Birbhurn             10.4         17.4       18.7      31.8    96.6   206.3  295.7    307,0         191.0         93°9      14.3    2.3      1285.4
6. Bankura              14.9        24.5        23.4      36.4    83.2   212,7  314.1    316.3         180.9         89,1      17.8    3.1      131.6.4
7. Midnapore            13.3         30.5       33,1      45.0   113.2   260.0  333.2    328,3         216.2        134h3      28.8    2.6      1538.5
8. Hooghly              13.0        30.8        28.9      58.7   143.6   244.7  303.7    331,9         217.6        112.0      32.4    2.9      1520.2
9, Howrah               13.0        32,3        35.6      53.4   135,8   300,5  344.4    342.8         219.4        125.3      23.4    3.8      1629.9
10. Jalpaiguri           11.9        23.0        49.4    156.7 7 413.6   846.1  891.4    738,7          613.9        174,1      19.1    6.8      3944.7
11. Darjeeling           11.4        25.9        4o.9    106,2   243.2   594.7  739.0    628.5          445.6        134.4      18.7    5.7      2994.2
12, Malda                10.4         19,0       17,0      36,6   122,0   271.3  322.7    329.5         286.2        111.2      12.7    1.7      1540.3
13. West Dinajpur         8,7        16.2        16.6      41.o0  139,5   305.4  342.1    352.1         282.9        117.9      10.1    2.3      1634,8
14, Cooch Behar           7.9         19.8       34.3    131.5   370,6   741.4  669.5    529.0          514.9        168.8      10.9    2.7      3201.3
15. Purulia              18.9        29.5        21.7      24.1    61.3   218.8  346.6    333.6         203.6         85.8      15,8    3.4      1263,1
Source: Directorate of Agriculture, West Bengal
August 17, 1976



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(1) Rice                                  Major Crops: Acreage, Yield, Production, 1964/65 to 1974/75
Aus                                 Aman                                 Boro                           Total Rice
Area     Yield   Production         Area      Yield   Production        Area      Yield   Production         Area      Yield   Production
'000 has   Kg/ha   '000 tons        '000 has   Kg/ha   '000 tons        '000 has   Kg/ha   '000 tons         '000 has   Kg/ha   '000 tons
1964/65       611.5       985       602.4       4,036.8    1,271    5,131.0             22.5    1,204        27.1         4,670.8   1,233    5,760.5
1965/66       587.1       815       478.3       4,033.5    1,105    4,455.7             30.0    1,247        37.4         4,650.6   1,069    4,971.4
1966/67       650.8       814       529.9       3,970.2    1,072    4,254.3             27.6    1,449        40.0         4,648.6   1,038    4,824.2
1967/68       737.7       819       604.0       3,921.8    1,146    4,493.6             54.7    2,020       110.5         4,714.2   1,105    5,208.1
1968/69       860.8       846       728.1       3,886.9    1,243    4,829.9             90.8    2,444       221.9         4,838.5   1,195    5,779.9
1969/70       798.4       813       648.8       4,117.6    1,236    5,089.7            106.3    2,979       316.7         5,022.3   1,206    6,055.2
1970/71       799.2    1,139        910.0       3,969.9    1,183    4,694.7            186.5    2,871       535.4         4,955.6   1,239    6,140.1
1971/72       799.8    1,208        966.4       3,887.4    1,185    4,608.5            304.2    3,070       934.0         4,991.4   1,304    6,508.4
1972/73       824.8       965       795.7       3,981.7    1,052    4,190.7            262.9    2,773       728.9         5,069.4   1,127    5,715.3           e
1973/74       841.7       827       969.1       4,048.0    1,081    4,373.9            325.1    2,243       729.2         5,214.8   1,112    5,799.2
1974/75       972.0       899       874.2       4,107.1    1,172    4,812.8            340.4    2,516       856.4         5,419.5   1,207    6,543.4           0
Source: Department of Agriculture and Community Development, Government of West Bengal.



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTUIRAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Major Crops: Acreage, Yield, Production, 1964/65 to 1974/75
(2) Wheat                           (3) Potato                          (4)  Oilseeds                          (5) Pulses                            (6) Jute                     (7) Sugarcane
Area      Yield   Production         Area      Yield   Production          Area      Yield   Production        Area      Yield   Production         Area      Yield   Production    Area   Yield  Production
'000 has   Kg7i    '00tn             '000 has   Kg/ha    '0tos             00ha000 tons           00tn          00hs K/a             '0000 has        00hs K/a             00tos        '000 has Kg/ha  '000 tons
1964/65         40.8      .684         27.9            71.0   11,220       796.5           155.8        315       49.1          787.0       515      405.3          456.6   14,371       6,563          NA        NA       NA
1965/66         41.2        825        34.0            82.1   10,470       859.7           148.8        398       59.2          771.0        568      438.3          403.6   10,004      4,038            39.3 45,595  1,789.9
1966/67         55.4        821        45.5            75.8    8,470       642.0           156.9        416       65.2          787.0        534      420.6          423.4   12,224       5,176           29.5 44,000  1,299.9
1967/68         79.0        900        71.1            78.5    8,190       642.6            164.1       334       54.8          704.6        520      366.1          496.0   13,986       6,937           26.7 44,090  1,177.7
1968/69        128.0    2,095         268.1            70.9   12,090       857.5            170.3       475       80.9          747.4        599      447.9          268.7   15,676       4,212           31.0 56,918  1,768.7
1969/70        206.8    2,329         481.7            59.6   10,200       607.6           157.4        400       62.9          704.7        517      364.6          437.5   13,973       6,117           39.1 57,663  2,256.7
1970/71        360.2    2,410         868.1            65.1   14,280       929.7            168.0       352       59.1          669.5        564      377.3          407.1   11,866       4,830           38.3 54,182  2,075.2
1971/72        422.4    2,181         921.2            72.8   14,560   1,059.9              182.2       345       62.8          597.1        531      317.0          461.1   13,543       6,244           33.9 48,873  1,656.8
1972/73        368.2    1,869         688.0            75.7   12,530       948.8            149.9       425       63.7          545.6        521      284.8          367.3   13,291       4,882           32.5 50,575  1,643.7
1973/74        330.1    1,905         628.8            80.5   11,990       965.3            197.3       341       67.2          659.7        530      349.6          418.5   15,799       6,611           30.8 52,818  1,626.8
1974/75        421.8    1,984         836.8            86.0   15,760   1,354.9              196.6       390       76.7          682.3        550      375.5          370.2   12,679       4,694.8         29.0 58,010  1,682.3
Source:  Department of Agriculture and Coesiunity Development, Government of West Bengal.                                                                                                                                      S M
August 6, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table  4
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
1/
Consumption of N, P, ard K, 196I/65-1974/75-
k'Tons)
Year               N               P                K               Total
1964-65         20,119            9,000            3,152           32,301
1965-66         27,111           11,093            3,290           111,494
1966-67         29,000            9,000            5,000            43,000
1967-68         29L5h4            7,82h            7,000           hh,278
1968-69         31,81L           1h,193            7,500           53,507
1969-70         33,844           20,891           10,732           55,h67
.970- 1        46,675           12,392           13,759           72,826
1971-72         55,84o           17,546           21,763           95,11j9
2/
1972-73         5,L19           16,k12           23,163           94,994
2/
1973-74-        54,003            ,8,412          26,893           99,308
2/
197h-75         84,000           21,600           21,300          126, 9oo
Annual Growth
Pate            12.27              8.67           21.o6             15074
'/ Data do not include the nuantity utilized for plantation crops,
2/ From 19,?, consumption years are calculated from February 1,
Source:  Denartment of Agriculture and Co.munity Development.
August 6, 1976



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Agricultural Extension and Training
A. Introduction
1.        Most of West Bengal enjoys temperatures favorable to agriculture,
moderate to heavy monsoon rains, relatively fertile alluvial soils and
large, mainly unexploited surface and groundwater resources. Yet foodgrain
production, though steadily on the increase, has barely kept pace with popu-
lation growth. Yields of kharif and other rainfed crops have been more or
less static for the past decade. In contrast, yields of irrigated rabi crops,
in particular wheat and rabi rice (boro), have increased dramatically, the
increase largely coinciding with an expansion in irrigated area. To help
exploit the vast ground water potential, the ongoing West Bengal Agricul-
tural Development Project (Credit 541-IN) supports a four-year agricultural
development program in six of the State's 17 agricultural districts, mainly
for an expansion of minor irrigation. During preparation and appraisal of the
development Project, one of the major constraints preventing optimum use of
existing and proposed water resources was the lack of effective agricultural
extension in the project area. Consequently, the project included a component
to reorganize and strengthen the extension system in the six districts as in
the Chambal and Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Projects (Reports
430-IN and 447-IN), operating successfully for the past two years. In July
1975 GOWB transferred 75% of the Village Level Workers (VLW) in the IDA dis-
tricts from Community Development to work as full time agriculture extension
workers in the Directorate of Agriculture. GOWB has since extended the re-
organization to cover the entire State (with the exception of the mountain
district of Darjeeling), the first State in India to do so. Within a short
time it became apparent that the new extension system, though operating most
effectively with limited resources, needed considerable support. Staff were
working long hours without appropriate compensation; transportation was too
meager (time spent in the field was doubled and tripled); staff housing in
the villages, training and office facilities poor and very limited; super-
visory, professional and training staff capacity below requirements; and
there was a critical need to strengthen adaptive research.
2.        It thus became clear that immediate support for the continuous
development of appropriate crop and farm technology, and for an effective
delivery system was essential if sustained production increases were to be
achieved. The Extension and Research Project aims at providing this sup-
port (for research, see Annex 3).



ANNEX 2
Page 2
B. Background
Rural Administration
3.        The State of West Bengal is divided into 15 Revenue Districts, each
headed by a District Magistrate or Deputy Commissioner, who is usually from
the Indian Administrative Service and is the highest district level admini-
strative officer. He also heads a District Development Board through which
the development plans of all GOWB departments are channeled and coordinated.
The smallest rural administrative unit is the Development Block, of which
there are 335 in West Bengal, about 20 in each district. Each Block covers
100-200 villages and is administered by a Block Development Officer (BDO).
He is employed by Community Development wing of the Agriculture and Community
Development Department (CD) and, assisted by technical staff from the various
GOWB Ministries and Departments, is directly responsible to the District
Magistrate or Deputy Commissioner for development programs of different State
Departments such as Animal Husbandry, Public Health, Education, Cooperation
and small and cottage industries. Until the reorganization in 1975 of the
extension services agricultural extension was included in his responsibilities.
Field level work for all departments was the responsibility of multipurpose
village level workers, also belonging to the CD department.
Agricultural Extension
4.        Prior to July 1975, responsibility for agricultural extension at
farmer's level was divided between the District Administration, CD, and
the Directorate of Agriculture (DA). VLW, while receiving technical guid-
ance from DA were administratively responsible to the BDO, through whom they
received their pay. Under the Block Development Program, in operation
for the past 20 years, each of 335 Blocks was staffed by 10 VLW from CD,
and one or two Agricultural Extension Officers (AEO). AEO were meant to
guide and supervise the work of VLW in the field of agriculture, but had
no administrative control over them.
5.        Although intended to spend 80% of their working time on agricul-
tural extension, VLW in fact spent probably as little as 25%, and this
usually on work which was of a distributive or reporting nature, so that
few farmers received advice in their fields. The remainder of the VLW
time was taken up by a variety of duties such as public health, family
planning, small savings, school affairs, elections, and famine relief.
The initial training of most VLW, a two-year course in a training center
(para 37 ff), and that of AEO (who were recruited from colleges of agri-
culture) was probably adequate. Little in-service training, however, has
been given since.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
6.        In an attempt to remedy the situation, various types of "special
schemes" were established, usually at GOI initiative, in which additional
AEO, VLW and esser trained workers were recruited and employed in parti-
cular crops a I in specific areas: Jute, Pulse, Oilseed, Cotton, Sugarcane,
the Intensive Agricultural District Program (IADP) and the Drought Prone
Area Program (DPAP) are examples. Other departments also have programs
which closely touch upon agriculture, such as the Small Farmers Develop-
ment Agency (SFDA). These special schemes may have brought some temporary
improvement; in the long run, however, they have only served to weaken the
effectiveness of extension staff still further, dissipating efforts and
obscuring the need for fundamental reform.
7.        Responsibility for all DA programs at district level and for
technical backup of AEO lay with the District Agricultural Officer (DAO)
or Principal Agricultural Officer (PAO). (The State is divided into 17
agricultural districts each headed by a DAO or PAO). Prior to reorgan-
ization these staff were supported by either a Crop Production or Plant
Protection Specialist or both. These specialists were largely ineffective
because of a lack of field level staff through whom they could work. The
DAO was also in charge of seed production and distribution programs
(each with several small seed farms) and had some responsibility for,
though little control over fertilizer distribution.
8.        From DAO upwards, the hierarchy is clearer:  the 17 DAO are each
responsible to one of 6 Range Joint Directors of Agriculture (JDA). The
Range JDA are directly responsible to the Additional Director of Agri-
culture (ADA), in turn responsible to the Director cf Agriculture, who
reports to the Commissioner for Agriculture and Community Development.
9.        In sum, agricultural extension at the local level was in the
hands of several different bodies. Most VLW were employed as multi-pur-
pose workers, unable to concentrate on production, while others worked
under various schemes on a single crop only. Most VLW and AEO had two
if not three masters and lines of command, supervision, and technology
flows were so complex and diffuse, that many staff, however capable and
competent, could not be fully effective. This resulted in few farm
level contacts and low impact on yield improvement.
10.       Compounding these difficulties, which are primarily organizational,
are poor transportation facilities, low salaries, difficult living and
working conditions, tremendous population pressures and small, fragmented
landholdings. In these circumstances, the achievements of West Bengal's
agriculture are impressive, and underscore the potential that could be
realized after many of the constraints were removed.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
C. The Proposed Agricultural Extension System -- T&V 1/
11.       The project would aim to consolidate and strengthen the reorganiza-
tion started in six districts under the West Bengal Agricultural Development
Project and, subsequently extended to the rest of the State. A well-trained,
highly motivated, and technically competent single organization would be
created, making optimal use of existing staff. The organization would be
given the means to reach the majority of West Bengal's farmers with relevant
and practical technical guidance aimed at increasing production and income.
The available manpower is largely sufficient and has excellent potential to
achieve results provided there is redeployment, can concentrate on extension
per se, and is subjected to continuing and frequent training.
12.       The new extension system would cover the entire State as farmers
would benefit more from partial coverage than by waiting for full coverage
when all staff would have been recruited, retrained and deployed. West Bengal
is the first State to adopt the new system Statewide and this experience has
provided the catalyst for other States to follow suit.
13.       The crux of the reorganized extension service is a single line of
command from Director of Agriculture down to VLW. In West Bengal this was
achieved by transferring to the Department of Agriculture 75% of the 3,200
VLW already working in the Blocks under CD, but leaving 2-3 VLW per Block
with BDO to cover non-agricultural tasks. All 1,600 VLW were taken from
"special schemes" and redeployed for general agricultural extension work,
thus providing 4,000 VLW to cover the estimated 4 M farm families of West
Bengal, an average of one VLW to every 1,000 farm families. VLW would de-
vote their time exclusively to agricultural extension work and would not
be assigned regulatory or administrative work. Their work would thus be
organized into a systematic time-bound program of training and visits with
close supervision.
The Extension Methodology
14.       The extension technique is based on a systematic program of
training of full-time agricultural workers (VLW) combined with frequent
visits by V7 W to farmers' fields. This system enables him to visit each
relatively small group of farmers once a fortnight after he has received
intensive training in those agricultural practices and recommendations
which relate directly to farm operations during that fortnight. The fixed-
schedule of visits enables close supervision.
15.       The organizational structure is based on the total number of farm
families and the number of families which one VLW can reasonably expect to
1/   T&V -- Training and Visits -- the expression coined for the new
extension methodology first introduced in India in Rajasthan in 1974.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
visit. In West Bengal population density is high and communications good,
hence the number of farm families in each group would be higher than re-
commended elsewhere in India. The estimated 4 M farm families of West
Bengal would be divided into 4,000 groups of 800-1,200 families each, to
which one VLW would be allocated. Each unit, in turn, would be divided
into 8 groups of about 100-150 farm families each. Each of these groups
would be visited by the VLW, on a fixed day of the week, once every two
weeks. Thus VLW would cover 4 groups in one week and 4 groups the next.
VLW would spend the full day with the scheduled farmers' group; during
the morning hours he would visit their fields and, in the afternoon, hold
an open meeting in the village at a predetermined hour. One of the four
remaining working days each fortnight would be devoted to in-service
training and where VLW learn recommended practices to be given to farmers
during the following fortnight and when he has an opportunity to bring
farmers' problems to the attention of his trainers (para 28 ff). During
the three remaining days VLW would make visits to supervise field trials,
arrange any special extension activities, or make up visits missed because
of illness or holidays and complete office work. VLW would maintain a chart
showing days for visiting each group, as well as the time and place of the
meeting. His supervisor, the AEO, would keep such charts for all VLW super-
vised by him. An example of a chart is shown below.
A TYPICAL TIMETABIE FOR A VLW
MON TUE WED THU FRI SAT SUN MON TUL VIED THU FRI SAT SUN
EXT                             EXT  EXT
1    2    3    4   TRA  VIS   H    5    6    ,    s   VIS  VIS   H
1 - 8 = Visit Farmers Group
TRA =   Training
EXT     Extra visits for checking field trials, office work,
VIS     make up visits due to holidays, illness, etc.
H   =   Holiday.
Concentration of Efforts
16.       Contact farmers.  In order to concentrate extension efforts and
achieve a visible impact on increased production VLW would concentrate on
selected contact farmers since it is clearly not possible for VLW to reach
all farmers by direct contact. Many farmers are part-time, others are not
accustomed to contacts from outside agencies, and yet others are influenced
by neighbors or relatives. Under technical guidance from above and in con-
sultation with farmers themselves, VLW would select 10-15 contact farmers



ANNEX 2
Page 6
from within each group. Contact farmers would be from all levels of
village society, including sharecroppers, and would be selected for
their potential influence and willingness to collaborate with extension
workers in following recommendations. Changes in contact farmers could
be made, especially between seasons, if they were ineffective or if they
so desired. VLW, during field visits, would make special efforts to
visit all contact farmers' fields, and farmers, in turn would share the
responsibility of organizing and attending afternoon meetings and allow-
ing fields to be used as demonstration plots and for field trials.
17.       As extension efforts would be concentrated on selected farmers,
so also would VLW concentrate on the most important crops; focussing
mainly on those practices which bring the best economic results whilst
making optimum use of available resources. Initially, concentration
would be on improving agricultural management practices and would include
better land and seed bed preparation, improved nursery maintenance, use of
good seed, seed treatments, timely operations such as weeding and proper
spacing of plants, etc. Thus stress would be on improved management prac-
tices rather than on increased use of purchased inputs (such as fertilizer)
as improved cultural practices are known to produce sure and quick results.
Furthermore in adopting better practices farmers face little risk, but will
be required to work harder. Since most small farmers have surplus labor but
little cash this fits their financial status well. Finally, farmers often
cannot get full benefit from purchased inputs or more costly investments
(such as tubewells) until their practices have improved.
18.       Cultural practices requiring basic changes would first be recom-
mended for adoption on only a small part of the land. This would overcome
a natural reluctance to rapid change and allow results to be compared with
traditional ones. Once farmers' yields and incomes increase substantially
so will confidence in the VLW grow and make farmers more receptive to further
advice. Simple improvements in cultural practices can be introduced into an
extension service quickly and without requiring an elaborate, time-consuming
screening and trial process. Thus the extension service can rapidly make that
initial impact which will ensure its continued success. After improving man-
agement practices, farmer incomes would be higher and they would be finan-
cially better able to adopt more expensive (e.g. fertilizer) or more dramatic
(e.g. new varieties or cropping patterns) recommendations. As farmers move to
this stage, however, the emphasis should continue to be on how to use purchased
inputs to the best advantage.
Organizational and Technical Support
19.       To ensure adequate supervision and training of VLW it would be
necessary to strengthen technical and support staff. 4,000 VLW (para 13)



ANNEX 2
Page 7
are considered adequate for present needs 1/ and under the project 450 AEO
would be drawn from existing agricultural staff to provide field level
supervision. Each AEO would supervise 8-10 VLW and would join at least
once every two weeks part of each VLW program of visits to farmers. This
would enable him to visit every farmers' group at least twice each season.
He would check that VLW visits and meetings were carried out on schedule and
would assist both VLW and farmers in technical matters. He would also assist
VLW in carrying out demonstrations and simple trials. This close ongoing
relationship between AEO and VLW should relieve the latter of the need for
formal reporting. The VLW would be expected, however, to keep a diary to be
scrutinized and signed by any supervising officer visiting him. In addition
to supervision, AEO would spend one day every two weeks on training sessions
for VLW (para 28 ff).
20.       VLW and AEO supervisors, having access to VLW and AEO schedules of
visits, would be able quickly and easily, to find out whether visits are being
made as planned, not only by making surprise visits to areas in which VLW and
AEO are scheduled on particular days, but also by questioning farmers about
visit days, asking the names of VLW and AEO, messages learned, etc. Experienrce
in West Bengal has already shown that, once farmers become aware of the visit
schedule, they themselves actually become effective supervisors of the work
of VLW and AEO.
21.       New Subdivisional Offices.  With the present size of districts and
with the intensive program expected, one DAO would be unable to effectively
guide, train and supervise about 30 AEO and 240 VLW. The district would be
too large, geographically and organizationally, to administer the entire ex-
tension program, particularly since the DAO's office would retain some regu
latory and supply duties, not directly related to extension work. The pro--
ject, therefore, provides for the establishment of 50 subdivisional offices,
an average of 3 per district. A Subdivisional Agricultural Officer (SAO)
with the help of an Assistant (ASAO) would administer about 80 VLW and 9
AEO. Experience in India and in other countries has shown this to be the
maximum number of field staff for one office to administer effectively.
The new posts needed for the subdivisional offices have already been sance
tioned and some filled. The SAO posts would be filled by transferring tech-
nical staff from the districts and from special schemes (para 6); and the
Assistant's (ASAO) posts, by upgrading of AEO. The proposed extension organ-
ization is shown on page 8.
22.       Technical Support Staff.  In line with the need for professional
backing and support at field level, a Training Officer (TO) and two Subj
Matter Specialists (SMS), (one specializing in field crops and the other in
plant protection) would be posted at each subdivision. Thus two SMS would
support about 80 VLW. They would spend much of their time on field visits
1/   In the long run, the number of VLW would probably have to be increased
to 6500 to reduce the ratio of VLW: farmers from 1:1000 to 1:600. This
is not provided for in the project.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
DIRECTOR OF AGRICULTURE
.~~~~~~ * 
ADDITIONAL DIRECTOFR OF AGRICLJLTURE (EXTENSION) 
RANGE (6)|
DISTRICT (17)
PRINCIPAL/DISTRICT AGRICULTURAL OFFICER
RESEARCH          WATER MANAGEMENT           ENTOMOLOGIST/
AGRONOMIST        SPECIALIST*                PATHOLOGIST
7J                        _
SUBDIVISION (50)
SUBDIVISIONAL AGRICULTURAL
OFFICER
LXPERIN1ENTAL
FARM,
MS       SMS                        SMSr
ICROP PRODUC-        S              (PLANT
TION)              (TRAiNING)       PROTECTION)
AEO'S (450)
VLW'S (4000)
8 FARMER UNITS               '
10 CONTACT FARMERS/UNIT         320,000 CONTACT FARMERS
100-150 FARM FAMILIES/UNIT  j 4 MILLION FARM FAMILIES
' Tho SMS's shown are indicative only. The number and speciality would
'epcrld on conditions prevailinig in each District and Subdivision.
World Bank-16278(R)



ANNEX 2
Page 9
with AEO and VLW, helping them solve technical problems and conducting and
supervising field trials. Each SMS would also spend one day a week in train-
ing sessions. 1/ Thus even with two SMS per subdivision, the time spent with
each VLW would be small. SMS would play a central role in developing local
recommendations and in passing them on to AEO and VLW at training sessions
(para. 28-35) and would form the vital link between research and extension.
The TO would be responsible for the training program at the subdivision
(para. 36), coordinating participation of the SAO, SMS and researchers in
training activities. As it is not possible to provide more than minimum
technical support at subdivisional level, additional support would be pro-
vided at each of the 17 districts in specialized fields, such as water manage-
ment, farm machinery, entomology, plant pathology and farm management.
In addition, there would be need for a research agronomist to carry out
local trials on small experimental farms and in farmers' fields (paras.
26-27), and to be closely connected with the extension program. The project
would therefore provide for at least two specialists (areas of specialization
dependent on local needs) and one research agronomist in each district.
23.       The immediate need would, therefore, be to appoint 51 specialist
staff at district level and 150 at subdivisional level. These would be
appointed by careful upgrading and training of personnel already in DA service
and by strict selection of new recruits (See section on training of newly
recruited staff, para. 37 ff). It would thus be possible to fill all posts
within three years with qualified professionals. By increasing the support
given to AEO and VLW, it would be possible to have a ratio as low as one VLW
to 1,000 farmers while maintaining a high level of effectiveness. SMS would
devote much time to training and to field visits with AEO and VLW, while
maintaining close relationships with research work, particularly zonal
stations.
24.       Organizational Chart 16449 illustrates the proposed agricultural
extension service in relation to research.
Salaries and Incentives
25.       Extension work is carried out under difficult conditions and pays
poorly. Salaries would not be increased; the project would, therefore, pro-
vide for an honorarium to be offered on a yearly basis to 25% of VLW and other
selected staff who have shown willingness, devotion and results in their work
(Annex 8, Table 5). Provision of some housing, motorcycles and bicycles
(para 43) would be a condiserable incentive to field staff. To provide an
avenue of advancement for VLWs, funds would be included for a number of places
at the Agricultural University each year so that VLW, who have achieved out-
standing performance in the field, would have the opportunity of degree level
training and subsequent promotion. Individuals given these scholarships would
be bonded to the Directorate of Agriculture for a period of four years after
the completion of training.
1/   The 80 VLW would be divided into 3-4 groups for training (see Table,
page 34).



ANNEX 2
Page 10
Demonstrations, Experiments and Field Trials
26.       The past use of field demonstrations in India's agricultural ex-
tension programs has been wide but, with varying results. It is proposed
under the project, not to place special emphasis on a demonstration program,
but rather to utilize fields of contact farmers, where new practices would be
demonstrated, and simple field trials which would be carried out on both
experimental farms and farmers' fields. These demonstrations would form an
ongoing part of work of every VLW and AEO, to be supported by SMS and district
specialists.
27.       The broad range of simple experiments and field trials would be
carried out on fifty Government seed farms, one in each subdivision to be
converted, under the project, into experimental farms of about 15-20 ha each.
The project would, therefore, provide necessary infrastructure, equipment
and operating funds to establish such farms. A farm manager, to be appointed,
would be responsible for day to day operations. The district research agro-
nomist supported by other district specialists and SMS, would be responsible
for designing the field trial program in each district and for supervising
work on the farm. Guidance would also come from zonal research stations.
Analysis of results would be carried out by staff at zonal stations. Result-
ing crop recommendations would be tried out on a sufficiently large scale
before being delivered to farmers to ensure their validity under local condi-
tions, and, at the same time, extension workers would receive practical
training and gain confidence in their recommendations through active partici-
pation in field trial work. Coordination between extension and research
and the mechanism by which recommendations are formulated are discussed in
Annex 11.
Inservice Training I/
(a) VLW
28.       Continuous on-going training is an essential part of the T & V
system. On a given day, every four weeks, VLW would receive instruction from
AEO with support from SMS.  Training would be practically oriented and cover
farm operations and problems likely to arise over the next four week period.
Time would be allowed for VLW to actually carry out field operations. Subjects
and practices taught would be of immediate importance to farmers. At these
training sessions VLW would have a chance to raise and discuss problems which
they had encountered during the preceeding weeks.
29.       Alternating fortnightly with the training given by AEO would be
training session held at subdivisional level and given by SAO, his training
officer and supported by other subdivisional SMS. 2/ These sessions might be
1/   Pre-service and basic upgrading and specialized course are discussed
in para. 37 ff.
2/   During the early years of the project until SMS have been posted to
subdivisions, these second four-weekly training sessions would be
held by district specialists, assisted by staff from zonal stations.



ANNEX 2
Page 11
held at either the local experimental farm or research station and district
SMS and research staff from zonal stations would be involved in training as
required. BDO, representatives of cooperatives, the assistant SAO and others
involved in input supplies, irrigation engineers and all other staff parti-
cipating in agricultural activities would be invited to attend these sessions
to ensure coordination of all related activities.
30.       Prior to each season, the VLW would receive a four-day course cov-
ering the main crops and practices. Courses would be organized for the dis-
tricts by the Range Directors and VLW would be exposed to researchers, mainly
from the zonal stations. This would provide VLW with background needed to
understand the applied training received throughout the cropping period.
These courses would be held at the district level either at (gramsevak)
training centers or using school and college facilities when students are on
vacation.
(b) AEO and Senior Staff
31.       AEO would attend a two-day training session once every four weeks.
These sessions would be held, like those of VLW, on regular, pre-determined
days, would be organized by the PAO/DAO, assisted by SAO, ASAO, SMS and TO.
Over time, these two-day meetings would become core seminars of district pro-
fessional staff, in which progress would be reviewed, and the coming month's
T&V programs planned and prepared (Annex 11). The first day of the meeting
would be devoted mainly to technical subjects and discussions with researchers,
mainly from the zonal research stations, but also from commodity oriented
research stations. On the second day, staff of each subdivision would work
separately and details of all future training need and programs of work for
the next four weeks would be planned.
32.       AEO together with SAO and SMS would also take part in two four-day
courses to be held at Range level before each main cropping season. Lectures
would be given by staff from the various research stations, the university and
district specialists, and would provide participants with detailed recommenda-
tions for crops and practices for the coming season and how these would be
incorporated into the two-weekly training sessions throughout the season.
Following these courses districts would hold their four-day course for VLW
(para. 30 above).
33.       In addition to the above training activities, special short courses
for specific subjects, would be prepared for senior supervisory and pro-
fessional staff as needed and would be decided upon by ADA Extension and his
senior staff.
34.       Given below, in summary form, is a schedule demonstrating proposed
in-service training procedures.



ANNEX 2
Page 12
TABLE
Training Sessions
VLW:                              -- twice a year, a pre-season course at district for
4 days;
-- once every 4 weeks at the block level for 1 day by
AEO;
-- once every 4 weeks at subdivision level for 1 day
by SAO, SMS and AEO.
AEO:                              -- twice a year, a pre-season course at range for
4 days;
-- once in 4 weeks at district for 2 days to prepare
for coming month.
Subdivision and District
Staff:                            -- twice a year pre-season as AEO above;
-- once in 4 weeks for 2 days with AEO as above;
- in special courses to be held once a year.
This would require scheduling the following training sessions:
Administrative
Level at                                                 No. of
The Activity    which held   Frequency    Duration    Participants    Participants    Trainers
Pre-season       Range        2 x year      4 days       AEO, aAO, ASAO,       130      Researchers,
6                                     SMS                            Specialists
Pre-season       District     2 x year      4 days       VLW                   240      Specialists, SMS
17                                                                   SAO, AEO
Monthly          District      1 x 4 weeks  2 days       AEO, SMS, SAO,         60      Specialists,
Preparation        17                                    ASAO                           Researchers
Ongoing          Block         1 x 4 weeks  1 day        VLW                  8-10      AEO
I
1/                  1/
Ongoing          Subdivision  1 x 4 weeks  1 day         VLW              25-80         Specialists
II            1-3/sub-                                                               SAO, SMS, AEO
division 1/
Special          State         1 x year     3-6 days    Senior tech-    20-30           Research,
Courses          as needed                               nical staff                    University,
out of State
1/ At first, all subdivisional VLW trained together by specialists, later in three to four
groups by SMS (see para 29).



ANNEX 2
Page 13
35.       In addition to participation in special courses arranged for
senior technical staff, specialists and SMS would maintain close liaison
with research workers from zonal stations. This would come from work-
ing together at subdivision experimental farms, on field trials and during
training sessions. This link is extremely important since as it not only
provides the basis for ensuring relevant work at research stations, but
also provides further on-the-job training for SMS.
36.       The Information Officer and TO would be responsible for advance
planning and monitoring of all training sessions at district/ subdivision
level, for obtaining relevant training publications and for obtaining or
producing leaflets which summarize the subject matter and impact points for
each session. They would ensure that this material is ready in good time
and distributed to AEO and VLW at each training session.
Basic Training and Training of Newly Recruited Staff
37.       Training Centers:  Many of the present field staff received their
basic training in agriculture more than ten years ago (before most of the
technological advances that have subsequently occurred) and have since had
limited opportunities for improving this knowledge. Nearly 300 VLW were
recruited in the past without pre-service training. Many AEO and VLW, there-
fore, would not be technically equipped to cope with the demands of the new
T&V system. The project, however, would provide in-service training of VLW
and AEO, but nevertheless there is a need to strengthen the background
training of the older and untrained VLW and AEO so that they may better under-
stand the technology underlying present day agricultural recommendations and
practices.   These staff would thus be better able to absorb and comprehend
any training they would receive under the T&V program. This background train-
ing would be provided at seven existing training centers (gramsevak) of the
Directorate of Agriculture, set up primarily to provide pre-service and in-
service training of VLW. A special two-year course at these training centers
was started in June 1976 to train 300 VLW recruited without preservice train-
ing. A one-year upgrading course for VLW with more than seven years' service
has been started at five of the seven centers. The facilities and staffing of
these centers, also required for pre-service training of staff for new posts
and to replace normal wastage, are at present inadequate. Proposals for
expanding and upgrading the centers are given in the Appendix.
38.       To supplement the training which AEO would receive under T&V program,
the Agricultural University would run a special three-month upgrading course
for older AEO. The Directorate of Agriculture has funds budgeted to meet
the cost of this training.
39.       As mentioned in para. 23, there is an urgent need to appoint 200
specialists and SMS at district and subdivisional levels. District level
specialists would require special training and this would be provided at
agricultural universities and research stations in West Bengal and other
parts of India. Candidates are available for 150 SMS vacancies from existing



ANNEX 2
Page 14
AEO and MSc graduates. The latter would be recruited through the Public
Service Commission. Training would mainly be in-service whilst working as
research officers at research stations in West Bengal, and supplemented by
training outside the State. Training would be for periods of up to six months
for those with some research background; recent graduates would, however,
receive training for one year. Funds are included in the project for a train-
ing allowance for training received in West Bengal and for costs of training
elsewhere in India (Annex 8, Table 4).
40.       The training section at headquarters would be required to oversee
a considerable expansion of training facilities (Appendix I) and activities
including training outside West Bengal, and to provide manpower projections
to establish future training priorities. The project would, therefore, pro-
vide for the appointment of an additional training officer at headquarters
(Annex 8, Table 6).
Equipment, Facilities and Incentives Supporting
Extension Work and Training
41.       Equipment would be provided for the production of publications,
printing of diaries and preparation of audio-visual aids. In addition dup-
licating machines and photographic services, needed for effective extension
work with farmers would also be provided. Materials and equipment needed
by VLW and AEO as demonstration aids and for field trials and to meet the
needs of ongoing training and extension work, would also be provided. Since
emphasis would be placed on in-service training of field staff, funds would
be provided for the incremental operating costs involved, and would cover the
preparation of materials and aids for training sessions.
42.       A mobile van fully equipped with accessories such as projectors,
generator, microphone, screen, public speaking unit, taperecorder, plant
protection equipment, etc. would be provided for each of the 17 districts.
This van would be utilized for presenting frequent film shows, slide shows,
and group meetings in rural areas and for special extension campaigns, par-
ticularly plant protection.
Transportation and Mobility
43.       A key feature of the new extension methodology and its organization
is a requirement that the entire staff spend most of their time in the field.
Each week VLW would spend four days on pre-planned visits and a fifth day on
field trials, demonstrations and special requests. AEO would spend four
days a week with VLW. SMS would be expected to devote two days to field
visits and two days to field trials each week. PAO and SAO would spend at
least three days a week in the field. Transportation is thus crucial to the
success of the program, and is presently a serious constraint. The project
would provide for: 3 cars, 86 4-wheel drive vehicles, 450 motorcycles and
3,000 bicycles. Motorcycles and bicycles would be sold on credit to field
staff.



ANNEX 2
Page 15
44.       At present, the maximum credit advance allowable for a motorcycle
or scooter is Rs 3000, which is insufficient to cover the cost. Furthermore,
loans are not available to Government servants unless they have at least 10
years continuous service, and then only to those whose pay exceeds Rs 500
per month. Principal has to be repaid in 48 monthly installments and carries
5 1/4% interest rate. If, however, loans were given to cover the full pur-
chase cost (Rs 6000), monthly repayment would be Rs 120, over one quarter
AEO's monthly salary. The following action would thus have to be taken:
(a) Loans would cover the full purchase cost; and
(b) All staff would be eligible for loans.
In addition (i) terms and conditions of the loans would need to be such as
to provide incentive for staff to purchase motorcycles and 1/ (ii) traveling
allowances would have to adequate to ensure optimum use of such transport.
Suitable assurances were obtained (para 3.05 of main text).
45.       On purchasing a motorcycle AEO would be required to attend a
short training course covering handling, maintenance and simple repairs,
knowledge of the highway code and insurance laws. A provision of Rs 30 per
machine has been included to cover costs (Annex 8, Table 4). Instruc-
tion in motorcycle handling and highway code would be given by the police,
and instruction in maintenance and simple repairs under a supplier contract.
46.       Incremental vehicle operating and maintenance costs for depart-
mental vehicles are provided for and based on 25,000 km/year. Motorcycle
allowances have been calculated on the basis of 10,000 km/year. Basic tra-
vel allowance for incremental staff is also provided for. However, it is felt
that greatly increased demands would be made on the entire staff, in terms
of time and distances of travel and length of stay away from home, justifying
an additional travel allowance to all staff.
Offices and Staff Housing
47.       Efficient management and administration of the extension service
requires that good office and housing facilities be provided. Existing Range
and district offices, many of which are rented, are considered adequate,
though some additional equipment would be provided. In addition, the project
would finance construction of 50 subdivisional offices (para 21) and include
purchase of land, equipment and operating costs over the project period.
1/   GOWB should initially provide funds in accordance with the West Bengal
Service Rules which provide a motorcycle allowance of Rs 0.312/km for
journeys below 25 km, and a fixed allowance of Rs 7.8 for journeys be-
tween 25 km and 32 km. If this is inadequate, allowances would need
to be increased.



ANNEX 2
Page 16
48.       Field staff should live where they carry out their work.  In West
Bengal, there are great population pressures in rural areas with little
opportunity to rent accommodation. Many AEO and VLW live in substandard
rented homes, or else some distance from their villages. The project would
provide new housing for about 40% of AEO (office-cum-residence) for all
managers of the 50 experimental farms and low cost having for about 25%
of VLW (Annex 8, Table 1).
Organization and Management
49.       For details see Annex 11.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Upgrading of Training Centers
I. Present Position
1.        The Directorate of Agriculture operates seven (Gramsevak) Training
Centers distributed throughout West Bengal (Map 12327). Their primary
function is to provide pre-service and in-service training for VLW. In
addition, five centers train fitter mechanics (who become irrigation pump
operators) and pump owners in regular maintenance and repair of simple
engines and pumps. They also provide training for field staff and farmers
in the use, maintenance and setting of power tillers. In addition, five
centers train women as home economics extension workers in nutrition, health,
child care and simple agriculture before they are posted to the Community
Development Department to work under the BDO. The Training Centers are also
used for short courses for rural leaders, youth club members and farmers.
This role is likely to expand as farmers' interest in specialized crops in-
creases, and as the intensification of livestock production develops.
2.        The present two-year pre-service course for VLW consumes the
largest proportion of teaching hours at the centers. A two-year program has
been thought necessary to impart a combination of sufficient theoretical
knowledge and practical agricultural skill. However, a weakness of most formal
training programs for extension staff is their inability to provide students
with enough practical experience. This, however, is one of the greatest
strengths of the T&V 1/ program. It should, therefore, be possible to shorten
the pre-service formal training of extension staff to one year since in-
service training would be considerably strengthened (Annex 2, para 28 ff).
Facilities and Staffing
3.        The distribution of teaching staff and facilities at the seven
centers is shown below:
1/   T & V:  Training and Visits.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 2
Desired
Chin-       Buhur-  Cooch- Nerend-   per
Burdwan Fulia surah Malda  ghat   behar   rapur   Center
Staff: Principal            1      1      1     1      1      1        1         1
Sen. Lecturer       4       2     1      1     2       2        2        6
Lecturer            3       3     4      4     3       4        2        5
Lecture Rooms               2      2      2     2      1       1       1         4
Workshop Accom.            20      -      -     -    20      20       20        20
Hostel Capacity           130    100   100   120   100    100        100       130
Women Accom.               20     20      -    20    20       -       20        20
4.        The caliber of teaching at the centers is generally good; most
teaching staff have some field extension experience and have some training
in teaching methods. However, several constraints impede the creation and
maintainance of a high quality teaching staff, including: (i) low teacher
salaries; (ii) inadequate communication between the centers and the field
extension service; and (iii) lack of staff housing.
II. Project Proposals
A. Project Objectives and Content
5.        The objectives of upgrading the Training Centers include:
(i) Shortening the pre-service training in view of the increased
training to be provided as an integral part of the T & V system;
(ii) Increasing the centers' capability to run short specialized
courses and upgrading programs; and
(iii) Strengthening programs through staff and trainee in-
centives and staff expansion.
6.        Funds would, therefore, be provided under the project to renovate
existing training center facilities where necessary, and to construct, furnish
and equip the following:
(a) Classrooms at all seven centers, and audio visual aids;
(b) Workshop instruction units and accomodation for 20 students
at three centers;



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 3
(c) Hostel accommodation for 30 students at five centers;
(d) Staff housing for the principal and five senior teaching
staff on or near the center campuses; and
(e) one vehicle per center for transporting trainees (to
supplement existing vehicles).
Details are given in Annex 8, Table 6.
B. Program Development
7.        VLW Pre-Service Training.  A new, one year VLW pre-service course
would be introduced to replace the existing two-year course. This would
concentrate on the essential agricultural science and technology required to
provide a sound understanding of the scientific principles underlying agri-
cultural recommendations and husbandry practices, and to provide an adequate
foundation of scientific knowledge to enable VLW absorb the training which
they would receive under the T&V program. The pre-service program would be
reinforced by intensive in-service courses to be held at either the training
centers or research stations. These would mostly be single-subject courses
given at the most appropriate time of year.
8.        Other courses:  The introduction of a one-year pre-service course
would release accommodation at the training centers for other types of
courses. The regular course streams which each center would run are shown
diagramatically as follows:



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 4
Type of Course                 Academic Year                 No. of Participants
VLUT Pre-service                                                     40 /a
VLW Backlog                                                          30 /b
Special short courses                                                30 /c
Workshop courses                                                     20
Farmers' courses                                                     30
Womens' courses                                                      20
170
/a   An output of 30 per year from the one-year pre-service course from each
of the seven centers would be sufficient to meet a wastage rate of 5%
from the present VLW field strength. An average intake of 40 is pro-
vided to allow for a wastage rate higher than 5% or to permit a gradual
expansion of VLW numbers.
/b   The VLW Backlog course is one intake only and would terminate in mid-
1978. Thereafter that space would be available for continuing the pre-
sent one-year up-grading course for VLW with more than seven years'
service. Experience with the teaching of the one-year pre-service
course may indicate ways in which these up-grading courses can also
be shortened.
/c   The allocation of space for special short courses would be utilized
for in-service courses for VLW, AEO and other rural development
workers. In particular it is expected that there would be an increasing
demand for training courses in livestock production.
C. Institutional Arrangements
9.        Staffing Plan:  Teaching staff at the centers would be increased so
that every center has the following:
One     Principal
Six     Senior Lecturers (in agronomy, plant protection, extension,
horticulture, animal production, and soils,
water management and fertilizers);



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 5
Five    Lecturers (in crop husbandry, plant protection, extension,
agricultural engineering and veterinary science);
Support staff would also be increased (see Annex 8, Table 6).
10.       Staff Incentives.  To attract and retain able staff at the
centers, salaries would be standardized throughout the centers as follows:
Salary Level
Principal                  WBHAS
Senior Lecturer            WBAS
Lecturer                   WBJAS
A requirement for appointment to senior lecturer level would be satisfactory
completion of a course in agricultural teaching methods. Scholarships are
available annually for this training in India under an all-India program.
11.       To strengthen communication and integration with field services,
senior lecturers from the center would be expected to assist regularly in a
SMS capacity, with AEO and VLW training programs. This would not only keep
teaching staff informed of research findings and field policies, but would
provide them with an opportunity of gaining first hand experience of problems
being faced, and successes being achieved, by farmers and field extension
staff.
12.       Trainee Stipends.  At present trainees receive a stipend ranging
from Rs 60 to Rs 70 per month to cover room and board at the centers. This
rate has remained unaltered for a number of years despite a substantial
rise in living costs. Under the project trainee stipends would be increased
to Rs 100 per trainee per month.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Agricultural Research
I. Background
1.        Several institutions are devoted to agricultural research in West Ben-
gal. These include the Department of Agriculture, the Agricultural University
(Bidhan Chandra Krishi Vishwa Vidyalya) and the Indian Council of Agricultural
Research (ICAR). The Agricultural University was only recently established
(1974) and is in the process of constructing buildings and facilities on its
445 ha research farm at Kalyani, which will be completed by 1978 or 1979.
2.        The major agricultural research effort in the State lies with the
Department of Agriculture with an annual operating budget exceeding Rs 3 M
and a professional staff of 155 (mostly with PhD or MSc qualifications).
Its research activities are primarily adaptive, generally carried out at its
five commodity oriented stations for rice, pulses and oilseeds, horticulture,
water management and sugarcane. There are also five small substations cover-
ing rice growing under different agroclimatic conditions (hill, coastal saline,
flood and drought prone areas and on lateritic soils) and six for horticultural
crops -- mango, banana, pineapple (on lateritic soils), vegetables and other
temperate and subtropical fruits. Details of the stations including present
facilities, staffing and major accomplishments are given in Appendices 1-7.
The Department also has an Agriculture Research Institute in Calcutta working
on soil and plant chemistry, mycology, microbiology, and entomology.
3.        The commodity oriented stations operate on a multidisciplinary basis
but are ill-equipped, understaffed and lack proper field and laboratory facili-
ties for effective research. There is also a lack of research to evaluate
commodities and agronomic practices under a wide range of agroclimatic condi-
tions. Relationships with extension personnel, however, are good as both ex-
tension and research are located within the same Department but few research
findings reach farmers because of the lack of effective field level extension.
Research provides training for extension personnel at State, Range and District
levels.
4.        ICAR conducts basic and applied research in West Bengal at the Jute
Agricultural Research Institute at Barrackpore and at substations for potato
at Darjeeling and soil salinity problems at Canning. It also provides financ-
ing for certain research programs at the University covering maize, potato and
wheat, and other agronomic experiments, and at the Department of Agriculture's



ANNEX 3
Page 2
commodity oriented research stations, on rice, pulses, oilseeds, sugarcane,
water management and jute. Funds for soil testing are also provided. Most
schemes are financed 75% by ICAR and 25% by GOWB, with a result that 22% of
the total funds required to operate the Department of Agriculture's research
stations come from ICAR.
5.        The Agriculture University has responsibility for basic and applied
research but has yet to establish a major effort in these areas.
II. Project Research Support
A. Introduction
6.        The research program, a core component of the project, would com-
prise the upgrading of existing commodity oriented research stations by pro-
viding additional facilities and staff; by establishing and staffing six
zonal research stations located within the main agroecological zones, and by
provision of fellowships and short-term consultancies to improve quality of
staff and upgrade the research program.
7.        The commodity oriented Research Stations have been selected to
cover the major economic crops, except jute, grown in West Bengal - wheat,
rice, pulses, oilseeds and sugarcane and selected horticultural crops which
play an important role in upgrading the quality of farmers' diets. One sta-
tion would largely be devoted to investigating improved water management
practices with the crops mentioned above. Jute and potato would receive
no additional attention under the project since jute research is presently
covered by ICAR at the Jute Agricultural Research Institute and potato is
studied adequately at an ICAR testing station in Darjeeling and by the
Agricultural University.
8.        Locations of the commodity oriented research stations are given
below (also see Map 12327):
Crop                                            Location
Rice (Appendix 1)                               Chinsurah (84 ha)
Pulses and oilseeds (Appendix 2)                Berhampore (24 ha)
Horticulture (Appendix 3)                       Krishnagar (45 ha)
Sugarcane (Appendix 4)                          Bethuadahari (40 ha)
Water Management (Appendix 5)                   Ranaghat (10 ha)
Wheat (Appendix 6)                              Burdwan (80 ha)
The zonal research stations (for details see Map and Appendix 7) would be
located as follows:



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Agroecological Condition                         Location
Hill                                             Kalimpong (30 ha)
Terai                                            Coochbehar (28.8 ha)
Old Alluvium soil types                          Majhian (58 ha)
New Alluvium soil types                          Krishnagar (95 ha)
Lateritic soil                                   Nalhati (40 ha)
Coastal Saline                                   Canning (15 ha)
B. Program Goals
9.        Commodities Program.  The commodity oriented research programs of
the Department of Agriculture would focus on solving farmer problems related
to rice, pulses and oilseeds, fruits and vegetables, sugarcane and wheat
under both rainfed and irrigated conditions. Each station would be organ-
ized on a multidisciplinary basis. Briefly, each station (see Appendices
1-7) for details) would work on the following problems:
(a) Rice: Identification and selection of varieties suitable
for different agroclimatic regions, seasons, water levels,
soil types and resistance to various pests and disease.
Improved cultivation practices, particularly land prep-
aration, planting, application of fertilizers (both or-
ganic and inorganic) and use of pesticides;
(b) Pulses and Oilseeds; Identification of high-yielding vari-
eties showing wilt resistance, high protein or oil content,
adaptability to different agroclimatic conditions, and resis-
tance or tolerance to different pests and diseases; identi-
fication of early maturing varieties most suited to mixed
cropping; agronomic studies to determine optimum manage-
ment practices for mixed croping;
(c) Horticulture: Identification of improved varieties of fruits,
vegetables and spices, clonal selection of varieties devel-
oped by hybridization and standardization of cultivation
practices:
(d) Sugarcane: Identification and selection of varieties for high
yield and sucrose content, early, mid and late season growth
characteristics and resistance to Red Rot and other pests and
diseases; development of improved cultivation practices and
different farming systems, including intercropping with wheat,
mustard, potato and pulses.
(e) Water Management: Studies on improved water use and irriga-
tion methods and practices, cropping patterns for more inten-
sive land use under irrigated or rainfed conditions, and
moisture holding capacity of different soils; and



ANNEX 3
Page 4
(f) Crop Production: Development of economically sound farming
systems while evaluating effects of pests, cliseases, and
weed control, fertilizer use, irrigation, spacing, seed rates
and time of planting. Evaluation of varieties recommended
by commodity oriented research stations under different
cropping patterns, rotations, mixed cropping regimes and
using different cultivation practices. The focus would be
particularly on wheat.
10.       Zonal Stations:  The program would be devoted to the development of
a package of improved cultivation practices for each main agroecological zone
covering the major crops and based on recommendations of the commodity ori-
ented stations. Promising varieties would be identified and schedules pre-
pared for control of pests and diseases. Studies on cropping patterns and
rotations including water requirements would be undertaken under the guid-
ance of the Crop Production and Water Management Research Stations. Econo-
mists would evaluate the financial impact of new practices derived both on
zonal stations and at 50 subdivisional experimental farms to be established
under the project (Annex 2) before being released as recommendations to
farmers.
C. Program Components
11.       In order to achieve the goals outlined above, the project would
provide:
(a) Civil works, including the construction of laboratory and
office buildings at all the above-mentioned stations except
those dealing with Rice and Sugarcane, where facilities are
adequate. The building at Krishnagar would be shared by
Horticulture and the New Alluvium Zonal Station. The pro-
ject would also finance construction of warehouses, threshing
floors, greenhouses, glasshouses, nethouses, screenhouses and
lathouses and provides fencing and irrigation facilities.
Housing would be provided at research stations where it is
currently inadequate and would cover the need of about 65%
of staff, which, taken with that presently available, would pro-
vide accommodation for about 75% of all staff. Deductions
would be made from salaries in lieu of rent. The project
would also construct three inspection bungalows, one on
each of the coastal islands of Gosaba, Sagar and Hingalganj
for staff based at Canning Zonal Station. A 25-bed dormitory
would be constructed at each commodity station and two of the
zonal stations. This facility would be used by farmers and
extension staff while on training courses. Details are given
in Appendies 1-7.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
(b)  Laboratory equipment, furniture, and vehicles, 25 4-wheel
drive vehicles and two power boats (to facilitate transport
between the coastal islands) would be supplied to increase
mobility of staff; whilst provision of books, journals,
limited office and laboratory furnishings and auxiliary
power generators would upgrade station facilities. Details
are given in Appendices 1-7.
(c)  Increase in Professional and Support Staff:  At full develop-
ment professional staff would be increased for 121 to 260, an
increase of 139; of this 67 would be at commodity oriented
stations and 72 at zonal stations. Support staff would be
increased from 116 to 450, an increase of 334; of this 159
and 175 would be at commodity and zonal stations respectively
Details of existing and incremental staff are given in
Tables 2 and 3 of each appendix.
(d)  Training and Fellowships:  Fellowships of between one and 12
months would be provided to some 130 professionals over the
project period. Table 1 of each appendix provides a break-
down for individual stations, which is indicative only;
as the project progresses it may be desirable to send more
persons for training from one station and less from another.
(e)  Short-term Consultancies:  Covering some 15 man-months to
provide assistance in organizing key research programs or
to help solve problems such as serious outbreaks of pests
or disease. Details are given in Table 1 of each appendix.
III. Cost Estimates
12.       Estimated costs of the agricultural research component, excluding
price contingencies, would be Rs 83.3 M (US$9.2 M). Details are given in
Table 1 of each appendix and are summarized below:
----------Thousand Rupees---
Development  Establishment    Total
Rice Research                              6,041          2,259          8,300
Pulse and Oilseeds Research                6,927         2,449           9,376
Horticultural Reseach                      6,750          1,871          8,621
Sugarcane Research                        3,555          1,538          5,093
Water Management Research                  6,970          1,642          8,612
Crop Production Reserach                   6,396         1,964          8,360
Six Zonal Stations                       24,224         10,718         34,942
60,836 (73%)  22,441 (27%)  83,304



ANNEX 3
Page 6
IV. Organization and Management
13.       Details are given in Annex 11.



ANNEX 3
Appendix I
Page   1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Research Program for Rice
I. BACKGROUND
Present Status of Rice Research
1.        Since 1947, Chinsurah has been the main Rice Research Station in
the State, carrying out applied and adaptive studies. In the mid-1950s,
other institutes such as Bose Research Institute, Presidency College and
the Faculty of Agriculture, Calcutta University (all located in Calcutta)
took up fundamental studies on rice. In 1962, the State College of Agri-
culture was transferred to the then Kalyani University and the Faculty of
Agriculture of this University began work on rice. Since 1971, the Central
Soil Salinity Research Sub-Station of the Indian Council of Agricultural
Research (ICAR) also began work on rice in the saline tract. Recently, the
Bose Institute and the Central Soil Salinity Research Sub-Station at Canning
developed some new varieties, mainly through mutation breeding. These varie-
ties are undergoing field trials.
2.        The Department of Agriculture has several rice research sub-stations
in different agro-ecological zones, including:
Lateritic -- State Agricultural Farm -- Bankura
Saline -- Gosaba
Hill -- Kalimpong
Drought -- Hathwara
Flood resistant -- Guskora
These sub-stations are mainly variety testing centers using material evolved
by the main station at Chinsurah.
3.        In 1968-69, ICAR sanctioned a regional Rice Research Station under
the All-India Coordinated Rice Improvement Project (AICRIP) at Chinsurah
with a testing center at Kalimpong. In 1975-76, ICAR strengthened the AICRIP
Regional Station with staff and funds to work on rice for ill-drained low
lying situations. In addition, a short-term project financed by the Ford
Foundation through ICAR was initiated in April 1976 to study kharif rice under
ill-drained water stagnated areas. Five staff members are presently undergoing
training at the International Rice Research Institute in the Philippines as
part of this scheme.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page   2
4.        Chinsurah has close links with national and international insti-
tutes and a number of international trials are also conducted at this station.
These institutes include: the International Rice Cold Tolerant Nursery at
Kalimpong; International Upland Rice Yield Nursery at Hathwara; International
Rice Observation Nursery at Chinsurah and Bankura; International Rice Yield
Nurseries; International Rice Tungro Nursery; International Deep Water Rice
Flowering Survey, and International Deep Water Rice Observation Entries at
Chinsurah. Apart from these trials, screening of varieties developed else-
where in India is also conducted under the AICRIP Program. Screening of
varieties against pests and diseases and determination of agronomic prac-
tices is also in progress.
5.        Staffing.  The main station has a professional staff of 25 of which
seven have Ph. D's; most of the remainder have masters degrees. The five sub-
stations have seven professional staff, one with a Ph.D. degree, two with
masters degrees and four with bachelors degrees. The total budget for the
main and sub-stations for rice research in 1975-76 was Rs 612,000 of which
13.9% was financed by ICAR.
6.        Facilities.  Chinsurah has 84 ha, of which 64.4 is under cultiva-
tion. The station has a laboratory building, constructed in the 1950s. GOWB
has sanctioned funds for its expansion and the new annexes are under construc-
tion. In addition to laboratory buildings, there is a godown and one open
threshing floor of about 15m x 15m. There is also a small covered threshing
floor which is inadequate. Four small 2m x 2m glass rooms and one small net
house are also available although these fall far short of actual requirements.
The station has limited research equipment, books and journals. At present
only three Research Assistants and the Head of the station live within the
research station. Others live outside, some as far away as Calcutta, 75 km
from Chinsurah. The present requirement of power is about 11 kVa, but the
supply is far short of this and the station often suffers from power failure.
It is necessary to have at least a five kVa generator to run essential equip-
ment. For mobility of staff in supervising field trials and existing zonal
stations, the Chinsurah main station requires at least two more vehicles.
Accomplishments
7.        By 1965, Chinsurah had developed 42 improved tall rice varieties
suited to different land situations and agro-climatic zones. These varieties
were more tolerant than earlier varieties to pests and diseases, and had rea-
sonably good yields, varying from 2.5 to 3.5 tons per hectare. Most of those
were, however, susceptible to lodging and could not respond to higher fertility
levels. In addition, some five grain-scented varieties were developed.
Three were introduced from Orissa during the early 1950s, the first for the
saline area and the last two for the flood affected areas. These varieties
are still grown in the respective areas. Agronomic practices including
spacing, time of transplanting, and fertilizer dosage were determined for
these varieties and extended to farmers.



ANNEX 3
Appendix I
Page   3
8.        Before introduction of semi-dwarf and dwarf varieties, it was found
that Latisail, a tall indica aman variety was capable of yields of two to
three times higher in the boro season than the kharif season. Subsequently,
the boro rice area increased rapidly. Since 1965, a large number of varieties
developed at IRRI, Cuttack, Orissa, Hyderabad and other places have been tried
and the best recommended. Breeding studies conducted at Chinsurah also gener-
ated five new varieties.
9.        Agronomic studies in the kharif season using HYV, with good manage-
ment, i.e. use of properly aged seedlings, proper spacing, weed control, and
plant protection, have shown that yields as high as 4 tons/ha of rice are
possible with only 40 kg of nitrogen. The time of application and the utility
of split doses in specific cases have also been demonstrated. Recent studies
have indicated that green leaf manuring and green leaf top dressing can give
yields in kharif as high as can be achieved with 50 kg of nitrogen.
10.       Monitoring of rice stem borer incidence in each rice season has been
possible and control measures have now been worked out. Rice Tungro Virus dis-
ease development in the field and its relationship with the vector has also
been worked out and is being utilized for screening test material for resist-
ance to the disease. Similarly, the ecology of disease development of new
rice diseases such as sheath rot and sheath blight is being used for routine
screening work.
II. THE ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROGRAM
11.       The rice research station would work primarily on:
(a) Varietal Selection. Varietal screening and identifi-
cation would be intensified for different agro-climatic
regions and seasons, water levels and availability, soil
types and resistance to various pests and diseases. Plant
material would be obtained from other institutions (para
15). The major problems arise during pre-kharif (aus) and
kharif (aman) seasons where the critical need is to identify
varieties suitable for low-lying areas. In the boro season,
the major need is to identify cold tolerant varieties which
could be harvested earlier, hence reducing water requirement
during the hot months of mid-April to mid-June. Similarly,
it will be necessary to identify varieties for particularly
high rainfall areas (hill and terai regions) and for the
saline, flood affected and deep water areas.
(b) Cultivation Practices. Techniques which improve rice produc-
tivity would be continued and expanded using zonal stations
and sub-divisional experimental farms. These would include
field leveling for better water management, spacing, water
depth and time of application of manures, fertilizers and
pesticides.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page   4
(c) Pest and Disease Control. Studies would be enhanced on pests
and diseases seriously affecting rice production in West Bengal
(para 3b), in particular studies on preventive measures for
control in nursery beds and rice fields, and screening of
resistant varieties.
12.       Collaborating Institutions.  Chinsurah would maintain close working
relationships with Bidhan Chandra Krishi Viswa Vidyalaya and other agricul-
tural universities of the country; State Departments of Agriculture; the
Cuttack Central Rice Research Institute; AICRIP headquarters at Hyderabad;
other ICAR institutes such as the Soil Salinity Research Sub-station, Canning;
Calcutta University. The Station would also maintain close contact with the
IRRI, Manila, Philippines and Bangladesh. A large number of coordinated rice
trials are being and would continue to be conducted at Chinsurah and its sub-
stations. Exchange of materials and information would take place frequently
with different national rice research stations through personal contact and
visits.
III. COST ESTIMATES
13.       Detailed cost estimates are given in Table 1.
August 1976



WilIA
WEST BENGAL AGRIClLTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Commodity Research Station. Rice
(Rupee- thousan,ds)
1/              1/
Ar-e         Co.st/M         No. of                                                         YEAR
Ll?l        L s(R. /M m     Units         Cost/Unit           1           2           3            4               5            Total
C`vIl Works
Yuildings
Store                                                         93            600              1              56              14          28          14           -                                56
Greenhouse                                                    93          4,000              1             372              93         186          93           -               -               372
Threshing Floor                                              148             300             1              45              11          23          11           -               -                45
25-bed Dormitorv                                             400            650              1             260              65         130          65           -               _              260
Staff Quarters 2/
Senior Staff                                               100            650             4               65              65         130         65            -               -              260
Junior Staff                                                80            650            12               52             156         312        156                            -              624
Research Officers                                           60            650            12               39             117         234        117            -               -              468
Field Staff                                                 40            650            16               26             104         208        104            -               -              416
Class IV Staff                                              30            650              8              20              40          80         40           -                -              160
Sub-total                                                                                                           665       1,331         665           -               -            2,661
Site Development  (25%)                                                                                                         166        333         166                                           665
Professional Fees  (15%)                                                                                                         25          50          25                                          100
Sub-total                                                                                                           856       1,714         856                                         3,426
physical Contingencies  (15%)                                                                                                   128         257        128                                           513
Total                                                                                                               984       1,971         984                                         3,939
Equipment and Vehicles
Laboratory Equipment                                                                                                         50        141                                                       191
Farm Equipment                                                                                                              80          23          14                                           117
Vehicles --4-wheel drive with trailer                                                        2              55             110                                                                   110
Generator                                                                                                                    30                                                                   30
Other                                                                                                                      324         224          24           20               20             612
SRb-total          3/                                                                                               594         388          38           20               20           1,060
physical_Contingencies                                                                                                       48         39           4            2                2              95
Total                                                                                                                642        427          42           22               22           1,155
Training and Consultancy Services   Months
Fellowships, Overseas --             (One)                                                   2            34.4               -          34          -            35               -               69
--         (Three)                                                 5            48.0               48         48          48           48               48             240
--         (Sim)                                                   7            60.0               60        120          60          120               60             420
--         (Twelve)                                                1            88.0               -           88         -            -                -                88
Fellowships in Tcdia                                                                                                         10         -           10           -                10              30
Sub-total                                                                                                            118        290         118          203              118             847
Short-term  Consultants                                                                      2            50/month           50         -           50           -                -              100
Total                                                                                                                168        290         168          203              118             947
Establishment Costs_(tncremental_
a) Salaries                                                                                                                 223        273         288          296              305           1,385
b) Operating Costs                                                                                                          100        115         166          205              209             795
Physical Contingencies                                                                                                   10          11   -      17           20               21              79
Sub-total                                                                                                            110        126         183          225              230             874        o-
Total Establishment Costs                                                                                                   333        399         471_ _   521                  535           2.259
Total                                                                                                                         1,941       2,780       1,516          724             652            7,613
Physical Contingencies                                                                                                          186         307         149           22               23             687
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                                                   2,127       3,087       1,665          746             675            8,300
1/ Tentative figures, used for estimating purposes only.
2/ Provides for 58% of staff at full development
T/ No physical contingencies on vehicles.
January 10, 1977



AINEX 3
Appendix 1
Table 2
INDIA
WEST BETGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
1/
Existing and Incremental Staffing of Rice Research Station -
Existing    Incremental -       Total
Senior Professicnal Staff                       5               21/               7
Jijmior Professional Staff                      12             k4 /             16
Research Assistants                             10              °                1C
Supporting ?taff -- field and leboratory         3             21                21
Office and Other Staff                           9             14               23
39             50               89
1/  Staf~fing for zona]. stations which includes some research on rice is
shown in Appendix 7, Tables 2 and 3.
2/ All additional staff hired by the end of Year Two.
3/ JDA rice and Rice Physiologist.
4/ Junior agronomist, pathologist, physiologist and statistician.
Juily 21, 1976



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Table 3
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAIL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Staffing of Rice Research Station at Full Development
Professional Staff                              Senior      Junior      Research Officers
Station Head                                    1
Rice Improvement                                2           5                 6
Agronomist                                      1           2                 2
Entomologis t                                   1           3                 4
Pathologist                                     1           3                 4
Physiologist                                    1           1                 2
Soils                                                       1                1
Statis tici an                                              1
7         16                19
Support Field, Laboratory and                    Number
Office Staff
Field Assistants                                6
Laboratory Assistants                           8
Laboratory Attendants                           6
Statistician Assistants                         2
Library Assistant                               1
Mechanic                                        1
Head Clerk-Accountant                           1
Cashier                                         1
Stenographer                                    1
Clerical                                        7
Drivers                                         3
Laborers                                        7
Wetchmen                                        3
47
July 23, 1976



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
Page 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Research Program for Pulses and Oilseeds
I. BACKGROUND
Present Status of Pulses and Oilseeds Research
1.        Research on pulses and oilseeds was started in 1921 in what is now
Bangladesh (Dacca). At the time, the present District Seed Farm at Berhampore
functioned as a testing center. After independence, research on pulses and
oilseeds has been concentrated at Berhampore. Starting in 1950 research was
taken up under two schemes, one sanctioned by ICAR (for pulses) and the other
by the then Indian Central Oilseeds Committee. The State Government has sub-
sequently taken over research on pulses while oilseed research continues to
be financed by ICAR on a 75:25 basis. Berhampore's annual operating budget
for research on pulses is about Rs 197,000 and for oilseed research about
Rs 173,000.
2.        Staffing.  Professional staff number 25 (ten on pulses and five on
oilseeds) and supporting staff, 14. Most staff live away from the re-
search station.
3.        Facilities.  Berhampore has an area of about 24 ha.  It has excel-
lent irrigation facilities but its laboratory building is inadequate to
accommodate various disciplines. Farm and laboratory equipment are also
inadequate and there is no greenhouse nor any screen-house facilities.
Accomplishments
4.        The station has developed a number of improved varieties of pulses
and oilseeds, some accepted on an all-India basis. Cajanus variety B-7,
B-517, and B-524 have been developed with a yield potential of about 1.8 to
2.0 tons/ha. The B-517 variety is an erect, long duration variety having
good tolerance to wilt disease. Some varieties and lines have a high degree
of tolerance to wilt and are now being tested for yield and quality. In
mung bean, B-1 and B-105, T-44, T-51, S-1 and S-8 and different varieties
from other States have also been found suitable. Phaseolus B-76 and T-9
have been recommended as high yielders with high protein. Lentil B-77,
chick peas B-75, B-98 and B-108 have also been recommended. While B-75 and
B-98 are highly susceptible to wilt disease, B-108 is reasonably tolerant



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
Page 2
and has a yield potential of about 2.5 tons/ha. Recently, the station
has developed two lathyrus strains which have the highest yield poten-
tiality and minimum neuro-toxin content and will shortly be recommended.
5.        The station has developed two varieties of mustard, namely, toria
B-54 and rai B-85. Because of its early maturity, toria B-54 can be harvested
in about 75 days with a result that this can be followed by wheat. Yellow
sarson B-9 also developed at Berhampore, matures in about 90 days and con-
tains the highest percentage of oil, about 46%. The station has also developed
a sesame variety B-67 which matures in about 80 days, has resistance to
phyllody, can be grown in all the three seasons, and has an oil content of
about 42%. Groundnuts B-30, B-31 have also been developed at Berhampore.
Cultivation practices for most pulses have been standardized and are being
propagated through the Pulse Development Scheme. Yield increases that would
have been expected from the adoption of improved varieties and better cultural
practices, however, have been largely offset since pulses are now grown on more
marginal lands (para 3).
IIe THE ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROGRAM
6.        The pulses and oilseeds research station would work primarily on:
(a)  Varietal Selection.  Screening and identification of varie-
ties of pulses and oilseeds would be undertaken for higher
yield, protein content in pulses and oil content in oilseeds,
and adaptability to difLerent agro-climatic zones of West
Bengal.  Screening would also include identification of varie-
ties, resistant or tolerant to, important pests and diseases,
early maturing varieties suitable for mixed cropping, and
agronomic studies to determine management practices suited
to the farmers ability to invest and take risk. These studies
would require a multi-disciplinary approach with crop improve-
ment specialists rkcrking as a team with entomologists, plant
pathologists, agronomnists and chemists.
(b) Cultivation Practices and Farming Systems. Studies would
include trials on sDacing, time of sowing, fertilizer require-
ments, irrigation procedures, weed control and harvesting
techniques. The selection Qf varieties which could be mixed
or rotated with other major crops would also be evaluated in
the overal farming system.
(c)  Pest and Disease Control.  Studies on major pests and
disease would be undertaken and means of biological or
chemical control evaluated-  This would be in addition
to tLe continuous screening of new varieties selected
for their resista___ o- tolerance to pests and diseases.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
Page 3
7.        Collaborating Institutions.  The Pulses and Oilseeds Research
Station would continue to be closely linked to Bidhan Chandra Krishi Viswa
Vidyalaya; the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi; Inter-
national Crop Research Institute for Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) at Hyderbad
and other State Departments of Agriculture and agricultural universities in-
cluding Bose Research Institute, Faculty of Agriculture, Calcutta University,
and ITT, Kharagpur. Direct contact with international research centers of
repute will be encouraged. This would include such centers as the Inter-
national Institute for Tropical Agriculture in Nigeria and key institutions
in the USA, Australia, Iran and USSR.
III. COST ESTIMATE
8.        Detailed cost estimates are given in Table 1.
August 1976



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
Trble I
INDIA
WESI BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION ANr RESEARCH PROJECT
Commedity Research Station, Pulses  -nd Oilseeds
(Rapees thousands)
2/
At2a        Cast/f2          No. of                                                          YEAR _ _
()iL );s/h )                  Units         Cost/Unit         I                                 4              5             Total
Civil _orks
Bnildings
Laborttory                                                  930            650             1             605            151         303        151           -              -               605
Stare                                                        93           600             1               56             14         28          14          -               -               56
Creenhouse                                                   93         4,000              1             372             93         186         93           -              -              372
hreshing Floor                                              148           300              1              44             11          22         11           _              _               44
25-Bed Dormitory                                            400           650             1              260             65        130          65          -               -              260
Stoff Quarters 1'
S-nior Staff                                             100            650             2               65             33         65          32          -               -              130
Junior Stuff                                               80           650            12               52            156        312         156          -               _              624
searatch  Officers                                         60           650            16               39            156        312         156          -               -              624
Field Stoff                                                40           650            12               26             78        156          78          -               -              312
Class IV Staff                                             30           650            12               20             60        120          60          -               -              240
Sub-total                                                                                                        817      1,634         816           -               -           3,267
Site_ t oD-eoveot   (25%)                                                                                                    204        409        204           -               -              817
Profaai-onal Foss   (15)                                                                                                     153        307        153                                __        613
S.b-t.t.1                                                                                                      1,174      2,350       1,173           --4,693
Physical Contingen-ies   (15%)                                                                                               176        353        176       _                   -              705
Total                                                                                                          1,350      2,703       1,349           -               -           5,402
Equip-nt dsd  -ehicleE
Laboratory Equipet                                                                                                       -           50        100           57                            507
Fans Equip-ent                                                                                                           83          80         23           14              -             200
Vlehitles --4--whael drive with trailer                                                                                 110          -          -            -               _             110
Generator                                                                                                                30          -          -            -               -               30
Other                                                                                                                    35          84         54           20              20           213
Sub-total                                                                                                        258         214        177           91              20             760
Physical Coatiag-osles                                                                                                   15          21         18            9               26
Total                                                                                                            273         235        195          100              22             825
T--Lninr_ nd C-.Iut:aanc   S-ri-   M..ttEI3                                                                                                                      --3
FelEouships, Over-e-s  --         (One)                                                                                  -           -          34           -               -               34
=-      (Three)                                                 5                              48         48          48          48              48             540
--      (Six)                                                   2                              -           -         120           -              -              120
--     (Twelve)                                                2                              -          -           88          88              -              176
PFElouships in India                                                                                                     -           10_        -            10              10              30
Sub-ttoal                                                                                                         48          58        290          146              58             600
Short-tern  Cosultoats                                                                                                   -           50         -            50              -              100
Total                                                                                                              48        108        295          196              58             700
Eatahi isimnt_Cas      Ic      nt
a) Salaries                                                                                                             202         268        293          302             310           1,375
b) Operating Coats                                                                                                      100         151        209          249             267             976
Physical Contingencies                                                                                                10         15          21          25              27     ___   98
Sub-total                                                                                                        010         166        230          274             294           1,074
Total Establishnent Costs                                                                                               312         434        523          576             604    _        42449
Total                                                                                                                     1,782       3,091      2,142          836             655           8,308
Physical Contigencies                                                                                                        201        389         215          34              29             86
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                                               1,983       3,480      2,357          872             684           9,376
I/ Provides for 597 of staff at fall develop-ent
7/  Tentative fig-re, ased for vetimatisg purposes on y.
January 10, 1977



AN1M1EX 3
Appendix 2
Table 2
INDIA
WAEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENTION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Existing and Incremental Staffing of Pulses and Oilseeds Research Station
Existing    Incremental -      Total
Senior Professional Staff                  2                             2
Junior Professionel Staff                 8             8 -             16
Research Officers                         15           10               25
Supporting Staff - field and
laboratory                             8            23               31
Office and other staff                    6            12               18
39           53               92
1/ Staffing for zonal stations which includes some research on pulses and
oilseeds is shown in Appendix 7, Tables 2 and 3.
2/ All incremental staff will be hired during the first hears of the
project except for the statistician and microbiologist.
3/ Pulses specialist; two oilseeds specialists; pulses agronomist;
entomolcgist; pathologist; microbiologist and statistician.
July 21, 1976



ANNEX 3
Appendix ?
Tab1.e 3
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RSESARCH PROJECT
Staffing of Pulses and Oilseeds Research Station at Full Development
Professional Staff                       Senior       Junior      Research Officers
Station Head                                1            -                -
Pulses Improvement                          1            2                5
Oilseeds Improvement                        -            2                3
Agronomist - Pulses                         -            2                6
Agronomist - Oilseeds                       -            2                5
Entomologists                               -            2                2
Pathologist                                 -            2                2
Microbiologist                              -            1                1
Chemist                                     -            1                1
Statistician                                             2
2          16               25
Support Field, Lab & Office Staff                       No,
Field Assistants                                         6
Lab Assistants & Attendants                             19
Statistician Assistants                                  2
Library Assistant                                        1
Mechanic                                                 3
Cashier                                                  2
Stenographer                                             1
Clerical                                                 1
Drivers                                                  3
Laborers                                                 5
Watchmen                                                 6
49
July 21, 1976



ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Research Program for Horticulture
I. BACKGROUND
Present Status of Horticultural Research
1.        Research on horticultural crops in the State began in 1934, at
the present Horticultural Research Station at Krishnagar with 45 ha.
Initially, emphasis was on mango and litchi and later extended to guava
and citrus. A separate scheme on banana was undertaken under the auspices
of ICAR in 1949/50. Emphasis was mainly on determination of optimum culti-
vation practices with irrigation, manuring and plant protection, in addi-
tion to selection of the best banana clones. Since the 1960s, studies on
pineapples, sub-tropical and temperate fruits and vegetables have been under-
way.
2.        In addition to the main horticultural research station, there are
six substations in West Bengal conducting research on mango, bananas, pine-
apple, subtropical and temperate fruits, winter vegetables in the hill zone
area, and a special substation on lateritic soils. Professional and sup-
porting staff at the main station number 11 and 14 respectively, with 13
professional staff at the six substations. The annual operating budget
for the main station in 1974-75 was Rs 311,940 and Rs 349,081 for the six
substations.
Accomplishments
3.        The achievements by the Horticultural Research Station have had a
direct bearing on increased production of mango through the selection of a
number of early, medium and late commercial varieties. Different methods of
propagation have been tested and stone grafting found to be the most economi-
cal and quickest way of producing planting materials for expansion of mango
areas. Early, medium and late varieties of litchi have been identified with
considerable commercial potential. Two good varieties of pumelo have been
identified, with Krishnagar-3 earning an all-India reputation. Of the limes
and lemons, Eureka lemon, seedless lemon and sweet lime have succeeded well,
particularly on lateritic soils. Guava varieties have been selected for yield
and quality and the method and time of pruning has been standardized. Detailed
studies and recommendations have been made for banana in respect of variety,
spacing, manuring and irrigation.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 2
4.        Regarding vegetables, a variety of cauliflower was developed by
selection at Kalimpong, with a yield of about 10 to 15 tons/ha in the plains
and 20 to 25 tons/ha in the hills, now popular throughout India. Kalimpong
Snowball is also a good variety of medium duration and has been recommended
for general cultivation. Two varieties of peas -- Krishnagar dwarf and
Aldarman -- have been recommended. Similarly, Krishnagar Purple Round and
Krishnagar Green Long brinjal have high yield potential of about 20 to 30
tons/ha and are gaining popularity with farmers. Varieties of tomatoes,
French beans and other vegetables have also been selected and recommended.
Cultivation practices of most of these varieties have been standardized.
II. THE ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROGRAM
5.        The horticulture research station would work primarily on:
(a) Varietal Selection. Varieties of fruits and vege-
tables would be identified and selected for higher yield
and quality. Emphasis would also be placed on propagation
trials for rooting through air-layering of improved grafts
of fruits, such as for water-apples, rose-apples, sapota
and cashew nuts. Quality evaluation would be based on
physico-chemical analyses for desirable characteristics,
particularly for mango, litchi, guava, pomelo and pine-
apples. Similar characteristics would be studied for
vegetables such as tomatoes, eggplant, cauliflower and
French beans. Varietal and agronomic studies on vege-
tables would be emphasized and varieties selected for
different agroecological regions.
(b) Pest and Disease Control. Studies on control of the major
pests and diseases of fruits and vegetables would be under-
taken in addition to the screening of improved varieties for
pest and disease tolerance or resistance.
(c) Cultivation Practices. Studies would be undertaken on
orchard management to standardize practices for most fruit
crops. Fertilizer and irrigation requirements, spacing,
weed control and harvesting techniques would be evaluated
for the major horticultural and vegetable crops.
6.        Collaborating Institutions.  The Horticultural Research Station
will continue to be closely linked with the All-India Coordinated Horticul-
tural Development Programme of ICAR and staff would attend different all-India



ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Page 3
fruit shows, workshops and seminars. It would also be closely associated
with the Agricultural University and Calcutta University, the Central Hor-
ticultural Research Institute, Hisarghata, Bangalore.  Contacts would be
established with international institutions conducting research in horticul-
ture such as the Asia Vegetable Research Center and in Australia, USA, Israel
and Japan.
III. COST ESTIMATES
7.        Detailed costs estimates are given in Table 1.
August 1976



pp 10117.        01             01"                                          -     0        y 00'
C 7                                                      0                    7-     p                                      . 0 n  nC
50        U                v| :_           z4      s o--  71  . -  "0  r   ,o'or. r   C  (74rc : qb  
00                    0       00       7   0         0|      0'        PP  P$           pF>   p 70001  1   pInDnVl03 7
n2     OP 00  'O                0-    0   W    e1-t~P            5PHaO  0   70771  (0      >          png  :   P0   1  77-7   70001,0
P0       7',    >    1 -pp P10       0'-          041     0   0p        00 P. l '     o-1Pp [   1   r  AroOO'O        01010r °J 
e.~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~ 00r o  0v,00 7IP       r00077   C OP      |      1                         :  V41-'O      CP 
2Po     v      n     ;rl    n0cr                       no    '- !2   2  22 J" K2   < PP 2 2  °-  Coo gz>9zP- 
e.~~~                                ~    ~                              0         20n> Ot      >>WIP SnIP         
e ~  ~ ~ '0 0°                                              0   '    Cp   -0PP n 911  1  0o   at70 °    0000
C0                  7 f2o,                                             g 00>W
0b            424 IP                                  I             I                        0P    1
g.~ ~ ~         ~~~~~~~~~ C                                                                 0 '070:t'
P) ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ 7'4                 7001           L' o.S20H
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                     ~                                                             0'
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 0>
--~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  '0  '0    '7070                                                  
00 0         00 0                            2   ~s M
S o      o o8     o   0           n   2
00007    0'0000    0               '0 
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~P  I  I                                      2
07~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r77 0 01 0 0  o 700"O  r.07      A'-    7r r                   r' -4O        g 
'0000   01   700'07   7   0   0o'D
w                                             I               s w          
0   07   0700             '000 v0 r'7 r                      10 v.|0 o7 77 7                         0' v  O|1      0,     | v         v       
I   I          ,                         l          l                               I 
_  7   0.1_                         | 7      0,            r~0          _|I  l ll       l            II' 
I                      ,                   I|7
-0 07    0         01010                 0001I                     I            I 
W1    V   s1 14   914 1   I                        ,                 
I       I   I                 I1                      I.I           II>
I   I                                           I          IIP  
I               7   I                0"                I 0                                                       0
0 v7                   007           77 70                 070       '-1   0o77          0   0   0' IOg l     
I2                                     00!77 0I01                       '   07 00          701400                                      w
]   ]   !         ~      001000                 0!     0    7    7    7       70     0       10



AIITEX 3
Apro.ndi "
Tah' f.'
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Existing and Incremental Staffing of Horticulture Research Station
Existing     Incremental         Total
Senior Professional Staff                    1              -                1
Junior Professional Staff                    4             5                 9
Research Officers                            6            10                16
Supporting Staff - Field and Laboratory    14               9               23
Office and Other Staff                      21              7               28
46            31                77
0=/ Staffing for zonal stations which include research on fruits and vegetables
is shown in Appendix 7, Tables 2 and 3,
g/ All incremental professional staff will be hired by the end of the third yeare
2/ Assistant Etomologist, Pathologist, Plant Physiologist, Statistician, and
Vegetable Specialist,
July 21, 1976



ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Table 3
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Staffing of Horticultural Research Station at Full Development
Professional Staff                      Senior       Junior      Research Officers
Horticulturist (Station Head)              1            3               8
Vegetable Specialist                       -            1               3
Entomologist                               -            11
Pathologist                                -           1                1
Plant Physiologist                         -            1               2
Biochemist                                 -            1               1
Statistician                               -1_
1           9               16
Support Field, Lab & Office Staff                      No,
Field Supervisors                                       2
Laboratory Assistants and Attendants                    8
Field Assistants                                        5
Gardner's                                               8
Library Assistant                                       1
Head Clerk-Accountant                                   1
Stenographer                                            1
Clerical                                                5
Cashier                                                 1
Drivers                                                6
Laborers                                                4
Watchmen                                                9
51
July 21, 1976



ANNEX 3
Appendix 4
Page 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Research Program for Sugarcane
I. BACKGROUND
Present Status of Sugarcane Research
1.        Sugarcane research started in 1956 in Burdwan with major emphasis
on selection of suitable varieties from planting materials supplied by the
Sugarcane Breeding Station, Coimbatore. In 1965, a permanent station was
was set up at Bethuadahari in Nadia District on about 40 ha. Emphasis is
placed on screening and identification of varieties resistant to pests and
diseases particularly root borer, stem borer, top shoot borer, pyrilla and
diseases such as red-rot and cercospora leaf spot. Recently the Indian Council
of Agricultural Research (ICAR) sanctioned a scheme for sugarcane research in
West Bengal in collaboration with the All-India Coordinated Sugarcane Research
Projects.
2.        The Sugarcane Research Station has a professional staff of nine,
with ICAR supporting five, and a support staff of nine. Although insect and
disease problems are serious, no professionals representing these disciplines
are located at the station. In 1975/76, the State Government sanctioned funds
for land development of about 30 ha at the Station. Work is presently underway
and should be completed in late 1976. The station has a laboratory building,
part of which is under construction, as well as a few staff quarters. Very
little field and laboratory equipment is available and there are no vehicles.
The total operating budget of the Station is Rs 198,000, of which Rs 130,000
is financed by the State and the balance by the All India Coordinated Sugarcane
Research Scheme (75% of which is borne by ICAR). During March 1975/76, the
GOI sanctioned a seed cane production unit to work at Bethuadahari under the
guidance of the Sugarcane Research Station for production of disease and pest
free seed canes for distribution to growers.
Accomplishments
3.        Of the 400 varieties at the station obtained from Madras, seven
have been selected and released to growers. These included early, mid- and
late season varieties, both tolerant to red-rot and giving yields of 75 to
110 tons per hectare. It generally takes six to seven years from the time
sugarcane varieties are obtained from Mladras to the time they can be released
to cultivators.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 4
Page 2
II.  THE ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROGRAM
4.        The sugarcane research station would work primarily on:
(a) Selection of Improved Sugarcane Varieties. The program would
identify and select and screen varieties for high yield,
sucrose content, early, mid and late season maturity and
check resistance to red-rot, root borer, stem borer, top
shoot borer, pyrilla and cercospora leaf spot. Promising
varieties would be further tested at zonal stations under
different agroecological conditions and finally on Government
farms under extension supervision before being released to
growers.
(b) Pest and Disease. Studies on control of major pests and
diseases would be undertaken. Biological and chemical con-
trol procedures would be worked out. This would be in
addition to the screening of improved varieties resistant
to pests and diseases.
(c) Cultivation Practices. Time of planting, spacing, weed
control and fertilizer requirements would be established
for all newly selected varieties. Irrigation procedures
for optimum production would be evaluated, dependent upon
seasonal considerations and varieties selected. New farm-
ing systems would be studied, particularly intercropping
with wheat, mustard, potatoes and pulses.
5.        Collaborating Institution,  The Station would continue to be closely
linked with the Indian Central Sugarcane Research Institute at Lucknow, the
All India Coordinated Research Pro,ect on Sugarcane also based at Lucknow and
the Indian Central Sugarcane Breeding Station at Coimbatore. Materials from
these centers would be tested under local conditions. Scientists from these
institutes would also visit Bethuadahari annually to study progress.  Similar
contacts would be established with universities and other institutions, both
national and international (e.g. Hawaii) conducting important research on
sugarcane.
IIIX COST ESTIMATES
6.        Detailed cost estimates are given in Table 1.
August 1976



ANNEX 3
Appendix 4
Table I
ISDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Commodity Research Station, Sugorcane
(Rupees tho..s.nds)
2/             2/
Are2       Cost/M2          So.  of                                                      YEAR_
(M )       (Rs./M)          O  ins       Cost/Unit                       2          3           4                             t5
C i iWoks
Siiildinga
Store                                                         93           600               1            59              15        19          15           -              -              59
.r.ehoase                                                    75           600              1             45              11        23          11                                         45
Threshiug Floor                                              148           303              1             44              11        22          11           _              _              44
29-Bed Norm2   y                                            400            650              1            260              65       130          65           -              _             260
Staff Quar-trs-
Senior Staff                                              100            650              1             65              16        33         16            -              -              65
Tunior-roaf                                                80           6050              4             52             52        104         52            -              _             208
Reseoarh Offirers                                          60            652              3             39              29        59         29            -              _             117
F-spi Steff                                                40            650             02             26               3       15ER         78           -              -             312
Close IV Strff                                              30           650             18             20              90      E18      _ 90_ _ -9                       -             3 _ 60
Sobota 1                                                                                                          367       736         367            -              -          1,470
Sit. Eevelopment   (25%)                                                                                                       92       184         92            -              _             368
Profpsscon _l Fee   (15/.)                                                                                                     69      13            6                            ___         _276
Sobtosn1                                                                                                          528     1,050         528            --2,2114
Ph=sir- I ong0szes  (13%)                                                                                                      79       159         79            -              -             317
Total                                                                                                             607     1,217         607            -              -          2,431
Eqoipment ani JehiSles
Loboratory Equipme-t                                                                                                      50       10S          44                                        194
Fort  Equipment                                                                                                           22         16         72                                        110
Vehiule- --4-whee  driv  with t-ofl-s                                                        2            35             101                                                               no0
--Diesel Trucks                                                                   1            100             100                                                              100
Generator                                                                                                                 30                                                               30
Other                                                                                                                    LO5         ES         20            20            20            250
Sob Cbtto1                                                                                                        417        201        136            20             20            794
Physical Contingen_ies                                                                                                         21        20         14             2              2             59
Total                                                                                                             438       221         150            22             22           853
Tr-ining  -nd Consalta-cy Seruicns    Mouths
Pelloashlos, overseas --             (One)                                                  I                             -         -           -            35             -              35
- -         (Three)                                                2                             -         48         48              -            -              96
_-         (RSi)                                                                                         h60          60             -            -             120
F ela Iships  in India                                                                                                              10          -            10             -              20
Tota-                                                                                                                       118         108            45             -            271
Establish-nt Costs (Encremental)
a) Salaries                                                                                                              125       146         149          153            157            730
b) Other Opera-ting Csts                                                                                                 120       134         148           163           170            735
Physical Coetiugencies                                                                                                 12        13         15            16             17             73
Subutoal                                                                                                          132        147        163           179            187            808
Tatot  Establishmnh t Casts                                                                                       257       293         312           332            344         1,538
Total                                                                                                                  1,190     1,657      1,069           381            347          4,644
Phyuiual Coutingenuies                                                                                                   112       192         108            18             19           449
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                                            1,302     1,849      1,177           399            366          5,093
0/ Provides far 60% of staff at fll development.
2/ Teetative figure, used far e-t-eatirg purpeses only
lonvory 1l, 1977



ANNEX 3
Appendix h
Table 2
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Existing and Incremental Staffing of Sugarcane Research Station
Existin&     Incremental          Total
Senior Professional Staff                     1              -                1
Junior Professional Staff                     2              4                6
Research Officers                             7              1                8
Supporting Staff - Field & Laboratory         3              7               10
Office and Other Staff                        6             16               22
19             28               47
V/ Staffing for zonal stations which include research on sugarcane is
shown in Appendix 7, Tables 2 and 3.
2/ All incremental staff will be hired by the end of the second year
of the project*
S/ Assistant Entomologist, Pathologist, Soil and Plant Chemist and Statistician*
July 21, 1976



ANNEX 3
Appendix 4
Table 3
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Staffing of Sugarcane Research Station at Full Development
Professional Staff                     Senior        Junior      Research Officers
Agronomist (Station Head)                 1             1                3
Sugarcane Improvement                     -             1               2
Entomologist                                            1               1
Pathologist                               -             1               1
Chemist Y                                 -             1               1
Statistician                                            1               -
1            6                8
Support Field, Lab and Office Staff                    Noo
Field Supervisors                                       2
Statistician Assistants                                 2
Laboratory Assistants                                   3
Field Assistants                                        3
Head Clerk-Accountant                                   1
Stenographer                                            1
Cashier                                                 1
Clerical                                                4
Drivers
Mechanic                                                1
Watchmen                                                7
Laborers                                                2
32
V   For plant and soil analyses.
July 21, 1976



ANNEX 3
Appendix 5
Page   1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Research Program for Water Management of Crops
I. BACKGROUND
Present Status of Research Work on Water Management Practices
1.        A scheme for study of water management practices of selected
crops was initiated in 1972-73. The main objectives of the scheme has
been to determine the consumptive use, irrigation needs and optimal cropping
patterns under different soil-climatic conditions. Other institutions
working on water management studies in this State are the Agricultural
University, at Kalyani and the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur.
2.        Field experiments on water management studies have also been taken
up on Government Farms in different agro-climatic regions. Locations of
these farms are: Ranaghat, Bongaon, Fulia, Chandipur, Bhakuri (Berhampore),
Malda, Adisaptagram, Chinsurah, Burdwan, Susunia and Kalimpong. Ranaghat,
with an area of 10 ha, is the principal farm with a three-roomed building used
as an office and laboratory. Staffing, laboratory facilities, farm equipment
and machinery are inadequate. This is a centrally sponsored scheme entirely
financed by GOI but cultivation costs are borne by GOWB. The annual operating
budget for the entire scheme is Rs 350,000. The professional staff number 17,
with only seven supporting staff.
Accomplishments
3.        Studies are ongoing to assess optimum moisture regimes, consumptive
use, critical stages of growth and scheduling of irrigation and moisture
extraction patterns for upland crops such as wheat, mustard, potatoes, jute
and upland rice. Further detailed studies are necessary in each agro-climatic
zone. Studies on cropping patterns both under irrigated and rainfed conditions
have shown that: (a) optimum moisture regimes for transplanted rice during
kharif season is saturation to shallow submergence, while submergence of 5.2
cm is optimal for boro rice; (b) for upland rice, maintenance of satura-
tion of 0.15 cm is found to be the optimum moisture regime, necessitating
irrigation at five to six day intervals during dry periods; (c) for wheat,
four irrigations at intervals of three weeks (average) are found necessary to
maintain the optimum moisture regime of field capacity to 50% available
moisture; (d) for mustard (var. T. 59) three irrigations at intervals of 28 to
30 days are adequate; (e) good yields of all four varieties of mustard have
been obtained under rainfed conditions with application of 50 kg N/ha and 25



ANNEX 3
Appendix 5
Page   2
Kg/ha each of P20  and K 20.  The best means of raising these crops successfully
under rainfed conhitions after upland rice or jute is to sow by the first week
of October.  This derives maximum benefit from residual soil moisture and past
monsoon showers; and (f) for gram and lentil, one irrigation at pre-bloom stage
is found adequate.
II. RESEARCH PROGRAM FOR WATER MANAGEMENT PRACTICES
4.        The research program would focus on the following technical and econ-
omic studies:
(a) optimum moisture regime and consumptive use of important crops;
(b) scheduling of irrigation to different crops under
varying weather parameters;
(c) cropping patterns for intensive cropping under
irrigation;
(d) cropping patterns under rainfed conditions;
(e) drought tolerance of rice varieties under semi-
controlled conditions;
(f) relative efficiencies of different methods of
irrigation; and
(g) determination of physical properties of soils and their
respective moisture holding capacities and also chem-
ical properties of soils and water.
5.        Collaborating Institutions.  Collaboration would be continued with
The Agricultural University and the Indian Institute of Technology at Kharagpur.
Contacts would also be established with national and international institutions
involved in water management research such as: (a) Water Technology Center,
IARI, New Delhi; (b) ICRISAT, Hyderabad; (c) Department of Agriculture, Agri-
cultural Research Service, Berkeley, California; (d) Department of Water
Science and Engineering, University of California, Davis; (e) Agricultural
University, Wageningen, The Netherlands; (f) Department of Soil and Water
Management, Faculty of Agriculture, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Rehovoth,
Israel; (g) International Rice Research Institute, Los Banos, Manila, The
Philippines, and (h) Negev Institute for Arid Zone Research, Beersheba, Israel.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 5
Page   3
III. COST ESTIMATES
6.        Detailed cost estimates are given in Table 1.
August 1976.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 5
Table I
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Commodity Oriented Research Station, Water Management
(Rupees thousands)
Area.2/ Cost/M2    No. of                      - - - - - - -  Year - - - - - -
(M2)    (Rs/M2)    Units    Cost/lfnit         1       2        3       4      5       Total
Civil W.,rks
Buildings
Laboratory                      930       650          1         605         151       303    151        -      -        605
Store                            93       600          1          56          14        28      14      -       -         56
Greenhouse                       93    4,000           1         372          93       186      93       -      -        372
25-Bed Dormitory                400       650          1         260          65       130      65       -      -        260
Staff Quarters 1/
Junior Staff                    80       650          6          52          78       156      78       -      -        312
Research Officers               60       650          4          39          39        78      39       -      -        156
Field Staff                     40       650         12          26          78       156      78       -      -        312
Class IV Staff                  30       650          6          20          30        60      30       -      -        120
Subtotal                                                                 548    1,097    548        -       -     2,193
Site Development  (25%)                                                        137       274    137        -      -        548
Professional Fees  (15%)                                                       103       206    103        -      -        412
Subtotal                                                                 788    1,577    788        -       -      3,153
Physical Contingencies  (15%)                                            118       237    118       -       -        473
Total                                                                    906    1,814    906        -       -     3,626
Equipment and Vehicles
Laboratory Equipment                                                           200    1,000    570         -      -      1,770
Farm Equipment                                                                  45        90      45       -      -        180
Vehicles                                                 2          55          55        55       -       -      -        110
Generator                                                                         -       30       -       -      -         30
Others                                                                          10        74      50      20     20        174
Subtotal                                                                 310    1,249    665       20      20     2,264
Physical Contingencies                                                    26       120     65       2       2        215
Total                                                                    336    1,369    730       22      22     2,479
Training and Conisultancy Service Month
Fellowships, Overseas           ( One )                  2                      34        35       -       -      -         69
( Five)                  5         48          48        48      48      48     48        240
( Six )                  4          60           -       60      60      60     60        240
(Twelve)                 2                       -       88       -       -     88        176
Fellowships in India                                                            10        10      10      10      -         40
SubtotEal                                                                 92       241    118    118    196         765
Short-term Consultants                                   2          50          50         -      50       -      -        100
Total                                                                    142       241    168    118    196         865
Establishment Costs (Incremental)
(a) Salaries                                                                   117       141    145    149    154          706
(b) Other Operating Expenses                                                   100       157    178    208    208          851
Physical Contingencies                                                      10        16      18     21      20         85
Subtotcal                                                                110       173    196    229    228         936
Total Establishment Costs                                                227      314    341    378    382        1,642
Total                                                                        1,457    3,365  1,944    495    578         7,839
Physical Contingencies                                                         154       373    201      23      22        773
GRAND TOTAL                                                                  1,611    3,738  2,145    518    600        8,612
1/ Provides for 61% of staff at full development.
2/ Tentative figure, used for estimating purposes only.
January 10, 1977



ANNEX 3
Appendix :
Table 2
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Existing and Incremental Staffing of Water Management Research Station
Existing      Incremental E       Total
Seni.or Professional Staff                  1                h                 5
Junior Professional Staff                   4                1 v5
Research Officers                          12 i              -                12
Supporting Staff - Field & Labs             3               10                13
Ofice and Other Staff                       h                8                12
T TAL                               24              23                47
i  Staffing for zonal stations which includes some evaluation of water management
practice recommendations is shown in Appendix 7, Tables 2 and 3.
' All incremental staff will be hired during the first two years of the project.
j Agronomist, Irrigation Engineer, Irrigation Economist, Senior Draftsmen,
A .ssistant Statistician.
/ ~Eight Research Officers located at Government farms in eight different Districts
to study water management problems.
July 21, 1276



ANNEX 3
Appendix 5
Table 3
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Staffing of Water Management Research Station at Full Development
Professional                             Senior      Junior       Research Officers
Station Head - JDA                          1                             82/
Agronomist                                  1            1               1
Soil Physicist                                                           1
Plant Physiologist                          -           1                1
Soil Chemist                                -           1                1
Irrigation Ehgineer                         1           -                -
Irrigation Economist                        1-
Senior Draftsman                            1            --
Statistician                                            1-
TOTAL                               5            5               12
Support Field, Lab & Office Staff          No.
Sub-assistant Engineer                      1
Statistician Assistants                     4
Analytical Assistants                       3
Field Supervisors                           2
Laboratory Attendants                       3
Head Clerk-Accountant                       1
Clerical                                    5
Stenographer                                1
Drivers                                     2
Watchmen                                    3
TOTAL                              25
2/ Located at eight different District Government farms.
July 21, 1976



ANNEX 3
Appendix 6
Page 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Research Program for Crop Production (Wheat)
I. BACKGROUND
Present Status of Crop Production Research
1.        There is no adaptive crop research station and little work has been
done in this area. Wheat research in West Bengal has also been minimal. This
started in 1962-63 at Kalyani under a wheat specialist supported by one
assistant botanist and two research assistants. It has not been expanded.
The operating budget of the wheat scheme for 1975-76 is Rs 93,000.
Accomplishments
2.        Since 1965-66 wheat varieties, Sonora-64, Kalyan Sona, Sonalika
and Janak varieties have been recommended for cultivation with about 98%
of the total wheat area under the State now covered by high yielding vari-
eties. For the hill areas, Girija and Kalyan Sona, and more recently four
other varieties, have been found suitable. Best results have been achieved
with 75-100 kg/seeds/ha, sown in rows 20 cm apart. In the plains the first
fortnight of November has been recommended for sowing Kalyan Sona, for Sona-
lika the second fortnight of November and for Janka the whole of November.
Both Sonalika and Janak can be sown up to the middle of December with reason-
ably good yield. Recommendations have also been developed for the method and
depth of sowing as well as fertilizer applications.
II. THE ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROGRAM
3.        Recommended varieties from the commodity research stations would
be studied in different cropping patterns involving rotation, intercropping
and companion cropping with different cultivation practices and would include
pest, disease and weed control, fertilizer (chemical and organic) usage,
irrigation, spacing, seed rate, and time of planting. The main purpose would
be to develop financially and economically viable farming systems. Major
economic evaluation guidelines would then be given to the six zonal stations
in assessing these systems under different agroclimatic conditions.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 6
Page 2
4.        Particular emphasis will be placed on wheat.  Improved varieties
will be evaluated, screening for resistance or tolerance to important pests
and diseases. Promising varieties would then be recommended for testing at
zonal stations to evaluate their suitability to different agro-ecological
regions of the State.
5.        The Crop Production Research Station will be established at the
Government Seed Multiplication Farm at Burdwan which has a well managed
80 ha farm with irrigation facilities. It will be integrated with existing
facilities which include soil testing and seed testing laboratories and a
(Gramsevak) Training Center for extension workers. Some equipment located
with the Wheat Research Section at Kalyani and the Chemistry Section at
Calcutta will be transferred to the new station.
Collaborating Institutions
6.        The Crop Production Research Station would collaborate closely
with the Bidhan Chandra Krishi Viswa Vidyalaya (Agricultural University);
Soil Salinity Research Sub-Station at Canning; Faculty of Agriculture,
Calcutta University; International Crop Research Institute for Semi-Arid
tropics at Hyderabad; Central Rice Research Institute at Cuttack; Jute
Agricultural Research Institute at Barrackpore; Indian Agricultural Research
Institute at New Delhi; and other agricultural universities and institutes
in the country as well as international institutions such as CIMMYT in
Mexico and IRRI in the Philippines.
III. COST ESTIMATES
7.        Detailed cost estimate are given in Table 1.
August 1976



=                       r                       n           r   r.                                      r.
r D-,                                              -                   r.~D1 rn<g                             nr,rr                       -2   _   a  _ ID .r.Icr.,   oon I--
0* CI'                                                                                                         0  =I   _ 100              _      0      .0   II _ B
r ~~~~~~~Bo                                                                o.o<Dn )=no nI  =         C 
C r                                                  H r.'I n =0                           'BB ='1                0 n-C0
00$                                                  B   B'BI 
r~~~~~I  C I                          t            X                 H                       Hn
M~~~~~                         B                              <Ft    o_ 
ID~~ ~ ~ ~ n
00000  000 go00 
H     IHO
00'00'B1 ~    ~        ~ 11000 I
00000~~~~~~~~r nH
r. 
C      B'
'-4 r
0~~~~~~ nB 01           B 
0          0001001    HOP-OH,"                  ,,               0   01~~~~C O 
001000    000000I    ~ ~ ~~~2 01
-             > 
"HO
£O W
000  000000   0    0           0       00000    H    0                               0        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
000~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ P- o-  -H' 00 0 0-o'  0       0 0                0 0I                   0 0           '0I
ool-~~~~~~ W000    0            : 00 0 1    000        0Q            00---    0        O        0 000w      0000  __        I g r
op  00000,0  0,00000-,  oooo   ,   w      ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,                                          0''~~~~~
00>~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 00    00  0,0  00  00 0 0  000    0    0 00 0   OH        0
000    00000  OOOoO-HOH  0000000,          000000>0000                        Oop-oo,-'            01~~~~
0-H  POOH>  HO-10000.o  00000000       0000    0    00>000               00>000                0~~~~~~



ANNEX 3
Appendix 6
Table 2
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EX'ENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Existing and Incremental Staffing
of Crop Production (Wheat) Research Station-/
Existing       Incremental-/      Total
Senior Professional Staff              2                 23/            4
Junior Professional Staff              4                 44/            8
Research Officers                      7                 h             11
Supporting Staff - Field &
Laboratory       15                15              30
Office and Other Staff                 9                16             25
37               41              78
1/ Staffing for zonal stations which includes crop production research
is shown in Appendix 7, Tables 2 and 3.
2/ All incremental professional staff will be hired during the first
three years of the project.
3/ Chief Agronoiist - JDA, Farm Production Economist.
I7/  Two assistant agronomist, assistant famn production economist, and
assistant statistician.
7/21/76



ANNEX 3
Appendix 6
Table 3
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Staffing of Crop Production (Wheat) Research Station at Full Development
Research
Senior         Junior             Officers
Professional Staff
1/
Station Head                          1-'              -                  -
Agronomists                           1                2                  2
Production Economnist                 1                1
Chemist - Soil & Plant                1                3                  5
Wheat Specialists                     1                1                  1
Entomologist                          -                -                  1
Plant Pathologist                     -                -1
Statist-ician                        _                 1
4               8                 11
Suport Field, Laboratory                     No.
and Office Staff
Field Assistants                               14
Statistician Assistants                        3
Laboratory Assistants & Attendants            12
Head Clerk                                      1
Accountant                                     1
Stenographer                                    2
Clerical                                        6
Drivers                                        4
M-Sechanic                                      1
Library Assistant                              1
Laborers                                        7
Watchmen                                       3
55
1/ Station Head is also Chief Agronomist at JDA level.
7/21/76



ANNEX 3
Appendix 7
Page 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Research Program for Six Zonal Stations
I.  BACKGROUND
Importance of Zonal Research in Agriculture
1.        There are six distinct agro-climatic zones in West Bengal on
the basis of soil and climate. Varietal requirements, cropping patterns,
cultivation practices and disease and pest complex, of different crops
vary considerably in different zones. At present, recommendations from
commodity stations are transmitted directly to extension staff who make
local modifications without any research support. It is essential to have
recommendations based on adaptive research conducted in each agro-climatic
zone. The six agro-climatic zones are as follows (Map 12327):
(i) Hill Zone, covering the hill subdivisions of Darjeeling
district,
(ii)  Terai Zone, comprising the districts of Coochbehar,
Jalpaiguri, Siliguri subdivision of Darjeeling dis-
trict and Islampur subdivision of West Dinajpur
district;
(iii)  Old Alluvium Zone, comprising Birbhum, Burdwan, Hooghly,
parts of Midnapore, Malda and West Dinajpur;
(iv) New Alluvium Zone, comprising Murshidabad, Nadia, Howrah
and parts of Howrah and 24-Parganas;
(v) Red and Lateritic Zone, comprising the districts of
Purulia, Bankura and parts of Midnapore, Burdwan and
Birbhum; and
(vi)  Coastal Saline Zone, comprising coastal areas of 24-
Paraganas, Midnapore, and part of Howrah district.
Details of the various agroclimatic zones with respective crops are given in
Annex 1, paras 9-15.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 7
Page 2
Present Status of Zonal Stations
2.        At present there are no zonal research stations.  These stations
would be established on Government seed farms as follows:
3.        Hill Zone.  The District Seed Farm at Kalimpong of 30 ha.  The farm
has a few staff quarters and houses a unit of maize research from the Agricul-
tural University. Close-by is the vegetable research unit at Dalapchand which
can form a part of the Zonal Station and conduct research on temperate and sub-
tropical fruits. The farm has electricity, irrigation, and some farm machinery.
Laboratory buildings, equipment, godown, greenhouse, threshing floor and
vehicles would be necessary.
4.        Terai Zone.  The District Seed Farm at Coochbehar with 28.8 ha.
The substation of the All India Co-ordinated Research Project for Jute and
Allied Fibres and a Gramsevak Training Center for extension workers is located
here. The farm is well laid out with good irrigation facilities.
5.        Old Alluvium Zone.  The Direct Seed Farm at Majhian, with about 58
ha. The farm has electricity.
SO        New Alluvium Zone.  The Jute Seed Multiplication Farm, at Krishnagar,
would be converted to a Zonal Research Station. This farm has an area of about
95 ha with electricity. It is adjacent to the Horticultural Research Station.
Tne laboratory building and facilities would therefore, be shared. Most of
the facilities provided for in the Horticultural Research Station would be
utilized by the zonal station to reduce cost. The two stations would not,
however, be merged since the Horticultural Research Station would deal with
orchard and other horticultural crops and the zonal station with field crops.
The Entomology and Mycology sections now located in Calcutta would be transfer-
red to Krishnagar.
7.        Lateritic Zone.  The District Seed Farm, Nalhati with about 40 ha.
This would be a new station.
8.        Coastal Saline Zone.  The Zonal station would be located at Canning
on a 15 ha Government farm. There is an ICAR soil salinity research sub-station
ICAR at Canning working on fundamental aspects of soil salinity and crop
growth. The findings of this center would be used by the zonal station to
formulate recommendations.
II. THE ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROGRAM
9.       Six Zonal adaptive Research Stations would be established in dif-
ferent agro-climatic regions of West Bengal as outlined. Each Zonal station
would conduct adaptive research trials on crops suitable to the region. Broad
responsibilities would be to:



ANNEX 3
Appendix 7
Page 3
(a)  screen and identify varieties under the guidance of the
main commodity stations;
(b)  determine packages of practices for different crops adapted
to local requirements;
'c} undertake studies on entomological and pathological
problems and prepare schedules of pl-ant protection and
crop protection against different pests and diseases;
(d) undertake studies on cropping patterns and crop rotation
under the guidance of the Crop Production Research
Station at Burdwan;
(e) undertake soil fertility studies and determine fertilizer
requirements for each crop;
(f) determine irrigation requirements under the guidance of
the Water Management Research Station;
(g) determine the economic significance of all the above
programs under the guidance of the Production Economist
at the Crop Production Research Center at Burdwan; and
(h) serve as a training center for Subject Matter Specialists.
10.       Collaborating Institutions,  Each Zonal station would be closely
linked with crop research programs of the main commodity research centers,
water management station and Crop Production Station of the State. They
would also collaborate closely with the Agricultural University and ICAR
stations in the respective region.
III. COST ESTIMATES
11.       Detailed cost estimates are given in Table 1.
August 1976



ANNEX 3
Appendix 7
Table I
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Six Zonal Research Stations
(Rupees thousands)
8/             8/
2-
Area         Cost/M2           No. of                            - - - - - - - - - - Year - - - - - - - - - -
(M2)         (Rs./ M2          Units          Cost/Unit          1           2          3          4           5           Total
Civil Works
Bu' ldings
Lobonraory                              462             650                5              300            375         750        375         -            -          1,500
Stare                                    93             600                6               56             84         168         84         _            _            336
Grnen-iose                                93          4,000                31/            372            279         558        279                                 1 1,116
olassho-se                                75            600                22              45             23          45         22         -            -             90
Threshirg Floor                         148             300                6               44             66         132         66         -            -             64
Not House                                 55            400                4 4/            22             22          44         22         -            -             88
Lathe Hoose °/                            55            400                1 5/            22              6          11          5         -            -             22
25-Bed Dormitory                        400             650                2 3/           260            130         210        130         -           -             520
Staff Quarters
Senior Staff                        100            650                6                65            97         195          98         -           -            390
Junior Staff                         80            650               29                52           377         754         377         -           -          1,508
Research Officer                     60             650              31                39           302          605        302         _           _          1,209
Field Staff                          40            650               72                26           468         936         468         -           -          1,872
Class IV Staff                       30            650               60                20           300          600        300         -           -          1,200
Inspection R3-galowi/                    60             650                3               39             29          59         29         _            _            117
Subtotal                                                                                            2,558       5,117       2,357                               I -1,232
Site D-velopr-ent  (25%)                                                                                     640       1,278        640          -           -          2,558
Professional Fees  (15%)                                                                                     480         959        480                             _1- 1,919
Subtotal                                                                                              3,678        7,354      3,627 7                    _        14,709
Physical Contingencies  (15%)                                                                            552       1,103        551                     -           2,206
Total                                                                                                 4,230        8,457      4,228         -            -         16,915
Equipmentn and Vehicles
Laboratory Equiprent                                                                                     690         500        500        500           -          2,190
FPrm Equipment                                                                                           125         125        125        125          47            547
Vehicles 4-Wdheel with Trailer                                            12               55            275         330         55         -            -            660
Power Boats                                                   2              150             -          150        150         -            -            300
Generators                                                    6               30           120           30         30         -            -            180
Other                                                                                                    260         344        290        150         120          1,164
3ubtctal                                                                                            1,470        1,478      1,150        775         167         5,041
Physical Contingencies                                                                                119          100         94         77           17           407
Total                                                                                               1,589       1,579       1,244        852         184         5,448
Irai.ni.g and Consultancy Services-Months
Fellowships, Overseas             (One)                                    3                              -           34         -          34           35           103
(Three)                                  6                              48           96         48         48          48            288
(Six)                                  10                             120          120        120        120         120            600
(Twelve)                                  5                              88           88         88         88          88            440
Fellowships  in India                                                                                     40          40         40         60           50           230
Subtotal                                                                                             296          378        296        350         341         1,661
short-term  Consultant                                                     4                             100          -         100         -            -            200
Total                                                                                                396          378        396        350         341         1,861
,stablishent Cots  (I-r-tal)
a) Salaries                                                                                              765       1,106      1,413      1,484       1,552          6,320
b) Other Operating Costs                                                                                 275         726        919      1,012       1,066          3,998
PhysicaI Contingencies                                                                                 22          73         92        101         107           400
Subtotal                                                                                          302         799      1,011      1,113        1,173         4,398
Total Establis.bme.t Cost                                                                       1,067       1,905      2,424      2,597        2,725        10,718
Total                                                                                                  6,584      11,043      7,555      3,621       3,126         31,929
Physical Coutingencies                                                                                   698       1,276        737        178         124         3,013
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                            7,282      12,319      8,292      3,799       3,250        34,942
/ RKali-ong, Conehbehar and Nalhati
2/ Mah/ia  and Canning
3/ Coochbehar and Canning
4/ Coochbehar, Mahjian, Nalhati and Canning
5/ Kalie-oong
6/ Provides for 71T, of staff at full development
7/ On coastal ialands of Gasaba, Sagar and Hingalganj
8/ Tentative figures used for estimating purposes only.
Janu.ry 10, 1977



ANNEX 3
Appendix 7
Table 2
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Existing and Incremental Staffing of Six Zonal Research Stations
Existing      Incremental-1    Total
Senior Professional Staff               1                5               6
Junior Professional Staff              U                31              42
Research Officers                       5               36              41
Support Staff - Field and
Laboratory                7               90              97
Office and Other Staff                  8               85             93
32             247             279
1/ All additional professional staff will be hired during the first
three years of the project.
7/21/76



ANNEX 3
Appendix 7
Table 3
INDIA
WEST EENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH FROJECT
Staffing Pattern of Six Zonal Research Stations at Full DevelopMent
Cooch
Behar   Krishnagar   Kalimpong   Mahian   Nalhati   Canning
Professional Staff2/
Agrononist & Head           1           1           1           1          1         1
Crop Specialist2/           6           5           4           6          6         5
Vegetable Specialist        -           -           3           -          -         -
Farm Production
Economiist                2           2            2          2          2         2
Chemist (Plant &
Soil) i/                 4           2           2           2         2          -
Entomogist                  2           2            2          2          2         2
Pathologist                 2           2           2           2          2         2
Support Field, Laboratory
and Office Staff
Field Assistants            7           5           9           7          7         6
Laboratory Assistants
& Attendants              7           6           6           7          7         5
Statistician Assistants    2            2           2           2          2         2
Mechanic                    1           1            1          1          1         1
Head Clerk-Accountant       1           1           1           1          1         1
Stenographer                1           1           1           1          1         1
Cashier                     1           1           1           1          1         1
Clerical                    4           3           3           4         4          3
Drivers (Vehicles,
Power Tillers, Boats)4/  2            5           3           2          5         5
Laborers                    3           2           2           3          3         2
Watchmen                    3           2           3           3          3         3
1/ Handles Senior, Junior and Research Officer Staff.
2/  For varietal screening and agronomic and water management practices of crops
such as rice, wheat, pu'les, oilseeda, Jute, potatoes and augarcane.
3/ No chemist required at Canning because of ICAR Soil Salinity Substation facility.
_ For 2 power boats, to transport Canning staff to coastal saline islands where
research trials are underway.
7/21/76



ANN EX 3
Appd ._
Table 4
INDIA
'WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EJENSION AND RESEARCH PRJECT
Distribution of Civi Works at Six Zonal Research Stations
Cooch
Behar    rishnagar      KalimPong   Ma       Nalhati   Canning
Laboratory Building         1           -            1          1          1         1
Godown                      1           1            1          1          1          1
Greenhouse                  1           -            1          -          1          -
Glasshouse                  -           -            -          1          -          1
Threshing Floor             1           1            1          1          1          1
25-Bed Dormitory            1           -            -          -          -         1
Nethouse                    1           -            -          1          1         1
Lathhouse                               -            1          -          -         -
Staff Quarters
SeNaor szari                1           1            1          1          2         1
Junior Staff                5           5            5          5          5          4
Research Officers           5           5            6           5         5          5
Field Staff                12          12           12         12         12         12
Class IV Staff             12          12            8           8        12          8
Inspection Bungalow         -           --                      -          -          3
7/21/76



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Agricultural Credit
A. Introduction
1.        As indicated in the Main Report, an effective agricultural exten-
sion and research system cannot be isolated from other input systems (Annex
6 on fertilizer) or from marketing (Annex 5). This paper describes the
development and prospects of agricultural credit in West Bengal, focusing
particularly on short-term production credit.
B. General
2.        As in most other States in India, West Bengal's farmers have
the following sources of agricultural credit: (a) taccavi loans from GOWB,
which are limited and tantamount to relief grants; (b) loans from money
lenders, traders or relatives; and (c) institutional credit. Taccavi
loans are now also channeled through the institutions, discontinuing
earlier direct Government lending. Most institutional credit comes from
the cooperative movement: the State Cooperative Bank (SCB) for short and
medium-term (one to five years), and the State Cooperative Land Develop-
ment Bank (SLDB) for long-term (above five years) credit requirements.
Commercial banks provide both; however, they are still mainly urban-
oriented and have made no major impact on agricultural credit.
3.        Until 1971-72, the cooperative banking system suffered from de-
ficient management, high overdues and inadequate coverage of borrowing
members. The volume of LDB business had been low because of a poorly de-
veloped branch network, deficient management, cumbersome operational pro-
cedures and ineligibility for additional funding because of high overdues.
However, over the past three years, the cooperative sector has been revital-
ized. Short-term loans have increased from Rs 41.4 million in 1971-72 to
Rs 384.9 million in 1975-76 and overdues have been reduced from about 80% of
demand to 20%. Similarly, LDB advances increased from Rs 8.8 million in
1971-72 to Rs 20.9 million in 1974-75 and are expected to reach about Rs 55
million in 1975-76; overdues have also been reduced from about 65% of demand
to less than 25% in 1974-75 and are expected to improve further. Commercial
banks have also increased their direct agricultural lending from Rs 86.9
million in 1971 to Rs 231.4 million as of December 31, 1975. Despite this
remarkable recovery, the absolute level of institutional credit provides
only about'40% of requirements. The following paragraphs provide further
details and analyze some of the requirements for further rapid and
sustained growth of agricultural credit in West Bengal.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
C. Cooperative Short-term Credit Institutions
Structure
4.        The cooperative structure for short- and medium-term credit is
a three-tier system with the primary credit societies at the base. They
federate into central cooperative banks, usually at the District level,
and these, in turn, federate into the apex organization (SCB) at the State
level.
5.        The primary credit society, intended to promote the economic
interest of its members in accordance with cooperative principles, general-
ly achieves its aim by promoting savings among members, providing loans,
supplying agricultural requisites and certain essential domestic require-
ments.
6.        The central cooperative bank functions generally at the District
level and raises resources by borrowings from the apex cooperative bank
as well as by attracting deposits and share capital subscribed by the
lower level societies and the State Government. It is the balancing center
for the resources of the village societies.
7.        The State Cooperative Bank is the Apex Cooperative Credit Insti-
tution of the State. The Central Cooperative Banks are its main constituents.
It serves the short-term credit needs of the entire State out of its own
resources and also by borrowing from the Reserve Bank of India.
Resources
8.        The cooperative credit societies at all levels raise their funds
through share capital, deposits from members and non-members and borrowing
from the higher level institutions, to which these societies are affiliated.
To a substantial extent, funds have been flowing into the credit sector
from the Reserve bank of India which is playing a vital role in the meeting
the short-term credit requirements of the State. The State Government also
continues to provide financial assistance through share capital to these
societies to help augment their borrowing power at the initial stage.
Performance
9.        Physical coverage:  As of June 1974, there were 9,611 primary
agricultural credit societies in the State with a total membership of
1.1 million farmers. These societies, of which about 1,000 are dormant,
cover about 25% of the farm families in West Bengal. However, borrowing
members only constitute half of those, partly because of non-repayment
of earlier loans and partly because they wish to have access to other
services of the society.



ANNEX 4
Page  3
10.       Lending:  Since the primary societies almost exclusively meet
their requirements through borrowing from the higher financing agency
(subject to restrictions, particularly on overdues), the performance at
the Central bank level indicates the short-term loan advances as i-ndicated
below:
/a
Year          Short-term Advances        Recoveries        Overdues
Rs million             Rs million          (%)
1971/72                41.4                    32.2              79.5
1972/73                79.9                    72.3              54,8
1973/74               135.9                   113.9              33.8
1974/75               203.5                   154.2              26.9
1975/76               384.9 (estimated)          -               20.0 (estimated)
1976/77               610.0 (planned)            --
/a   Percentage of Recovery to Demand.
In 1972, the Study Team on Cooperative Agricultural Credit, appointed by
the Reserve Bank of India, assessed the agricultural production credit
needs at about Rs 780 million. Due to inflation this may be now on the
order of Rs 1 billion. Thus, the agricultural credit system provides about
40% of present short-term requirements.
Constraints
11.       An effective extension system will substantially increase agri-
cultural input use and therefore credit requirements. While the present
level of lending could probably be sustained, (a) coverage and volume of
business, (b) management and staffing patterns, and (c) operational pro-
cedures require urgent and determined attention at all system levels, if
the system is to be expanded to fulfill its objectives. The Government is
aware of this and has initiated action on those aspects mentioned above.
However, a continued political determination (particularly to maintain
financial discipline) and constant monitoring are regarded as essential
for successful implementation.
12,       The present average volume of business per society is not large
enough to generate sufficient surplus funds (from the 2% interest rate
spread) to afford full-time, trained staff. Most of the primary societies
(80%-90%) rely on part-time and voluntary efforts. With the anticipated
increase in credit requirements, these efforts will be insufficient. Con-
sequently, Government has embarked on a major reorganization, guided by
the Reserve Bank, to reduce the number of societies to about 6,600 (3,000
less than present) by 1979-80. It is expected that those societies could
afford full-time staff (paid at the salary level of a primary school



ANNEX 4
Page 4
teacher), 1/ because a major enrollment drive combined with individual
incentives for recoveries would increase turnover to at least Rs 200,000
per society, which is the guideline set by RBI. In addition, the four
regional cooperative training centers are being geared up to meet training
requirements.
13.       Operational problems mainly relate to lack of adequate land re-
cords at the farmer's level. It is estimated that about 60 million indi-
vidual plots exist in West Bengal, all of which would need records regard-
ing size, cropping pattern, etc. to determine an appropriate scale of
finance. Present practices result either in over or underfinancing or no
credit at all. A particularly knotty problem is the high incidence of land
cropped under tenancy arrangements (estimated at about 30% of cropped area
where the tenant has neither the incentive (his crop share is usually between
25% and 50% depending on the arrangements) nor is he able to borrow in absence
of his recorded rights. The Government is aware of these problems and has set
up a task force with a view to introducing a large-scale land record system,
which would serve both the short-term and the long-term structure.
14.       Another fundamental problem is the separation of the short-medium
term structure from the long-term structure with hardly any coordination.
The question of merging cooperative credit institutions is under study at
an All-India level.
D. Cooperative Long-term Credit Institutions
15r       The SLDB, registered in February 1958, operates throughout the State
through its two branches and 24 affiliated Primary Land Development Banks
(PLDBs). Except for one PLDB which has two small sub-officers, the others
have no branches. The area to be served by each unit is too large for
effective coverage and hardly 1% of rural households are covered by the
LDB system. Proposals for setting up three zonal offices of SLDB and 17
more PLDBs by the end of the Fifth Plan Period have been accepted by the
State Government. This would provide a PLDB for each subdivision of a
District.
16.       The SLDB and PLDBs are poorly staffed.  Total staff strength at
SLDB is only 20. However, 20 agricultural graduate supervisors are to be
posted to SLDB (with eight already in position) to assist them and the PLDBs
4n scheme formulation. Staff at the PLDBs/SLDB branches usually numbers
seven o'r eiaht (manager, accountant, threee or four supervisors and two
clerks), with no technical staff. Staff, both at SLDB and PLDBs, is inade-
quate in relation to the area of operation and is poorly trained.
1/   However, it is recognized that this will take time and Government is
therefore willing to subsidize salaries up to three years.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Sources of Funds
17.       Financial particulars of SLDB over the past seven years (1974
exluded) are given in Tables 1 and 2. Assets doubled showing unsatis-
factory growth during that period. The main sources of SLDB funds are
(a) share capital contributed by affiliated PLDBs and State Government;
(b) short-term accommodation from State Cooperative Banks; and (c) long-
term borrowings raised through ordinary and special development debentures.
The funds of PLDBs come from their own capital and borrowings from SLDB.
Lending Purposes
18.       The LDBs may make loans for (a) on-farm investment, such as
land development, sinking of wells, excavation of tanks, pumpsets, pur-
chase of farm machinery and equipment like tractors, power tillers, rais-
ing of orchards and other purposes classified as productive; and (b)
redemption of prior debts and other unproductive purposes. Thier extent
is limited however, to 10% of their total lending. Loan periods usually vary
from seven to 15 years based on size of loans with repayments commencing
usually from the anniversary of the loans. Interest rates are currently
10-1/2% to the farmers for minor irrigation. Land mortgage is required for
security.
Lending Operations
19.       Over the past six years, SLDBs lending operations have been as
follows:
Year Ending June 30             1969   1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975
=----------- Rs million  -------------------
Wells (including shallow
tubewells)                     1.6   1.5    1.8    1.0)    4.8    1.1    8.1
Tanks                            1.6   2.9    3.6    1.8)               3.0
Pumpsets                          1.1   1.5    3.6    3.8       3.1    3.9    4.8
Tractors, Power tillers, etc.   -        -      0.1    0.3      0.4    0.2    0.6
Land levelling and soil
conservation                   5.1   1.9    1.3    0.6        0.4    0.6    2.5
Other Purposes                    1.3   2.3    2.3    1.4       0.7    0.6      -
10.7  10.1   12.7    8.9       9.4    9.4   16.6
The total lending considerably improved in recent years.  The main rea-
sons for the poor performance in earlier years were: (a) poor PLDB cover-
age; (b) scattered lending unassociated with any identified land im-
provement program; (c) inadequate staff; (d) ineligibility of many PLDBs
for debenture flotation purposes due to high overdues; and (e) direct
lending by GOWB for minor irrigation purposes. Purpose-wise there has
been a distinct shift in the last three years towards lending for pro-
ductive purposes, mainly tubewells and pumpsets, which constituted about
82% of total lending in 1975.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
Operational Results
20.       The LDB's recovery position since 1968-69 was as follows:
Demand                               % of Recovery
SLDB          (Principal & Interest)      RecovEry           to Demand
----------------    Rs   Million 
1968/69                 4.8                   3.9                  81.2
1969/70                 6.7                   4.9                  73.0
1970/71                 8.0                   4.8                  60.0
1971/72                11.3                    6.3                 55.8
1972/73                13.8                   8.8                  63.8
1973/74                14.9                  11.9                  79.7
1974/75                13.7                  13.5                  98.5
Demand                               % of Recovery
PLDB          (Principal & Interest)      Recovery           to Demand
---------- -----  Rs Million  --
1968/69                 4.1                   2.2                  54.6
1969/70                 5-4                   2.7                  49.5
1970/71                 6.6                   2.6                  39.5
1971/72                 8.6                   3.2                  36.6
1972/73                10.7                   4.5                  42.0
1973/74                11.4                   6.0                  52.4
1974/75                18.8                  14.2                  75.3
Recoveries steadily deteriorated between 1968/69 and 1971/72, however they
have improved since 1973 when GOWB initiated a program which has begun
showing results. In particular, the intensive collection drive for short-
term dues which reduced overdues from 80% in 1971-72 to 20% in 1975-76,
would be coordinated with recovery of LDB dues. Departmental officers
have also been directed to be more actively involved in collection of SLDB's
dues and special attention is being paid to the weakest PLDBs. The improve-
ment already brought about is expected to be sustained and accelerated
through intensified GOWB actions.
21.       The SLDB was making small profits until 1968-69 but in the three
years 1969-70 to 1971-72 it incurred loses of Rs 0.6 million, Rs 0.6
million and Rs 1.0 million on account of poor collections and incorrect
appropriation of recoveries first towards principal instead of interest.
However, the trend been reversed since 1972-73. Funds increased three-
fold from Rs 2.9 million in 1968-69 to Rs 10.6 million in 1974-75 mainly
due to additional share capital of Rs 6.9 million provided by Government.
Percentage of own funds to total funds rose from 6.4% to 10.0% during the
period. The following table shows the position:



N-NEX A1
Page  7
Net Profit (+)
before       Provisions   Paid-up       Capital        Capital and
Year      Distribution       and           Share         and        Reserves as %
June 30    or Loss (-)    Reserves        Capital       Reserves    of Total Funds
--Rs. Million 
1969          (+) 0.1          0.2          2.6           2.8             6.4
1970          k-) 0.6          0.3          4.4           4.7             8.2
1971          (-) 0.6          0.3          5.9           6,2             9.7
1972          (-) 1.0          0.3          8.2           8.5            10.7
1973          (+) 1.3          0.3           8.5          8.8            10.3
1974/75       (+) 1.4          0.3          9.5          iO.6            10.0
The following table shows the position at PLDB level.
Aggregate Net                    Paid-up          X of Paid-up Share
Year        Profit before  Aggregate        Share Capital    Capital and Reserves
June 30      Distribution   Net loss         and Reserves          to Total Funds
-------- Rs. Million -----------------------------
1969          0.1 (11)      Negligible (5)       2.7                  8.7
1970          0.1 (11)       (0.2)    (12)       3.3                  8.7
1971          0.2 ( 7)        0.2      ( 8)      4.1                  8.3
1972          0.2 ( 9)        0.4      (14)      5.0                  9e1
1973 /a       0.3 (11)        0.3      (10)      5.8                  9.7
/a   Data relates to 1972 for 11 banks and does not include figures for
two SLDB branches. Figures in brackets indicate the number of
PLDBs working at profit/loss. The other banks not accounted for
broke even.
Working results received a setback between 1969 and 1972 due to poor
recovery but started improving since 1972-73.
Operational Study of the LDB System
22.       The All-India Central Land Development Banks Cooperativ;e Union
carried out a study of SLDB in December 1972. Subsequently, a study of the
working of LDBs in cooperatively backward states including West Bengal
was organized by RBI. The West Bengal study has recently been completed
and the report is being reviewed; the main findings cover the following
topics:
Viability
Loan Procedures
Lack of coordination between LDBs and other institutions including
Government
Recovery of loans
Financial Rehabilitation of PLDBs



ANNEX 4
Page 8
23.       Most of the recommendations have been initiated.  The immediate
objective of the LDB system is to lend about Rs 100 million in 1976-77.
For this purpose, a strategy has been devised to concentrate on: (a) organ-
ization; (b) staff training; (c) financial management, and (d) monitoring
of program implementation.
24.       While this target almost represents doubling of last year's
achievements, it nevertheless means not much in the context of West Bengal's
groundwater potential, which is estimated to be able to support an annual
investment program of Rs 800 million (including replacements). However,
when judged against the formidable physical contraints, like farm size, land
fragmentation etc.; institutional constraints, such as inadequate agricultural
extension and research, lack of agricultural planning and implementation capa-
city; and intertwined with socio-economic constraints such as castes, oral
tenancy, and dominance by large farmers it would mean a remarkable achieve-
ment.
E. Agricultural Financing by Commercial Banks in West Bengal 1/
General
25.       Commercial banks have been assigned an important role in financing
agriculture in West Bengal as a matter of State policy, due to the weakness
of the cooperative credit structure. As of June 30, 1975, 39 commercial
banks (19 nationalized and 20 private banks) opegate in the State through
1,241 offices providing a coverage If 1 to 70 km , which is much higher than
the national average of 1 to 214 km , although population-wise, the coverage
of I to 35,000 was below the All-India level. As of March 31, 1975, there
were 503 branches in ru5al and semi-urban centers, giving a non-urban
coverage of 1 to 226 km , which compares favorably with advanced states
like Maharashtra, Gujarat and Karnataka.
Major Banks
26.       Branch network in the non-urban areas of the State is almost
exclusively provided by nine nationalized banks.2/ These are national
institutions with large resources and considerable experience in general
banking, and they are in sound financial condition.
1/   This section updates Annex 3 of the West Bengal Agricultural Development
Project (Report No. 463a-IN). Information included in that report is
not repeated here.
2/   Also includes Union Bank of India.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
27.       Three banks, namely UBI, UCB, and CBI, are lead banks in the State
for eight, four and three Districts, respectively. The SBI, though not
specifically assigned lead bank responsibilities, has a major role in agri-
cultural lending, and AB, with its headquarters in Calcutta, is also an
important agricultural lending institution. The five banks together had 93%
of the non-urban branches with a total of about 250 agricultural officers.
Brief financial particulars of these banks as of December 31, 1975 are given
in the following table:
Financial Particulars (Commercial Banks)
(Rs million)
1975
SBI       UBI        UCO        CBI         AB
1.  Paid up capital        56.2       26.9       28.0      47.5         10.5
2.  Reserves              708.3       23.9       70.0     116.6         24.9
3.  Deposits           35,978.1   5,606.2   6,231.7  11,805.3        2,966.3
4. Cash & Bank
balances           6,015.7      431.3      710.5     710.5        450.3
5.  Investments        10,997.3   1,573.9   1,746.8   3,666.3          766.1
6.  Loans & Advances  25,010.2   3,853.5   4,232.7   8,302.9         1,807.6
7. Direct finances
for agriculture
(All India)        1,344.2      113.1     186.9      606.5         75.9
8.  Total assets       49,139.0   6,738.1   7,952.5  14,368.1        3,440.3
9.  Expenditure         3,573.0      509.6      610.7   1,216.1        294.4
10. Expenditure         3,507.7      496.7      591.5   1,203.1        286.4
11. Net Income             65.3       12.9       19.2      13.0          8.0
Lending Operations
28.       The progress of the banks in agricultural lending in the State
is set out below:
12/31/72         12/31/73        12/31/74          12/31/75
No. of   Amount No. of   Amount No. of   Amount No. of   Amount
accounts Rs Mn accounts Rs mn accounts Rs mn accounts Rs mn
Outstanding
Agricultural
Advances       50,958  160.8   88,953  207.0  132,257  251.5  155,110   338.9
Of which direct
finance to
farmers       50,488  140.9   86,839  171.8  120,484  202.4  144,842   231.4
Lending Purposes
29.       A broad classification of the outstanding agricultural loans of the
banks in West Bengal on December 31, 1974 is given below:



ANNEX 4
Page 10
Accounts   Amounts
(Rs. mn)
I.   Direct Finance to Farmers
(a)  Short-term                                         79,632       77.1
(b)  Medium-term                                        40,852      125.3
II.  Indirect Finance
(a) Distribution of fertilizers and
other inputs                                        433       15.8
(b)  Others                                             11,340       33.3
Lending Prospects
30.       Four banks (SBI, UBI, CBI and UCB) are implementing sixteen ARC
schemes in the State involving loan assistance of Rs 26 million, mainly for
minor irrigation. The schemes are progressing satisfactorily. The ARC has
budgeted a fairly large program of about Rs 560 million for the State in
the five-year period, ending 1977-78 which it expects to implement largely
through the commercial banks. Apart from this, the commercial banks are
also encouraged by the general improvement of agricultural credit in West
Bengal. They are now eager to adopt primary credit societies for financing
and are also opening specialized branches. However, it appears that the
cooperative credit structure will continue to be the major supplier of agri-
cultural credit.
August 1976



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
West Bengal Central Cooperative Land Mortgage Bank Ltd.
Condensed Statement of Net Income
(In Rs. million)
1969     1970     1971      1972     1973      197h/75
Year Ending June 30
TNCOME
a/
Interest earned on loans                      1,8      1.7      2.2       22       5.1        50
Interest on investments                     05        0.6      007       0.9      1.1        1.8
Other income                                 01       0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1        0.5
Total Income                     2.4       2.4      3.0      2.2       6.3        7.3
EXPENSES
Interest on
Ordinary debentures                        1.8      204      2.9       3.6      4.2        407
Special debentures                          -        -        -         -       01        Ql1
Other borrowings                          0,2       0.2     02        001      0.2        0.2
Salaries and allowances                   0.1       0.1      0.2       0.2      0.2        0.5
Administration                             001      0,2      0.2       0.2      0,2        Ool
Other expenses                            0.1       001      0.1       001      0.1        0.3
Total Expenses                   2.3      3.0       3.6      4.2       5.0        5.9
>
Net Profit (+)/Loss (-)                       (+)o.1   (-)0.6   (-)0.6   (-)1.0   (+)1.3    (+)1.4
(D 
a/ Excludes overdue interest not taken as income at Rs. 0.1, 0.9, 1.7, 3.0 and 200 million in the 5 years,
August 6, 1976



IN~DIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION ANID RESEARCH PROJECT
West Bengal Central Cooperative Land Mortgage Bank Ltd*
Condensed Balance Sheets
(nR. million)
Year En        e 30                           1969      1970      1971     1972      1973       197.
ASSETS
Cash on hand and in banks                     4.5       1.3       1.6      1.5       2.5        1.5
Investments                                   8.7      15.7     16.1      19.1      21.4      32.9
Loans to PLDBs and individual members        31.5      37.8     4605      50.5      54.7      67.8
Other assets                                  2.3       2.8      3.8       5.2       5.9        3.0
Total Assets                    47.0      57.6      68.0     76.3      84.5      105,2
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Debentures
Ordinary                                     40o3      46.9     57,1      64.5      71,1       86.4
Special                                       0,2       0,3      0.6       0o6       0.9        5.2
Overdrafts                                        2.3      5.0       3,1       1,3      1.7
Other liabilities                                 1,0      1,3       2.2       3e7      2.9        1,6
Total Liabilities                43.8     53.5      63.0      70.1     76.6       93,2
Capital
Paid up shares                                2.6       404       5.9      8,2       805        9.5
Reserves and undistributed income             0,3       0.3       0,3      0,3       0.3        2.5
2.9     T77          212.0
Less loss balance                           -        o06       1.2      2.3       0.9         -
Net Capital                       2.9      4.1       5.0       6.2       7,9      12,0
August 6, 1976



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Agricultural Produce Marketing
A. General
1.        This Annex briefly describes agricultural marketing in West
Bengal since an effective extension project could not be seen in isolation
from input delivery systems (see also Annex 6 on fertilizer distribution
and Annex 4 on agricultural credit) and marketing arrangements.
B. Major Marketed Commodities
2.        Agricultural production had been dominated by the major food crop,
rice, and the major cash crop, jute. In recent years, however, wheat and
potatoes have gained considerable importance in the rural economy. Pulses,
tea, spices, fruits and vegetables are other crops with a marketable surplus.
The State has a net deficit in foodgrain production (mainly because of
Calcutta's requirements), but some Districts in the Gangetic plains show
surplus production of paddy, wheat and potatoes.
C. Bank Involvement
3.        Under the West Bengal Agricultural Development Project (Report
No. 463a-IN) of 1975, IDA had agreed to include development of three
selected markets, each of which would handle a different produce mix. The
project would finance infrastructural requirements and train market staff.
It also included institutional aspects, such as the establishment of a State
Marketing Board to provide the legal and institutional framework for re-
gulated marketing, as has been practiced successfully in other parts of the
country. Since Bank involvment would be in the nature of a pilot project,
a study to analyze the impact of those markets on agricultural development
and to recommend guidelines for future market development, has also been
commissioned. While it is believed, that the overall marketing system has
sufficient flexibility to handle increased throughput, particularly for
foodgrains, some crops, especially jute and potatoes, have marketing problems
as indicated below.



ANNEX Y
Page 2
D. Marketed SurDlus
'4.       Although there has been some improvement irr the collection and
maintenance of market statistics. it is still difficult to olbtain correct
and reliable figures for th.e quantitv of varieus commodities ente-rng
the marketing channels.  According to current estimates, the marketed
surplus of paddy has risen from 10% tc 2,6%' (1973 estimates) of production to
15% to 30%.  And for wheat and ocher grains has registered a marked increase
of about 40% to 50°.  There has been little change in the percentage of truits
and vegetables and fibre crops marketed. The estimates o:- marketed surplus of
fruits, vegetables and fibre crops remains at 90% ar.d 9d8%  respectively.
S.        The growth rate of market arrivals has Jlso increased to about
5% to 6% in the zase ol roocigrains (particuiarly wheat, but this increase
has been somewhat off3et by a marked fall in the aroduction of jute.  Conl-
sequently, the total auanticy which entered the marke. ng channel during
1975-76 is estimated at about 5 million tcas, about 40; rice and paddy,
about 10% wheat, 20% fruits and vegetables, 20% potafoes and 10% jute.
E. Marketing System
6.        The marketing systems can be broadly divided into the public and
private sectors, with the latter also subject to legislative and other
Government controls. The characteristics of the two sectors are briefly
described below.
The Public Sector Agencies
7.        The agencies that directly participate in marketing activities
are: (a) the Food Corporation of India (FCI); (b) the Jute Corporation of
India (JCI), and (c) the West Bengal Department of Food and Civil Supplies
(DFCS). The FCI started its operations in 1961 and acts as a supplier and
distributor of foodgrain on behalf of the Government. Procurement practices
for rice and paddy include levy on rice mills and direct purchases from the
market through marketing societies. During the last five years, FCI's
market share averaged about 30% of the total marketed surplus of rice and
paddy. Until this year, FCI's low procurement, particularly in wheat, has been
caused by poor harvests and rapidly rising market prices which have been
substantially above the procurement price. However, with the 1975-76 bumper
crop of wheat, and consequent depression in its price in the primary markets,
FCI and the Essential Commodities Supplies Corporation were asked to enter the
wheat market in the wheat growing Districts of West Bengal. They procured
20,000 tons of wheat at a price of Rs 105 per quintal when the market price in
most of the producing areas dropped to Rs 75/- per quintal.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
8.        The DFCS is primarily a distributing agency in the urban and
semi-urban areas for supplies procured through FCI. The department runs
about 2,700 ration shops and 13,500 fair price shops in these areas.
The JCI has procured fibres through its own centers and primary marketing
societies since 1971; its market share in jute in 1972-73 was about 10%
of the total marketed surplus. Thereafter, JCI's operation was somewhat
inhibited due to production shortfalls in 1974-75 and 1975-76 when the
total annual output approximately averaged 2.6 million bales. The JCI
was also financially hampered because of the credit squeeze with accompany-
ing shortage of institutional finance.
The Private Sector
9.        The 39,000 villages in West Bengal are served by an estimated
2,100 primary and 120 secondary (wholesale) markets. On an average, there
is a primary market within 3 km of each village and a secondary market
within 15 to 20 km.
10.       Primary markets assemble once or twice a week.  About 10% to
15% of arrivals are bought for local consumption, the remainder being
shipped to secondary markets. Arrivals are usually in very small lots, and
are combined into larger lots for shipments on bullock carts and trucks.
11.       The secondary markets (mandis or bazaars) are generally located
in areas with good transport connections to urban areas and terminal facili-
ties. Farmer's participation is low and confined to the growers nearby.
M1arket intermediaries comprise marketing societies, traders, agents, commis-
sion agents, traders-cum-commission agents, processors and brokers. Commission
agents (aratdars) are probably the most influential group combining buying and
selling on their own account as well as for their clients. Their functions
also include: (a) provision of temporary storage; (b) credit to their clients;
(c) free lodging and boarding for their clients, and (d) arrangements for
packing, transport and timely dispatch. Each aratdar is supported by about
100 small brokers (farias and dalas) who arrange small lot purchases at the
primary market or even village level.
12.       The primary, secondary and terminal markets at present have no
system of auction and prices are negotiated on a private basis. This par-
ticular aspect has been subject to considerable criticism by Government
officials as a source of exploitation of the small producer by the large
trader. However, empirical data are inadequate to support this. Past studies
of grain markets in India have shown that price formation at the wholesale
level is quite competitive and high price correlation for different markets
are indicative for market integration which, in turn, precludes any sub-
stantial collusion among traders. Prices and seasonal pattern of arrivals
for different markets in West Bengal would tend to support this.
13.       However, a recent study undertaken in some of the important pro-
ducing areas where regulated markets have been introduced has revealed the



ANNEX 5
Page 4
existence of near-monopoly conditions in the markets specially those
of jute, wheat, potatoes and other important cash crops. There is enough
scope for improvement in the whole pricing process. The present system
of fixation of price by individual negotiations between the farmers and
the traders for those crops would need attention.
14.       Grading procedures and standards, particularly for jute, are
traditional and sophisticated equipment is not used. It is usually
assumed that grading as carried out by traders is a major source of
market imperfection. However, observed inter-trade grading is quite
uniform and the very small lots (usually between 6 and 20 kg) offer
little scope for improvement by official grading. Larger lots are usu-
ally graded by farmers and offered to traders and a price is then nego-
tiated. Attempts are being made to introduce a system of grading based
on specification laid down by the Indian Standard Institute. The Jute
Development Council, the Jute Corproation of India and the State Govern-
ment agencies are now exploring the possibility of introducing this
system of grading.
15.       Collection and dissemination of market information at the traders
level is effectively performed through their own network. Telegrams,
telephone and word-of-mouth are widely used. The Marketing Division of
the Directorate of Agriculture also collects and distributes such infor-
mation. Word-of-mouth is the major source of information at farmers'
level.
16.       The major items of marketing costs at present are:  (a) commis-
sion and brokerage (1% to 2% of sales prices); (b) handling charges (0.3%),
and (c) miscellaneous fees and charges (0.3%). In spite of numerous charges
levied, the farmer's share is estimated at 60% to 80% of the consumer's
price.
F. Marketing Features of Major Crops
Paddy and Rice
17.       The small brokers are the first link between the producers and
consumers. They collect about 15% to 20% of the paddy from the farms,
while the rest is stored on farms or is transported by farmers to the
nearest market. Paddy from primary markets moves partly to secondary
markets and partly to mills. Paddy is bought in the market, parboiled,
dried and husked in small husking establishments and sold as clean rice
in the same market area. Clean rice then moves through wholesalers to
terminal markets in consuming areas.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
18.       The rice milling industry has two types of establishments:
(a) large rice mills with multiple hullers and shellers, and (b) small
husking machines. Presently, there are 590 licensed rice mills and an
estimated 6,000 husking machines. Since 1969, about 295 rice mills
have either closed down, or run on extremely low utilization.
19.       Government's procurement policies and controls appear to be part
of the industry's problems. The mills are not allowed to operate in the
open market; cordoning prevents them from securing adequate paddy; and
prices offered for compulsory levies on outturn and custom milling are
well below prevailing market prices. Consequently, there has been a
significant growth in the small village-type husking machines, which are
not easily controllable. However, this results in low quality products
and the Government is contemplating steps to curb their activities.
Wheat
20.       The wholesale wheat trade was nationalized in 1973, and the
Government became the sole purchaser of wheat from farmers. However, the
Government was not able to achieve its procurement target mainly because
the procurement price was considerably below that dictated by supply and
demand conditions. In 1974, the Government increased the procurement
price of wheat to Rs 105 per quintal (from Rs 76) and lifted the restric-
tion against private wholesale trading in wheat on the condition that
wholesalers turn over 50% of their purchases to the Government at the
procurement price of Rs 105 per quintal. The balance could be sold on the
free market at a higher price which would, in turn, permit the traders to
offer more than Rs 105 per quintal to farmers. This has not resulted in
a significant change in procurement and the system was again changed back
to an open market system. As mentioned earlier, the 1975-76 harvest pro-
vided for the first time an opportunity for the Government agencies to offer
the support prices of Rs 105 per quintal and still procure sufficient quant-
ities.
Potatoes
21.       Potatoes are West Bengal's principal vegetable crop.  There are
two harvest seasons: one in November-December and one in February-March.
For seed purposes and speculation, potatoes are stored in cold storages.
There are presently 147 cold storatges with a total capacity of 0.5 mil-
lion tons. These cold storages are licensed and rates which can be charged
to farmers are fixed. Since these rates are not very attractive, cold
storage owners buy, store and sell on their own account, which is legally
only possible after the farmer's demands for storage have been met. How-
ever, cold storages which have to rely on storage rates only are financially
not viable and this practice is widespread.
22.       In West Bengal during 1974-75 and 1975-76, the production of
potatoes increased considerably varying from 1.3 million tons to 1.5



ANNEX 5
Page 6
million tons. This posed a problem of storage and satisfactory marketing.
The existing cold storage space was not sufficient to hold the remainder,
and the market consequently collapsed.
23.       The State Government is now encouraging establishment of new
cold storage units. The regulated market committees are being persuaded
to come up with a proposal for construction of more cold storages. The
private sector is being encouraged to explore the possibility of establish-
ment of dehydration facilities for processing of potatoes.
Jute
24.       As with paddy, farmers sell jute to a number of market function-
aires which include itinerant traders, commission agents, brokers and
jute mill agents. In addition, about 2% of the crop is handled by marketing
cooperatives which sell directly to JCI. Farmers sell ungraded jute fiber
on the farm, in the village or in wholesale markets. Grading and baling
takes place at the wholesale market, at the jute mill or in Calcutta.
25.       To ensure a minimum return to jute growers, GOI announces a floor
price annually, which has generally been well below the market price in
the past. Market prices fluctuate from season to season and during the
season, according to the supply and demand conditions. Among the major
objectives of JCI are to intervene in the market to prevent sharp price de-
clines and to build up a buffer stock to even out seasonal and yearly fiber
supply and price fluctuations. However, to date the Corporation has lacked
adequate financial resources and buying, grading and storage facilities
to intervene in the market effectively. The table below illustrates the
year-to-year price fluctuations and the inverse relationship between fiber
price and production.
Jute Production and Price Fluctuation
/a
Price Index
Year              Production Million Bales            Main Sales Season
1967/68                       3.8                              84
1968/69                       2.3                             145
1969/70                       3.4                             100
1970/71                       2.7                             128
1971/72                       3.4                             115
1972/73                       2.7                             133
1973/74                       3.7                             117
1974/75                       2.6                             117
1975/76                       2.7                             120
/a   100 = 1969-70 main season price of Rs 122 per quintal in Calcutta.
About 50%-60% of the jute crop is sold during the main sales season
between September and December.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
Sharp price fluctuations suggest that some price stabilization policy would
be beneficial. Merely announcing floor prices does not, however, stabilize
prices. Extensive participation in the market as proposed but not yet
achieved by JCI would be necessary. The JCI's past experience indicates
that this would require a large financial commitment, adequate buying agencies
coverage, adequate storage arrangements, effective transport arrangements
(a major bottleneck in the past) and adequate training, all which were not
achieved.
26.       By contrast to justification for price stabilization there is
little evidence for or against the Government contention that growers lose
heavily by selling ungraded fiber and by lack of temporary storage which
compels them to sell on the day they deliver fiber to market and thus puts
them at a disadvantage. It is not established at what stage in the market-
ing chain grading and baling are best performed, whether fiber storage would
be financially advantageous to farmers, or whether there is enough compet-
ition between buyers to preclude grossly unfair trading practices. It is
expected that the marketing (para 3) study would shed light on some of these
questions.
August 1976



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Agricultural Inputs Supply
A. Introduction
1.        As indicated in the main report, an effective agricultural ex-
tension system is expected to generate higher levels of demand for agricul-
tural inputs. This annex describes briefly the supply and distribution of
fertilizers, seeds and pesticides in West Bengal.
B. Fertilizer
2.        Supply:  About 40% of West Bengal's fertilizer requirements are met
from GOI imports through the Food Corporation of India (Port Operations); the
remainder supplied by domestic producers. Supply of fertilizer to individ-
ual States is based on their agricultural production programs (as developed in
conferences between the State and concerned GOI agencies), GOI's planned
fertilizer imports and expected domestic production.
3.        Distribution:  Imported fertilizer is stored by Food Corporation of
India and Central and State Warehousing Corporations and distributed through
GOWB's appointed distribution agents, namely the West Bengal State Cooperative
Marketing Federation, the Agro-Industries Corporation (AIC) and some private
firms.  The cooperative/public network also distributes 50% of the fertilizer
allocated to West Bengal by Fertilizer Corporation of India and Hindustan Steel.
This network consists of (a) about 255 Thana Cooperative Marketing Societies,
operating at the block level, and 300 Primary Societies, at the village level
and (b) about 386 Agro-Service Centers and 1,100 private dealers depending on
AIC. The West Bengal Agricultural Development Project (541-IN) supports
establishment of a further 200 Agro-Service Centers, supplying seed, crop
spraying services, a range of machinery and farm machinery repair facilities.
If successful, these centers would provide a model for future expansion.
Distribution of domestically produced fertilizers is handled through a network
of private dealers, appointed by manufacturers and licensed by GOWB. Total
public and private fertilizer retail outlets are estimated at 16,000 (an
a-verage of about 50 per block).
4.        Prices:  Prices of Ammonium Sulphate, Urea and Calcium Ammonium
Nitrate are controlled by GOI under the Essential Commodities Act. This
includes the purchase price of the distributor, the distribution margins
and the retail price. Superphosphate prices are only controlled at factory



ANNEX 6
Page 2
level. In March 1976, GOI introduced a new form of payment whereby
all wholesale distributors (appointed by the GOWB) are required to open
irrevocable letters of credit, encashable after 60 days, in favor of the
Food Corporation of India. This represents a considerable tightening of
interest free periods (formerly up to 180 days) for public distributors.
5.        Consumption:  Fertilizer consumption increased sharply from 44,000
nutrient tons in 1967/68 (Annex 1, Table 4) to 127,000 tons in 1974/75 -- a
growth rate of 20% per year. Fertilizer use at 17 kg/ha is slightly above the
all-India average of 16 kg/ha. The table below indicates total amounts of
fertilizers consumed (nutrient tons) during the past five years:
Year                        N                P                K
------------ Million Tons  -----------
1971-72                    55,840          17,546            21,763
1972-73                    55,419          16,412            23,163
1973-74                    54,003          18,412            26,843
1974-75                    84,000          21,600            21,300
1975-76 (Provisional)    85,954            24,860            19,948
6.        It is expected that a dynamic extension service would soon generate
a higher demand for inputs. This, in turn, means that farmers must be able to
obtain credit for inputs and that inputs must be available for purchase as and
when required.  As indicated in Annex 4, despite major achievements, institu-
tional credit covers only about 10-15% of the farm families in West Bengal and
may not provide more than 40% of present short-term requirements. While major
efforts are being made to expand credit coverage and improve performance, this
will take some time.
7.        Requirements for an efficient distribution system are much the same
whether a distributor is in the private or cooperative sector: (a) an incen-
tive -- in terms of reasonable profit -- to handle agricultural inputs and (b)
the means -- transport, storage and working capital -- to meet demand.
8.        Regarding incentives, it has been argued on several occasions by Bank
missions that the fertilizer margins between the ex-railhead and retail price,
fixed by GOI, are insufficient, creating: (a) disincentive for transportation,
particularly into the more interior areas, (b) disincentive to keep stocks and
(c) little or no incentive to promote increased sales. This is a national
policy question and the Bank has started a dialogue with GOI on this.
9.        There is little doubt, that transport, storage and retail outlets
in the cooperative sector are sufficient to handle the expected increase in
dem.and over the next few years. In addition, experience in other parts of the
country has shown, that, with a dynamic extension service and favorable input
: output price relationships, demand from farmers for improved input services
has done much to revitalize services.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
C.  Seeds
10.       Farmers in West Bengal obtain seeds (if not kept by themselves)
from the following sources:  (a) the State Seed Farms, (b) the National
Seeds Corporation (NSC), (c) the Tarai Development Corporation (TDC) and
(d) approved private seed growers. These are certified or truthfully
labelled seeds. There is also some inter-farm trading.
11.       NSC seeds are distributed through the Agro-Industries Corporation
as well as through a network of NSC authorized dealers. Similarly, TDC seeds
are distributed through the Marketing Corporation and its cooperative struc-
tures as well as through TDC authorized dealers. The following quantities
have been contracted for distribution in 1976/77:
Crop                           Quantity (tons)
Kharif paddy                    7,000
Rabi paddy                      3,500
Wheat                          15,000
Jute                              680
Oilseeds                           100
Pulses                             300
Potatoes                          500
Total                27,080
12.       The GOI Seeds Act, providing the basis for seed testing and certi-
fication, was ratified for application in West Bengal in 1969.  At that time,
NSC was authorized by GOWB to act as the seed certification agency. NCA
recommended that because there may be a conflict of interest, seed supply and
certification should be separated. A separate State Seed Certification Agency
was established subsequently. In 1975-76, the reorganization was completed
to test and certify seeds; and an enforcement cell was also created to more
vigorously enforce the rules under the Seeds Act.
13.       Normally, there is no shortage of seeds for major crops, except
in years when demand expands or contracts unexpectedly, for example if
resowing is required due to flood or drought. The seed situation is expected
to improve further with the recent rationalization and expansion of the seed
production and marketing industry on a national basis, under the Bank-assisted
National Seed Project (1273-IN).
D. Pesticides
14.        For domestic formulation of pesticides, GOWB places orders with GOI
for ingredients. GOI supplies these from domestic and foreign sources, which



ANNEX 6
Page 4
are then allotted to formulators. In practice, almost the entire quantity
received so far has been allotted to the Agro-Industries Corporation for for-
mulation and distribution in West Bengal.
15.        Pesticides, insecticides etc., are distributed commercially and,
in emergencies, by GOWB. In an epidemic area, on advice of the District
Magistrate, GOWB arranges for free distribution of plant protection materials.
Similarly, if the Department of Agriculture declares an area as epidemic,
pesticides are distributed at subsidized rates. (GOWB maintains a buffer stock
of pesticides and spraying equipment for use during pest or disease outbreak.)
In all cases, quality, distribution, and use are controlled under the Insec-
ticides Act of 1968, which came into force in 1971.
16.        The following areas have been covered under these schemes:
Item                      1975/76 (000 ha)
Seed treatment                  550
Weed control                     20
Prophylactic spraying         1,350
Rat control                        1.5
General                         380
17.        Although pesticides are generally freely available, a number of
difficulties exist at the field level. Pest are not properly identified,
pesticides are sometimes not available or only in old stocks and there has
been a lack of sound advice for pesticide use and application by farmers.
The new extension service would provide a SMS in plant protection at the
subdivisional level. He would provide through training sessions, VLW with
necessary advice to be passed on to farmers. Shortages would be quickly
relayed back by the VLW to the assistant SAO, who would be responsible for
ensuring that the Agro-Industries Cooperatives makes good the shortfall.



ANNEX 7
INDIA
WEST bENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESRARCH PROJECT
S-eeary of Project Costs
(Thousa.d Rupees)
Poreeigo
3        4        5         Total       Exchaege
EXTENSION
1/
Laed       1/                                     800    1,275       750      600        -         3,425
Civil Worhk           28 0,031   16,063    6,031                               -         -        32,125
Equipment cud Vehiclee                          3.791    4,951    3,682    1,210       160        13,794         2,587
Slb Total                                     12,622   22,289   12,463    1,810        160        49,344         2,587
Physical Coetingeecies                            499      899      501        16       06         1,931            26
Total                                          13,121   23,188   12,964    1,826       176        51,275         2,613
Trainieg                                          596      851       751      851      882         3,931            -
Establishrent Coots
4/
Incremental Salaries             5/             2,975    4,321    4,587    4,587    4,587         21,057            -
Isorementol Travelling Allol .ce               1,588    3,384    3,625    3,663    3,663          15,923           720
Iecentive  .oeoratriu  4/                         250      500       500      500      500         2,250
Other Opetatieg Costs 6/                        1,983    2,749    3,434    3,881    3,601         15.648           513
Snb Tetal                                       6,796   10,954   12,146   12,631   12,351         54,878         1,233
Physical Coe-tegeeclee                            149      175       189      200      198           911            25
Total                                          6,945   11,129   12,335   12,831   12,549          55,789         1,258
Total Extetnion                                20,014   34,094   25,360   15,292   13,393        108,153         3,820
Physical Coetinge-cies                            648    1,074       690      216       214        2,842            51
Total Extec..io                                 20,662   35,168   26,050   15,508   13,607         110,995         3,671
EPGRADING TRAINING CENTERS
3/
Civil Weeks                                     1,750    3,354    1,600        -        -          6 704            -
Equipmeet aed VhiclEe                             300     08,00      -                              l -  1,380     122
Sob Total                                      2,030    4,434    1,600         -        -          8,084           122
Physical Coetingenciee                            292      562       240       -        -          1,094           -
rots1                                          2,342    4,996    1,840         -        -          9,178           122
E.tsbliel..e.t Costs
Incr temental lalariee                              l      518      518       518      518         2,153           -
Total                                           2,131    4,952    2,118       518      518        10,237
Physical Coetingeecirs                            292      562       240       -        -          1,094           -
Total Upgr-ding Trolniug Cestsrs                  2,423    5,514    2,358       518       518       11,331           122
RE SEAR C3
Civil Works                                     9,220   18,450    9,216        -        -         36,886            -
Laborstory Eqeip.ent                            1,040    2,141    1,564       731                  5 3,476       4,380
Other Equipsent a-d Vehidles                    2,719    2,188    1,057       409      287         6,660           924
Sob Total                                     12,979   22,779   11,637    1,140        287        49,022         5,304
Physicol Coetinge.cies                          1,660    3,148    1,621       113       29         6,571           487
Total                                         14,639   25,927   13,458    1,253        316        55,593         5,791
Tr-ining aed Coesultaecy Services
Overseas e     sllcwehtps                         696    1,171    1,223    1,016       994         5,100         4,163
local Pellewehips                                  70       8O        80      102        90          420
C-onsltants                                       250      100       250      100        50          750           450
Total                                           1,016    1,351    1,553    1,216    1,134          6,270         4,613
Etabclishmentr Costs
Incronestal SalarIes                            1,653    2,251    2,695    2,809    2,920         12,328            -
Incremental Ope-atieg Coste                       915   1,580    2,325    2,287    2,378           9,196           460
Shbtotal                                        2,568    3,842    4,720    5,096    5,298         21,524           460
Physical C-1 tigecies                              91      158       204      227       237          917            46
Total                                           2,659    4,000    4,924    5,323    5,535         22,441           506
Total                                            16,563   27,972   18,110    7,452    6,719         76,816        10,377
Physical Cotingecies                              1,71    3,306   3,_23         340      266         7,488           533
Total Research                                   18,314   31,278   19,935    7,792    6,985         84,304        10,910
9/
E7ALUATION ENIT A0D FAR7 SURVEYS
Equipment                                           9       10        -        -         -            18
Co_soltae-y S-rvice-                              300      200       303      200       300        1,300
I.crome_tal Salaris                                66       66       66         6       66           330
Total Evaluatio- UEt aod FPre Survays               374      276      368       216      366         2,648            -
TOTAL (cithout coetingencies)                    39,082   67,294   45,954   23,528   20,996        196,854        14,319
PhYSlIAL CONTINGENCIES                            2,691    4,942    2,755       556       480       10,424           584
PRICE CONTINGtNCIES 1O/                           3,018  13,700   13,732    6,770    7,742          45,022         3,547
Subtotal Contingeeciec                          5,709   18.702    6,487    7,326    8,222         56.446         4,131
TOTAL PROJECT COST                               44,791   85,996   62,441   30,854   29,218        253,300        18,450
1/ Anee 8, Table 1;
2/ Asses 8, Table 1, 2, 3;
3/ Annco 8, Teble 6 (inclodes trainieg stipe-d);
4/ A-er  8, Table 5;
5/ Asses 8, Teble 2;
6/ A-es 0, Tablos 1, 2, sod 3;
7/ A-ex 8, Table 6 (exludes stipe-d);
A/ Aee  9;
9/ Ansex 13;
Ill Annee  10.
Janesry 28, 1977



AN    8
Table 1
ST AL AZICWPAL RION ARD SlAR PtJT
Land. Civil Nbrks. lErnlttrsi Office huif Dt. and enu            Aids
Ar  !      Cost/8 /       Roof                                                                YFAR                                 Ezcae,ge
Units      Cost/Unit            1               2           3            4             5           T7t51     Cop. (%)
oobdivieic=sl orife-cf m-Reside-ce             500         45             50         22.5        (20)  450        (30) 675          -            I              -          1,125
ARO'c Offiee-coz-Reside-ce                      270         15            200          4.0        (50)  200        (75) 300    (15)300           -               -            80o
VLT  Re-idsnce                                 200          7.5        1,000          1.5       (100)  150       (200) 300   (500)450    (W0) 600               -          1,500
Total                                                                                          800           1,275         750          600             -          3,425       _
Civil Works
Buildings
Subdivisiona.  Office                          172         570            50         98              1,225           2,450       1,225           -              -          4,900
A0's Office-cun-Residence - /                   67         450           200         30              1,500           3,000       1,500            -             _          6,ow        -
Fner  Mnnager's Rpsidence - /                   50         440            50'        21.9              274             547         274            -             _          1,095
VLW's Residence -                               35         440         1,000         15.3            3,825 -         7,650.      3.825           -             -          15.3N0
Sub-total                                                                                    6,824          13,647       6;824            -             -         27,295
Site Develconent (10%)                                                                                  682           1,365         682            -                        2,729
Professional Fees (7%)                                                                                  525           1.051         525           -              _          2,101
Sub- :ctnl                                                                                   8,031          16,063       8,031           -              -         32,125
Phyeica] C-ntir.gencie                                                                                 401             803         402           -             -           i,6C6
Tctal                                                                                        8,432          16,866       8,433           -             _          33,731
Office Eiocinent, Furniture end Extensicn Aids
ProJect Cell                                                                                             18              13          -                                         31
District Office 2'                                                                                       28              58          61           _              _            147
SObdicini..nl Office '                                                                                  411              15          -                                        4--26     -
AEO's Office-Ruc-Residence 2/                                                                           100          -  150         150            -             _            400
Fner  nnnger'cs Residence 2/                                                                              8              12          -            -              -             20
r00's Residence8,/                                                                                        -              80         16o          160            160           560
Exten.ico Aiidt                                                                                          55             123          86           -              _            264       10
Sub-totn1                                                                                      620             451         457          160            16o         I,8h8       10
Phybsicl Contlnge-ciea                                                                                   62              45          46           L6             i6           185       -
Totin                                                                                          682             496         503          i76            176         2,033       10
OfficEp .....e end Ecteoico Aids(Sp-rting)
Oroj-ci Ccii                                                                                              2               3           3             3             3            1
District Offic                                                                                           30              41          49           54             54           228
Subdicisico 2i                                                                                        1,200           1,200       1,200        1,200          1,200         6,000
AEO' s Office                                                                                             -              85         212          340            340           977
Sotent i-n Aids 22'                                                                                     262             42i         421          405            385        1,894         5
Sub-total                                                                                    1,494           1,750       1,885        2,002          1,982         9,113        5
Phynicai Cocilegen-ies                                                                                  149             175         189           200           198           911        -
TOtal                                                                                        1,643           1,925       2,074        2,202         2,180         10,024        5
Tntel                                                                                                10,945          19,539      11,123        2,762          2,142        46,511
PhysicaL Continge-cieo                                                                                  612           1.023         637          216            2i4         2,702
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                 11,557          20,562      11,760        2,978          2,356        49,213
2' Tentative figuresu, -sd f-c estinatiog porp.se. only.
2/PFoe 45%cOfARO'os.
2  Sec per enbdirlsi.nllnd ccot not i-Luded oioe it vill be ccn-tr-cted
no existing Go-er-nest frne.
!/ For 35% of VLi,.
5/ Inoludes one cacuLation per dietriet at Rn 3,000
1/-eolude- duplic-t-ra,  cisinicre, type-it-ers.
7/ Furniture only.
/ Slide duplicator nt 0.Q., slide pr-jectsr ord insect preser- ation box
at subdivision, and roll-op blnckbcend for VLW.
2/ Re 2,000/conth/-ubdicision.
2/ DMr-ie end other publication, nt district; flip chrts,  odels,
opecinens, etc. for subdivi-inns, AE0 and VlW.
J,nuary 28, 1977



INDIA
WEST BENGAI - AGRICUILTRAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCR PROJECT
Vehicles, Running Costs and Travelling Allowances and Expennss
(Thousn-d Rup-en)
Net                              ---S-------  Y-c    ------------------- ----------------                                                F-Oreige  Echange
INVESTMENTS                                                Typo          URit Cost         Rsqel-rte et        IwieEivg        Roqvl--tro                        1                2                3                 4                  5                 Total                C-opo-e-t
(Number)                                                                                                                        T
VEHICLES
H-adqu-rtera                                  Car - PotEl                 32           (3)                 -                (3)                (3)      96                 -                   -               _                     _             96                       25
Olatelot Readquartss/
For t peninldsts                            4-wheel drive - ditstl  30              (51) -             (34)              (17)                (5)    250            (5)   250         (7)     350             -                                  850                       25
For exteesion 0 plant proteotioe            Mobile vow with            150          (12)                -               (17)                  -       -            (5)   750         (5)    750       (7)   1050                               2550                       25
Sub-divisini                                  4-wheel drive- diesel  50              (100)               (31)              (69)               (29)   1450           (15)   750        (25)   1250                -                   -           3450                       25
Total                                                                                                                                            1796                1750               2350              1050                              6946
For P-,.hase by Extension Staff
4/
AEO                                           Motorcoyle                   5         (450)                                                   (150)    750          (30)  15()                                                                    2250                       25
VLW                                           Cyole                      0.5       (3000)   '                                                (750)    375         ( I I .15)0)   750  (750)    375                                               13500 
1125                 2230               375                                                3750
RUNNING COSTS
Headqart.ers                                        Car-petrol                16.25-                                              (31)                        49                   49                 49                49                49            245                       10
istrict                                             Diesel                    10 0 -'                                            (34)                (5)       50         (15)   150        (27)     2731     (34)   340          (34)  340            1150                       10
Suh-diviston                                        DiBlo                     10.0                                               (69)               (29)     290          (44)   440        (69)    690       (69)   690          (69)  690            2500                       10
389                  639              1009              1079              1079           4195
I-cr-wental. Travelling Allowances -nd Exepnses
AE0                                                                  9/ 9/                                                 450               (150)    720          (450)  1620       (450)   1620       (450)  1620        (450) 1620    (450) 7200                          10
VLW                                                                    0.36                                               4000                          720                1440               1440              1440              1440            6480                        -
SM3                                                                    2.4                                                                    (30)       91          (90)   216      (185)    444       (201)   482        (201)  482             1715
SAO and Flre Manag-ee                                              1/                                                                                    37                   72                85                85                 85            364
Others                                                             12/                                                                                   20                   36                36                36                 36            164
1588                3384               3625              3663               3663         15923
1/ 3 pat district.
2/ 2 per su_-division.
3/ Includes 19 already provided -nder 541-IN.
4/  AssumIng shout t10 bhy matorcyole- at Re 6000 and 270 s-owtors at RN  3500.
5/  Assiaing 1000 of tin. 4000 VLW already own bicycle.
6/  25,000 kh/yr.  at Re 0.65/k..
7/  25,000 kh/yr.  at Re 0.4/k..
8/  10,000 kh/y,. at an soerage allowance of Rc  0.3 kw (seo An-ne   2   p-aa  47   2.  Ic additla,, tho fiod T.A. would bh  i--creaed fraw tho pr-sc-l Ru 50/yoth to lis 100/-oth.
9/ Present fiod T.A. of Rs 20/mon6th ould be i-ere-ssd to R. 50/month
10/  Weold receive a fined T.A. of Rn 200/month.
11/  SAO  T.A. wold be increased free Rn l00/math to Rn 200/eonth.  Fare  --gn.ern wuId teceive a A.4. of Rs 500/yr.
12/ Increased T.A. for staff in Headqu-rt=rs, drivers, etc.
July 10, 1976



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Subdivisional Adaptive/Experimental Research Farms (50)
(Rupees Thousands)
-----------------------------------------------YEAR------------------------------------------------                                Foreign
Unit      ------- ------         --------2 ------        -------3 -------   -     --     4 ------        ------- 5 ---                       Exchange
Cost      (Number)   Cost            5ber    CCost       (Numb       Cost        (N e st                             Cost        Total       Copnenjt )O
Civil Works
Remodelling Irrigation
System                           14        (10)        140         (10)       140          (10)       140                                                        420            -
Land Shaping                     4.5       (15)         67          (15)        67         (20)        90                                                        224            _
Fencing                           30         5)        150          (10)       300         (10)       300                  _                                     750            -
Sub-total                                              357                     507                    530                                                      1,394            -
Physical Contingencies                                  36                      51                      53                            _      _                    140           -
Total                                                  393                     558                    583                                                      1,534            -
Equipment
Shallow Tubewells                 10       ( 5)         50         (10)        100         (10)       100                                                        250           (15)
Power Tillers                    20        (10)        200          (20)      400          (20)       400                                                      1,000           (15)
Sub-total                                              250                     500                    500                                                      1,250
1/
Establishment Costs                                       100                     360                     540                    800                     540      2,340             -
Total                                                     707                   1,367                  1,570                     800                     540      4,984
Physical Contingencies                                     36                      51                      53                                                        140
Grand Total                                               743                   1,418                  1,623                     800                     540      5,124
1/ Cost of developing the existing block seed farm to a viable adaptive/experimental farm.
July 21, 1976
X >4
uW os



1 NDIA
WEST BENGAL, AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJBCT
Training
(Rupees Thousand)
Unit           -----Year-
Cost          1           2        3           4          5          Total
1/
Training, extension staff (in India)         No.        No.         No.      No.         No.
- 15 days                            0.7   (40)    28 (LO)    28 (4O)  28 (40)    28 (40)   28               140
- 1 months 2/                        1.1   (20)    22 (60)    66 (Ito0)44 (         i44 (ho)   44            220
- 3       months 31/                 2.3   (60)   138 (60)   138 (30)  69 (30)    69                         414
- 12/24 mont,hs -                   10/yr. (10)   100 (20)   200 (20) 200 (30)   300 (LO)  400              1200
- AEO motorcycle training            0.03 (150)      5(300)     9                                             lb
- HQ training staff                                 12         12        12         12         12             60
Total                                        305        453      353         h53        484           2048
1/ A few SMS and other extension staff might be sent for short overseas training courses; costs included
under research.
2/ Mainly for VLW and AEO.
3/ Mainly SMS, e.g. to Hyderabad for specialized courses.
T/ Includes training for extension training staff and university places for VLW advancement.
July 20, 1976                                                                                                              >
X~ M
m >c
I-. OD



INDIA
WEST BENGAL - AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Incremental Staff Salaries and Incentive Honorarium, Extension
(Thousand Rupees)
Annual
Unit                                             Y  e  a  r  s
Cost            1                   2                  3                   4                    5            Total
I. Incremental Salaries
Project Headquarters
Joint Director of Agriculture              16         (1)        16       (1)       16       (1)        16        (1)        16       (1)        16         80
Subject Matter Specialist (WBAS)           11.5       (2)        23       (2)        23       (2)       23        (2)        23       (2)        23        115
Stenographer                                6.5       (2)        13       (2)        13      (2)        13        (2)        13       (2)        13         65
Head Assistant                              8         (1)         8       (1)         8       (1)         8       (1)         8       (1)         8         40
Upper Division Clerk                        6.5       (2)        13       (2)        13       (2)        13       (2)        13       (2)        13         65
Typist-Cum-Clerk                            5         (4)        20       (4)        20       (4)       20        (4)        20       (4)        20        100
Peon                                        3         (2)         6       (2)         6       (2)         6       (2)         6       (2)         6         30
Record Supplier                             4         (1)         4       (1)         4       (1)         4       (1)         4       (1)         4         20
Driver                                      4         (3)        12       (3)        12       (3)       12        (3)        12       (3)        12         60
District Level
Research Agronomist (WBHAS)                11         (5)        55      (11)       121      (17)       187      (17)       187      (17)       187        737
Water Management Specialist (WBHAS)    11             (5)        55      (11)       121      (17)       187      (17)       187      (17)       187        737
Enteomlogist/Pathologist (WBHAS)           11         (5)        55      (11)       121      (17)       187      (17)       187      (17)       187        737
Driver                                      4          -          -       (8)        32      (17)       68       (17)        68      (17)        68        236
Mobile Van Driver                           4          -          -       (9)        36      (17)        68      (17)        68      (17)        68        240
Subdivision
Subject Matter Specialist (WBAS)            9        (60)       540    (150)    1,350    (150)    1,350    (150)          1,350    (150)    1,350        5,940
Farm Manager (WBJAS)                        8.5      (30)       255      (50)       425      (50)       425      (50)       425      (50)       425      1,955
Head Clerk-Cum-Accountant                   7        (50)       350      (50)       350      (50)       350      (50)       350      (50)       350      1,750
Cashier-Cum-Store Clerk                     6        (50)       300      (50)       300      (50)       300      (50)       300      (50)       300      1,500
Typist Clerk                                5       (100)       500    (100)        500    (100)        500    (100)        500    (100)        500      2,500
Peon                                        3       (150)       450    (150)        450    (150)        450     (150)       450    (150)        450      2,250
Driver                                      4        (75)       300    (100)        400    (100)        400     (100)       400    (100)        400      1.900
Total                              2,975               4,321               4,587               4,587               4,587    21,057
II. Incentive Honorarium-/
VLWZ/                                                              210                 420                 420                 420                  420      1,890
Other Extension Staff                                               30                  60                  60                   60                  60        270
Research Staff                                                      10                  20                  20                   20                  20         90
Total                                250                 500                 500                  500                 500      2,250
1/  Includes incentive honorarium for research staff.                                                                                                                           m
2/ In Year 1, Rs 500 for 300 VLW and Rs 300 for 200 VLW; Year 2 onwards, Rs 500 for 600 VLW and Rs 300 for 400 VLW.
August 6, 1976



ANNEX S
Table 6
INDIA
WEST BENGAL - AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESRARCH PROJECT
Upgr-ding of (Gronse-k) Training Centers
(Rupees thoosands)
/ 2
Ar,e,a       Cost/Y           No. of         Cost/ i         ________ _   YEAR-----------------                              Foreign Ehange
(Rs./2)          Units           Unit          1         2         3          4         5         Total         Conponent
1. Civil Works
Now Building
bostels                                           450           650               5             293          366       733       366         -         -        1,465
Workshop hostels                                  300            650              3             195          146       293        146        -         -          585
Classrooms                                         70           650              15              46          172       346       172         -         -          690
Workshop                                          100            650              3              65           49         97       49         -         -          195                  -
Auditoriun                                        300            B00              2             240          120       240       120         -         -          480
Staff housing                                      80           650              20              52          260       520       260        -          -        1,040
Subtotsl                                                                                                   1,113    2,229      1,113        -          -       4,455                   -
Sito De.vlopment  (25%)                                                                                        278       557        278        -         -        1,113
Pr-f-nsionaliFs&   (15f )                                                                                      209       418        209        -         -          836
Rensvation of Existitg Buildioss                                                                                150       150        -         -         -          300
Shbtatal                                                                                                   1,750    3,354    1,600          -          -        6,704
Physical Contingenci-s  (157)                                                                                  262       503        240        -         -        1,005
Total                                                                                                      2,012     3,857    1,840          -         -        7,709
2. Equipmn.t and Farsitaro
FPr sea buildings                                                                                            100       250        -          -         -          350
FPa  ronovatod bhildings                                                                                     200       340         -         -         -          540                  -
Vehicles -- 15 soot oinibus                                                       7              70           -        490        -          -         -          490                   25
Sabt=tal                                                                                                     300    1,080         -          -         -        1,380                  25
Physical Contijtng-ies  (1TI., sacpt vehioles oil)                                                               30        59        -         -         -            89
Total                                                                                                        330    1,139          -         -         -        1,469                   25
3. Salarios                                                        Fsisting        Incrementol  Cost/Year
New Staff
Senior Lect-rer                                                   18               24         9.6             -        230       230        230       230         920                   -
L-cturers                                                        23                12         7.2             -         86         86        86        86         344
A.dio-vi-oal Assiatant                                            -                  7        5.4             -          38        38        38        38         152
Typist                                                            -                  7       4.2              -         29         29        29        29         116                   -
Clerk                                                             -                  7       4.2              -         29         29        29        29         116
DSiver                                                            14                 7        3.6             -         25         25        25        25         100
UpgradinR Existing Staff
Principal                                                         -                  4        2.4              10        10        15       10         10          50
looter L-ct-rr-                                                                     18        2.4             43         43        43        43        43         215-
L-t.-cture                                                                         23        1.2              28        28         28       21         20         140
Total                                                                                                         81        518       518       518       518       2,153                   -
Trainees StiPend                           3!                                                                   711       818       818       818       818       3,983
Loss foods available fr-n State FPnds                                                                       (420)    (420)    (420)    (420)    (420)    (2,100)
Total                                                                                                        291        398       398       398       398       1,883
Total                                                                                                        2,422    5,350    2,516          916       916      12,120
Physical Co-tingesefas                                                                                          292       562       240        -         -        1,094
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                                  2,714    5,912    2,756          916       916      13,214
1/ Teotativo figures used for ostimoting purposes only
2/ Rs. 420,000/yr.
January 17, 1977



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Summary of Research Costs
(Rupees Thousands)
Foreign
------------------------YEAR -----------------                              Exchange                  Foreign
1           2           3           4           5           Total           Component (%)             Exchange
Civii Works
Sub-total                             9,220      18,450       9,216         -            -         36,886                -
Physical Contingencies                1,382       2,769       1,381         -            -          5.532                -
Total                                10,602      21,219      10,597         -            -         42,418                 -                        -
Equipment and Vehicles
Laboratory Equipment                  1,040       2,141       1,564         731          -          5,476                (80)                   4,380
Vehicles                         (17)   980  (8)   535  (2)   205            -           -           1,720               (25)                     430
Others                                1,739       1,653         852         409         287         4,940                (10)                     494
Sub-total                             3,759       4,329       2,621       1,140         287        12,136                (43.7)                 5,304
Physical Contingencies                  278         379         240         113          29          1,039               (43.7)                   487
Total                                 4,037       4,708       2,861       1,253         316        13,175                (43.7)                 5,791
1/
Training and Consultancy    Months
Services
Fellowships, Overseas -- ( 1) (2)        68  (3)   103  (3)   103  (3)   104   (2)   70  (13)    448                     (65)                     291
-- ( 3) (5)    240  (8)   384  (6)   288  (6)   288   (5)  240  (30)  1,440                      (75)                   1,080
__ ( 6) (5)    300  (7)   420  (8)   480  (6)   360   (7)  420  (33)  1,980                      (85)                   1,683
__ (12) (1)      88  (3)   264  (4)   352  (3)   264   (3)  264  (14)  1,232                     (90)                   1,109
Fellowships, in India                    70          80          80         100          90            420                -                        -
Sub-total                               766       1,251       1,303       1,116       1,084  (90)  5,520                  -                     4,163
Short-term Consultants           (5)    250  (2)   100  (5)   250  (2)   100   (1)   50  (15)    750                     (60)                     450
Total                                 1,016       1,351       1,553       1,216       1,134          6,270                                      4,613
Establishment Costs
a) Salaries                           1,653       2,251       2,695       2,809       2,920         12,328                -                         -
b) Other Operating Costs                915       1,591       2,025       2,287       2,378          9,196               (5)                      460
Contingencies                         91         158         204         227         237            917               (5)                       46
Sub-total                          1,006       1,749       2,229       2,514       2,615        10,113                (5)                      506
Total Establishment Costs             2,659       4,000       4,924       5,323       5,535         22,441                                         506
Total                                   16,563      27,972      18,110       7,452       6,71q         767 816                                     10,377
Physical Contingencies                  1I751        i,306       1              340        266           '488                                         533
GRAND TOTAL                             18,314      31,278      19.935        7,792       6,985        84,304               (16.5)                 10,910
10
1/ Numbers include SMS from extension.
January 10, 1977



I NDIA
1dEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL I1XTRNSION AM) R&SPAHCH tO,JECT
Price Conji,jZncfes
(Thousand Rupees)
1/
1             2 1')/8)           3 (1979)           4 (1980)            5 '(981)           Total
Land              3/                      800              1 ,271               750                o00                 -               3,425
Price Contingency                          40                204                187                204                 _635
Total      21                                               ev79                937                8
Civil Works      l&/                   21,082            41,993              20,921                 -                                 83,996
Price Contingency                       2,108              9,658              7,953                  -                 -              19,719
Total]                                   TT-                      -       - 8877                                       -             T?~T7Iz
'2/
Imported Equipmsent                     1,1514             2,355              1,720                804                 -               6,023
Price Contingency 5/                       80                40               2,17                 289                 -               1.21
Total                                  -1, 225         --   72,167                               1,093                 -      ~        79239
Vehicles          3/                    3,901              5,025              2,930              1,050                 -              12,906
Price Contingency                          195           -803                   732                357                 -               2 087
Total                       2106                                     3,62                        1,5079
Other Equipmentt & Furniture            3,183              3,473              1,940                626                 492             9,714
Price Contingency 3/                       159               556                485                213                 216              1 629
Total                                   3,32                                  2,425                839                 708
Training in India and Local
Consultancy Services                    966              1,131              1,131              1,151               1,272             5,651
Price Contingency 3/                        48               181                283                391                  60              1,463
Total                                                      1,312              ',515              1,542               1,i32             7,114
Overseas Training & Consultants            946             1,271              1,573              1,116               1,o45             5,850
Price Contingency 5/                       661216                               383                502                 570             1 .537
Total                                   1,012               1TT7               ,  ~1,518                             1,514             7,.307
Incremental Salaries                    4,775              7,156              7,866              7,980               8,091            35,o68
Price Contingency 6/                       119               655             1,180               1,756               2,527              6 126
Total                                   5;,895             7,800      -     9,056                9,736              10,518
- Inc entive Honorarium, Travelling
Allowances                            1,838              3,884              4,125              4,163               4,163             18,173
Price Contingercy  4/ 560                                                       619                916               1,249              3 180
Total                                   I i        7     2                      75               5,079               5,412              TT
2/
Other Operating Costs                    3,138             4,673              5,852              6,595               6,414             26,672
r ce Contingency                          157              748               1,463               2,242              2  230
Total    ~~~~~~~~~~~6                  5,521 ~~~~~~~~~~7,315                  B,B37               9,234            34,102
TOTAL WITH PHYSICAL CONTINTGIES    4t,17 3                /2723              48,709              24,084             21,476            208,278
PRICE CONTINGE-CIES                      3,018            13,760             13,732               6,770              7,742             45,022
TOTAL PROJECT C(STS                    74T7               - 5,996            62,441              30,854              9, 0,
/ea 1 includes funds spent usnder WBADP in 1976;
n/  udes p ysical contlngencles;
3/ 3.S for the second half of 1976, 8% in 1977-79 and 7% thereafter.  Compounded, this is equivalent to 5% in year 1 (see footnote 1)
16%, 25%, 34% and 44% for years 2, 3, 4, and 5 respectively.                                                                                                                            0
4 4% for the second half of 1976, 12% in 1977-79 and 10% thereafter.  Compounded, this is equivalent to 10%, 23%, 38%, 53% and 66%
in years 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 respectively;
4/ 4.5% for the second half of 1976, 8% in 1977-79 and 7% thereafter.  Compounded, this is equivalent to 7% in year 1 (see footnote 1),
17%, 26%, 36% and 45% in years 2, 3, 4, and 5 respectively;
6/ 6% from 1977 onwards, equivalent to 2.5% in year 1 (see footnote 1), 9%, 15%, 22% and 30% in years 2, 3, 4, and 5 respectively.
January 27, 1977



ANNEX I1
Page 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Organization and Management
i.        Overall responsibility for project implementation would be with
GOWB Department of Agriculture, through the Commissioner and Secretary for
Agriculture and Community Development. All extension and research activities
would be carried out by the Directorate of Agriculture under the Director of
Agriculture, who is directly responsible to the Commissioner. The Director
of Agriculture would be responsible for day to day administration and control
of the project assisted by two Additional Directors of Agriculture (ADA), one
each for extension (already in post) and research (see organization chart).
In turn, each ADA would be assisted by a Joint Director of Agriculture (JDA)
and supporting staff. The JDA (research) post is filled. Appointment of
full time staff for the unfilled posts of ADA (research) and JDA (extension)
is a condition of project effectiveness.
2.        The main feature of the reorganized extension program would be a
single line of command from the Director of Agriculture through ADA Extension,
range, district and sub-divisional offices to AEO and VLW dealing directly
w4ith farmers. Adaptive research would be the responsibility of the Additional
Director for Research and directly responsible to the Director of Agriculture.
As mentioned above, the ADA (research) would be assisted by a Joint Director
of Agriculture and two Research Scientists to aid with administrative matters.
Each Research Station Head, directly responsible to ADA Research, would be a
senior scientist having administrative competence. Heads of the main research
stations (Rice, Water Management and Crop Production) would be JDA level
appointments whilst others would be selected from the West Bengal Higher
Agricultural Service (WBHAS).  The head of each station would be responsible
for research and administration of the station and would be assisted by an
expanded administrative staff.
co^rdination of Research and Extension Programs
3.        Neither extension nor research can function effectively without
close coordination between both at all administrative levels.  Relationships
between extension and research, already good, would be enhanced by regular
meetings and training sessions, in particular involving SMS, specialists
from the district and research staff from the zonal and, to a lesser extent,
the commodity stations.  There is a continuous need for a systematic approachl



ANNEX 11
Page 2
to the development of recommendations arising from the evaluation, delivery
and ultimate use of effective technology. To these ends it is proposed that
a program planning process take place twice each year, before the kharif and
rabi seasons, in which extension and research plans and recommendations would
be worked out and finalized.
4.        A top level Extension and Research Program Planning and Implementa-
tion Committee (PPC) would convene twice each season. PPC would be chaired by
the Comm.issioner for Agriculture, and comprise the Director of Agriculture,
ADA Extension, ADA Research, range JDA, the head of each commodity research
station, and representatives of the agricultural university (research staff),
the Finance Department and the evaluation unit. The first meeting would take
place 2-1/2 to 3 months before the start of the agricultural season, and would
finalize broad guidelines for implementation of an agricultural production
policy for the coming season as formulated by the Commissioner for Agriculture,
through the Director or Agriculture and the Additional Directors of Agriculture
for Extension and Research. The second, held 6-8 weeks later, would evaluate,
amend and approve the detailed plans resulting from working meetings held in
the interim period to evolve methods of implementing the agreed production
policy.
5.        The agreed production guidelines would be conveyed to each of
the two organizations -- Research and Extension -- by their respective
representatives, starting in both organizations an intensive process of
summarizing results and developing recommendations and plans at all
administrative levels.
(a) Extension
6.        The Director of Agriculture and ADA Extension would convene all
Range JDA, DAO and district specialists in Calcutta to present production
policy guidelines. These would be discussed as to their relevance, in broad
terms, to the various ranges, districts and subdivisions. A schedule for
subdivisional, district and range meetings would be drawn up.
7.        Following this meeting, DAO would hold a series of meetings at each
subdivision together with the Range JDA, SMS, AEO, VLW, BDO and farmers re-
presentatives to develop a detailed production plan and recommendations for
its implementation, based on the production policy guidelines and last season's
experiences. These discussions would be completed within two to three weeks,
at the end of which a district level meeting would be held with district spe-
cialists, SAO, SMS, and researchers from the relevant zonal and commodity
stations. This meeting would split up into working groups to cover the major
crops and would draw up detailed recommendations and plans for the coming
season including suggestions for a plan of work to be undertaken by the zonal
and commodity oriented research stations. A series of meetings would then be
held at range level with the Additional Directors of Extension and Research
and if possible the Director of Agriculture. The purpose of these meetings
would be to review and approve each district's program before submission to



ANNEX 1 
Page 3
PPC. Final responsibility for approval of programs would be with ADA Extension.
If district plans are deemed unsatisfactory or not considered feasible, dis-
trict staff would be told by ADA Extension to draw up a modified plan. ADA
Extension and Research would finally summarize district findings and present
them to PPC which, after discussion and amendment if necessary, would approve
them for action, thus completing the cycle started some 6-8 weeks earlier.
Once approved, plans would return to districts and would form the basis for
pre-seasonal training of all staff. At the higher level pre-season training
courses (AEO and SMS), simple, practical messages for VLW would be evolved
(Annex 2, para 32).
(b) Research
8.        A research program for each station would be formulated by res-
pective station heads every season (kharif and rabi) in consultation with
participating scientists and extension personnel. This program would then
be discussed by a working group comprising heads of each major research
discipline, concerned Station Head and researchers from other stations,
extension staff, and ADA Research.  Commodity stations would involve
scientists from zonal stations, and zonal stations would involve scientists
from commodity stations conducting related research.   Finalized programs
would then be brought for approval to the half yearly meetings of PPC. Pro-
grams approved at these meetings would then be implemented. Results of
research from commodity oriented and zonal stations would be compiled each
year into technical reports and circulated to all concerned staff. These
reports would serve as a basis for future work on research stations and
subdivisional farms.
Linkage between Extension and Research
9.        The main link between extension and research would be between
researchers from zonal stations and subject matter specialists located at
district and subdivisional levels. Each district would have a research
agronomist under the administrative control of either the Principal or
District Agricultural Officer (PAO or DAO) and who would receive technical
guidance from the research station of the zone. This research agronomist
would be responsible for supervision of field trials and for experiments
located on subdivisional experimental farms.  These experimental farms would
be set up within each subdivision by conversion of an existing Block Seed
Farm (Annex 2, paras 26 and 27).  Farmers' problems, identified by VLW,
which could not be answered by extension SMS and require further investiga-
tion would be relayed to zonal stations for experimentation and further study.
Problems would also be further investigated by commodity oriented stations
who would continually monitor the work of zonal stations. Staff from zonal
stations, and to a lesser extent from commodity stations, would be extensively
involved in training programs for VLW, AEO and SMS. To accommodate those
undergoing training, 25-bed dormitories would be constructed at selected
stations. Zonal stations would also be used for training of SMS for periods
upto one year, particularly in the case of newly appointed staff (Annex 2,
paras 37-40).



ANNEX 12
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION & RESEARCH PROJECT
Disbursement Schedulel/
IDA Fiscal Year & Quarter                 Cumulative Disbursement at End of
Quarter
541-IN              Proposed Project
---------____(US$ 000)________
FY 1977-/
September 30, 1976
December 31, 1976                   151 (actual)
March 31, 1977                      400
June 30, 1977                       800
FY 1978
September 30, 1977                1,500
December 31, 1977                 2,200
March 31, 1978                        -                        800
June 30, 1978                        -                       1,600
FY 1979
September 30, 1978                    -                      2,400
December 31, 1978                     -                      3,300
March 31, 1979                        -                      4,200
June 30, 1979                         -                      5,000
FY 1980
September 30, 1979                    -                      5,800
December 31, 1979                     -                      6,600
March 31, 1980                        -                      7,700
June 30, 1980                         -                      8,300
FY 1981
September 30, 1980                    -                      8,900
December 31, 1980                     -                      9,500
March 31, 1981                        -                     10,300
June 30, 1981                         -                     10,700
FY 1982
September 30, 1981                                          11,100
December 31, 1981                                           11,600
March 31, 1982                                              12,000-'
1/ Calculated from Annex 10, assuming 1-2 quarter lags in
disbursements;
2/ Estimated date of effectiveness May 30th, 1977.
3/ Estimated completion date March 31, 1982.



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGERICUITURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCB PROJECT
Initial Inoplcon-tLtion Schedule
Pr-B-ad          Pre                 -------------------------------------------------------- ------Months aft- Eff-cti-ees-  _---------------- -                        ------------___--__-________---__________ -_ ______
Presentation      Effrctloecress          2    3          4    5    6          7    B    9           10    11    11          13    14    1S           16    17    lB           19    LB    21           22     23    24
EXTENSION & TRAINING CENTERS
I Staff
Appoint ADA (Extension)
Appoint JDA (Extension)
Appoint SMN (NQ)
Apoint T.O.
Selection of IMN and other etefi
En_ection Eon felitoehips
2. Eqximent and Vehicles
Prepare tender docoen....t/tede-,
Eiaioe tenders_-
Porohose                                                                                                                                                                                          __   ___
Prepare lint fot offehelf p-rch..es
OffShelf porch.se
3  CivIl W-ork
BNildinga (See Page 2)
Enpe-isnetal fin   d-evelopneet
A. Exulpenet ton Staif
Ase.et ADO ponhase motorbikee
Ases. t VLW pnechass hicyclee
Mptorcycle tr-ining
RESEARCHI
1. Stff
Appoint ADA (Research)
Appolnt SMS (HQ)
Selection of reseo--h tscff
Selection of otaff for fello-ahips
2. ERqim-ent Ad VOhioles
P-ep-re tende- doc-xeninltend-e
E-aloate tendre-
Prepare l'it for offhelIf pur-h.ee
Offshelf porchases
3. Ciil Books
Boildings (One Page 2)
Research  torn d Jvelopenrt
4. toneoltaxcy Eimits____
EVALUATION UNIT
Appoint JDA (Evalnotio-)
Select ond cppoint othnr staff
Purchase  eqoip=ente.
Ongoing sore-ys foi  in-dopth studi.o
Dra-up detoiled TOB oith unicorsity
In-depth stodies



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Implementation Schedule -- Buildings
Stage                         Activity                                       Estimated Date
1/
1         Establish buildings implementation cell-/
(including appointment of head of cell)                           March, 1977
2         Start preparation of alternative design and cost solutions         Ongoing
3         Complete survey to determine exact number and location of
VLW housing                                                        March, 1977
VLW        Other
Housing    Buildings
4         Completion of alternative design solutions                         May, 1977  June, 1977
5         Approval of alternative design solutions                           June, 1977 Aug., 1977
6         Completion of land selection                                       June, 1977 Aug., 1977
7         Completion of working drawings, specifications and tender
documents                                                          Aug., 1977 Feb., 1978
8         Approval of working drawings, specifications and tender
documents                                                          Sept.,1977 March 1978
9         Bids received, evaluated and approved                              Nov., 1977 June 1978
10         Construction started                                                Dec.,1977-/Nov., 1978
11         Completion of land acquisition                                     March 1978 March 1978
12         Buildings ready for occupancy (target date)                         3/         May 1979-4/
13         Buildings ready for occupancy (date with 6-month
allowance for delays)                                                         Nov., 1980
1/ The cell would consist of at least one engineer, architect, estimator and accountant
and support staff as required. It would: design buildings, prepare tender documents,
assist in prequalifying contractors, evaluate tenders, supervise construction, prepare
monthly progress reports and prepare disbursement application forms.
2/ Construction phased over three years, with first houses started in December 1977.
3/ Construction period is November to May. Housing would normally be completed within
six months of start.
4/ Construction phased over two years. Smaller buildings completed by May 1979.



ANNEX 12
INDIA                                             Table I
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Cumulative -Schedule of Staff Appointments
1/
1977          1978         1979        1980         1981
EXTENSION
Headquarters
JDA  (Extension)                                  1               1            1           1            1
SMS  (Extension)                                  2               2           2            2           2
District
Research Agronomist              3/               5              11           17          17          17
Water Management Specialist                       5              11           17          17          17
Entomologist/Pathologist 3!                       5              11          17           17          17
Subdivision
SMS (WBAS)                                       60             150         150         150          150
Farm  Manager (WBJAS)                            30              50          50           50          50
4/
TRAINING CENTERS
Senior Lecturers                                 24              24          24           24          24
Lecturers                                        12              12          12           12          12
5/
RESEARCH STATIONS
Headquarters
ADA (Research)                                  I               1           1            1           1
SMS (Research)                                  2               2           2           2            2
Rice
Senior Profession,l                               2               2           2           2            2
Junior Professional                               2               4           4            4           4
Research Officers                                 4               8            9           9           9
Support Staff 6/                                  6              14          21           21          21
Office Staff                                      6              12          14           14          14
Pulses and Oilseeds
Junior Professional                               3               6            8           8           8
Research Officer                                  5              10          10           10          10
Support Staff 6!                                  6              12          20           23          23
Office Staff                                      4               8          12           12          12
Horticulture
Junior Professional                               2               3            5           5           5
Research Officer                                  2               6           8           10          10
Support Staff 6/                                  2               4           9            9           9
Office Staff                                      4               7            7           7           7
Sugarcane
Junior Professional                               2               4           4            4           4
Research Officer                                  1               1            1           1
Support Staff 6/                                  4               6            7           7           7
Office Staff                                      6              12           14          16          16
Water Management
Senior Professional                               2               3           4            4           4
,Junior Professional                              -               I            I           1           I
Support Staff 6/                                  5               a          10           10          10
Office Staff                                      4               8            8           8           8
Crop Production (Wheat)
Senior Professional                               1               2           2            2           2
Junior Professional                               1               2            4           4           4
Research Officer                                  2               3           4            4           4
Support Staff 6/                                 10              13          15           15          15
Office Staff                                      2               8           12          16          16
Zonal
Senior Professional                               5               5            5           5           5
Junior Professional                               5              19          31           31          31
Research Officer                                 10              18           25          31          31
Support Staff 6/                                 25              45          60           75          90
Office Staff                                     20              40           55          70          85
1/ Includes staff recruited  in 1976 (under 541-IN);
2/ Annex 8 Table 5. Does not include junior level staff;
3/ Indicative only, depending upon conditions prevailing in district;
4/ Annex 8, Table 6. Does not include junior level staff;
5! Annex 3. Appendix 1-7;
6/ Field and laboratory staff.



I NDIA
WEBT B2.AL AGRICLTU1AL EXT   ION AN) RESEARCH PROJECT
Evaluation Cell and t'arn Surves
(Rs.'000)
Unit                            -     -      -        - R -
Cost           Number           1           2          3           h                       Total
IncreMental Staff for SSEB
JDA Evaluation                              16             (1)             16          16         16          16          16             50
Statistician/Eonomist                      10             (2)             20          20         20          20          20            100
Junior Staff                                 5             (6)             300                     30                                   1 50
auipment for SE5EB
1/           ()81
Calculators                                22-             (8)                         10          -           -          -              18
Consultancy Servc2es                                                         300         200         300         200         300         1 300
Total                                                                     37          276        366         266         366          i,648
1/ 50% at Rs. 3,000 and 50% at Rs. 1,500;
2/ Based on 60,000 interviews in years 1, 3, and 5, and 40,000 in years 2 and 4 at Rs. 5 per interview to be carried out by agricultural
unrversity and/or SBcEB of Directorate of Agriculture.
>
U,



ANNEX 14
Page 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Economic Impact and Rate of Return
1.        Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type of project
is difficult since the expected benefits of improved agricultural practices,
which also require additional inputs, cannot be attributed solely to exten-
sion and research. Moreover, there is not enough experience in West Bengal
to estimate acceptance rates with any degree of accuracy. However, there is
no doubt that, the substantial improvement in the efficiency of utilization of
existing resources, which would be brought about by the project, would gen-
erate a high rate of return. To illustrate this, two tests have been per-
formed. The first, calculates the economic rate of return assuming that only
25% of farmers (area) participate by year 7 and that their yields would be no
more than 75% of those now obtained at the best operational farms. The second,
calculates the increase in rice yields required to generate a 50% economic rate
of return on the incremental costs involved.
2.        The attached Table 1 shows that if only 25% of farmers participate
and if their yields are no more than 75% of those now obtained at best opera-
tional farms, the benefit stream would greatly exceed the cost stream and
the rate of return would exceed 100%. The attached Table 2 shows that to
realize a 50% economic rate of return, annual incremental production value by
year 7, at 1976 prices, would need to reach about Rs 151 M (US$16.7 M).  This
could be achieved with an annual increase in rice production of about 83,000
tons statewide, equivalent to an average yield increase of 15 kg/ha (22 kg/ha
paddy). Experience with reorganized extension services in other States of
India suggests that there would be little risk that yields would not increase
by an average of at least 15 kg/ha. The following shows yields now obtained
on the best farmers' fields and projected yield increases under the project:



ANNEX 14
Page 2
Present
Present   Present   Yields (on        ----Year 5---
Area     Yields        Best         Without       With
(M/ha)  (Average)    Fields) /a   Project         Project /b
-- -       - -- - - - - -Tons/Ha-- - - - - - - - - -
Rice         5.4        1.1
Aman       4.0        1.1         2.5             1.3          1.5
Aus        1.0        1.0         2.0            1.0           1.2
Boro       0.4        2.5         5.0            2.7           3.0
Wheat        0.4        2.0         4.0             2.2          2.4
Pulses       0.6        0.6         1.2             0.6          0.8
Oilseeds    0.2         0.4         1.0             0.4          0.5
------ Year 10----
Rice
Aman                                              1.4          1.8
Aus                                              1.1           1.5
Boro                                             2.8           3.5
Wheat                                               2.3          2.8
Pulses                                              0.6          2.0
Oilseeds                                            0.4          0.7
/a   Shows average on best farmers' fields, lower than could be obtained
under research conditions, but illustrative of potential.
/b   Projected average yield on irrigated and unirrigated areas.  In
year 5, using improved cultural practices and some improved varieties
and fertilizer, particularly on irrigated areas. In year 10, only
improved varieties or HYV, with at least 80% of the area well
fertilized;
Ass ump tions
3.        The life of the project is assumed to be 20 years and no residual
value is attributed after that period.
4.         In deriving the cost stream, extension, research and training costs
have been aggregated (Tables 1 and 2). No scrap values have been placed on
buildings and equipment. Financial prices have been used on all cost items.
The shadow exchange component is small; shadow pricing of foreign exchange
cost would have a negligible effect on the result.
5.        The benefit stream and conversion to a yield figure have been
derived on the following assumptions:



ANNEX 14
Page 3
(a) that all benefits would be derived from rice (the area
presently under paddy is estimated at 5.4 M ha 1/).
(b) an economic price of rice of Rs 2267/ton based on
Bank Commodity Price Forecasts, May 17, 1976
(Table 3). This has been adjusted to reflect the
incremental operating costs of producing an incre-
mental ton of rice, estimated at Rs 440.
(c) benefits would accrue as follows:
Year                         Percentage
1                            nil
2                             10
3                             30
4                             60
5                             80
6                             90
7 Onwards                    100
1/   While cropped area would increase, some swith to other crops is
expected so that rice area will remain fairly constant.



ANNEX 14
Table 
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Economic Analysis
--------------------------- COSTS ----------------- ------ BENEFITS-----------   NET
Incremental   Upgrading   Incremental   Annual    e of Ultimate                 BENEFIT
Extension     Training    Research        Total     Benefits          Annual
YEAR     Costs          Centers     Costs          Cost       kchieved          Benefit
--------------------(Rs. Million)-----------                          (Rs Million)-
1.       20.66          2.42        18.31          41.39        ---               --       (41)
2.       35.17          5.51        31.28          71.96        10               185       113
3.       26.05          2.36        19.93          48.34        30              555        507
4.       15.51           .52          7.79         23.82        60            1,110      1,086
5.       13.61           .52         6.98          21.11        80            1,480      1,459
6.       13.39           .52          5.53         19.44        90            1,665      1,646
7.       13.39           .52         5.53          19.44       100            1,8502/   1,831
8-20     16.15           .80         7.96          24.91       100            1,8502/   1,825
1/ Assumptions to derive benefit-stream are:
a!                a!               b/
Present    Present-/  Present Yields-    Incremental-/  Incremental-/ IncrementalA/
Area a/    Yield      on Best Fields      Yield           Production    Production Value
Mrha       - -----------tons/ha---------------               M tons          M Rs
Rice            5.4        1.1
Aman          4.0       1.1             2.5                0.77            0.77 X             2/
Aus           1.0        1.0            2.0                0.5             0.12 I         1850:-
Boro          0.4       2.5             5.0                1.25            0.12 X
Wheat           0.4        2.0            4.0                1.0             0.1  I
I
Pulses          0.6        0.6            1.2                0.3             0.04        Excluded
Oilseeds        0.2        0.4            1.0                0.35            0.01 I
a! Annex 14, Page 2;
b/ Assumes that yields reach 75% of those now obtained on best farmers' fields;
c/ Assumes that by year 7 only 25% of the farmers (area) participate, and that remainder
will be in the "without project" situation;
d/ Based on an economic price of rice of Rs. 2267/ton, adjusted to reflect the incremental
costs of producing an additional ton of rice, estimated at Rs. 440/ton.



TNDfA
WEST BENGAL AGRTCULTURAL EXTENSTON AND RFSEARChi PROJECT
Economtc Analysl s
-------------------------COSTS----------------------------   -----------------UBl.NFITS---------------
Incremental   Upgrading   Incremental   Annual   Cost           % of Ultimate                Present Value
Extension     Training    Researcli      Totall    DIscoIntCd   Ben efIts        Discount        of
YEAR     Costa          Centers     COsts          Cost       at -50%    Achiieved         Factor     Benefits
------------------------(RH. Million)----------------------
1.       20.66         2.42         18.31          41.39       27.56       --              0.666         --
2.       35.17         5.51         31.28          71.96       31.95       10              0.444        0.044
3.       26.05         2.36         19.93          48.34       14.31       30              0.296        0.088
4.       15.51           .52         7.79          23.82        4.69       60               0.197       0.118
5.       13.61           .52         6.98          21.11        2.76       80              0.131        0.105
6.       13.39           .52         5.53          19.44        1.69       90               0.087       0.078
7.       13.39           .52         5.53          19.44        1.13      100              0.058        0.058
8-20     16.15           .80         7.96          24.91        1.94      100               0.078       0.078
86.03,                                   0.569
The annual incremental revenue from rice (in 1976'prices) required from year 7 onwards to achieve a 50% rate -:
of return is Rs 8603 M  or Rs 151 M.  Based on an economic price for rice of Rs. 1827/ton (para5b ), this is equival4nt
to 82,700 tons or 15 kg/ha.
0 



INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
I/
Economic Price of Rice
2/                             Rs./Ton        Rs./Ton      TTSI /Ton
Price milled rice 25%-35% broken f.o.b. Bangkok                                                                 234
add c.i.f. to Calcutta and handling to wholesale market                                                       35
Price in Calcutta wholesale market                                                  2,421            269
3/
less transport, mill to wholesale market                                       50.7
less handling and margins 4/                                                   3603
87.0
Millgate price (milled rice)                                                                2334
less transport farm to mill 5/                                                 22.7
less milling and handling 6/                                                   45'5
67.2
Farmgate price paddy in rice equivalent                                             2,267            252
1/ Assumes Calcutta as consumption center;
2/ Bank Commodity Price Forecasts, May 17, 1976; 1985 forecast for milled rice 5% brokens at US$359.4/ton x 0.65 for
price of 25%-35% brokens;
3/ Say 100 Km haul at Rs. 0.67/qtl for 15 Km plus Rs. 0.04/qtl/km above 15 Km;
T/ At 190 Calcutta price;
3/ Rs. 1.5/qtl of paddy;
6/ Rs. 20/ton/paddy for milling, plus Rs. 10/ton/paddy commission and other charges.
s    6M
A-ugust 6, 1976                                                                                                          X >



INDIA
WEST BENGAL - AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
|         ICAR   |-.   - _ _ U LAGRtCU-TURAL UNtVERSITY                                       PROJECT DIRECTORATE
COMMISSIONER, AGRICULTURE
_4_ _ _ _      _  _ _ __ _ _ _ _    AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
I                                                        DIRECTOR OF AGRICULTURE 
I          -.~               ~ ~                  -F
ADDITIONAL DIRECTOR AGRICULTURE         ADDITIONAL DIRECTOR AGRICULTURE
EVALUATION                        IRESEARCHI                       |       I EXTENSHONI
UNIT                             . 
_      _               i ~~~~~~ZONAL RE SEARCH                                                                                         DISTRICT (171
COMMODITY ORIENTED                        STATIONS                                                                                                                     _
FRESEARCH STATIONS                          HIL TEAONE                                                                                    F RMEI      __.|PINCIPAL/I.1-TRICT AGRiCULTURAL OFFICER
PULSES AND OILSEEDS                       OLD ALLUVIUM                                     TRAINING CENTERS (7)
-HORTISCULTUREZ N
-SUGARCANE                                  NEW ALLUVIUM
CROP PRODUCTION, V/HEAT                   ZONE                                                                         L                            WATER MANAGEMENT        ENTOMOLOGIST/,
-WATER MANAGEMENT         _            -CLATERITIC ZONE                                                                              AGRONOMIST       SPECIALIST             PATHOLOGIST
SUBDIVISION (50)
SUSOIVISIONAL AGRICULTURAL
OFFICER
I_______________________1___                                                    _ IEXPERIMENTAL              r
I   ( CROP FRODUC-|   SMS            ( PLANT
AEOGS 14501
VLWS /4000)1
6 FARMER UNITS              320,000 CONTACT FARMERS
10CNTC  FRES/NIT             4 MILLION PARM FAMIMLIES
100-150 FARM FAMILIES/UNIT
The SMS,s shown ade -ndreave Onl- The number and specralwrV would
depend on condiTions prevailing in each DisIrici and Subdivision.
W.Irnd B..k-16449-



AIGHAI 5-,~ ~ ~ ~ ~          8''88 
S  ,Th85E,               ~~~~~~N    E   P   A   L                                            B   H   U   T  A   N
PAKISTAN' ~ ~ ~        ~        ~        ~ ~ ~ DAjEJ
7   IN D   A'CR~- 
N.J~~~~~~~~~~,-                                                                          J li>  LP(AII  4R 
Sec                                                     N                  ""'k       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COa0C H   IBIH AR'b
26-~~~~~~~~~~~ 26
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION                                             
AND RESEARCH PROJECT                                     <
Agro-climatic zones, Agricultural districts,I
Research stations and  Train'ing  centers                         ",0
A ZONAL RESEARCH STAT.IONS                                  I  WN$ A        
*   AL. TRAINING CENTERS                                      INAJU
HILL ZONE 
___TERAI ZONE                                                           RAtuRGHATg 
- OLD ALLUVIUM ZONE25
-25-  ~  ~        -NRA' ALOJORM1. ZO,E                                 PB     LD)AT
LATE9TI "IONEAENL                                               J
C~~OASTAL SAL[NE ZONE                                                                              7
-O---   IS7RIE" BOUNDARIES
- .-STAVE HOAINDARIES 
* INTERNA-IONAL BOUADAT ES                   '\ "2
16  H  A~~~~~~~~
- Jp
I R a H U AA/ItRA
c-n
'-N ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~7
2                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A DI Af 
KHRISINANAR? 
'4...-..                                         QEURDIN~~      ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~A.  C F.LIA1
2    ~              F       N        Gt    A's IAAN K U?ARAA
I    1                                                           'I Calcuoc ,
½'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'I
330                                                       24 PAROAN~~~~~~~~~L  4-ASGANA
(SOUTH) NORTH
o    R    /   S    £   A  r   1  MIDNAPORE)EAST)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NREDRAUI
A~~~~
0         20         Co                             
MILESF 
B AY    B 00F           BENAG  AL          ERI2-



