boy r nnvDocument of
FILE. Cur l                            The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL US]E ONLY
Report No. P-1938-IN
REPORT AND RECONIVDENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR A
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
March 10, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as at September 24, 1976)
Rs 1.00             =            Paise 100
US$1.00             =            Rs 8.77
Rs 1.00             =            US$0.1140
Rs 1 million        =            US$114,000
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been officially
valued relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these
currencies are now floating, the US Dollar/Rupee exchange
rate is subject to change. Conversions in the Appraisal
Report were made at US$1 to Rs 9.00.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AEO    -  Agricultural Extension Officer/s
ARDC   -  Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
DAO    -   District Agricultural Officer/s
GOI    -   Government of India
GOWB   -   Government of West Bengal
ICAR   -   Indian Council of Agricultural Research
PCC    -   Policy Coordinating Committee
PPIC   -   Program Planning and Implementation Committee
SAO    -   Subdivisional Agricultural Officers
SMS    -   Subject Matter Specialist/s
VLW    -   Village Level Worker/s
CROP SEASONS AND RICE CROPS
Kharif     -   rainy season      -    June     -    October
rabi       -   dry season        -    October  -    March
aman rice  -   Transplanted      -    July     -    August
Harvested        -    November -    December



FOR OFFICUAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed de-
velopment credit to India for the equivalent of US$12 million on standard
IDA terms to help finance a project for the strengthening and expansion
of West Bengal's agricultural extension services and upgrading of its
adaptive research facilities. The proceeds of this credit would be channeled
to the Government of West Bengal in accordance with the Government of India's
standard terms and arrangements for financing of state development projects.
PART I  -  THE ECONOMY -/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(1073-IN dated March 29, 1976), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 2, 1976. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size and diversity; the country is divided into more than 20 States with
a population of some 600 million and over 60 languages. The country's poverty
and inadequate domestic savings, together with a net transfer of external
resources averaging over the past five years only about US$1.20 per person
per annum, have imposed sharp limitations on the rate of growth. Account must
be taken, also, of the uncertainties imposed by the erratic availability of
water. A bad monsoon, which is likely to occur about two years out of every
five, has a pervasive influence over the entire economy and can wipe out the
results of years of efforts. Thus, the annual growth of national income over
the last five years (1971/72 - 1975/76), which included two consecutive mon-
soon failures, has averaged only 2% per annulm, less than the rate of popula-
tion increase.
4.        Since Independence, progress has been impressive on many fronts,
but disappointing on others, and generally has fallen short of India's mas-
sive needs. The growth of the socio-economic infrastructure (transport,
education, health services, etc.) has been impressive, but has often been
achieved at high cost and has yielded results of variable quality. Many
industrial and agricultural investment schemwes have been highly successful,
1/   Parts I and II of this report are the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Madras Urbarn Development Project (Report
No. P-1944-IN), dated February 24, 1977.
This document has  re tricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discloed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
industrial and agricultural investment schemes have been highly successful,
but others have taken excessively long to be completed and have operated
well below full capacity. In some regions of the country, growth and struc-
tural change have been rapid and compare favorably with developments in many
other parts of the world, but in other regions there has been stagnation and
possibly even decline. Although national income has increased in most years,
there has been in general little impact upon the living standards of the vast
masses of the urban and rural population. In recent years, the Government
has initiated a variety of programs specifically directed toward helping the
lower income strata, which - conservatively measured - consist of some 200
million people with incomes of less than US$60 per head per year.
5.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change.  Agriculture
remains the dominant sector, with its share of national product declining
only gradually from about 50% to 42% over the last twenty years. The share
of industry has increased only slowly and, since the late 1960s, has remained
approximately constant at about 23%. There has, however, been a shift in the
composition of industrial production, with consumer, intermediate, and capital
goods now contributing about one third each, compared with an overwhelming
preponderance of consumer goods 25 years ago.
Recent Trends
6.        India entered 1975/76 having been through one of the most difficult
periods since Independence. Progress in dealing with long-term development
problems had been limited by poor crops, the dramatic shifts against India in
the terms of trade, and inflation. Adjustments to these immediate difficul-
ties thus became the principal preoccupation in economic management. However,
with the support of favorable weather and additional foreign assistance, it
now appears that India has successfully weathered the problems of the recent
past; once again there is the basis for an upturn in the growth rate of the
economy.
7.        MIost important among the favorable factors have been a bumper har-
vest which followed years of poor or modest agricultural output. Foodgrain
production in 1975/76, estimated at around 117 million tons, exceeded the
previous record of 1970/71 by 8%.  Oilseeds, sugarcane and cotton also reached
new production peaks and provided ample supplies for the agro-industries. In
1976/77 a good harvest is again expected of at least 110 million tons of food-
grains. Secondly, deficiencies in the supply of basic commodities and of in-
frastructural inputs such as energy and transport, which had been prevalent in
the past, have been eased. Electricity generation and domestic production of
coal, oil, cement and steel all increased by over 10% during 1975/76 and by a
further 15% in the first eight months of 1976/77. Finally, the increased
supply of agricultural and industrial products and of services, together with
the demand restraint imposed by the Government since mid-1974, put a virtual
stop to inflation.  From April 1975 to March 1976 the Wholesale Price Index
fell by 8.1%.  Although from April to September 1976 the Index rose by 11%',
it was still 5% lower in September 1976 than in September 1974.



- 3 -
8.        On the balance of payments front there have been a number of en-
couraging developments. Firstly, the rapid build-up of foodgrain stocks to
a level of 17 million tons by December 1976 provides a buffer against the
impact of a future crop failure on the balance of payments and has reduced
current import requirements. Secondly, despite generally unfavorable world
trading conditions, export earnings rose by 9% in 1975/76, and seem likely to
rise by more than this in 1976/77. Thirdly, the value of petroleum imports
was stabilized in 1975/76 (although there is likely to be a rise in 1976/77),
and steel imports have been progressively reduced in 1975/76 and 1976/77 as
a result of increased domestic production. Finally, increased production
and lowered world prices have reduced fertilizer import values quite sharply.
As a result of these factors, imports rose only 5% in value in 1975/76 and
the trade deficit fell by almost $100 million. Developments so far in 1976/
77 suaggest a more dramatic improvement in the trade balance this year. More-
over, since net aid rose 49% in 1975/76 and India received substantial in-
flows of private remittances during the past one and a half years, reserves
rose by almost $800 million in 1975/76, and are continuing to rise at a com-
parable rate in 1976/77. These reserves give India added flexibility in
adjusting to a higher rate of growth in the future.
Development Prospects
9.        While many of the most acute problems were eased during 1975/76,
longer-term constraints to growth remain.  lany of these have existed for
some time, but their importance had been temporarily overshadowed by the more
overwhelming limitations imposed by supply sihortages and balance of payments
problems. One such constraint is the deficiency of demand for a large seg-
ment of the manufacturing industry. Consequently, in the midst of adequate
supplies during 1975/76, the use of manufacturing capacity - especially for
consumer durables - remained low. In the short and medium term, the two most
promising ways of stimulating demand are to boost public investment and ex-
panci exports. Both avenues are currently being pursued by the Government.
Dur-Lng 1975/76, real Plan outlay rose by 18-20%, after having fallen during
each of the previous two years. The 1976/77 Budget proposed a further in-
crease of 16% in real terms and introduced new measures to stimulate invest-
mentL in the private sector. Investment priorities remained the same as in
1975/76, namely agricultural development and increased production of critical
industrial inputs, such as power, coal, oil, and iron and steel.  The Budget
also stressed the importance of exports as an essential condition for sus-
tained stability in the balance of payments.
10.       In agriculture, the basic problem remains that, despite the record
foodgrain crop in 1975/76, the long-term growth rate of foodgrain production
in India has been unacceptably low, at about 2.3% per annum over the last 15
years. This is about the same as the rate of population increase. Starting
from a situation of deficit, this has meant that only in good years has there
been a significant margin of production to cater to any per capita growth in
consumption, and even in normal years it has been necessary to rely on stocks
or imports to meet any growth in demand. With a major effort to expand the
irrigated area and provide complementary inputs, the average growth rate of
focdgrain production could be substantially increased. This is essential,



- 4 -
not only because of the necessity to meet food requirements without unmanage-
able consequences for the balance of payments but also because of the strong
influence of agriculture on the levels of activity in other sectors of the
economy. Even with a higher growth rate of foodgrain production, imports
will still be required. However, in relation to India's total consumption of
foodgrains, the dependence on imports has been and will remain small. In the
past, domestic production has accounted for almost 100% of supplies in good
weather years and about 90% when harvests were poor.
11.       The energy sector in India was characterized by shortages even
before the international oil crisis developed. The dramatic hike in oil
prices, coinciding as it did with the accentuation of electric power
shortages - caused in part by low hydroelectric generation due to poor
monsoons - led to an acceleration of measures to improve performance of
existing facilities and to a much higher priority for investments in the
energy sector. The effects of these measures, aided by the good monsoon,
are now starting to be felt. Coal production has increased by 10% or more in
each of the last two years, and, partly as a result of this, power shortages
and restrictions have been greatly reduced. The medium-term prospects for
oil and natural gas have improved with the delineation of the offshore Bombay
High field. Crude production from this field is expected to be 1 million
tons in 1976/77 and to reach 6 million tons by the end of the Plan period.
On this basis, petroleum imports are projected to start declining in 1978/79,
as increased crude production and expanded refinery output more than offset
increases in demand.
12.       In the past, export growth was affected in varying degrees by in-
adequate profitability, lack of access to imported inputs, poor quality,
instability of the policy environment and vulnerability to ad hoc decisions.
In addition, for agricultural commodities export taxes were significant.
For some homogeneous commodities, such as iron ore and tea, inadequate sup-
plies or limited world demand have been important constraints. In recent
years, mainly because of the large trade deficit, the Government's emphasis
on export promotion has intensified. As a result, although the fundamental
orientation of India's industrial and trade policy and the specific instru-
ments of the export regime have, by and large, remained the same, a signi-
ficant shift in emphasis and in the way these policies are operated has oc-
curred. These are likely to lead to a better utilization of current export
potential and reflect a willingness to make policy adjustments, when neces-
sary, to expand exports.
13.       While it is difficult to assess the impact of the new measures in
an area where policy is already very complex, some improvement has already
taken place and further improvement in medium-term performance seems likely.
An annual real export growth rate of over 7% should be feasible, compared
to an average of 5% over the last five years. However, to achieve a higher
export growth over the long run, more far-reaching policy measures will be
required, including the introduction of a more uniform and more stable sys-
tem of export incentives. Even so, the export drive might be impeded by
controls in some developed markets.



14.       India's balance of payments problems should be manageable over
the next few years, even with the repayment obligations resulting from re-
cent short-term OPEC and IMF borrowings. The worldwide inflation has bene-
fitted India by reducing the proportion of export earnings that have to be
devoted to debt service. India's debt service ratio has come down from 31%
in 1970/71 to 17% in 1975/76. Provided the real growth of exports remains at
about 7% per annum, the debt service ratio is unlikely to rise much above
20% in the foreseeable future. On the import side, given the adequate level
of stocks on hand at the end of 1975/76 and assuming normal weather condi-
tions, annual foodgrain imports could be kept to 5-6 million tons during the
next three years. Within the general category of non-food imports, India
has substantial medium-term import substitution opportunities for three
major items -- petroleum, fertilizer and steel -- which constituted more
than 60% of imports in 1975/76. If the medium-term targets for production in
these areas are achieved, the total expenditure on these three import items
in 1978/79 need not be any higher than in 1975/76 and could quite conceiva-
bly be less, Provided the Government is willing to liberalize imports and
donors continue to respond to India's needs, the easing in the external
payments situation presents an opportunity to raise the level of investment
(complemented by larger imports of capital goods, components, and raw
materials) and, consequently, reach a more satisfactory level of long-term
growth.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
15.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 49 loans and 80 development
credits to India totalling US$1,751 million and US$4,112 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$799 million has been
repaid, and US$1,606 million was still undisbursed as of January 31, 1977.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of January 31,
1977, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totaling US$58.4
million, of which US$11.9 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$32.0 million, US$25.5 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of January 31, 1977, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
17.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agricuilture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions.. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity ulilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.



-6-
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
18.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. Projects
designed to foster agricultural production through the provision of essential
inputs such as credit for on-farm investments, command area development of
existing irrigation schemes, intensification and streamlining of extension
systems and seed production form an important aspect of the Bank Group's
program for the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to proj-
ects benefitting small farmers. Projects supporting urban water supply and
sewerage, and urban transport also form an integral part of the Bank's lending
strategy to India for the next several years. Lending in support of infra-
structure and industrial investments will focus on agriculture-, export-, and
energy-related projects.
19.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic re-
ports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. Thanks in large
part to the response of the aid community, India has successfully adjusted
to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need for readily
usable foreign exchange assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate
investment and accelerate economic growth remains. Bank Group lending for
critical industrial raw materials and components is likely to continue to be
an element within the overall program of assistance. As in the past, Bank
Group assistance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the
financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity of the domestic capital goods industry.  The import
component of projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas
as agriculture, education, urban development and family planning. For the
Bank Group to be able to make an appropriate contribution to the financing of
projects in these sectors, it is important to cover a proportion of local
expenditures.
20.       It is clear from the review of the Indian economy that as much as
possible of India's external capital requirements should be provided on con-
cessionary terms. Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to
India has been, and should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the
amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small
in relation to India's needs for external support, and some Bank lending
to India, for which the country is creditworthy, is appropriate. As of
January 31, 1977, the loans to India held by the Bank totaled US$976 mil-
lion, of which US$502 million remained to be disbursed, thus leaving a net
amount outstanding of US$474 million.
21.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed bv the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 58%, 24% and 29%,
respectively, in 1975/76.  On 'March 31, 1976, India's outstanding and disbursed



-7-
external public debt was US$13.1 billion of which the Bank Group's share was
25%. The Bank Group's share is expected to remain around this level in the
future. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form
of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will also rise slowly. In
1975/76, about 15% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE IN INDIA AND WEST BENGAL
22.     Agriculture is India's most important sector.  It provides employment
for approximately 70% of the population, contributes about 45% to GNP, and
provides a major share of exports. GOI's emphasis in the agricultural
sector has been on increasing foodgrain output through improved yields re-
sulting from more intensive use of seed of high yielding varieties (HYV),
fertil-izer, pesticides and irrigation. With self-sufficiency in food as a
national objective, investments in foodgrain production have been given top
priority by Government and will continue to be the focus of national atten-
tion for the foreseeable future.
23.     Since independence, the overall growth of agricultural production
has averaged 3% per annum. This rate has been very much affected by serious
droughts in 1965 and 1966 and again in 1972 and 1973 and obscures consider-
able variations over shorter periods, between crops and between regions. The
success of high yielding varieties produced increases in wheat production of
about 20% per annum between 1967 and 1971. This "green revolution" primarily
affected wheat and was concentrated in north western India, very largely on
account of the advanced state of agriculture in that area and the availability
of irrigation. The strategy of the Government is to spread this technology
to other regions, especially to the Eastern States which have a large untapped
agricultural potential and harbor a large proportion of India's poorest far-
mers and agricultural laborers.
Agriculture in the Eastern Region
24.     In support of the Government's strategy, Bank staff have, since
September 1975, been engaged in state-by-state reviews of a number of
Eastern States to analyze the problems and, more importantly, assist in
devising short-term action programs to develop the potential within these
States. These reviews have reconfirmed in some detail much that was
already known about the Region. There is a vast groundwater resource yet
to be developed; and the farm service and supply institutions are in very
poor condition and operate at low levels of effectiveness. But the under-
utilization of modern inputs is first a demand problem rather than one of
availability. Farmers in the Eastern Region are caught in a cycle of low
productivity, low income and low investment. Their holdings are small and
the fragments they cultivate even smaller. They are poorly placed to take
the risks associated with the new but more costly technology. There are
some who have adopted the modern technical package of tubewells, HYV seeds
and fertilizer, but the package is mainly applied on irrigated wheat and



-8-
rice in the dry season. Up to three-quarters of the region's foodgrain,
however, is produced during the monsoon period from traditional varieties
and using traditional cultural practices that minimize the risk of crop
failure but result in low productivity.
25.     These State reviews have also succeeded in identifying short-term
action programs which typically concentrate on re-organizing extension
services, improving adaptive research, accelerating the development of low-
cost shallow tubewells and simple dug wells, and improving the efficiency of
existing public irrigation schemes. With some exceptions, it has not proven
possible to identify parallel measures to strengthen short-term credit and
input supply services in the same time frame because of the weaknesses of
available institutions. However, in the Eastern Region, where few farmers
have experience of modern inputs, credit or irrigation, a rapid shift to a
high-input technology is at best difficult. Rather, as an immediate first
phase, the State reviews have stressed the potential for achieving a signi-
ficant and broadly distributed increase in production by improving basic
cultural practices, using the resources already available to small farmers,
in particular Eastern India's high rainfall and abundant labor.
26.     The key to this development is a strengthening of research and its
re-orientation toward the needs of the small farmer, and a re-organiza-
tion of extension services along lines that have recently proved highly
successful elsewhere in India. First tried in canal commands of three Bank
Group assisted projects in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh (Ln. No. 1011-IN, Cr.
No. 502-IN and Cr. No. 562-IN), where dramatic production increases are being
achieved, the new extension service puts great emphasis on concentration of
efforts, on systematic and regular training, close supervision of staff at all
levels, and a fixed schedule of visits to farmers' groups. Coupled with an
expanded program of adaptive research, the system has the capacity to transmit
appropriate recommendations from the policy maker to the village level quickly
and effectively and at little extra cost to Government. Once farmers have
increased their production and hence gained confidence in the extension
service, they can be expected to adopt better and more costly technology based
on purchased inputs and on-farm investments. Hence, this short-term strategy
may prove an important first step towards breaking the vicious circle of
poverty. If it succeeds, it will create the very demand now lacking for the
inputs of the modern technology.
27.     This project in West Bengal is the second of a series of projects
resulting from the Eastern State reviews. All these projects will have as
their centerpiece a research and extension component. In addition, where
possible and depending on the readiness of State level institutions, there
will be a provision for other components essential for boosting agricultural
production in the short term or laying the groundwork for longer term advances.
West Bengal
28.     Agriculturally, West Bengal is more advanced than some of the other
Eastern States. However, it still suffers from many of the same problems.
With a population of nearly 50 million, it is the second most densely populated



- 9 -
State in India. Despite its relatively small size, it ranks fourth in India's
foodgrain production (first in rice), and accounts for 60% of India's jute
and 25% of its tea. Although the State has the second largest industrial
base in India, centered around Calcutta, agriculture provides nearly 50%
of the State's income and accounts for nearly 60% of statewide employment.
29.     Many of the difficulties of raising agricultural productivity in
West Bengal stem from the large number of small farms. About 82% of hold-
ings comprising 47% of the cultivable land, are of less than 2 hectares, many
of which are fragmented. Despite land tenure legislation, it is estimated
that about 40% of West Bengal farmers are share-croppers or tenants. Produc-
tion of foodgrains (rice and wheat) in the decade to 1974/75 increased at
about 3.5% per annum to 7.4 million tons. Preliminary estimates for 1975/76
indicate a record harvest of about 8 million tons.
30.     Growth in foodgrain production in West Bengal has come mainly from
increases in cropped area and yields of irrigated rabi (dry season) crops,
which constitute only 17% of the area harvested. In contrast, yields of
the main kharif (wet season) crops (rice and jute) and of crops grown on
residual moisture (pulses and oilseeds), constituting about 83% of the area
harvested, have remained more or less static for the past decade. Kharif
rice (aman) is the major crop in West Bengal (4.8 million tons in 1974/75)
contributing over two-thirds of total foodgrain production and involving
the great majority of small farmers. It is, t!herefore, essential that efforts
be concentrated upon increasing the yields of *kharif crops if small farmers
are to benefit.
31.     In 1972, GOI requested Bank Group assistance to cover the first phase
of a wide-ranging agricultural and rural development project in West Bengal,
which ultimately resulted in 1975 in a US$34 million credit (West Bengal
Agricultural Development Project - Credit 541-IN) which supports a four-
year agricultural development scheme in six of West Bengal's seventeen dis-
tricts. The primary emphasis of this project is on minor irrigation, includ-
ing the development of shallow tubewells by individuals or groups of farmers
and development of deep tubewells and river lifts. Also included are a number
of agro-service centers to improve input distribution and a pilot agricultural
markets component. Finally, the project provides for the reorganization of
existing extension services in the six project districts. The project as a
whole has experienced delays in implementation of the minor irrigation compo-
nent as a result of poor coordination and the failure of the local banking
system to provide credit. Following recommendations of a recent supervision
mission, the GOWB has taken steps to strengthen project coordination and
management. Though implementation is expected to improve considerably, the
project will continue to be closely monitored. In sharp contrast to the
pace of project implementation overall, the extension component has made
considerable progress and has already produced encouraging results.
32.     This has led to the present project which is designed to support
the State Government's recent decision to reorganize extension services and
to extend the new system to the whole state. Prior to the initial phase of
the reorganization, in July 1975, 75% of West Bengal's extension workers



- 10 -
were under the charge of the Department of Community Development and the
balance with the Department of Agriculture on special crop schemes. In
theory all extension workers were devoting their energies primarily to
agriculture. In practice, they were saddled with many non-agricultural
duties including health, nutrition, family planning, procurement and col-
lection of statistics and other administrative tasks. Their areas of
jurisdiction, covering on average 2,000 farm families or more, were too
large to permit them to provide effective services. Regular farmer contact
was impossible with no provision for transport or suitable accomodation in
proximity to their assignments. Lines of responsibility were multiple and
confused. Supervision of agricultural extension work was inadequate as
there were too few supervisors in relation to village level workers. In
brief, the extension worker was not performing a useful agricultural
service. Consequently, farmers were neither seeking, nor responsive to,
his counsel and the morale of extension staff was extremely low. Moreover,
there was a lack of coordination between research and extension which was
detrimental to both disciplines. Without the link with research the mes-
sage extension workers were trying to convey remained static and stale.
Similarly, without the problems of the farmer being relayed back to
research institutions much of the research undertaken remained academic.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.     The project was prepared by a Government of West Bengal (GOWB)
working group assisted by Bank staff and consultants during 1975. It was
appraised by IDA in May/June 1976. The Appraisal Report No. 1288a-IN, dated
March 10, 1977 is being distributed separately. Negotiations were held in
Washington in January 1977. The negotiating delegation for India was headed
by Mir. B. R. Gupta, Chief Secretary, GOWB. A credit and project summary is
attached as Annex III.
34.     The proposed project entails, over a five year-period, the expansion
and strengthening of West Bengal's reorganized agricultural extension serv-
ices to provide farmers, on a regular and systematic basis, with up-to-date
advice on farming practices having an immediate impact on yields. The proj-
ect would upgrade West Bengal's adaptive research facilities, which would be
reoriented towards the current and practical needs of farmers, and which would
be closely linked to the extension effort. The proposed project would provide
additional extension staff and housing, transport, training fellowships and
facilities for extension staff. Research services would benefit through
improved laboratory facilities, additional staff and equipment. A project
component would also provide for monitoring and evaluating project impact.
35.       As the proposed project entails the efficient delivery of a useful
message to West Bengal's predominantly small farmers, it can best be described
in answering the following questions: (i) How will the message be formulated?
(ii) How will it be delivered? (iii) How will it be kept relevant and up to
date? (iv) How will the whole process be supervised and monitored?



- 9 -
State in India. Despite its relatively small size, it ranks fourth in India's
foodgrain production (first in rice), and accounts for 60% of India's jute
and 25% of its tea. Although the State has the second largest industrial
base in India, centered around Calcutta, agriculture provides nearly 50%
of the State's income and accounts for nearly 60% of statewide employment.
29.     Many of the difficulties of raising agricultural productivity in
West Bengal stem from the large number of small farms. About 82% of hold-
ings comprising 47% of the cultivable land, are of less than 2 hectares, many
of which are fragmented. Despite land tenure legislation, it is estimated
that about 40% of West Bengal farmers are share-croppers or tenants. Produc-
tion of foodgrains (rice and wheat) in the decade to 1974/75 increased at
about 3.5% per annum to 7.4 million tons. Preliminary estimates for 1975/76
indicate a record harvest of about 8 million tons.
30.     Growth in foodgrain production in West Bengal has come mainly from
increases in cropped area and yields of irrigated rabi (dry season) crops,
which constitute only 17% of the area harvested. In contrast, yields of
the main kharif (wet season) crops (rice and jute) and of crops grown on
residual moisture (pulses and oilseeds), constituting about 83% of the area
harvested, have remained more or less static for the past decade.  Kharif
rice (aman) is the major crop in West Bengal (4.8 million tons in 1974/75)
contributing over two-thirds of total foodgrain production and involving
the great majority of small farmers. It is, therefore, essential that efforts
be concentrated upon increasing the yields of kharif crops if small farmers
are to benefit.
31.     In 1972, GOI requested Bank Group assistance to cover the first phase
of a wide-ranging agricultural and rural development project in W4est Bengal,
which ultimately resulted in 1975 in a US$34 million credit (West Bengal
Agricultural Development Project - Credit 541-IN) which supports a four-
year agricultural development scheme in six of West Bengal's seventeen dis-
tricts. The primary emphasis of this project is on minor irrigation, includ-
ing the development of shallow tubewells by individuals or groups of farmers
and development of deep tubewells and river lifts. Also included are a number
of agro-service centers to improve input distribution and a pilot agricultural
markets component. Finally, the project provides for the reorganization of
existing extension services in the six project districts. The project as a
whole has experienced delays in implementation of the minor irrigation compo-
nent as a result of poor coordination and the failure of the local banking
system to provide credit. Following recommendations of a recent supervision
mission, the GOWB has taken steps to strengthen project coordination and
management. Though implementation is expected to improve considerably, the
project will continue to be closely monitored. In sharp contrast to the
pace of project implementation overall, the extension component has made
considerable progress and has already produced encouraging results.
32.     This has led to the present project which is designed to support
the State Government's recent decision to reorganize extension services and
to extend the new system to the whole state. Prior to the initial phase of
the reorganization, in July 1975, 75% of West Bengal's extension workers



- 10 -
were under the charge of the Department of Community Development and the
balance with the Department of Agriculture on special crop schemes. In
theory all extension workers were devoting their energies primarily to
agriculture. In practice, they were saddled with many non-agricultural
duties including health, nutrition, family planning, procurement and col-
lection of statistics and other administrative tasks. Their areas of
jurisdiction, covering on average 2,000 farm families or more, were too
large to permit them to provide effective services. Regular farmer contact
was impossible with no provision for transport or suitable accomodation in
proximity to their assignments. Lines of responsibility were multiple and
confused. Supervision of agricultural extension work was inadequate as
there were too few supervisors in relation to village level workers. In
brief, the extension worker was not performing a useful agricultural
service. Consequently, farmers were neither seeking, nor responsive to,
his counsel and the morale of extension staff was extremely low. Moreover,
there was a lack of coordination between research and extension which was
detrimental to both disciplines. Without the link with research the mes-
sage extension workers were trying to convey remained static and stale.
Similarly, without the problems of the farmer being relayed back to
research institutions much of the research undertaken remained academic.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.     The project was prepared by a Government of West Bengal (GOWB)
working group assisted by Bank staff and consultants during 1975. It was
appraised by IDA in May/June 1976. The Appraisal Report No. 1288a-IN, dated
March 10, 1977 is being distributed separately. Negotiations were held in
Washington in January 1977. The negotiating delegation for India was headed
by Mr. B. R. Gupta, Chief Secretary, GOWB. A credit and project summary is
attached as Annex III.
34.     The proposed project entails, over a five year-period, the expansion
and strengthening of West Bengal's reorganized agricultural extension serv-
ices to provide farmers, on a regular and systematic basis, with up-to-date
advice on farming practices having an immediate impact on yields. The proj-
ect would upgrade West Bengal's adaptive research facilities, which would be
reoriented towards the current and practical needs of farmers, and which would
be closely linked to the extension effort. The proposed project would provide
additional extension staff and housing, transport, training fellowships and
facilities for extension staff. Research services would benefit through
improved laboratory facilities, additional staff and equipment. A project
component would also provide for monitoring and evaluating project impact.
35.       As the proposed project entails the efficient delivery of a useful
message to West Bengal's predominantly small farmers, it can best be described
in answering the following questions:  (i) How will the message be formulated?
(ii) How will it be delivered? (iii) How will it be kept relevant and up to
date? (iv) How will the whole process be supervised and monitored?



- 11 -
Formulating the Message
36.     The Commissioner and Secretary for Agriculture is West Bengal's
senior agricultural officer. Under him the Department of Agriculture, headed
by the Director of Agriculture, administers a system which consists of six
agricultural ranges into which the states 17 districts are divided.  Under
the proposed project the District Agricultural Officers (DAO) and their tech-
nical staff would supervise 50 newly appointed subdivisional agricultural
officers (SAO) who would be assisted by Subject Matter Specialists (SMS).
The SA0s would be solely responsible for super-vising the work of 450 Agri-
cultural Extension Officers (AEO) who in turn would supervise the 4,000
Village Level Workers (VLW). The VLWs who are at the base of the pyramid
are the most critical link of the extension chain.  They are now all united
in the Department of Agriculture and working under a unified command since
the abolition of special crop schemes.
37.     For each crop season basic extension guidelines and district-wise
plans would be formulated on the basis of a series of meetings starting at
the subdivisional level. The focus would be on the principal crops in each
area with a view to identifying and defining a limited set of improved
agricultural practices which would have a noticeable i-mpact on yields.
Initially, efforts would be concentrated on making better use of available
resources instead of promoting increased use of purchased inputs. The
practices concentrated upon would include better land and seed bed prepara-
tion, improved nursery maintenance, use of good seed, seed treatments, pro-
per spacing of plants and proper scheduling of such operations as planting,
replanting and weeding.
38.     The resultant district-wise plans would be collated and summarized
for the Commissioner and Secretary for Agriculture by the Director of Agri-
culture and the Additional Directors for Agricultural Extension and
Research. Their recommendations would be reviewed by the Program Planning
and Implementation Committee (PPIC) which is chaired by the Commissioner
and Secretary for Agriculture and includes research and extension staff
concerned, as well as the head of the Socio-Economic and Evaluation Branch
of the Directorate of Agriculture, and representatives of the Finance
Department and the Agricultural University.  The PPIC would meet at least
four times a year to review seasonal extension and research results,
particularly field trials and demonstrations and to approve (i) a basic
program for additional field trials; (ii) detailed district programs for
extension; (iii) an annual program of proven field demonstration practices.
The PPIC would also assess input and credit supply requirements (See
Sections 1.01 (a) and 2.09 (a) of the Project Agreement). PPIC would
review any further measures required to improve coordination between
research and extension.
Delivery of the Message
39.     Once formulated, the message would be conveyed, again through a series
of meetings, to the VLW for transmittal to an estimated 4 million farm fami-
lies. Each VLW would cover about 800 to 1,200 farm families divided into



- 12 -
eight groups of 100 to 150 families, the numbers varying according to popula-
tion density and distances involved. From within each group VLW would select
10 to 15 contact farmers in consultation with farmers themselves. Selection
would be from among farmers of all categories who are known to be of potential
influence and willing to adapt the new extension methodology. The VLW would
visit each group once every fortnight on a fixed day of the week. At each
location, he would work primarily through the contact farmers. In the morning
he would tour the farmers fields and in the afternoon he would hold a meeting
in the village at a predetermined hour. The VLW in turn would meet with his
supervisor, the AEO, once every fortnight to learn the recommended practices
to be transmitted to farmers' during the next two weeks and to bring to the
AEO's attention special problems encountered by farmers. At these meetings
the AEO would be supported by the SMS and by the staff of research stations.
In addition, the AEO would join each VLW once every fortnight to supervise
his field work. The housing and transport provided under the project would
make it possible for AEOs to cover efficiently the groups assigned to them.
The number of extension workers, supportive technical staff and supervisory
staff would be increased as necessary for effective project implementation.
Keeping the Message Up to Date
40.     The message would be kept relevant and up to date primarily through
a reoriented and expanded adaptive research effort and through expansion and
improvement of training facilities for extension workers. Research results
would be transmitted to AEOs through the Administrative machinery described
above (paras 36-39), and equally importantly there would be a reverse flow to
the research organizations of information about practical problems encountered
by the VLW.
41.       Research.  The principal institutions devoted to agricultural re-
search in West Bengal are the Department of Agriculture, the Agricultural
University, and the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). The
recently established Agricultural University in Kalyani is devoted to basic
research but has yet to establish a major effort in this area. The ICAR
conducts basic and applied research on jute, potatoes and water salinity
and in addition finances research schemes by the University and the Depart-
ment of Agriculture. The major adaptive research effort in the State is
conducted by the Agriculture Department.
42.       Under the project the commodity oriented adaptive research program
of the Department of Agriculture would be supported by strengthening five
existing research stations and establishing a new station for crop production
research with emphasis on wheat. In addition, two existing zonal research
substations would be upgraded and four new zonal substations would be es-
tablished. The commodity research program would seek to identify and select
improved varieties of the most important crops obtained from national and
international research institutions as well as a package of economically
significant agronomic practices directed to substantially increasing crop
production of rice, pulses and oilseeds, fruits and vegetables, sugarcane and



- 13 -
wheat. The zonal stations would concentrate on development of improved
cultural practices, suitable for the particular agro-climatic conditions
in their zones, for the major crops recommended by the commodity research
stations. In addition, one Department of Agriculture seed farm in each of
the 50 subdivisions would be converted into an experimental farm. On
these, with the help of extension and research staff, research station
recommendations would be tested and demonstrated to VLWs and local farmers.
The project would include the necessary infrastructure, equipment and in-
cremental operating costs of establishing and strengthening research
stations and experimental farms.
43.       Training and Technical Assistance.  Fortnightly training on the
job of VLW by AEO and monthly training of AEO by district and research staff
would be a routine and important feature of the new system. In addition,
seven existing training centers would be improved and expanded through con-
struction of classrooms, hostels, and housing and provision of staff, teaching
equipment and vehicles. These centers would provide pre-service training for
future VLW and upgrading courses for older VLW. A number of short-term fel-
lowships and longer-term scholarships would also be provided for improving
present extension staff. In order to assist commodity and zonal stations in
upgrading their agricultural research programs and advise on specialized
research and development needs that are likely to arise the project would
provide for 15 man-months of short term consultancies.
44.       Staffing.  The project would entail about 750 staff appointments,
excluding junior level appointments, to strengthen extension, research and
training activity, as well as to provide essential field, laboratory and
office support services during the entire project period. This would be
accomplished by making new appointments and by upgrading existing staff.
The extension component would be strengthened by the appointment of 50 SAOs,
an equal number of Farm Managers and 150 SMSs. Research Staff would increase
from 121 to 260, an increase of 72 and 67, respectively, in the zonal and
commodity oriented station cadres. Additional training staff would account
for approximately 36 new positions. The balance would consist of support
and office staff. Technical extension and research staff, such as district
specialists and SMS, currently have limited avenues of promotion in their
own fields and consequently tend to seek positions as general administrators.
In order that the services of such experienced staff would not be lost,
assurances were sought that GOWB would ensure that they would continue to work
within their own disciplines as required by the Project. (See Section 2.11 of
the Project Agreement).
Project Management and Monitoring
45.       There is no need to establish any new organizations for project
implementation which would be the responsibility of the existing chain of
command in the Department of Agriculture as described in paragraph 36 above.
However, the Department of Agriculture would need to be strengthened by the
addition of a full-time Assistant Director of Agriculture (Research) and a
full-time Joint Director of Agriculture (Extension). To help ensure efficient



- 14 -
and effective implementation of the research and extension programs, it would
be a condition of effectiveness that these appointments had been made (see
Section 5.01(b) of the Credit Agreement). The building component of the
project would be undertaken by a cell to be established within 100 days from
signing of the Agreement within the GOWB Department of Public Works or such
other Department as may be agreed with the Association (see Section 2.12 (c)
of the Project Agreement). Coordination with and cooperation of other De-
partments and agencies would be secured through a Policy Coordinating Com-
mittee (PCC) chaired by the Chief Secretary. The PCC would meet as often as
necessary and would include senior representatives of all relevant State
Government Organizations as well as of GOI, and ICAR (See section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement). To evaluate project impact and to introduce improvements
and modifications as necessary, a program of monitoring and evaluation would
be carried out by the Socio-Economic and Evaluation Branch of the Directorate
of Agriculture in conjunction with the Agricultural University in Kalyani,
West Bengal. Because of the need to have uniform procedures for monitoring
and evaluating this project, the recently negotiated Orissa Agricultural
Development Project (Appraisal Report No. 1301-IN), and other State projects
with an extension and research base, GOI, concerned States, and IDA are
currently working out detailed monitoring and evaluation procedures. These
would be agreed by July 1977. Thereafter, the results of monitoring and
evaluation undertaken would be made available to IDA at least once a year.
(see Section 2.07 (c) of the Project Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
46.       The estimated cost of the proposed project is about US$28.1 mil-
lion, including about US$1.1 millior. of duties and taxes. The principal
components net of contingencies are: strengthening of extension services
(US$12.0 million); upgrading training centers (US$1.1 million), Commodity
and Zonal Research Programs (US$8.5 million) and Evaluation Unit and Farm
Surveys (US$0.2 million). Physical contingencies average about 5% for all
items (US$1.3 million), and price contingencies account for 20% (US$5.0
million). The latter results from the large civil works component (US$11.6
million), for which the annual price escalation has been estimated at around
10-12% for the period from 1977 onwards, and from the length of the project
implementation period (5 years).
47.       The civil works component of the project (US$11.6 million) consists
of the provision of new low-cost housing for about 25% of VLW and 40% of AEO
field extensiDn staff and farm managers, plus necessary buildings for research
and traininq.  The employment of additional administrative, research and
support staff, as well as the upgrading of the existing cadre, would involve
incremental salaries which together with travelling allowances for extension
work account for US$6.9 million. Other operating costs account for US$3.8
million and local and overseas training and consultant services US$1.6 million.
The balance of total project costs would be taken up by vehicles (US$1.1
million), motor bicycles and bicyles (US$0.5 million), scientific equipment
(US$0.9 million), other equipment (US$1.3 million) and land (US$0.4 million).
48.       Of the total cost of US$28.1 million, US$3.5 million equivalent
would be financed under the ongoing West Bengal Agricultural Development



- I5 -
Project-Credit 541-IN (paragraph 31). This consists of US$1.3 million pro-
vided by West Bengal and US$2.2 million provided by IDA under the first proj-
ect for six districts which, with the agreem'ent of the Association, would be
used for the whole state in order to sustain the momentum of the statewide
extension effort. No disbursements would be made under the proposed credit
until these funds have been fully disbursed (see Schedule 1 (4) of the Credit
Agreement). The proposed credit of US$12.0 million would cover about 50% of
the balance of project costs, i.e., US$23.5 million, excluding duties and
taxes. It would cover all foreign exchange costs (approximately US$2.0
million) and about US$10.0 million of local costs. The balance of US$12.6
million equivalent would be financed by GOWB. The proceeds of the credit
would be made available by GOI to GOWB for the use of its Department of
Agriculture on standard terms as part of Central assistance provided to State
Governments for development purposes.
Procurement and Disbursement
49.       Contracts for civil works (US$11.6 million) would be awarded on
the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Association. Civil works contracts would be small, scattered
throughout the State, and spread over time, and would not be suitable for
international competitive bidding.  Mfaximum use of local materials will be
ensured in the construction of housing for extension staff and buildings
for research and training. Designs for low cost housing for each category
of staff would be provided to the Association by GOWB within a specified
time frame (see Section 2.12 (b) of the Project Agreement). There are nume-
rous qualified local contractors to ensure satisfactory execution of the civil
works component of the project. About 100 motor vehicles of various types
(US$1.1 million), including two power boats, would be required under the proj-
oct.  The motor vehicles would be purchased in small quantities as required
over four years.  To ensure adequate maintenance and supply of essential
spares for the small number of vehicles involved, these would be procured
from locally manufactured types already widely used by Government Departments
through local competitive bidding procedures. Scientific equipment (US$0.9
million) for research stations would involve many small contracts from various
suppliers of specialized items.  It would not, therefore, be practical to
procure these items under international ccmpetitive bidding procedures. As
most of the world's leading manufacturers of scientific equipment are repre-
sented in India, are competitive, and could offer local maintenance service,
these items would be obtained under the GOWB's normal procurement procedures
which are satisfactory, utilizing local competitive bidding where appropriate.
Orders for purchase of minor equipment and furniture (US$1.3 million) would be
bulked wherever possible and would be purchased following satisfactory local
competitive bidding procedures, except where valued at less than US$50,000,
when they would be purchased by prudent shopping. Motorcycles and bicycles
(US$0.5 million) would be purchased by individual staff, according to their
preferences.  The above amounts include US$3.5 million of procurement to be
financed under Credit 541-IN (see para 48).



- 16 -
50.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against 100% of
foreign expenditures for equipment, training and consultants services, and
90% of locally procured equipment, vehicles, and civil works. The credit
is expected to be disbursed over five years.
Economic Benefits and Risks
51.       The main project benefit would be an increase in yields as a con-
sequence of the impact of the new extension system. Small farmers, including
tenants and share croppers, with limited financial resources but excess labor
would be the primary beneficiaries of the project's emphasis on efficient use
of existing resources.
52.       Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type of project is
difficult since the expected benefits of improved agricultural practices, which
also require additional inputs, cannot be attributed solely to extension and
research. However, there is no doubt that the substantial improvement in the
efficiency of utilization of resources which would be brought about by the
project, would generate a high rate of return. It would be reasonable to
expect that by Year 7 yields of rice State-wide would increase by at least
15 kg/ha, or by less than 2%, over the "without-project" situation giving an
economic rate of return of 50%. In the IDA-financed Chambal and Rajasthan
Command Area Development Projects provisional figures indicate that over a
three-year period yields of rice increased by an average of 60%, wheat by 80%
and those of mustard and gram more than doubled as a result of imrproved exten-
sion services of the type this project would provide. While these are largely
irrigated areas, it shows the magnitude of the possible response. There is
little risk that project induced yields would not increase by an average of
at least 15 kg/ha since the best farmers in West Bengal already obtain nearly
twice the current average yield and on research stations substantially higher
yield levels than these are achieved. These high rates of return should be
treated with caution since, as improved agricultural practices spread, further
investments in infrastructure and services become necessary.
53.       The delivery of the new methodology is particularly dependent on
an effective organizational effort. In view of West Bengal's agricultural
backwardness, there is the risk that the organizational effort would not
succeed. Indeed, as already mentioned experience under the ongoing West
Bengal Agricultural Development Project (Credit 541-IN) has not been en-
tirely satisfactory (paragraph 31). However, the extension component of
the first project is being implemented successfully. Moreover, the State
Government's decision to extend the scheme to the whole state in advance
of additional Bank Group financing indicates its commitment to the concept
underlying this project. Thus, the risk of the organizational effort
failing, while present, seems small. A second generation risk would be
faced when the success of the new methodology generates demand for addi-
tional inputs. If this were not met the resultant frustration could affect
the continuing success of the extension effort. It is minimized by the



- 17 -
fact that, to some extent, deficiencies in the existing network for supply-
ing farmers' inputs are related to lack of demand and there is slack in the
network which can be taken up to meet additional demand. There is also the
fact that the Program Planning and Implementation Committee, which is
charged with overseeing the planning of the extension effort, is also
responsible for assessing seasonal input requirements.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Inter-
national Development Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
State of West Bengal and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement and the
text of a draft Resolution approving the propc)sed Development Credit are being
distributed to Executive Directors separately.
55.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex IV.
56.       Additional conditions of effectiveness, specified in Section 5.01
of the Development Credit Agreement, would be:
(a) the execution of the West Bengal Project Agreement;
(b) the appointment of one full-time Additional Director
of Agriculture (Research) and one full-time Joint
Director of Agriculture (Extension).
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDAITIONS
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
March 10, 1977



I



ANNEX I
LANC AREA (THOU KM21                                                                                     I iNDIA  MTA S  1
TOTAL      3280.5                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      1T81.:                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE            INDONESIA      PHILIPPINES   BRAZIL**
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                        70.0       110.0        150.0               110.0        230.0       540.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MIO-YR, MILLIONI             429.0        542.7       609.6               116. 3       36.9        92.8
POPULATION OENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                         131.0        i65.o      t86.0                61.0        123.0        11.0
PER SC. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND          245.0        290.0      319.0 /_a            405.0       279.0        66.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND           43.2        42.7         39.9               45.9         44.2        38.4
CRUCE DEATH RATE PER THOUSANO           23.9        18.8         15.7               20.6         13.2         9.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOUI          139.0 L         ..  120-140.0/b                ..        80.0        110.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH IYRS)          41.7        47.2        49.5                 45.0        55.6        59.7
GRCSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  3.2         2.9          2.8                 3.2         3.3         2.6
POPULATICE GROwTH RATE (Xi
TOTAL                                    1.8          2.4        2.4                 2.0          3.0         2.9
URBAN                                    2.5 /        3.2         3.1                 3.7 /a      4.0         5.0
URBAN POPULATION (I  OF TOTAL)             17.9        19.8        20,6                17.0 Ab      27.6       56.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U TO 14 YEARS                         41.0         4A.6        40.1                44.u         45.6        42.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                          55.9        55.3        56.7                53.5         51.6        55.0
65 YEARS ANC OVER                        3.1         3.1          3.2                2.5          2.8         3.0
AGE OEPENDENCY RATIO                       0.8         0.8          0.8                 o.9         0.9          0.8
ECUNCPIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1.3 /a        *-         l.2 tb c             ..         1.5          1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)          1000.0 /d  11308.0      26566.0              259.3       354.0        250.0
USERS IS OF MARRIED WOMEN)                ..          ..         15.8 /t              ..          2.0         1.6
EPPLCYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE ITHOUSAND)          189000.0           ..    221000 .D                        12300.0    29600.0
LABCR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (tI            73.0           ..        72.0                             55.0 /a    44.0
UNEMPLOYED IX OF LABOR FORCE)              1.0 Le                   2.0                 ..          7.0
INCCME DISTRIBUTION
I OF PRIVATE INCOME REC*D BY-
HIGHEST  52 OF HOUSEHOLOS               26.7        25.0 ^         .,                  ..          ..        35.0/a
HIGHEST 20Y OF HOUSEHOLDS               51.7        53.1 /                                                   62.0  a
LOWEST  20r OF HOUSEHOLDS               4.1          4.7                                                      3.0/
LOWEST  40X OF HOUSEHOLDS               13.6        13.1 7_        .a. ..                          ..        IO.O
DISTPIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
2 OWNEO BY TOP 102 OF OWNERS                ..           ..          ..                  ..          ..        45.0
Y iWNEn BY SMALLEST lOS OWNERS              ..           ..          ..                  ..          ..          1.5
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
PCPULATION PEP PHYSICIAN                5800.0 /f   4800.0      Ia62O.3 'I         27650.0           ..      1950.0
PDPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           -;2o . 7f   5110.0       426C.O r,,,        8010.0           ..      3300.0/b
fCPIJLAT(COf PER HOSPITAL BEC           2600:0 7j   1620.0           ,,             1720.0        650.0       260.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (3 OF REQUIREMENTS)            95.0        93.0         94.0 A             89.0        1oo.0-      109.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAYI                 55.0        53.0        52.U  <             43.0        45.0         64.0
-CF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            19.0/1      16.0           ..               14.0         22.0        39.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               44.0          ..           ..                  ..         9.0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENRCLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                          36.0 /      68.0 Z       79.0 lb            69.0        108.0 lb     87.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                         9.,028.0?                                  12.0        48.0 7V      28.0/C
YEARS OF SCHCGLING PROVIDEC
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                12.0        12.0                            12.0         10.0        13.0
VCCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
IX OF SECCNOARY)                         8.0         6.oCL        ..                29.0          6.O /c     17.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (U)                   24.0         33.0        3o.u /bi              ..          ..        68.0
HOUSING
PERSCNS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                 2.b/k         ..         2.8                  ..          ..         1.0
CCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (t)                           ..          ..           ..                 ..         66.0 /.e   73.0 /d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
tr OF ALL DWELLINGS)                      ..          ..          ..                  ..        23.0 d       48.0
-.NAl DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY CZ)                        ..          ..           ..                 ..          6.0 /t      8.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS IPER THOU POP)             5.0        21.0         23.0/A             114.0        45.0        60.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU PCP)              0.7         1.0          1.0/a               2.0         8.0        25.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)              46.0       114.0        125.0               20.0        235.0       491.0
NEoSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                  0.2         0.3         0.3                  0.2         1.2 /f      2.7
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
SEE NOTES AND CEFINITICNS ON REVERSE



Page 2
NOTES
-i'ntos onorwoe noted. dsta fcr  f96G rofer to any vrar between 195  and 1961, for 1970 between 1968  ond 1970, and for Most Renent Osc-tl .e between
19' a     197-.
BrooK  boo  o..    -010  `-azi:          'aof a    -de   nd   carablec probleas, of raegiona  iDequanity.
r;oDzz                ]99i    _a  1931-SI aorage-     /'  i951-60;   in  Ratio of poypwooi-o  order 15 cod 60 and over to labor farce aged 15-59;   Id  1964;
, Rg' otrerd opppli-ont  for work;   /f  1962;   /S  Including ridwiees; both snrose  and midwive-  registered. not all prooteioig
in tne c--try; in   1957;   /i  1960-62;               6-13 and I-13 yeara of afe respectively;    Is Houaeholds.
1-7C        i  1967-68;   .'  ,-10 ceanr  of aga;   ,   1967.
*-q E'P                   _    ATEo  'a 1 972  b  1971;    c  Ratio of poplation asder iS and 60 and over to labor force aged 15-59;
Nat-atal prograc only;   l   AID osrlanc  of labor fore in age grf0p 15-59.  IBH9  repent gi-sa    figre
of 187.4 million based on th 1971 poa.latOo- cen-as. The difference is dae to changes in the definition
of a worker. In the 1971 census, par-ons wore elasoified only on the basis of their ofsi artioities.
'hib  led to the exclosnon of sneonrl canogoriet  soch as how-wio.s;   /f  Regisntred applicants fon work;
'   Inoloding oddicno:    /h  1969-71 everage;   i   Population 10 years and noer;   /j  H-osehold-.
_ND-ID '' -f                    a  1961-71;         197 1.
P>INE'.-0                 a  As pe noo'tacA  op   noonlornot;    b    l7-12 and 13-16 yea.- cf'  a  rspeotiely;  /c Not incuding prra-te  -caational schools
.0' ioool -nnrt teon  n.co...;   ,d  1967, hkusoldo;   /I  Inside only.
do''                               n''.. 'nn' ncic>  antioa  ponyPlati-nn  /h  Ootpita  pensfnne';   /c  12-18 y-rs of ago;    d  Inside only.
Rg, PoLe 21, 1976
DEFINIlIONE OfF 3ECEAL INDICATORS
I    c .. k  .   b                                                                        fapalenkon  nor n...inc  ponco. - faPolation diided by no-ber of prcoticiog
i;: a  -    on. Pu:fa.er -rea coplor- ,,laon-  orea  rd   lata Waos.                    na.i  and fe-a'o gracuate norons,  traitned" or "certified"  ortses, and
magri.-" 'oscrece ei  .          o-   r-.tu a       rn.c>En ea usec attn mennorooldyo r     ailitry onosocoel wick trciting cr experience.
e             lvrc-  "I ptIr:--  '-n g anorcii-cannons on                                    co  lic  c.o-ait   bd -          li    dicidod bdy no-bke  of hospital beds
-o. bilobe In p93lic  and prin-ne general and she-ialied  bospital and
reabilitatian oentecs; excludeanoring bones and eatablisbhmnts for
V1 ; -ca -o                    -     onEre - irac .stit.c t crrec anot pnrlce,             oco..ndonl and procomtbot core.
<   b. '.q            C r           at no-claBnk  dt1i(1973-7S b.iA);              fer 3apitan y-ilo  of  tcalorins ri    of oef uo enes) - Eanpoted fonT -nefgy
.'7c-  .i C ~71I   -7                                           eq-.calent  -o rt food eopplies acailable in contry per capita per day;
-. uoi        toe.o     s  do, notlc pcodo.ctkte  icot  Id er.p orta,
Ili  nnha     atono   an   oglO   0 lde aoioci food,  -nds, moani-
.1t                    ',-, :--: .......s- .: - '2: 'f  ontocat lablo,                       oes'  osedin food nrcotessig  ood l osses   in daciributioo; retoiic- rects
cc,r atp  n   by FAO eed, phYnialcgloal neds for n-col a-tickity
-a,   ]acdcd9r tg ..ociraneased onceratrn, b              dy we-gits,- age ac
_____       ______          ____    _ are           opo -id-ye lat..n per oquar  klo-              ott d .ot of toga' tion, cod allowing 121 for waste or hocte-
Aoc        I~~~-a  .--,.                                                     hold 1t
-r .oro  -of aoon. lanc -Compu-ed 00 00000 'on              Per noanito so-ply of proteki  (grams per day) - frotein contect of per
y.                                                                   -ri.cot.me  opa          god coo day; -t soggly of flooi is dfinoed as
abo. e; cc acmetnt  for all  aontrio  -established by USDA  -onnomic
i_. 5 o. .LiC.,                                                'RtititCll Surv ces 2roe~on  on  ido ior  oinortoo   alkowance of if groims of toEal
a        -::de  .rL'. aoe no :of.   ce   .i0 -'13 l1'.-e lirehs Icr tho-d               prateon per dav, wnd 27 gram   of animal ald p7l0e protein, of wbich
n-oaages ending in 1960            ,an         a  sh-old be oninal oroicin  thooe  tandorda ore in_en than thoso
,nd cn \.en j  r..0..-d. .I.. t    r9 '   o    o.ai-. r   -cnrinato.                                       rof 75go and 23 gr ant of arimal peonteon  as or
-:,one  'to, lo--on--o'a  feloe'nn                    'a      n  ob.oond of o'f-            wo-race P .t tin wold, pr-po-d by FAl in the Third Wdarld Food Sacsrop
neon yopola oo".:'en   eac  ro bco co average&  ending P  19E60n and 190o  and                      ctni afppln fran osikal -d  , ,-e - Protein  opply of fod
'e-"   'on   e           i1           rosc rncen   ecicant        on  0-n              doerivd  Err ainimals wno pulses in grans pnr day.
.d~ _    .h- ::                   Anal ..   aiI s- cf irf--sude   n  year of            Death rate  ','h..) a e  1-4 _A.uldeaths per thou-an  in  g   ru
1-  ..c. r;, to nbild- er En thin cfc greoan.   agg--d            mrfiowndn.   f
. r b:-t-; "s". ''c                         n,    - 6 ao-y ad19 -n  1975 f
-' o.o       '-n"           n -no  7 afi "-i daght-o  -notan  ill                     Ad ...d -nl-nent11        tio-t  rnmay -scool - inol-nt f all agos as
oI   n olhr .ona.                   -i   -  sih  noncicct p-rs-nt acc-                  pmontoge of  nri-oo  school-ge pcpakation; i-clodns chil1ren aged
ny-noon 00-ca   r.ig n ir 1960,                       6-ll yors bat odjootod for diff-ront lengoth  of primern
l'; ' ; .. .e 1975 for dev-lD,-i;g csuntries. 5Xo- nootrir, 'itb onir sal ed-cation, enrollent may exceod li0N/.
. p_________gr           ','. - tota  - npo' ,Fof- anua 0009  iroh rcates of rid-           tEnon sore oapiis arc below  or above the offinial  chbool age.
-Itp   f   i~'5D6C, -)C-70aod  07,5,                                         Al   t.f    -rI-eot                                 Coc-ecnoonoo    onptedanko;
nomon --h              -           0u   0000 _p ii- itooe  race of totai              soota edyoacoan reao i    at Ieaso foo  Yeac  of approved feioarp
Pl,pc  ac-r; ci'ffr2t  -efini:lcas Df  ,rmo  eeoas may afoectto-wtra-                      r-uctior; providen g-nrac, vocatiocal or teacher training
bility of donc an--g                                                                 oocrories,  ilsn-uctiDn   for pupila of 1E2 to   7 y-rn of age;  t-r-sp-rdsoee
_____pop la:i___ (i. ___t__.__ ) _ R_ti_ _  f    or  to ,--'al poplecti'0;               coarset are genrally esoladod.
tiei-iti-Is o- u-:a-wrea n -y  0f0c  -nyPw-aoility of dao                    Years of -hbosling prooided (fidst and sneand l-eies) - Total years of
sobcooling; st soondopary Iel, vocational imatrction ocy be par-
0e o                                         -  Oct 0('-1   ear -',      . noonears),      mEal]p  -r ooYplctely encloded.
tnl--cmed u6x  .- oe. 'no         n,o.cO o         cod-nea6ird po.o  b. ono..tscnol ennoloect h.-                f a    dy) - Vh-cic-o h         Icto    ie    i- de
A- _____                                   non'        Cont            --crrc                 n.bkairn              lrnothcr prograoc.,ohicbopnITcisdepeedcotlyo
t  fo                                                                                 wodop--toopecif '   -eod-yepi-titotion'n.
'd omder 'n ra':              -         'c   -  ".e  l .n  65i      over           7dolE l.-siteay rate (sj) - Literate  dadlts P(le tno nead ond wrike) an
to                                   0-c- 'a onr .~c-   i  -:  ; ro;.p        5 64   .  pencentapg  nf total adult Pnpolaotio  aged 15 pec   and over.
.0-n    ola-an                                oo -a-           ,o  moon     ;
-c          c         epto       rs 0 0io of r-n- naonl fa,                           _____y
-  neonsa per noon (orban)  -         arage nwabe- a' pero   pen roo  in
F.nl- pa            e.g<' "      a     .v scn) - Pcrc..r..aes         __ . o              tooedasccpie-e  c o-v-ti..d  da1limgs in -rbat ae-s; dwellings excoode
lfmen ct crild-berit2  -.ge slS- or y   obo Ott hicob--oo   deonoeo                 nn-p nont Itructures cod onco-pied poots.
a     o<. 3.1 -rrriei ^cmen Ir -dTe ege gr-upQ Ocuped daellings  itbost piged  wnter I'-) _                                                pied conventional
taeIr  aiog  aise ban and  ora-  re- o'ithoot in-ide on o.tside piyed
ol no                                                              wo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ton f-cEIikon an yeeoon.age of all oo-Pied deellin,gs.
i, l                     a         : o -ce ''- .    ' pom.      l tOnn             fonccess to oleciricity (/.  of all dwetlincas) - dorn1tional   dwellingaaith
f-l'                                    1 mc 'n_-tl:  ret, stodrnt, c                    electricEt  in living qoarters-a  percen" of total dwellEnbsinoeban
if- rii-no in  Ra,.n,    z-u=irges--.t s. too, -c.                                        anod       c-p-reas.
i-Eon    reira   cutrq(.  -.g   ouli..i..  ia..   ono.. 'n  Z-c",oci,                     banal dwellings coronacted to elecoincity  1%/) - Eanpoind on chore for
foresitr, hn-ting and fshig)_  n-ccttn            0 o    Ot' E'n-r Por.e. ta: d-ellinag  only.
'r-oi c (-b If labor f7          _        ocd ore oall   Ef das persn
whcn mran'nl and.wil                      0 gt.terj,  00t 'o ''n      Da  ore-P'day,    22.iirtionn
-'     t of a 0,       d     k a0 r          oif           inir,o oE eaid          Radio ,-ceic-r   per  o- pCp) - All ty?s of receivars forraio- road-
ot  -x0   0        .0  -               '1-oon 1I No 'oaet    countries doe so             -eons to ieneral poblic per th.ousnd of population soo; -lden unlicenseo
o :'f   --Er;o dcfJni. s .>f u5 and sone             or oaa-  e.g., emplov-           receive-  En  onontries  -nd in ye-ar  when  -egistraon.    o of radio nets was
-rlL  cfe   t-iu n, no to     unemployne-t ins rotor           on n-ct; dato for recent years nay not be comporable sEnoe  coot
counnies io boilobod lioensing.
:rc-Ld itil-- 'on  -scn'n< c  p-'-   .nc                 -    - in n o   .ah bd  ind)     Iassnn .. .ca'rs   n.er   oopoc-_Poaanoen-arnnynisae otonan snaar-
Y                             I-r-1 2ce .0 .. arAd p--75t 4b'         . o    100 loot riot eight peraon; esolodes ambolances, learoen and oilitoep
7o..mckoldc.                                                                              veEhi. en.
_lectrooity  (kbhijr per cap) - Annoal canons npl   o  of indontrial,  cm-
:zist-_buio 000    land 1 wner nid  -     oercontaoa ot laod osmad by onalntieot           neroill, poblic and pri-ate electrinity  io  kilowatt hors per capita;
10/.  cI -or-     1        o od Iwmerr.                                                   genroally bosed on prod-ction data, witho-t allowance for looses in
grids bat allnwtr.g for inports and enyorts of nlernnioisp
Hiealth ab d Nutriton                                                                      tNwatcitot (       pm oer coo) - rPee capita 000u01 conooptio  in kilograos
0.0"00      robpehicia-no   P           ation. divifnd   by nurber a' praciinig            estincted fran dones tio prodaction plus set i-cort  of newsprint.
hoINoon    mnicns cfied  frcnoa moonnf   . I.,bool atounive rait, leiv.



ANNE I
NlOl(C lWDUil1NT DATA
cawI P   CAPI2 IN 1974 - 7S140
GRosS NATIONAL PRODUJCT IN 1975/76                                            AMIUAL BTE OF GROWE (   ontantrios
Ut BlA.        j                              196/62-1964/65    1965/66-1969/7W    1970/71-1973/74
GNP at Macet Pricoes             80.4       100.0                                   3-4                 37                1.9
Gross Domeatic InvDstent         15.1        18.8
Gross National Saving            13.9        17.3
Current Account Balance          -2.0        -2.3
Resource Gap                     -1.2        -1.5
OUTPIT, LAIR FORCE AND PODUlCTIVITY IN 1971
Value hAded (a  fator met)          Labor Force          V.A. Per Worker
US__ MR               %iit %us                                        f    ioa  Avem-g
Agriculture                      24.5                46.6            30.0   72.1         188             64
Industry                         11.8                22.3             2).2  11.2          582            199
Servtoes                         16.3                31.1            _32   16.            52             186
Total/average                    52.6               100.0            180.4  100.0         292            100
_OEMN  FINEANCE                                              d
General Goverment _                         Central Governm-nt
(Re. Bln)            94 of GD?P                (Rs. Bln)               of GDP
1975/76     1975/76  1973/74-1975/76          1975/76         i974/75   1972/73-1974/75
Cxrrent Receipte                 107.63          18.2          17.3              112.17           9.1          9.2
Current Expenditures              98.99          16.9          16.3              112.17           8.2          8.7
current Surplus/Deficit            8.64           1.3           1.0                -              0.9          0.5
Capital Expenditures  e/          40.40           5.8          5.4                85.23           4.3          4.1
External Assistance CPP (net)     10.17           1.4          1.0                10.17           1.4          1.0
MINEY. (Mf3IT AND PRICES               1965/66    1970L1    197t/72    1972/73    1972174    1974/75   March 1975    March 1976
(Billion Rs outstanding at end of period)
naey and Quasi MoiAey                    61.4      105.7      122.l      14l.2      169.1       187.42                     213.6
Bank Credi.t to Public Sector            40.8       56.9       69.0       82.5       92.9      102.0       102.6           107.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector            28.1       56-7       64-4       76.0       90.1      100.5       109.5           134.2
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                    June   1975   June   1976
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP        24.0       24.4       26.3       27.9       27.2       25.5
Wholesale Price Index
(1961/62 = 100)                     131.6      181.1      138.4      207.1      254.2      313.0       316.0          290,5
Annual percentage chanIges in:
Wholesale Price Index                     7.7        5.5        4.0        9.9       22.7       23.1                       -8.1
Bank CrediLt to Public Sector            12.9        8.6       21.3       19.6       12.6        9.8                        4.8 8/
Dank Creclit to Private Sector           12.8       17-4       13.6       18.0       18.5       11.5                       22.9 LI
*/ The per capita GNP estimate is at 1974 market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the 1976.
World Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during
the period covered.
]/ Quick Fatimates.
S/ Cmputed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation
after last year of listed period.
*r/ Tanmsfere between Center and States have been netted out.
e/ All lcans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
gf/ Credit to Government.
g/ Credit to Cmercial Sector.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                 1972/73      1973/74      1974/75      1975/76 hl               MERCHANDISE EXPORTS(AVERAGE 1973/74-1975/76)
(US$ Million)                                                        US$ Mln.          %/,
Exports of Goods                     2,558        3,239        4,143        4,555                   Jute Manufacturers       299            9
Imports of Goods                   -2,682        -3,971       -5,739      -6,102                    Tea                      247            7
Trade Balance                       -  124       -  732       -1,596       -1,547                   Cotton Textiles          391           11
NFS (net) l                         -  146         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.                   Engineering Goods        390           11
Others                 2,134           62
Resource Gap                        -  270         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.                   Total                  3,461          100
Interest Pavments (net)            -  237       -  233        -  260       -  261
Other Factor Payments (net) l/   -    8            n.a.         n.a.         n.a.
Net Transfers -                     -   50         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.
Balance on Current Account          -  565         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.                   EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31, 1976 -/
Official Aid                                                                                                                             us$ Mi.
Disbursements                     955        1,249        1,766        2,249                   Repayable in foreign currency          11,247.7
Amortization                      -445        -459          -519         -522                   Repayable through export of goods        635
Transactions with IMF                                75          530          205                   Total Outstanding and Disbursed    11,882.7
All Cther Items                         89          205           41          500
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1975/76         17.2 percent  h/k/
Increase in Reserves (-)              - 34        -105            38         -794
Gross Reserves (end year)            1,311        1,416        1,378        2,172
Net Reserves (end year)              1,311        1,341          773        1,474                   IBRD/IDA LENDING,  June 30, 1976         (US$ Mln.)
Fuel and Related .Materials                                                                                                           IBRD      IDA
Imports                                265          720       1,451         1,417                  Outstanding and Disbursed           435    2,948
of which: Petroleum                 265           719       1.451         1,417                  Undisbursed                         266    1,236
Outstanding including              701    4,184
Exports                                 41           20           26         n.a.                     Undisbursed
of which  Petroleu,m                  37           16           17         n,a.
RATE OF EXCHANGE i/
Prior to mid-December 1971   :   US$1.00 = Rs 7.5                                                   After end June 1972   :   Floating Rate
Rs 1.00 = US$0.133333                                           Spot Rate December 31, 1976
Mid-December 1971 to           :   US11.CO = Rs 7.27927                                                            approx. US$1.00 = Rs 8.901
end June 1972                    Rs 1.00 = L1S10.137376                                                          approx. Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.112
1. Estimated.
i/ For 1973/74 to 1975/76, included with 'All other Items'.
/ Aid and trade figures converted to US dollars using exchange rates and IMF trade conversion factors as indicated in inside front
cover of this report or notes to individual tables.
k/ Amortization and interest payments (excluding IMF transaction) as a percentage of merchandise exports.



ANNEX IT
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of January 31, 1977)
Loan or                                                                       US$ Million -
Credit No.      Year   Borrower           Purpose                        (Net of Cancellation)
BANK    IDA    Undisbursed
38 Loans/                                                          1,032.5
41 Credits fully disbursed                                                  2,238.9
614-IN          1969   India       Tarai Seeds                        13.0      -             3.8
203-IN          1970   India        Punjab Agricultural Credit         -        27.5          9.2
226-IN          1971   India        Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Cr. -           24.4          2.3
242-IN          1971   India        Power Transmission IT              -        75.0         19.3
250-IN          1971   India        Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit  -           35.0          5.7
264-IN          1971   India        Cochin II Fertilizer               -        20.0          1.0
267-IN          1971   India        Wheat Storage                      -         5.0          3.7
789-IN          1971   ICICI        Industry DFC IX                   59.0      -             2.3
278-IN          1972   India       Mysore Agricultural Credit          -        40.0          4.2
294-IN          1972   India        Bihar Agricultural Markets         -        14.0         11.4
312-IN          1972   India        Population                         -        21.2          9.9
342-IN          1972   India        Education                          -        12.0         11.3
356-IN          1972   India        IDBI                               -        25.0         16.4
377-IN          1973   India        Power Transmission III             -        85.0         48.6
378-IN          1973   India       Mysore Agricultural Markets         -         8.0          7.6
902-IN          1973   ICICI        Industry DFC X                    70.0      -            10.1
390-IN          1973   India        Bombay Water Supply                -        55.0         43.4
391-IN          1973   India       Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Cr. -            33.0          1.7
392-IN          1973   India        Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Cr.  -           38.0         17.8
403-IN          1973   India        Telecommunications V               -        80.0         21.4
427-IN          1973   India        Calcutta Urban Development         -        35.0         18.5
440-IN          1973   India        Bihar Agricultural Credit          -        32.0         20.1
456-IN          1975   India        HP Apple Processing & Marketing -           13.0         11.7
481-IN          1974   India        Trombay IV                         -        50.0         27.5
1011-IN          1974   India        Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD           52.0      -            41.9
L82-IN          1974   India        Karnataka Dairy                    -        30.0         29.8
502-IN          1974   India        Rajasthan Canal CAD                -        83.0         59.4
520-IN          1974   India        Sindri Fertilizer                  -        91.0         46.1
521-IN          1974   India        Rajasthan Dairy                    -        27.7         27.5
522-IN          1974   India       Madhya Pradesh Dairy                -        16.4         16.4
526-IN          1975   India        Drought Prone Areas                -        35.0         31.4
1079-IN          1975   India        IFFCO Fertilizer                 109.0      -            91.8
1097-IN          1975   India        Industry DFC XI                  100.0      -            72.3
532-IN          1975   India        Godavari Barrage Irrigation        -        45.0         37.4
540-IN          1975   India        ARC Credit                         -        75.0         43.8
541-IN          1975   India        West Bengal Agrc. Dev.             -        34.0         32.7
562-IN          1975   India        Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD    -           24.0         21.8
572-IN          1975   India        Rural Electrification              -        57.0         56.6
582-IN          1975   India        Railways XIII                      -       120.0         53.9
585-IN          1975   India        Uttar Pradesh Water Supply         -        40.0         40.0
598-IN          1975   India        Fertilizer Industry                -       105.0        103.2
604-IN          1975   India        Power Transmission IV              -       150.0        150.0
609-IN          1975   India        Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.    -            4.0          4.0
610-IN          1976   India        Integrated Cotton Development   -           18.0         18.0
616-IN          1976   India        Industrial Imports XI              -       200.0         19.1
1251-IN(TW)      1976   India        Andhra Pradesh Irrigation        145.0      -           145.0
1260-IN          1976   India        IDBI II                           40.0      -            40.0
1273-TN          1976   India        National Seed                     25.0      -            25.n
1313-IN          1976   India        Telecommunications VI             80.0      -            7fl,
1335-IN          1976   India        Bombay Urban Transport           *25.0      -            ?5
Total                                                              1,750.5  4,112.1
of which has been repaid                                           774.4      24.'
Total now outstanding                                                976.1  4,087.9
Amount sold                                   111.5
of which has been repaid                 111.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                       976.1  4,087.9
Total undisbursed (including *)                                      502.5  1,103.8       1,606.3
* Not vet effective
/  Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of January 31, 1977)
Fiscal                                               Amount (US$ million)
Year          Company                              Loan      Equity   Total
1959      Republic Forge Company Ltd.               1.5        -         1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                0.9        -         0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                    1.4        -         1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                         0.2        -         0.2
1963-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.             0.7       0.3        1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.              0.8       0.4        1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.            11.8       1.0       12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                1.0       0.3        1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                   1.0       0.1        1.1
1967      Indian Explosives Ltd.                    8.6       2.9       11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                15.1       3.8       18.9
1976      Escorts Limited                           6.6        -         6.6
TOTAL                            49.6       8.8       58.4
Less:  Sold                               6.0       1.6       7.6
Repaid                           11.9        -        11.9
Cancelled                         6.2       0.7        6.9
Now Held                         25.5       6.5       32.0
Undisbursed                      10.6        -        10.6



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$551 million in FY76 or 62%
of Bank Group commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline
of US$1,606 million as of January 31, 1977, corresponds roughly to
commitments over the preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime
which would be expected given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects
in the India program.
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company. Loan 902-IN is fully committed
and commitments are progressing satisfactorily for Loan 1097-IN. Disburse-
ments under Loan 902-IN are ahead of schedule. A proposal for a twelfth
loan is under consideration.
Ln. No. 614    Tarai Seeds Project; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969;
Effective Date: September 12, 1969; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in
the production, processing and marketing, of certified seeds of high yielding
varieties. The corporation is working effectively and has developed an ex-
cellent reputation for quality seed. Expansion of three processing plants
is well under way. Delivery of some equlipment in damaged conditions and
retendering, because of poor response fcr some others, has delayed delivery
schedules necessitating an extension of the Closing Date by one year to
December 31, 1977.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project: execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 13
Cr. No. 203    Punjab Agricultural Credit Project; US$27.5 million credit
of June 24, 1970; Effective Date: September 4, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 226    Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$24.4 million
credit of January 8, 1971; Effective Date: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 249    Haryana Agricultural Credit Project; US$25.0 million credit
of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 250    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million
credit of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. 'To. 278    Mysore Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 million credit
of January 7, 1972; Effective Date: September 25, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 391    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 392    Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 540    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; USS75.0 million credit of April 28, 1975;
Effective Date: August 5, 1975; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
Apart from the Punjab project, which consists of mechanization
equipment only, all the above agricultural credit projects are similar in
structure, being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farm-
ers through credit institutions for such on-farm investments as tractors,
minor irrigation and land-leveling. Disbursement of the minor irrigation
components are on schedule. Tractor procurement was delayed following
changes in both the supply and demand situations after the projects were
originally appraised, which prompted GOI to request that indigenous as well
as imported models should be eligible for IDA financing under these credits.
The Executive Directors approved this request in December 1973 and those
credits which have tractor components have been amended accordingly. Tractor
procurement is proceeding satisfactorily. Credit 540 is a con,inuation
nationwide of the previous program of agricultural credit orolects, which
were confined to individual states.  ARDC will continue to act as the
FinanciaL intermediary for refinancing agricultural credit.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30. 1978
The Food Corporation of India is making satisfactory progress
in the execution of this project. Piling and foundation work is nearly com-
pLeted. Silo construction has begun and staff training is in progress.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple
processing and marketing in Himachal Prad(esh, and comprises grading and
packing centers, cold storages, a juice processing plant, road improvements
and cableways. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems, however, remedial measures have been taken to over-
come these difficulties. A recent review mission found a satisfactory
improvement in the prospects for successful project implementation.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
Material supply problems which delayed the start of this project
have been resolved and physical achievements were at record levels during
fiscal year 1976. However, to cover the delivery and installation of im-
ported transmission and switching equipment, the closing date was extended
by one year to December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 242    Power Transmission II Project; US$75.0 million credit of
May 3, 1971; Effective Date:  July 29, 1971; Closing Date:
March 31, 1977
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effectivie Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Power Transmission II suffered initial delays because of problems
associated with the preparations for international bidding and the analysis
of a very large number of bids involved. All contracts have now been awarded.
Due to variations in exchange rates, an undisbursed balance of about US$2
million, by the Closing Date, is likely. For Power Transmission III, vir-
tually all equipment has been ordered; there will be a substantial cost
overrun due to international price increases, part of which is being met
from Power Transmission IV. For power Transmission IV, bids for most of
the equipment have been invited.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Cr. No. 264    Cochin II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million credit of
July 30, 1971; Effective Date: December 2, 1971; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1979
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Cochin Fertilizer Project is being commisssioned, about 31
months behind the appraisal estimate. Progress on the Trombay IV project has
been good although project completion may be delayed by about four months
because of longer than expected delivery times for critical equipment. Under
the Sindri projet plant construction and erection is proceeding generally
according to schedule except for a one-month delay due to anticipated delays
in receipt of some materials. Commencement of commercial production is ex-
pected by March 1978. The anticipated cost to complete the project is pre-
sently running within budget. The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year
as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphtha and delays in
completion of engineering contracts. The project is now progressing satis-
factorily based on naphtha as feedstock. Site work has begun, process- and
time-critical equipment is being ordered, and engineering work is well under
way. Credit 598-IN is designed to increase the utilization of existing
fertilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-
project preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further,
some of the sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize because of
reconsideration by the Central and State governments. The Central Govern-
ment has submitted a list of sub-projects to replace the ones that are
likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the project is likely to be
delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under
the Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. Markets construction in
Bihar was delayed due to legal challenges arising out of the state's acqui-
sition of land for market sites; however, these difficulties have been satis-
factorily resolved. Construction of markets is well advanced and a number
have opened for business. Progress under the Karnataka project is much less
satisfactory, however, largely due to deficiencies in market planning, design
and construction. These problems and remedial actions have been brought to
the attention of the State and Central Government.  The project is being mon-
itored closely to try and bring about the necessary improvements in implemen-
tation.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural uni-
versities in Assam and Bihar. Initial lag in implementation on account
of late appointments of project staff has been overcome. Campus plans
have been approved, and construction has started in Assam and is scheduled
to start in Bihar by mid 1977. Disbursement which has been slow because
of initial delays should accelerate now that construction and equipment
procurement are under way.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Loan No. 1260  Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The first IDBI Project (Cr. 356) had a slow start mainly due to
institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.
However, the credit is now fully committed. In order to continue Bank
Group's involvement in assisting small and medium scale industries, the
second operation (Ln. 1260) was approved on June 10, 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
A substantial cost overrun on the project from US$158 million
equivalent to about US$375 million equivalent has been caused by inflation
and price increases resulting from delays in appointment of engineering con-
sultants and redesign of certain project components. The project has been
redefined and rephased to fit the financing available from the Credit, local
loans and bonds, and internal cash generation of the project entity. The
revised cost estimates for the implementation period 1975/76 to 1979/80
amount to US$266 million equivalent excluding interest during construction.
All major contracts for civil works, equipment and materials have been
awarded. This is expected to considerably speed up disbursements which
has been slow. Financial performance of the project entity during 1975/76
was satisfactory, and major rate increases from April 1, 1976 should ensure
continuing financial viability of the project entity.
Cr. No. 616    Eleventh Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
of February 24, 1976; Effective Date: April 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977
This credit was signed on February 24, 1976, and became effective
on April 1, 1976.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Following considerable increases in project costs, GOI and IDA
finalized a project redefinition in April 1976, to accommodate the project
to funding available. It is now expected to be substantially completed by
'larch 1979. Agreements have been reached on consultants services and
technical assistance, as provided for under the project.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project;; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State.  The Karnataka Project which got off to a
slow start has begun to show improvement under new management appointed



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
recently. Farmer response has been good and about 250 dairy cooperatives
with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. Two Dairy
Unions have been established. Close supervision is being maintained. In
Mladhya Pradesh good progress has been made. About 110 new dairy cooperatives
soc-Leties have been established. Detailed design studies for plant construc-
tion are complete. Technical services investments are being made. Contracts
have been placed for livestock imports. The Rajasthan project is also doing
welL. Four milk unions have been formed and excellent progress has been made
in organizing the servicing of nearly 350 dairy cooperatives at the village
level. Plant-designs are ready, and procurement is to start soon. KDDC
decision to procure plant equipment jointly with RDDC and MPDDC on the same
tender should lead to a recovery of considerable time lost earlier.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June '3, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TlU)        Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7,1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
tco use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructures, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory and particularly suc-essful with repect to
agriculttural extension.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US*34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: Utarch 31, 19380



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
The project became effective on July 31, 1975. Successful reor-
ganization of agricultural extension services has been a major achievement,
but preparations for lending operations have been slow mainly due to poor
coordination of project agencies. IDA and the government of West Bengal
have agreed on measures to improve coordination and on a timetable covering
a range of project activities. Progress with preliminaries for procurement
of equipment, markets construction and riverlift completions are satis-
factory.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Progress varies among components but overall is satisfactory.
Expenditure to date is less than anticipated but is reasonable because
price inflation has been much less than expected. Disbursement perform-
ance is poor and the Borrower has been requested to expedite claims.
Greater attention is now being paid to data collection to measure project
performance. This is essential since several components are innovative.
The Systems Research Institute of Poona has been contracted to design an
information system to facilitate monitoring and evaluation.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Eleven states have now fulfilled the conditions of eligibility for
on-lending under this project [compared with six at the time of appraisal].
The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the need to adapt
specifications and tender documents to international competitive bidding
procedures, but these problems have been overcome. As of September 1976,
orders had been placed for 60 approved rural electrification schemes, and
tenders had been invited or were in the course of preparation for others.
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1975; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
The project is intended to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program from April 1, 1975,
through March 31, 1977. Since the approval of the project, increased pro-
duction in steel products in India and further developments in IR's indigen-
ization program have resulted in a less than anticipated foreign exchange
requirement. It is expected, therefore, that of a total Credit of US$110
million, some US$30-40 million may be undisbursed at the end of the current
project period. During the year 1975/76, IR carried 223 million tons of
freight traffic, 6% more than forecasted. The project is being implemented
satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project had a slow start due to delays in preparation of techni-
cal reports for regional and local water authorities. The technical reports
for about a third of the project have now been finalized and construction
works started in October 1976, about one year behind schedule. All consul-
tants for engineering, organization, management and accounting services for
the Jal Nigam (Water Supply Development Corporation) and the Jal Sansthans
(water authorities) have been engaged. Significant institutional develop-
ment can be expected only after the consultants submit their final recommenda-
tions. The project is expected to be completed by March 1980, approximately
9 months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment. After initial delays due to difficulties in employing key personnel,
project implementation is now satisfactory. For the feasibility study, proj-
ect authorities have prepared a short list of three foreign consulting firms,
who are now being asked to prepare detailed proposals. On the basis of these
proposals, the final selection will be made shortly.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.() million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Good progress has been made since negotiations. The National
Seeds Corporation (NSC) has withdrawn from seeds production as planned, hav-
ing handed over to State Seeds Corporation (SSC). Detailed production pro-
grams, by variety and responsible institution, have been prepared for breeder,
foundation and certified generations. GOI and State Governments have made
equity contributions to SSC thus ensuring financing of major project activity.
Orders will shortly be placed for processing machinery to provide bridging
capacity pending the construction of new processing plants. Tender documents
for the first purchases of farm machinery have been finalized.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Ln. No. 1313   Sixth Telecommunications Project; US$80.0 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976; Closing
Date: March 31, 1980
Disbursements have commenced and the project is progressing
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 21, 1977 (expected);
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Procurement work is well in hand. Contracts for 275 single and
175 double deck bus chassis have been awarded and bidding for corresponding
bus bodies is in progress. Civil works for bus facilities have been partly
commissioned and bidding for 18 of 31 traffic engineering schemes is in pro-
gress. Preparations for technical assistance envisaged under the project are
under way.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    :    India, acting by its President
Beneficiaries:               :    The State of West Bengal for its
reorganized extension services and
its adaptive research facilities.
Amount:                      :    US$12.0 million
Terms:                       :    Standard.
Relending Terms:             :    From GOI to GOWB:  As part of Central
Assistance for state development proj-
ects on terms and conditions applicable
at the time.
Project Description:         :    The project would finance the consoli-
dation and strengthening of West Bengal's
reorganized agricultural extension ser-
vices and help to upgrade and develop
its adaptive research facilities with
the objective of achieving early and
sustained improvements in foodgrain pro-
duction. The project components would
include:
- the provision of housing for about
40% of agricultural extension staff
as well as offices and transportation
to improve mobility of the reorganized
extension service.
- improvement of seven existing staff
training centers by the construction
of hostels, classrooms, additional
teaching staff, equipment and
vehicles.
- the provision of staff, equipment
and funds for studies to evaluate
and monitor project progress and
impact.



ANNEX III
Page  2
- the provision of 300 training
fellowships in extension work
and 130 research training
fellowships.
- the provision of about 15 man-
months of short-term consultancy
visits.
Estimated Project Costs:   :                      (US$ Million)
Local   Foreign   Total
I. Extension Component
Establishment /a                   6.0       0.1       6.1
Equipment & Vehicles                1.2      0.3       1.5
Civil Works                         3.6       -        3.6
Land                               0.4        -        0.4
Training                           0.4        -        0.4
Sub-Total                      11.6       0.4      12.0
II. Upgrading Training Centers
Establishment /a                   0.2                 0.2
Civil Works                        0.7                 0.7
Equipment & Vehicles               0.2                 0.2
Sub-Total                       1.1        -        1.1
III.  Adaptive Research (Commodity and Zonal)
Establishment /a                    2.3      0.1       2.4
Civil Works                         4.1       -        4.1
Equipment & Vehicles               0.7       0.6       1.3
Training & consultancy             0.2       0.5       0.7
Sub-Total                       7.3       1.2       8.5
IV. Evaluation Unit and Farm Surveys
Unit & Survey Costs                 0.2       -        0.2
Total before Contingencies         20.2     1.6       21.8
V. Contingencies
Physical                            1.2     0.1        1.3
Price                              4.6      0.4        5.0
Sub-total                        5.8      0.5        6.3
Total Project Cost               26.0      2.1       28.1
/a   Establishment costs include incremental operating cost, incremental
salaries and allowances and taxes.



ANNEX III
Page 3
Financing Plan:                                         US$ Million
Foreign    Local    Total
IDA Credit                    2.05     9.95      12.00
IDA Credit 541-IN              .07     2.13       2.20
Local Financing:
Government of West Bengal       -      13.95     13.95
2.12    26.03      28.15
Estimated Disbursements:    :        FY1978  FY1979  FY1980  FY1981  FY1982
(US$ Million)         Annual           1.6      3.4     3.3      2.4      1.3
Cumulative       1.6      5.0     8.3    10.7    12.0
Procurement Arrangements:  :    All civil works, vehicles, scientific
equipment, other equipment and furniture
would be procured locally. Civil works
contracts valued at US$11.6 million would
be small, scattered and spread over time,
and would not be suitable for inter-
national competitive bidding. One hundred
motor vehicles valued at US$1.1 million to
be purchased over four years would be pro-
cured from locally manufactured types
already used widely by GOWB to ensure
adequate maintenance and supply of essen-
tial spares. Scientific equipment valued
at US$0.9 million would involve many small
contracts from various specialized sup-
pliers and international competitive
bidding would, therefore, be impractical.
These items would be procured through
local representatives of leading inter-
national manufacturers who are competi-
tive and provide adequate maintenance.
Other equipment and furniture valued
at US$1.3 million would be bulked where
possible for local procurement except
where valued at less than US$50,000 when
they would be purchased by prudent shopp-
ing.  All local bidding would be accord-
ing to procedures satisfactory to the
AssociaLtion.
Rates of Return:             :    Not calculated (see paragraph 52 of
main report).
Appraisal Report:            :    No. 1325a-IN, dated Iiarch 10, 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page I
INDIA - WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
From October 1975 to April 1976.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
The project was prepared by a GOWB Working Group
from the Department of Agriculture and Community
Development with assistance from the Bank Group
and Bank Group consultants.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of the first mission to consider the project
November 1975.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
lay 6, 1976.
(e) Date of completion of negotiation
January 26, 1977.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
June 30, 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 2
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) The West Bengal Program Planning and Implementation
Committee shall review seasonal extension and research
results and consider and approve plans for the coming
crop season (para. 38).
(b) GOWB shall ensure that specialists and research staff
would continue to work within their own discipline as
required by the Project (para.. 44).
(c)  GOWB shall establish a cell to undertake the building
component of the project within 100 days from signing
of the Project Agreement (para. 45).
(d) The Policy Coordinating Committee would be responsible
for ensuring coordinating with and cooperation of other
Departments (para. 45).
(e)  A program of monitoring and evaluation will be agreed
upon by July 1977, the results of which would be made
available to the Association at least once a year
(para. 45).
(f) Designs for low cost housing would be provided to the
Association by GOWB within a specified period after
signing (para. 49).
(g)  The execution of the West Bengal Project Agreement
(Condition of Effectiveness para. 56).
(h) The appointment of an Additional Director of Agriculture
(Research) and a Joint Director of Agriculture (Extension)
to work full time (Condition of Effectiveness, paras. 45
and 56).



b                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I                   Al



r      0 ooNob                                                                                              N       ~          **'%C H I N A
PAKISTA^y'  1Aw /r/                                     N    E    P  A    L                                         A                      B  H    U  T  A  N
M/ r   '> . NEPAON   'N-<                                                                         ---. D  -A R J E E L l\N G
LN-     iN      I          22        1__                                                                         1  l   .                  \'''
h-dURMA/                                                                                                     _
x.g3,hfN  D  I AN_
,Y8/AN0L0OE0O                                                                 /         A \  f   J\iA EL  P A  I G  U  R  I
SeA,oh.                      0/ }                                                               ,H>' >.                                      C        C H   B E H A R 4
\\_T_                                                                                                                     oo  .\          COOCH  REHAR O 
I N  D  I A                                                              S                      N                                 NV
WEST BENGAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION                                                                                                                   1            i
AND RESEARCH PROJECT                                                                                                                                i
Agro-climatic zones, Agricultural districts,
Research stations and Training centers                                         L                   )
:    CO---MO WN;:ITY     -     OTATIONS                                    W  E S t    >
A    I-NAlL-BSA-H STATI-N                                               tINAJPUE                    \
n     VIW I RAIN NG CENTERS                                     '    "                               4                                           N
HILL WONE                                        ,                    'N' -.  JO      MA2OIASO A
TERAI ZONE                                                                     S
L       OLD ALLUVIUM ZON- E                                                                 84L000T0;0050
N-E ALLAVIUM ZONE -                                                 L     A   V
-oLOTERITIEIZO: 008                                                   -,MksJ
-       OISTRIET SOUNOARIES                                               .1 ///   '    
--rSTATE BDDANIEN                                     .
-*   OoV:ERNAEIONoAL SOU:DARIES                             '\   0           0N  I                                           C
)  E oIL-A-1
N-NATI-Al~<AF '- A-
A A:
B    I    ~~H    A                B/
>   - _ J  12   B   I R  B  H  U M ' R 'a                  >                                                 o' 
'Ii~~~~~~l  i  of'O 
S _                                                                                                0000 SASEONO?'<_    
./                    1                     +*    B  U ~~~~~~~R  D W  A'                'A)1Ar
. .-   P  U  R  U  L  I A0(0.07h0Md'LEE UA2
B      A  N  K  U  R AA'L                                    A7
..0 ,/                    X                               A   , \                                    .. A-.> H OO GYL  )
B   /   H    At? -ufi7      e >  X > s    =rJ                             \   8   t_s~               ,, .247FARGANAS/
A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R ~~~~~~(NORTH)
MI D   A P O R E (WEST)                                     VSNOET    1$         N
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
22                                                                                            ~.\- t=  _*/ \ 24 - PARGANAS,      )
o  R  / 5  5  A                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOUTH)
O  R  /    S   S   A   (   r.   l          MIDNAPORE (EAST)                                               j
. ~~~ C
VIIVOOE-OR 
00. 20A  Y                                04 t0  Ft 1N0                A                                                        o
ti10/AETEE5                                                                                                      n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l.



