CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 690-IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(West Bengal Agricultural Extension
and Research Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 1, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 1, 1977, between INDIA, acting by its
President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DE-
VELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provide
(B) the Project will be carried out by the State of West
Bengal, acting by its Governor (hereinafter called West Bengal)
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to West Bengal the proceeds of
the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
West Bengal;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions.)
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and West Bengal of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Project Agreement.
(b) "West Bengal" means the State of West Bengal, acting
by its Governor, a State of India, or any successor thereof.
(c) "Development Credit Agreement 541-IN" means the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement (West Bengal Agricultural Development Project)
between the Borrower and the Association dated April 28, 1975.
(d) "West Bengal Agreement 541-IN" means the Agreement (West
Bengal Agricultural Development Project) between the Association
and West Bengal dated April 28, 1975.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twelve million dollars ($12,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in Sec-
tion 2.05 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1982
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower and West Bengal
of such later date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1987, and ending March 1,
2027, each installment to and including the installment payable on
March 1, 1997 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause West Bengal to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable West Bengal to
perform such obligations, and shill not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to West Bengal in accordance with the standard terms
and arrangements for the financing of State development projects.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) The Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under Part B (iii) of Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement 541-IN.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that West Bengal will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) West Bengal shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement or under the West Bengal
Agreement 541-IN, with respect to Part B (iii) of Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement 541-IN.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to
the Borrower and West Bengal.


﻿ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of West
Bengal has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary cor-
porate and governmental action; and
(b) the appointments of one full-time Additional Director of
Agriculture (Research) and one full-time Joint Director of Agricul-
ture (Extension) have duly been made.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions , to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by West Bengal, and is
legally binding upon West Bengal in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date August 31, 1977 is hereby specified
for the purnoses of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Officer on Special Duty, Director or Deputy Secretary
to the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance of the Bor-
rower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INDIA
By /s/ Kewal Singh
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amount of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                7,100,000          90%
(2) Equipment and              2,500,000           100% of foreign
vehicles                                      expenditures or
90% of local
expenditures
(3) Training and               1,100,000          100%
consultant
services
(4) Unallocated                1,300,000
TOTAL     12,000,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in re-
spect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, or prior to the date the
funds for extension and research as provided for in Category (2)
(c) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement 51-IN
shall have been fully disbursed, whichever date shall last occur.


﻿- 12 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallo-
cate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to an-
other Category and which in the opinion of the Association are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that fur-
ther withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expen-
ditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, can-
cel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of a program to assist West Bengal with
agricultural development by consolidating and strengthening the
extension service, by upgrading adaptive research facilities and
by staff training. The Project consists of:
(a) provision of additional staff, housing, offices, trans-
portation and training fellowships to consolidate and strengthen
the extension services;
(b) improvement of about seven existing training centers by
construction of hostels, classrooms and housing and by the pro-
vision of staff, teaching equipment and vehicles;
(c) (i) development and upgrading of about six commodity
oriented and about six adaptive agricultural research stations by
farm development, provision of staff, equipment, laboratory
facilities and vehicles, and by training fellowships (including
about 90 overseas training fellowships) for research scientists,
and (ii) provision of up to about 15 man-months of consultancy
services to assist in the development of the research stations;
and
(d) provision of staff, equipment and funds for studies to
monitor progress of the Project and evaluate its impact.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1982.


