IrI
/5290
.  ;~~~K
The Hashemite Kingdom  of Jordan
Gulf of Aqaba Environmental Action Plan
Project Document
May 1996
THE WORLD BANK



GEF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global environment in four areas: global warming, pollution of international waters,
destruction of biodiversity, and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Environment Programme,
and the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by .a green band - provide extended project-
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the document.
Global Environment Division
Environment Department
World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256



Report No. 15290 JO
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Gulf of Aqaba Environmental Action Plan
Project Document
May 1996
Natural Resources, Water and Environment Division
Middle East Department
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar (JD)
US$1.00 = .688 Jordanian Dinars
JD 1.00 = US$1.453
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
dunum         0. 1 hectare, or 0.247 acres         M           million
ha            hectare                              m           meter
hp            horsepower                           m3          cubic meter
K             thousand                             MCMY        Million Cubic Meters per Year
kcal          kilogram calorie                     MW          megawatts
km            kilometer                            mg          milligram
km2           square kilometer                     ppm         parts per million
CHEMICAL COMPOUNDS
BOD           Biological oxygen demand             NH3         Ammonium
CO2           Carbon dioxide                       NO,         Nitrogen oxide
DAP           Di-ammonium Phosphate                P           Phosphorus
N             Nitrogen                             SO2         Sulfur Dioxide
ACRONYMS
ARA         Aqaba Region Authority
CIDA        Canadian International Development Agency
CZM         Coastal Zone Management
EAP         Environmental Action Plan
EIA         Environmental Impact Assessment
EIS         Environmental Impact Study
EU          European Union
GAEAP       Gulf of Aqaba Environmental Action Plan
GEF         Global Environment Facility
GIS         Geographical Information System
GOJ         Government of Jordan
GTZ         Geselischaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IMO         International Maritime Organization
IUCN        International Union for Conservation of Nature
JEA         Jordan Electricity Authority
JPMC        Jordan Phosphate Mine Company, Ltd.
JSS         Jordan Standard Specifications
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding



MARPOL   International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships
MEPA       Meteorological & Environmental Protection Agency
MP         Marine Park
MSS        Marine Science Station
NEPA       National Environment Protection Agency
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
PERSGA    Programme on the Environment of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden
PMT        Project Management Team
PPA        Project Preparation Advance
RSCN       Royal Society for the Conservation of Nature
RSS        Royal Scientific Society
SOE        Statement of Expenditures
TOR        Terms of Reference
UGAOSCP Upper Gulf of Aqaba Oil Spill Contingency Project
UNDP       United Nations Development Programme
UNEP       United Nations Environmental Protection Agency
USAID      United States Agency for International Development
WAJ        Water Authority of Jordan
WGE        Multilateral Working Group on Environment of the Middle East Peace Process






PART I: Project Summary






THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
GULF OF AQABA ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN
Grant and Project Summary
Grantee             The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Beneficiary         The Aqaba Region Authority
Amount              SDR 1.9 million (US$2.7 million equivalent)
Terms               Grant
Financing Plan
GEF                              Local         Foreign       Total
---------------- US$ million ----------------
GEF Grant      1.32          1.38         2.70
Govt.          0.80           --          0.80
TOTAL          2.12          1.38         3.50
Parallel Financing                                           Total
Japan-Oil                                 5.60
EU-Oil                                    1.90
EU-MP                                     0.03
USAID-MP                                  0.24
Gvt. Industrial Pollution Control         1.40
TOTAL                                     9.17
GRAND TOTAL                              12.67
Poverty Categorv    Not Applicable
Economic Rate of
Return              Not Applicable






THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
GULF OF AQABA ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN
I. COUNTRY/SECTOR BACKGROUND
1.    Overview. The Red Sea, which contains globally unique ecosystems and biodiversity, is
threatened with serious degradation as a result of pollution, physical destruction and unsustainable
exploitation of marine and coastal natural resources. The primary environmental "hot spot" of the region,
the Gulf of Aqaba, is threatened by significant recent and planned developments that are leading to
transboundary degradation of Red Sea ecosystems (paras. 11-19). As a result of its semi-enclosed nature,
the Gulf of Aqaba is particularly susceptible to marine pollution and ecosystem degradation.
Development and implementation of a comprehensive strategy and plan for environmental protection of
the entire Red Sea will require a considerable gestation period. A framework for collaboration and
cooperation among the littoral nations must be established, one which would demonstrate its replicability
for integrated management and development of Red Sea natural resources appropriate for the region.
2.    Links with Regional Strategic Work. The proposed project would address priority threats to
the international waters of the Gulf of Aqaba and Red Sea in a comprehensive manner. It would facilitate
development of an approach to halt and prevent marine pollution, and protect globally important coral
reefs throughout the Red Sea area. As the primary "hot spot" activity it represents, this project is being
prepared in parallel to the recently GEF-approved Strategic Action Programme for the Red Sea and Gulf
of Aden Region, which supports the Programme on the Environment of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden
(PERSGA). The proposed project would also contribute to operationalizing the Regional Convention for
the Conservation of the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden Environment (Jeddah Convention).
3.    The project complements ongoing and planned GEF projects which address broad development
impacts on the Red Sea. These include: (a) Egypt Red Sea Coastal Zone Management, focusing primarily
on tourism impacts; and (b) Yemen Marine Ecosystem Protection, targeted primarily at environmental
monitoring and mitigation of oil-based pollution activities. Other current efforts designed to facilitate
regional environmental cooperation between Red Sea littoral states at a policy level include United
Nations Environmental Protection Agency's (UNEP) ongoing Regional Seas Programme and the recent
signing by Jordan of the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL
73/78). In addition, coordination with the Bank's program in the region - including the Egypt Private
Sector Tourism Project, the proposed Jordan Second Tourism Project, the proposed Jordan Aqaba
Thermal Power II Project, and the Rift Valley exercise -is ongoing. The proposed Aqaba program
would provide an important sub-regional activity and an essential complement to ongoing activities,
catalyzing the development of a more comprehensive and coherent system of resources management and
ecosystem protection for the entire Red Sea region.
4.    National and Regional Actions in the Gulf. In November 1991, the Jordanian Government
requested that a proposal for a regional Gulf of Aqaba Environmental Action Plan be submitted to the
GEF participants. The Jordanian Government asked the Bank to facilitate the preparation of the proposed
Aqaba program. Subsequently, a World Bank mission assisted the Government in preparing a framework
for an environmental action plan for the Jordanian portion of the Gulf of Aqaba. In May 1992, the
Government of Jordan (GOJ) presented the framnework for a proposed Environmental Action Plan to the
Multilateral Working Group on Environment of the Middle East Peace Process (WGE), in Tokyo. In



- 2 -
October 1993, the Government of Jordan, with GEF and World Bank assistance, prepared the "Gulf of
Aqaba Environmental Action Plan, Jordan" (GAEAP). The Plan was presented at the 4th meeting of the
WGE in Cairo, in November 1993.
5.    The GAEAP proposes 23 actions (investments and technical assistance) in six categories of
activity, namely: legal and regulatory framework; institutional strengthening; infrastructure investments;
marine park management; monitoring and applied research; and public awareness and environmental
education. A number of crucial transboundary "priority 1" actions would be undertaken under the first
phase of the proposed GEF project. The highest priority action is setting up the legal and regulatory
framework for implementation of curative and preventive environmental measures addressing
transboundary water issues.
6.    During 1994 and 1995, Egypt, Israel and Jordan have taken a first step toward developing a
regional approach to Gulf of Aqaba environmental protection through the preparation of an Upper Gulf
of Aqaba Oil Spill Contingency Plan funded by the European Union (EU) and the Government of Japan.
Under this plan, currently under implementation, emergency response centers in each of the three nations
coordinate in the event of a spill requiring a regional response. Moreover, components of a Jordanian
Marine Park strategy are being developed with U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) and
U.S. National Park Service funding. In parallel, Egypt has recently extended protected area status to
cover the entire Egyptian coastline of the Gulf of Aqaba, an important step toward ensuring the protection
of coastal biodiversity while allowing for environmentally sustainable tourism development.
7.    Jordan's commitment to pursuing a regional approach to Gulf of Aqaba environmental protection
was further advanced by the signing of a peace treaty with Israel, in October 1994. Under Annex IV of
that treaty, the two Governments agreed to cooperate in developing legislative, regulatory, planning and
emergency response measures to protect key areas including the Gulf of Aqaba. As a specific outgrowth
of the peace treaty with Israel, Jordan has advanced a Binational Red Sea Marine Park Concept, involving
cooperation between the two nations in developing and implementing a marine park management strategy
for the upper Gulf of Aqaba. Building upon this regional model, the Government of Jordan has recently
responded favorably to the Government of Egypt's offer of technical assistance in marine park
management, to be provided by Ras Mohammed National Park, under the auspices of the Egyptian
Environmental Affairs Agency. Jordan's commitment to tackling the Gulfs marine pollution problems
is further indicated by signature, and expected ratification in 1996, of the MARPOL 73/78.
8.    Geographic Characteristics and Global Biological Significance. The Gulf of Aqaba, one of
the two northward extensions of the Red Sea, is bounded by Egypt, Israel, Jordan and Saudi Arabia. The
Gulf of Aqaba is 180 km long, 14-26 km wide, has an average depth of 800 m, and is connected to the
Red Sea at the narrow (6 km) Strait of Tiran. Atypical oceanographic characteristics of this semi-
enclosed portion of the Red Sea have resulted in the evolution of biological diversity that is unique to the
Gulf of Aqaba, making the area a global priority for conservation. Many endemic species occur among
the Gulf of Aqaba's coral reef conmmunities. The Gulf's coral diversity, which includes over 192
scleractinian (reef-building corals) and 120 soft coral species, is higher than in other parts of the Red Sea.
Twelve percent (80 known species) of mollusks and a similar proportion of echinodermata occurring in
the Gulf may be endemic. Fifteen percent of the Gulf's amphipod species have only been recorded in
the Gulf of Aqaba and adjacent neighboring Red Sea areas. Of the 268 species of fish that have been
recorded, seven are recognized as endemic.



- 3 -
9.    Environmental Threats and Priorities. The same semi-enclosed characteristics of the Gulf of
Aqaba that have led to its rich and unique biodiversity also results in limited water exchange with the Red
Sea and Indian Ocean. Based on preliminary observations made in the Strait of Tiran, the residence time
for shallow water is one to two years, while the lower mass of water experiences a three-year average
residence time. The Gulf's relatively small size, combined with the low rate of water circulation and
renewal, reduces the potential for dispersion of oil and other water pollutants. The problem of
confinement and concentration of pollutants is particularly acute in the Jordanian portion of the Gulf of
Aqaba, whose relatively shallow waters lie at the Gulfs northern tip, furthest from the narrow Strait of
Tiran that separates the Gulf from the Red Sea.
10.   Until the 1960s, the Gulf of Aqaba was relatively unaffected by development, with its coastline
only sparsely populated by Bedouins. Since then, the Gulf has become a strategy international resource,
with major industrial facilities, shipping activities and rapidly expanding tourism. These developments
have already caused severe disturbance and damage to the Gulf's coastal and marine ecosystems.
Phosphate deposition from ship loading operations, frequent small to moderate oil spills, sewage
discharges, and thermal pollution from coastal industries have severely eroded coral life, particularly in
the Gulf's intensively developed northern reaches. Transboundary movement of pollutants is a priority
issue. Moreover, poorly regulated resort development and over-fishing have transformed coastal and
marine ecology in many areas, causing particular devastation to near-shore reefs in a number of popular
diving areas.
11.    Focus on Aqaba - the Red Sea's Primary Envirownental Hot Spot. Jordan's Gulf coastline
has been modified by a variety of developments which accompanied the nation's economic growth from
the mid-1970s to the mid-1980s. The Port of Aqaba gives Jordan its only outlet to the Red Sea and is
of crucial importance to the Jordanian economy. Since the 1970s, the port has changed from a modest
complex servicing Jordan's local needs to a regional transportation hub through which diversified cargo
has moved at a rate of 11.6 to 18.7 million tons per year since 1989. The increase in shipping activities
through Aqaba over the past decade has made it, in times of political stability, the busiest Red Sea port
after Suez in Egypt and Jeddah in Saudi Arabia.
12.   Along Jordan's northern Gulf shoreline lies the city of Aqaba, whose population has grown from
10,000 in 1972 to 65,000 today. Aqaba's existing hotel district has developed along a half-kilometer
stretch of sandy beachfront in this area, to the inmmediate north of Aqaba's main port area where 3.6 to
6.4 million tons of phosphate rock have been exported annually since 1989. South of the main port are
specialized berths for rice, cement, livestock, and containers, as well as a ferry terminal serving some
1.26 million passengers and 87,000 motor vehicles per year. South of the ferry terminal begins Jordan's
only stretch of undeveloped shoreline - a 6 km expanse that the Government has slated for hotel and
resort development. Between this proposed "South Coast Tourism Zone" and the Saudi Arabian border
lies Jordan's South Coast Industrial Zone, featuring a 260 MW oil-fired power station (soon to be doubled
in capacity), major fertilizer manufacturing and storage facilities, storage tanks for chemical solvents and
vegetable oil, and a petroleum export jetty. Ready access to large quantities of cooling water, unavailable
elsewhere in Jordan, is a major inducement to industrial development in this zone.
13.   The rapid pace and intensive scale of development along Jordan's Gulf of Aqaba coastline are
reflective of broader threats to Gulf ecosystem stability that call urgently for regional and sub-regional
solutions. Pollution prevention and resource conservation measures are urgently needed to prevent
irreversible loss to the biodiversity and overall ecosystem functioning of the Gulf of Aqaba and Red Sea
environments. Recognizing that the ecosystem in this part of the Gulf of Aqaba is truly indivisible,



Jordan has found it both appropriate and necessary to take this vital first step toward facilitating an overall
marine pollution action plan for the Gulf of Aqaba.
14.   International Waters Impacts. The semi-enclosed nature of the environment of the Gulf of
Aqaba, which has given rise to its unique biodiversity, causes the sea to be particularly susceptible to
pollution. Marine pollution sources include oil spills originating from both shipping and road haulage
activities, discarded solid waste, and spills of minerals (e.g., phosphate, sulfur) and organic matter (such
as grains) resulting from bulk cargo loading operations.
15.    With intensive port, industrial and tourism development activities concentrated along Jordan's 29-
kmn shoreline, environmental protection measures advanced under the proposed GEF project would have
a profound beneficial impact extending beyond Jordan's territorial waters. Oil pollution and discarded
garbage from land-based recreational activities and from ships traveling to and from the Port of Aqaba
have tangible adverse impacts on coastal and marine habitats in all adjacent littoral states.  The
introduction of non-indigenous species into the Gulf's marine waters through ballast water discharges may
also threaten the delicate balance of marine organisms in reef areas through the Gulf.
16.    Other transboundary environrmental impacts affecting all four gulf-bordering states include
pollution from mineral-loading operations in the adjacent ports of Aqaba (Jordan) and Eilat (Israel).
Phosphate deposition on marine waters, a problem that has been substantially mitigated by the recent
installation of two choke feeders in the Port of Aqaba, should be further monitored to determine any
threat to coral growth in adjacent waters. Routine and non-routine chemical and thermal discharges from
fertilizer factories, power generation facilities and chemical tank farms in Jordan's South Coast Industrial
Zone may endanger marine life in adjacent waters if adequate measures are not taken to mitigate this
problem.
17.   Indiscriminate fishing of Jordanian coastal waters poses an immediate threat to the diversity and
abundance of fish life throughout the Upper Gulf. The widespread use of cage traps and small-aperture
nets in fragile reef areas has caused direct damage to reefs and has all but eliminated larger fish species
from Jordanian waters. Poorly regulated fishing in adjacent coastal areas of Egypt and Israel further
contributes to depletion of this resource.
18.    Major plans for tourism development along the Egyptian, Israeli and Jordanian coasts further
threaten marine water quality and ecosystem stability, unless effective coastal management guidelines and
marine protected area plans are effectively implemented.  In Jordan's South Coast Tourist Zone,
construction of marinas and beachfront accommodations may result in the direct destruction of near-shore
reefs; inadequate flood control measures may result in damaging siltation and nutrient deposition in
highly sensitive reef areas; and anticipated large numbers of snorkelers, divers and tour boats may cause
further direct damage to near-shore reefs. Effective coastal zone management and marine park initiatives
in Jordan will require parallel and coordinated counterpart measures addressing present and potential
tourism impacts in Egypt and Israel.
19.    Pollution of the shallow, brackish water aquifer immediately underlying the coastal towns of
Aqaba and Eilat is another important area of international waters concern. Sewage from the municipal
sewage treatment ponds infiltrates this aquifer, whose depth averages only 1.5 to 2 m below the land
surface near these ponds. Waste oil from truck repair facilities in Aqaba, located at a higher elevation,
is a further identified threat to this shallow groundwater resource. Given the region's extreme water



- 5 -
scarcity, desalinated water from the Aqaba-Eilat transboundary aquifer is a valuable resource, currently
providing 75% of Eilat's water needs. Pollution of this aquifer may render it unusable in future years.
11. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
20.   Background. The proposed GEF project is part of the broader GAEAP (paras. 4-5). The
primary objective of the GAEAP is to contain existing damage and prevent further environmental
degradation of the Gulf of Aqaba's coast, coral reefs and marine ecosystems through the implementation
of environmental management activities accompanied by required investments. The GAEAP was
presented at the 4th meeting of the WGE in November 1993. Implementation of the GAEAP is currently
underway and includes: (a) preparation and implementation of an oil spill contingency plan for Egypt,
Israel and Jordan (funded by the EU and Japan); (b) installation of two choke feeders to reduce phosphate
dust pollution from shiploading operations at the Port of Aqaba (funded by the Aqaba Ports Corporation);
(c) as part of the activities funded by the GEF Project Preparation Advance (PPA), preparation of
guidelines for environmental impact assessment, coastal zone management, industrial environmental
auditing and pollution prevention, and marine vessel pollution prevention; and (d) development of
preliminary management guidelines for the Jordanian portion of the Red Sea Marine Peace Park (using
PPA funding and partial USAID funding and technical support - see para. 25E).
21.    GEF Project. The proposed GEF project specifically targets those components of the GAEAP
which address international waters issues from which expected additional global benefits will only be
attained through joint action. The primary objective of the proposed GEF project is to enable Jordan to
take the lead in establishing and implementing a regional collaborative framework for sustainable
management and protection of the Gulf of Aqaba and the conservation of its unique coral reefs. The
project utilizes the comprehensive approach outlined in the GEF Council strategy for international waters
to develop mechanisms for control of transboundary pollution, and addresses environmental issues that
constitute regional and global priorities. A related international waters issue addressed by the proposed
project is the prevention of further degradation of the transboundary aquifer in the Aqaba coastal zone
(see para. 25C).
22.   Specific project objectives are to: (a) develop regional collaborative mechanisms for
environmental management to strengthen capacity for the protection of the coastal zone and marine
biodiversity; (b) develop and implement the legal framework and regulations for control of transboundary
pollution; (c) provide for safeguards against oil pollution of aquifers and the marine environment;
(d) establish and implement guidelines for the sustainable development of the coastal zone; (e) assess the
effects of wastewater seepage on the quality and level of the transboundary groundwater table;
(f) implement a plan to control transboundary solid waste impacts on the marine and coastal water
resource systems; and (g) establish the Jordanian segment of the Red Sea Marine Peace Park.
III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
23.    Under the proposed GEF project, the Government of Jordan, in concert with parallel efforts in
Egypt and Israel, would develop and implement priority measures to halt and prevent further pollution
of the marine environment and the transboundary aquifers in the Aqaba coastal zone.



- 6 -
24.   Work Prepared with PPA Funding. Important groundwork for this project has been laid by
a GEF-funded PPA in the amount of $295,000 for the Gulf of Aqaba, which has been implemented by
the Aqaba Region Authority (ARA) under the supervision of the Ministry of Planning. Using PPA
funding, Jordanian and foreign engineers, lawyers and planners have worked together to produce
recommended regulations addressing priority Gulf of Aqaba environmental protection concerns. Primary
documents produced using PPA funding include environmental impact assessment procedures for new
developments in the Aqaba region; coastal zone management guidelines for Jordan's planned South Coast
Tourism Zone as well as other development areas; environmental auditing procedures applicable to
existing industries in the Aqaba region; performance and discharge standards for industries located along
or near Jordan's Aqaba coast; preliminary management guidelines for the Jordanian Red Sea Marine
Peace Park; and a report on marine vessel pollution prevention and port reception facility needs. A
report on marine vessel pollution prevention and port reception facility needs, prepared with PPA funding
by the International Maritime Organization's (IMO) leading expert on MARPOL implementation, was
submitted to the ARA and the Aqaba Ports Corporation in May 1995. Since that time, at the invitation
of both the ARA and the Ports Corporation, further IMO involvement has carried these recommendations
forward. In July 1995, EIA and environmental auditing procedures were prepared, which are to be
adopted by the ARA pursuant to the Law of the Aqaba Region Authority No. 7 (1987). Coastal zone
management guidelines were finalized in October 1995, and recommended pollution standards for coastal
industries are being finalized. Activities achieved with PPA financing are further detailed in Part 11.
25.   Project components are the following:
A.    Development of Regulatory and Institutional Framework for Gulf of Aqaba Environmental
Protection.
(i)    Definition of Overall Goals, Policies and Guidelines for Environmental Management
of International Water Transboundary Issues of the Aqaba Region, and
Establishment of Collaborative Mechanisms for Coordination of Relevant Institutions
and Regional Partners, i.e. Egypt and Israel: A priority feature of the proposed
project is to further implement collaborative mechanisms to foster Gulf-wide cooperation
in addressing priority environmental concerns. The EU-sponsored Upper Gulf of Aqaba
Oil Spill Contingency Project (UGAOSCP), forging important ties between Egypt, Israel
and Jordan in responding to oil spills, provides an important beginning that the GEF
project would build upon and expand to embrace the broader sphere of marine water
quality and coral reef protection concerns. Direct consultation, coordinated planning and
information exchange would be promoted through enhanced communication between
national ministries, local government entities, port authorities, coast guard officials and
marine research institutions in the Gulf bordering states. In Egypt, the main counterpart
institutions are the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Egyptian Environmental Affairs
Agency. In Israel, key partner institutions include the Ministry of Environment at the
national level and the Eilat Municipality at the local level.
(ii)   Implementation of a Legislative and Regulatory Framework for the Control and
Management of Transboundary Pollution: Building on the pollution control and
prevention guidelines developed with PPA financing, this component would implement
performance and discharge standards to control pollution from industries, port facilities
and ships. Priority targets for pollution prevention and control guidelines will be
preservation of marine water quality, promotion of coral reef ecosystem stability, and



prevention of further erosion of water quality in the transboundary aquifer in Aqaba and
Eilat. Active consultations with neighboring states will be undertaken to ensure that
standards and guidelines developed under this element are a harmonious component of
a broader Gulf of Aqaba environmental protection regime accepted by all.
(iii)    Coastal Zone Management and Implementation of EIA  Guidelines:  Building upon
the coastal zone management (CZM) and environmental impact assessment (EIA)
guidelines developed with PPA financing, this component would help to strengthen the
ARA's capacity to minimize the adverse transboundary environmental impacts associated
with hotel resort development, tourist services, and recreational facilities, particularly in
the South Coast area. This component would include: (i) assistance to ARA in adopting
and implementing proposed CZM and EIA guidelines; (ii) training of ARA staff in
implementing CZM and EIA guidelines; and (iii) assistance to ARA in preparing project-
specific EIA requirements and in reviewing environmental impact statements prepared
during the initial period following adoption of EIA guidelines. Consultation with
neighboring states will include a regional workshop, within the framework of the WGE,
to develop similar guidelines for CZM and EIA guidelines with the regional counterpart
agencies.
(iv)    Transboundary Environmental Management, including Monitoring with a Regional
Focus: Institutional needs assessment for strengthening the capacity of the Aqaba Region
Authority Environment Unit would include: (a) preparation and implementation of a
marine water quality management and implementation strategy including program
elements for water quality monitoring with a regional focus; preparation and
implementation of a coral reef ecosystem monitoring program with a regional focus; (b)
a program for pollution prevention in recharge zones; (c) preparation and implementation
of a strategy for managing residual phosphate dust emissions'; (d) provision of training
to support environmental planning, implementation of monitoring programs, and for
inspectors of regulated facilities; and (e) establishment of information technology systems
including GIS and database records to support planning, monitoring and enforcement in
collaboration with neighboring states.
Phosphate dust resulting from shiploading activities settles on all surfaces in the loading terminal and
environs. Some, however, is blown into the adjacent sea where it sinks and settles on the seabed and coral reef communities.
Environmental concerns relate primarily to the possible detrimental effects that the dust may have on marine and coral reef
resources. Coral reef ecosystems in the immediate vicinity of the phosphate loading terminal have been substantially altered
due to the physical effects of dust blocking light infiltration and settling on the polyps, which inhibits exchange of metabolites.
Divers report that this effect may be spreading to neighboring reefs as the dust is progressively dispersed through the marine
environment by wind and water currents. In addition, some of the inorganic phosphate dust from the phosphate loading terminal
is convened through biological processes in the marine environment to organic phosphorous, which in turn may be a cause of
eutrophication in nearby coastal waters. In the case of the enclosed water body of the Gulf of Aqaba, where natural seawater
phosphorous levels are relatively low (0.2 micrograms/liter), a small increase in the available phosphorous content of sea water
could have a relatively large impact on ecological systems especially coral reefs. These effects of phosphate dust need scientific
verification.



- 8 -
B.      Emergency Assessment of Oil Pollution Hazards and of PoUlutants Contained in Ballast and
Bilge Water and Measures to Promote Waste Oil Recovery and Reuse.
While the UGAOSCP, developed with EU and Japanese assistance, addresses risks associated
with small to moderate Gulf oil spills, there is an urgent need to develop adequate measures to
minimize the risk of potentially catastrophic oil spills2. Measures to promote environmentally
responsible management of ship operations, including the provision of adequate port reception
facilities for bilge and ballast water, are also needed3. In addition to developing proposed
measures to address these hazards, this component would assess the hazards to transboundary
aquifers and marine waters caused by waste oil from land transport vehicles4. Factors to be
examined include possible leakage from underground fuel storage tanks, the use of waste oil as
a dust suppressant at transportation repair facilities, and the roadside dumping of waste oil.
Based on this assessment, the component would help develop a strategy and plan for collection
and recycling of waste oil from ships as well as transport vehicles. Enforcement tools and
financial incentives to promote waste oil recovery and reuse would also be developed under this
component, with a particular emphasis on promoting private sector investment in waste oil
recovery, transportation and reuse.
C.      Safeguarding Transboundary Groundwater Resources through Groundwater Monitoring and
Assessment of the Effects of Wastewater Seepage on the Quality and Level of the Groundwater
Table in the Gulf of Aqaba Region.
Transboundary pollution of the shallow aquifer near Aqaba and Eilat should be controlled on both
sides of the border. The quality of the groundwater around the periphery of the Aqaba and Eilat
municipal wastewater treatment plant will be assessed and reciprocate mitigation measures would
be defined in close collaboration between Jordan and Israel.  Under a second phase, a water
resources assessment would be undertaken with the objective of establishing sustainable future
rates of usage and management of wastewater effluent. The water resources assessment would
include a multi-sector analysis of current water resource uses, an evaluation of water quality
applied to these uses, and projections as to future water supply and demand. Specific attention
would be given to present management and potential uses of sewage effluent (e.g. agricultural
irrigation, a proposed golf course development and landscaping in the South Coast Tourism
2       Under the UGAOSCP, emergency response centers are to be established in Egypt, Israel and Jordan, each with a
capacity to handle spills of up to 200 metric tons of oil. As tankers now plying the Gulfs waters carry 100,000 to 150,000 tons
of oil, measures to maximize tanker safety are urgently needed. The project would explore the possibility of promoting regional
agreement on tanker design and operational requirements, and other measures to reduce the likelihood of a major oil spill in
the Gulf.
3       In the enclosed waters of the Gulf of Aqaba, the cumulative effects of oil contamination caused by bilge and ballast
water discharges can cause serious environmental degradation. The Port of Aqaba does not have facilities for the reception and
treatment of ballast or bilge water.
4       Trucks servicing Aqaba's port and industrial facilities, numbering well in excess of 300,000 per year, are a major
source of oil contamination in sensitive coastal areas as well as in areas overlying the shallow brackish water aquifer that
straddles the Jordan-Israel border in the Araba valley. Poorly managed repair facilities and transport depots, combined with
the uncontrolled roadside dumping of waste oil, pose major hazards. Following Jordan's signing of a peace treaty with Israel,
commercial road traffic around the coast of the Gulf of Aqaba is due to escalate dramatically with the anticipated increase in
commercial exchange between littoral states.



- 9 -
Zone), the preparation of a plan to control potential adverse impacts on nutrient-sensitive coral
reefs in nearby marine waters and transboundary pollution of the aquifer near Aqaba and Eilat.
D.    Development of an  Integrated Marine and Land-Based Transboundary Solid  Waste
Management Strategy.
Large quantities of solid waste (plastic bags, foam cups, animal carcasses, glass, metal, etc.)
pollute the Gulf's international waters. Sources include recreational beach waste, litter generated
by passengers aboard the Aqaba (Jordan) - Nuweiba (Egypt) ferry, and the discharge of dead
livestock from cargo ships. This component would ensure control of litter and transboundary
garbage contamination of coral reefs and the marine environment. The following activities would
be included: (i) the development of consultative mechanisms to promote the development of an
effective regional action plan for transboundary solid waste management for waste originating
from marine and land-based sources; (ii) the improvement of port reception facilities for ship-
generated solid waste; (iii) the strengthening of current mechanisms to ensure that ship operators
strictly enforce anti-litter provisions against passengers and crew; (iv) the development of a solid
waste collection, recycling and disposal plan that would ensure reliable collection of domestic
garbage, effective sorting of recyclable materials, and environmentally sound disposal
(containment) of non-recyclable waste; (v) development of strong anti-litter and anti-dumping
provisions to be adopted by the Aqaba Region Authority; and (vi) the hiring and training of staff
and the purchase of equipment for patrolling beach areas and coastal waters to enforce anti-litter
provisions.
E.    Protection of Globally Important Coral Reefs -  Development and Implementation of the
Jordanian Marine Park.
This component would be undertaken within the framework of a tri-partite collaboration between
Egypt, Israel and Jordan. The marine reserve proposal prepared by the International Union for
Conservation of Nature (IUCN) was updated using PPA funding and has produced draft marine
park regulations. Hence, the component would entail: (i) establishment of a multi-use Marine
Park (MP) incorporating detailed zonation and numerical and spatial limitations on different user
activities (including commercial and recreational fishing regulations); (ii) installation of mooring
buoys, the marking of boundaries, user zones and reef crossovers points; (iii) hiring and training
of Marine Park staff engaged in controlling park entry, enforcement of zoning regulations,
interpretation and visitor education, and implementation of monitoring and public awareness
programs; and (iv) in collaboration with ARA, the Port Corporation, NGOs and the private
sector, development and implementation of a public awareness campaign targeting hotel visitors,
dive center customers, park visitors and the general public.
IV. INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
26.   The Government of Jordan has requested that the Bank continue its leading role in facilitating the
GAEAP. The Bank would continue to support Egyptian, Israeli and Jordanian cooperation under the
GAEAP which would be linked to initiatives in other sectors to promote the development of the area as
part of the Middle East Peace Process (para. 4). The GAEAP is an integral element of the Bank's
regional environmental strategy and is a priority action of the Environmental Business Plan of the Middle
East and North Africa Region. As in the preparation phase, the project would be closely coordinated



- 10 -
with Bank activities in the region. This would include development of linkages with the Private Sector
Tourism Project in Egypt, the proposed Second Tourism Project in Jordan, and the proposed Aqaba
Thermal Power 11 Project, as appropriate. It would also be coordinated with studies being prepared for
potential cooperative activities between Israel and Jordan in the Jordan Rift Valley.
27.    Project implementation would be undertaken by the Aqaba Region Authority under the
supervision of the Ministry of Planning. In addition, ARA environmental activities will be coordinated
with the General Corporation for Environmental Protection, established under Jordan's recently enacted
Law of Environmental Protection No. 12 (1995).
28.    The Aqaba Region Authority was established in 1984 under the authority of the Prime Minister
in order to ensure coordination and integration of all development taking place in the Aqaba region. The
ARA and its recently established Environment Unit (including role and activities to be undertaken) are
described in the Technical Annex. In order to enable ARA to perform its mandate for overseeing the
integrated development of the region, the Government issued a special law, which identifies the
organization's goals and guides its activities.  The law states that the ARA is responsible for the
coordination of social and economic development of the region and the formulation of necessary policies,
plans, regulations and programs in collaboration with the concerned public and private agencies. This
law also enables ARA to introduce rapidly, and enforce, environmental regulations for the Aqaba region.
While ARA currently lacks the capacity to fully address environmental issues, it would be strengthened
to that effect through this project.
29.    Regional Collaboration Implementation. As described in the above paras. 11-19, port and
industrial activities along Jordan's Gulf coastline which impact international waters prompted Jordan to
plan specific protection activities to be undertaken under the proposed project and these activities are
expected to have substantial beneficiary transboundary environmental impacts. As briefly described in
para. 25 and further detailed in Part 11, the project components will also include activities to be
undertaken jointly between Jordan, Egypt, and Israel. The Government of Jordan, in concert with Egypt
and Israel, would develop and implement priority measures to halt and prevent further pollution of the
marine environment and the transboundary aquifers in the Gulf of Aqaba coastal zone.
30.    The framework for these activities to take place is provided through the Middle East Peace
Process Working Groups. Active consultations on Gulf of Aqaba environmental protection are already
well under way between Jordan, Egypt and Israel. The WGE established Gulf of Aqaba environmental
protection as its first target for regional cooperation. The UGAOSCP, with Egypt, Israel and Jordan as
active partners, has emerged as a direct outgrowth of the Working Group's deliberations. Under the
auspices of the Regional Economic Development Working Group, the Taba-Eilat-Aqaba Macro Area
("TEAM" Area) Experts Group is further sponsoring, through World Bank facilitation, the preparation
of GAEAPs for the Jordanian and Israeli portions of the Gulf. Under the auspices of the GEF-sponsored
PPA for the Gulf of Aqaba Environmental Action Plan, important strides have also been made toward
forging regional cooperation in addressing priority Gulf of Aqaba environmental protection concerns.
The GEF funded PPA enabled coordinated efforts in coral protection. Through this initiative, the Ras
Mohammed National Park Sector Development Project has been invited to contribute expertise for
preparation of a marine park strategy for Jordan, in conjunction with leading scientists from the U.S.
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
31.   Implementing Institutions. The regional collaboration activities under this proposed project will
directly build on, and support, the Middle East Peace Process Working Groups operations. In Jordan,



- 11 -
regional collaboration activities will be the responsibility of the ARA. ARA will, through its Board of
Directors, oversee project implementation, forward planning, and sustainability of the project. Within
the ARA, oversight of implementation will be the responsibility of the Secretary General, to which the
Environment Unit is attached. A Director will be appointed to head the Environment Unit and the Unit's
role and activities are detailed in Attachment D. The Environment Unit will coordinate with regional
partners. Specific regional collaboration tasks will be undertaken by the Director of the Environment
Unit and are described under the position's Terms of Reference (TOR) in Attachment E. The Project
Manager will also assist in coordination of regional activities. In Egypt, the main counterpart institutions
are the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency. In Israel, key
partner institutions include the Ministry of Environment at the national level and the Eilat Municipality
at the local level.  High level officials of these institutions will directly collaborate with ARA's
Environment Unit Director.
32.    Collaborative mechanisms will be developed for region-wide consultation and cooperation in
addressing priority areas of environmental concern. The mechanisms will address options for establishing
specialized committees to promote dialogue on particular issues (e.g. land-based industrial pollution
concerns; sewage and solid waste management; marine vessel pollution prevention; environmental
performance of port operations; environmental data-sharing).  Included would be mechanisms for
organizing regional workshops on priority policy areas (e.g. environmental impact assessment, industrial
pollution monitoring, marine vessel pollution prevention, fisheries management) and for implementing
transboundary  scientific research projects on issues pertaining to coral reef ecology, fisheries
management. and terrestrial flora and fauna.
33.    Regional Activities to be undertaken are detailed and budgeted in Part 11. They include:
(a)    the development of an action plan for transboundary consultation and cooperation. In
developing and implementing this plan, the ARA Environment Unit Director will work
with counterparts in Egypt, Israel and, if possible, Saudi Arabia to establish consultative
mechanisms on priority areas of environmental concern. Tri-national committees would
be strengthened or created to promote harmonized laws and policies in specialized areas
(e.g. marine pollution from land-based industries; sewage management and sewage water
reuse; collection, disposal and recycling of solid waste from marine and land-based
sources);
(b)    the development of joint research projects on issues pertaining to coral reef ecology,
fisheries management, and pollution impacts from land-based and marine sources. The
current research capabilities of the Aqaba Marine Science Station and other Jordanian
institutions will be strengthened through the development of a research agenda targeted
at priority environmental protection concerns. Augmenting this agenda will be fellowship
support and research grants, awarded on the basis of the proposals' substantive areas of
focus as well as the shared involvement of researchers from two or more Gulf-bordering
states in research projects.  Direct cooperation between the MSS and counterpart
institutions in Israel and Egypt will be promoted;
(c)    the provision of training workshops on topics of shared relevance (e.g. environmental
impact assessment, industrial pollution monitoring, marine vessel pollution prevention,
fisheries management);



- 12 -
(d)    the joint development between the Governments of Jordan, Egypt and Israel of standards
and regulations for ship-based pollution, including bilge and ballast water waste, noxious
liquid substances, solid waste and sewage;
(e)    the provision of regional institutional strengthening through the establishment of a
Geographical Information System (GIS) compatible for the three bordering countries and
necessary regional staff training;
(f)    the development of regional measures to minimize the risk of potentially catastrophic oil
spills;
(g)    assessment of the feasibility of building a coordinated (Jordan-Egypt-Israel) waste oil
reception and recovery scheme, and launching of a demonstration project in waste oil
recovery5;
(h)    joint (Jordan-Israel) groundwater monitoring and assessment of the effects of wastewater
seepage on the quality and level of the groundwater table in the Gulf of Aqaba region;
(i)    development of a transboundary solid waste management strategy; and
(j)    the implementation of the transboundary Marine Park within the framework of a tri-
partite collaboration between Egypt, Israel and Jordan.
V. PARTICIPATION AND SUSTAINABILITY
34.    Participation. Preparation of the GAEAP, including its proposed GEF components, has involved
extensive and broad-based participation by representatives of national and local Government, the ARA,
academic and research institutions, private sector interests and non-governmental organizations (NGOs).
Ongoing dialogue with potential private sector investors in the tourism industry is currently being
enhanced through the sharing of experience gained from Egypt. The participation process was facilitated
through a series of consultative meetings conducted in Amman and Aqaba both in Arabic and English.
At the regional level similar meetings were held in Egypt and Israel. An element of the participatory
process included the preparation and distribution of GAEAP-related documentation in Arabic and English
in the cooperating countries. Preparation of the GAEAP within Jordan directly involved the Royal
Scientific Society (RSS), the leading applied research institute, and the Royal Society for the Conservation
of Nature (RSCN), a major Jordanian non-governmental organization. The participation process related
to the Marine Park is detailed in Attachment H. At the local level, the future Marine Park is not
inhabited and the setting of its boundaries will not involve any resettlement. Local perspectives, goals,
aspirations, and priorities were discussed with communities in the area surrounding the proposed park.
35.    Sustainability.  Project sustainability rests on the overall commitment of the Government of
Jordan and other riparian states. Project activities and implementation are designed (including the
participation process) to achieve sustainability.  The project would develop mechanisms for the
5  Safeguards will be developed to preclude making such an installation a dump site for waste oil deliberately brought
into the area.



- 13 -
establishment of financial incentives, private sector investment, and cost recovery in environmental
mnanagement.
36.  The Law of the ARA of 1987 allows for establishment of financial mechanisms to generate and
utilize funds to cover recurrent costs. A recurrent cost recovery plan for operation and maintenance of
the Environment Unit will be developed during project implementation (Technical Annex). Following
adoption of the recurrent cost recovery plan, the necessary by-laws would be enacted. Recurrent costs
would be met through Government contribution, camping fees, and increased revenues from the Royal
Diving Center by strengthening service quality and charging fees reflecting market rates. In addition,
revenues, that will ensure long term funding for the Environment Unit, could be generated from:
(a) special assessment or impact fees levied by ARA on new construction in the coastal zone; (b) solid
waste; (c) emissions; (d) environmental services (e.g. ElAs and environmental audits) and user charges;
(e) tourist bed tax; (f) regulations' enforcement fees; (g) corporate and individual sponsorship; and
(h) revenues from the park (e.g. entrance fee, concession fees for activities such as diving and cafes).
As regards park revenues, an entrance fee structure will be developed and applied.
37.   The Government has committed itself to the proposed project by the preparation of the GAEAP.
In addition, the Government is contributing $1.4 million for the funding of a priority component of the
GAEAP, i.e. installation of two choke feeders at phosphate loading terminals to reduce airborne
phosphate. The Government is also committed to contribute an additional estimated $800,000 in cash
or in kind to support environmental management and capacity building, as well as the financing of
environrmental audits for the major industries in the Aqaba region, notably the power plant and fertilizer
factory. Finally, the regional parties (Egypt, Israel and Jordan) have requested, within the context of the
Regional Economic Development Working Group in Amman in June 1995, that coordinated
environmental action plans be developed for the Egyptian and Israeli portions of the Gulf of Aqaba. The
World Bank has agreed to assist in the preparation of the plans for Egypt and Israel.
VI. PROJECT FINANCING AND BUDGET
38.   A detailed budget of the GEF project components is contained in the Technical Annex,
Attachment A, and a full description of these outputs is provided in the text of the Technical Annex. A
breakdown of project costs and the financing plan are shown in Schedule A. Procurement methods,
disbursement amounts, and the disbursement schedule are shown in Schedule B and detailed in the
Technical Annex. Retroactive financing of up to $300,000 is being made available for priority goods and
consultant services. A timetable of key project processing events and the status of Bank Group operations
in Jordan are in Schedules C and D, respectively.
39.   The total cost of the project is estimated at $12.67 million, representing $2.2 million supported
by the Government of Jordan, $7.77 million of bilateral assistance and GEF financing of $2.7 million.
The Jordanian contribution includes nominal funding of about $100,000 annually (or $300,000 over the
life of the project) to address environmental issues in Aqaba which are of significance to Jordan, together
with $1.4 million to reduce phosphate dust pollution negatively affecting water quality and a commitment
by the ARA to reallocate $500,000 toward the institutional framework of the proposed project. The
GEF-funded PPA has been instrumental in catalyzing funds from bilateral donors. The EU and Japan
are financing $7.5 million for the oil spill contingency planning and implementation component of the
GAEAP, and USAID and the EU are assisting the Government of Jordan in the development of a marine
park with a contribution of $272,500. In addition, it is envisaged that GTZ may contribute up to $1.3



- 14 -
million to this initiative. Through this contribution, GTZ would conduct an area-wide EIA of the South
Coast, including the planned Tourism Zone.
VII. INCREMENTAL COSTS
40.   The incremental costs of the project (set out in Technical Annex, Attachment B) have been
calculated on the basis of a component-by-component analysis of reasonable project baseline costs, taking
into account the relative government commitment to finance environrnental management and protection
measures as part of its established or expected sustainable development plans. The incremental costs to
be borne by GEF financing have been estimated at $2.7 million.
41.    Domestic benefits accruing to Jordan, as well as the other littoral states of the Gulf of Aqaba,
would be: (a) an increase in water quality through reduction of oil, industrial pollution and solid waste;
and (b) potential tourism revenue from the MP. Although these benefits cannot be readily calculated due
to their uncertain distributive characteristics as well as the speculative nature of tourism development in
the region, it should be noted that 87% of project costs associated with the components supporting these
potential benefits (oil pollution hazards, transboundary solid waste management and marine park) will be
borne through identified bilateral financing. The remaining 13% of these costs, covering other
transboundary benefits, would be funded by the GEF.
VIII. LESSONS LEARNED
42.    Lessons learned from previous international waters projects in the region indicate that a
programmatic approach to country-based international waters projects is required. The proposed project
would provide linkages with ongoing regional seas initiatives, and would ensure a concerted international
approach to achieve global benefits through linkages with the Strategic Action Programme for the Red
Sea and Gulf of Aden Region as described in paras. 2-3.
IX. RATIONALE FOR GEF FINANCING
43.    Urgent Global Priority. The proposed project meets GEF eligibility criteria by addressing
critical transboundary threats to the ecological viability of a globally significant waterbody, and urgent
biodiversity conservation needs that, if not addressed, would result in irreversible damage to globally
important coral reef biodiversity. The Gulf of Aqaba is identified as a globally significant biogeographic
zone in the 1995 World Bank/lUCN report "A Global Representative System of Marine Protected Areas. "
Pollution resulting from development on the coast of the Gulf of Aqaba is endangering the balance of
marine ecosystems. Biological and economic value of these unique marine ecosystems may be lost as
a result of poorly planned or managed coastal developments which are established without due regard for
enviromnental consequences. The comprehensive approach of this project, addressing multisectoral
issues, has direct application to development pressures being placed upon threatened coral systems
worldwide. The project is fully consistent with the Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy discussed
by the Board on October 24, 1995, which inter alia emphasizes environmentally sustainable development.
44.   While some elements of the project would be focused on addressing regional priority hot spot
issues at a national level, the benefits would be global due to their transboundary nature, both in terms



- 15 -
of the significance of Red Sea biodiversity, and also as a demonstration of the successful establishment
of mechanisms for regional pollution management that could be replicated in other parts of the world.
The proposed project would strengthen basin-wide pollution monitoring and management efforts in
cooperation with the other projects in the region, and would establish the basis for further regional
cooperation.
45.   In addition, GEF support to implement the GAEAP, in particular the marine pollution component
and the coral reef conservation strategy, is expected to leverage supplemental assistance from the EU,
Japan, USAID, other donor agencies, and environmentally friendly private tourism developers.
X. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
46.   This environmental project is expected to have an overall positive environmental impact. All
project components are "Category C" components except for the MP component which is a "B"
component. The MP component may support small-scale physical work for the effective management
of ecologically sensitive areas in the coastal zone. This component would be subject to an environmental
review, consistent with OD 4.01, Annex C during the project. A preliminary environmental analysis of
the environmental impacts and a preliminary environmental mitigation plan for the Marine Park
component is described in Attachment 1, which would be detailed during the project by the implementing
agency ARA. Review of the detailed mitigation plan and of its implentation would be carried out by the
Bank.
XI. PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION
47.   Utilizing key process and status indicators would be an intrinsic process of the project through
the establishment and integration of monitoring tools into project components. A monitoring and
evaluation plan is detailed in the Technical Annex, Attachment C. The objective of this monitoring is
to contribute to improving and, if needed, adapting management of project activities as well as creating
the basis for project evaluation. A Mid-Term Review will be undertaken jointly by the Government and
the World Bank after two years, on or about August 1998.
XII. PROJECT BENEFITS
48.   The project would result in the following benefits: prevention of further environmental
degradation, including the containment of marine pollution; improvement of the overall quality of the
urban and natural environment; reduction in existing point sources of pollution; maintenance of the
ecological balance of threatened ecosystems; and improvement of the efficiency of water use. It would
also establish standards and procedures which could be adopted at the national level, and provide an
opportunity to initiate regional cooperation in managing the environmental impacts of development
throughout the Gulf of Aqaba.



- 16 -
XIII. ISSUES, ACTIONS AND RISKS
49.   The major issue is the need for a strengthened institutional framework. By providing a proper
institutional, regulatory and enforcement system, as proposed under the project, the risks of continued
environmental degradation and failure to achieve the project's objectives would be minimnized. While the
ARA has legal authority to introduce new regulations for the Aqaba Region, there is also a risk associated
with the possible delay in enforcement of those regulations. Toward this end, the ARA Environment Unit
should be strengthened to allow for effective management with enforcement authority. At a minimum,
provision of incentives for career development and the elaboration of management enforcement authority
is required. Finally, there is a risk that following project completion the Environment Unit could not be
sustained. The adoption of a recurrent cost recovery plan and government assurance to continue meeting
recurrent costs after the project minimize this risk.
XIV. AGREED ACTIONS
50.   During negotiations, the following agreements were reached with the Government:
(i)   that ARA will establish an Environment Unit with staffing and TORs satisfactory to the
Bank by July 1, 1996;
(ii)   that official designation of the Gulf of Aqaba Marine Park, including boundary
delineation, would be a condition for disbursement of those components of the Grant
related to the MP;
(iii)  that based on the MP regulations to be developed during the first three months of the
project, a by-law establishing the regulations for the operation of the MP will be
presented to the Cabinet of Ministers by December 31, 1996;
(iv)   that imnediate steps will be taken toward the formal adoption, by September 1, 1996,
of recommended guidelines and standards developed with PPA funding, including EIA,
CZM, environmental auditing, and industrial pollution prevention;
(v)   that the key project activities would be carried out according to the Schedule set forth in
Attachment F;
(vi)  that a recurrent costs recovery plan will be designed by December 31, 1996 and
implemented within 6 months; charges would be updated regularly according to the plan;
(vii)  that the equipment to implement the monitoring of sea water quality program will be
based at the Marine Science Station;
(viii)  that quarterly progress reports will be submitted to the Bank, with supporting
documentation, describing actions taken in the following areas:
*     hiring and training of Project consultants and staff;
*     progress in meeting milestones set forth in the Project Implementation Plan;



- 17 -
*     adoption and implementation of environmental protection regulations, including
but not limited to guidelines and standards developed with PPA funding;
*     inter-agency coordination in addressing priority concerns addressed under the
Project;
*     preparation and implementation of a MP management plan, marine water quality
monitoring program, GIS, waste oil recycling plan, groundwater quality
mitigation plan, and solid waste collection plan;
*     development of mechanisms and implementation of activities to advance regional
cooperation with neighboring Gulf of Aqaba states, in accordance with specified
Project implementation activities (Technical Annex, Attachment D); and
*     development of physical facilities and infrastructure, in accordance with specified
Project implementation activities (Technical Annex, Attachment D).
(ix)   that annual audit reports will be provided to the Bank within five months after the close
of the Government's fiscal year; and
(x)   that a Project Completion Report will be prepared within four months after project
completion.



- 18-
Schedule A
JORDAN
Gulf of Aqaba Environmental Action Plan
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
Project Cost Estimates
(US$ thousands)
Foreign
Exchange
Components                                  Local   Foreign      Total   (%)
A. Institutional & Regulatory Framework       1,054.0     894.0    1,948.0       45.9
B. Oil Pollution Hazards & Waste Oil Recovery    62.5      37.5      100.0       37.5
C. Groundwater Resources                         50.0      50.0      100.0       50.0
D. Solid Waste Management                        90.0      60.0      150.0       40.0
E. Marine Park                                  863.0      89.0      952.0        9.3
Contingencies                                 0.0     250.0      250.0      100.0
TOTAL                                     2,119.5    1,380.5    3,500.0      39.4
Project Financing Plan
(US$ thousands)
Foreign
Exchange
Local   Foreign      Total    %
GEF Grant                                 1,319.5    1,380.5    2,700.0      51.1
Governinent of Jordan                       800.0       0.0      800.0        0.0
TOTAL                                     2,119.5    1,380.5    3,500.0      39.4



- 19 -
Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
JORDAN
Gulf of Aqaba Environmental Action Plan
Proposed Procurement & Disbursement Arrangements
(US$ thousands)
Not Bank
Project Element               ICB      NCB      Other*  Financed      Total
1 Works
1.1 MP Building                           320.0                 142.0    462.0
(320.0)                        (320.0)
1.2 MP Infrastructure                      162.0                  0.0    162.0
(162.0)                        (162.0)
2 Goods
2.1 Laboratory and GIS
Equipment                    220.0    100.0                           320.0
(220.0)  (100.0)                        (320.0)
2.2 Computer, Audio-Visual
and Office Equipment                  120.0                           120.0
(120.0)                        (120.0)
2.3 Vehicles & Mobile
Equipment                              88.0    77.0(a)       50.0    215.0
(88.0)    (77.0)              (165.0)
2.4 Solid Waste and Waste Oil
Pilot Equipment                                 60.0(a)                60.0
(60.0)              (60.0)
3 Consultant Services
3.1 Implementation and
Training Activities                           708.0 (b)     107.0    815.0
(708.0)             (708.0)
3.2 Technical Assistance                           790.0 (b)    314.0   1104.0
(790.0)             (790.0)
4 Miscellaneous
4.1  Operating Expenses for MP                         55.0                55.0
(55.0)              (55.0)
4.2 Other Operating Expenses                                     187.0    187.0
TOTAL                        220.0    790.0    1690.0       800.0   3500.0
(220.0)  (790.0)   (1690.0)            (2700.0)
*(a) National Shopping (US$0.137 million), and (b) World Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
Note: Amount in parentheses indicates GEF grant financing.



- 20 -
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
Cumulative Disbursements Schedule
(US$ thousands)
Bank's Fiscal Year
(ending June 30)
1996       1997       1998      1999
Works and Goods                                      300        400        300       150
Consultant Services and Miscellaneous               300         500        500       250
Total                                               600        900        800        400
Estimated Disbursements
Amount of Grant
Allocated        Percent of Expenditures to be
Category                         (US$ thousands)               rmanced*
I   Works                                 482           100% of foreign expenditures
95% of local expenditures
2    Goods                                 665          100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local (ex factory cost)
and 90% of national expenditures
for other items procured locally.
3    Consultant Services                  1498          100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures
4    Miscellaneous                          55           100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures
Total                                    2700
*The estimated Closing Date of the project is December 31, 1999.



- 21 -
Schedule C
JORDAN
Gulf of Aqaba Enviromnental Action Plan
Tinetable of Key Processing Events
Time taken to prepare'                           36 months
Project Prepared by                              Government with IBRD Assistance
First IBRD Mission                               May 1994
Departure of Appraisal Mission                   February 15, 1996
Negotiations                                     April 1996
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    December 1996
1/ The preparation of the Gulf of Aqaba Enviromnental Action Plan (GAEAP) started in July 1992 as part of the Multilateral
Working Group on the Environment of the Middle East Peace Process (WGE). The GAEAP was finalized in October 1993.
The preparation of the GAEAP was funded by the MNA Region and the GEF. Subsequently, portions of the GAEAP were
implemented within the framework of the WGE. The preparation work of the GEF portion of the GAEAP started in December
1994 using Project Preparation Advance (PPA) funding.
2/ Key staff for project preparation were N. Glineur (TM), A. Halidin (sr. industrial pollution specialist), A. Rotmian
(environmental specialist), J.F. Stewart (consultant) and P. Warburg (PPA coordinator). Support was provided by E. Marinova,
M. Darlington and P. McPoland.



- 22 -                           Schedule D
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JORDAN
|                   ~~~~A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS ANI) IDA CREDITS
l                               ~~~~~~~~~~~(As of January 31, 1996)l
l         ~~~~Fiscal                                                        Bank    IDA       Undisbursed 
Loan No.    Year  Borrower                 Purpose                                    (US$ million)l
15 Credits closed                                                                       86.13
33 Loans closed                                                               810.80                     9.
Of which SECALS, SALs, and Program Loans                  150.00
Ln. 31060    89    'ordan          Human Resources Sector Investment          73.00                     3.9
Ln. 35680    93    Jordan           Transport III                              35.00                    27.81
n. 35740    93    Jordan           Health 11                                  20.00                    19.
Ln. 36510    94    Jordan          Energy Sector Loan                         80.00                   40.
n. 37380    94    Jordan           Jordan Telecommunications                  20.00                    18.
n. 38170    95    Jordan           Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan        80.00                   30.
n. 38180    95    Jordan           Technical Assistance for Agriculture        6.60                    6.60
n. 38640    95    Jordan           Human Resources Dvt. SIL                   60.00                   60.00
Ln. 39470    96    Jordan           Economic Reform & Development Loan         80.00                     0.0C
Total                             1,265.40   86.13          216.50
of which has been repaid           411.53    16.76
Total now held by Bank and IDA     853.87   69.36
Amount sold                 11.53
of which repaid             11.53
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of December 31, 1995)
iscal                                                                          Loan     Equity         Total
Year         Borrower                     Type of Business                           (US$ Million)
1974         Ceramic Industries Company   Cement & construction material        1.60       0.23          1.83
1975/78/82    Phosphate Mines Company     Phosphatic fertilizer                79.48       8.75        88.23
1979         Securities Corporation       Financial services                    0.00       0.67         0.67
1979/85      Lime and Silicate Brick Ind.    Building materials                 2.50       1.35         3.85
1982         Leasing Company Ltd.         Financial services                    0.00       0.29         0.29
1987/91/93/95 Al-Hikma Pharmaceuticals    Chemicals & petrochemicals            7.19       2.70         9.89
1995         Al-Keena Paper Products      Timber, pulp and paper                8.00       0.00         8.00
1995         Indo-Jordan Chemicals Co.    Fertilizers                          30.00       0.00        30.00
1996         Mobile Telephone Services    Infrastructure                       35.00       3.00        38.00
Total commitments                                                163.77      16.99       180.7
Less: Total repaid, sold or cancelled                            105.77      11.29       117.06
Total commitments now held by IFC                                58.00        5.70        63.70



-23 -
Schedule E
Jordan at a glance                                                         Page 1 of 2
M East  Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            & North  middle-
Jordan     Africa  Income      Development dlamond'
Population mid-1994 (millions)                          4.0       267    1,097                 Wfe expectancy
GNP per capia 1994 (USS)                              1.390     1.870    1.680
GNP 1994 (billions USS)                                 5.6       4t9    1,643
Average annual growth, 1990.94
Population I(%)                                         6.0        2.8      1.4
Labor torre (X)                                         4.2        3.2      1.8     GNP                                 Grass
pe-r                               pnmary
Most recent estimate (latestyearavailablesince 1989)                                capita                          enrollment
Poverty headcount index (% ofpopulabon)                  ..         .
U/roan population (% of toralpopulafron)                 72        54       54                        i
Lde expectancy at birh (years)                           70        65       67
Infant mornality (per 1,000 live births)                 32        49       35    I
Chilc manutrintion (X of children under 5)               17                                   Access to safe water
Access to safe water (I% of populabon)                   99                 78
Illiteracy (%4 of popubabon age IS-)                     20        45
Gross pnmary enrollment (% of schooip-ag populaDon)      94        97      104        -JodSan
Maie                                                   94       104-     105        -Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                 95        90      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1994     1995       Economic   os
GOP (diIlons USS)                                       5 0       6 1
Gross domestic investment/GOP                          21 7       26 4                       Openness of economy
Exporns of goods and non-factor services/GOP           37 2      48.9
Gross domestic savings/GDP                             -17 4       3.3
Gross national savings/GDP                              -2-4      14.6
Current account balance/GDP                           -19.9      -11 8              Savings        /              Investment
Interest paymentsiGOP                            -      368        3.2            I                 \ 
Total debt/GOP                                         80 6      1155
Total dewt service/exports                     3.7     17 2       12.2 2
Present value of debVGDP                                          88.0       --
Present value of debt/exporls                                    1294 4                          Indebtedness
1975 84  1965-95     1994      1995  1996-04
(aversge annual groat/i)                                                          I _Jna
GDP                                           -O I        4          .                     rdan
GNP pe -apta                                  -5.6      1.8         .                 -Lower-micidle-income group
Exports of goods and nfs                       8.7      1 9                        _-
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1994     1995       Growth rates of output and Invesanent (%l
(% ci' GOlD)                                                                        eot
Agncunure                                               4.9        7.9               o I
Industry                                               26.9      27.0
Manufacturing                                         11.9                           t /       \        G
Services                                              e682        65.0                 o2
.20,   o            n          \         s
Pnvate consumption                                     90.6       75.1
General govemment consumption                          26.8       21.6
Imports of goods and non-factor services               76.3       72.0                          -GOI   -GOP
(average annual growth)                    ' 1975-s4  1985456    1994     1995      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agnrcuure                                              11.9        1.0        .
Industry                  :2.0                                     6.5       ..
Manufactunng                                          5 3        9.3               20
Services                                               -3.3        5.5
Pnvate consumption                                     -3.0       12.4                2
General govemment consumption                          -0.9        5.5                      to           I2 n                Ut
Gross domestic investment                               9.9      -22.6                 
Imports of goods and non-facto services                 5 a       -5.1
Gross national product                           .      0-.a       5.9                           -ExPorts  Import
Note 1995 data are pr8limninary extnates. Flgures hi italics are for years other then those sptcified.
The diamonds 3no1w four key indltors in the county (in bold) omnpad with Its income-group average. If data are missing, the dlwnd will
be incomplete.



-24-
Schedule E
Page 2 of 2
Jordan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     11ts       1094     1995      Infladon (%)
Domestic pnces
(% ctrange)
Consumer pnces (1995 to Ocober. 1.9)           12.0       3.0       3.5 6
Implicit GOP deflator                                    -0.3       4.3              20
Govremment ffnance                                                                    5 !
(% of GOP)                                                                              |-
Current revenue                                          22.4      29.2                      go    ii    as    so    4x
CurTent budget balance                                  -11.6       0.0
Cverall surplusideficrit                                -21.6      -5.9                         -GOP de. _CPI
TRADE
1975     1985       1994     199S      Export and import levels (mill. USS)
(millions US5)
Totai exports (fot)                                      789      1.424    1,815     *J -.
Phosphorus                                              168       144      187
Otner metals                                             79       133      136      '.0* 
Manufactures                                            282       613      698
Total imports (crf)                                     2.720     3.374        *i
Food                                                   386        586   884
Fuei and energy                                        490        430      425       Jf       rn0
Capital goods                                          661        859    2.580
Export pnce ndex (1987-100)                               94        122       90
import pnce index (t987-100)                              92        107        .90   91   92   9    9
Ter,rs of trade (1987=100J                               102    '114                                c iExr   silmporis
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(Mid'    US$)  1975  1985  1994  1995    I Curmnt account balance to GDP rado (%)
(,nil,orts USSJ)
Exports of goods and non-fador services         379    1.976      2.985               o
Imports of goods and non-factor services       942    3.723       4.395                   Bei j 90 i  9-   22   93          9
Resource balance                               -562   -1.747     -1.410             |
Net 'actor income                                26      -9        -315        .     'o -.        i
Net current transfers                           172      845      1,002             j ,
C.,rrent account balance,                                                               I
before official transfers                    -365      -991      -723             ,2_
Financing items (net)                          538    1.145        751               25
Changes in net reserves                        -173     -154        -58        .                _
Memo_
Reserves rncluding gold (mill. USS)            571       770       715
Conversion rate (locakJSS)                      0 3      0.4        0.7      0 7
EXTERNAL OEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985       1993    1SS4       Composition of totat debt. 19S4 (miii. USS)
(mllieons USS)
Total debt outstanding and dIsburse            345    4,022       6.905    7.051
IBRD                                           0       168       592      635                         G    A       C
IDA                                           33        82        73       71                         so  aas 71
Total debt service                               21      531        560      505                                         0
13RO                                           0        21       101      102                                        302
IOA                                            0         2         2        2
F
Composdion of net resource nofws                                                         3020
Ofncial grants                               357       453        73      306
Official ctednors                             71       210        51      109
Private crediton                               19      190      -108      -162                                       E
Foreign direct investment                     26        25       _4         3                                      2819
Portfolio equity                               0         0         0        0
Wortld BanK program
Commitments                                    12       97       135      107       A -IRO                        E - 6r
Disbursements                                  10       64        69       Sa       8 . IDA   D *O 8w  ruiwe      P- Pte
Pntcipel rep8ymi9ts                            0        10        59       58       C - IMF                      G- tism
Net flows                                     10        54        10        0
Interest payments                              0        12        44       46
Net transfers                                 10        42        -33      -46
Intemational Economics Despaiment                                                                                        21299



PART II: Technical Annex






TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART II: TECHNICAL ANNEX
I.  BACKGROUND  .....................1......................... 
A. Gulf of Aqaba Physical Setting, Climate & Topography .................. 1
B. Marine and Terrestrial Ecology in the Aqaba Region  ................... 2
II.  GULF OF AQABA ECONOMY AND DEMOGRAPHY  ................... .                         2
A. Regional Overview ......................................... 2
B. Economic Development in Jordan's Aqaba Coastal Region ................ 4
III. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF GULF OF AQABA DEVELOPMENT...   5
A. Reef Damage Caused by Aquatic Tourism.                                          5
B. Oil Spills.                                                                     6
C. Waste Oil Contamination & Air Pollution Associated with Land
Transportation.                                                                7
D. Solid Waste.                                                                    8
E. Phosphate Dust from Port Activities                     .9
F. Chemical & Thermal Pollution from Coastal Industries.                           9
G. Sewage Discharges into the Marine and Terrestrial Environment .11
H. Potential Environmental Impacts of Proposed Regional
Infrastructure   Projects   ......................................   12
IV. CURRENT INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK    .                           .13
A. Governing Institutions in Jordan's Aqaba Region .13
B. Institutions Fostering Regional Cooperation .15
V.  LAWS AND REGULATIONS AFFECTING JORDAN'S GULF OF AQABA REGION  16
A. Relevant Treaties and International Conventions .16
B. Domestic Laws, Standards and Guidelines .18
VI. PROJECT OBJECTIVES                  ..20
A. Overview .20
B. Institutional Capacity Building Objectives .20
C. Regulatory Framework Objectives .20
D. Environmental Protection Objectives .21
VII. PROJECT DESCRIPTION .22



VIII. PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION    .............                                 .....................  24
A.  Project Management    ......................................  24
B.  Project Monitoring  ........................................  25
C.  Procurement  ............................................  26
D.  Disbursement and Special Account ..............................  27
E.  Accounting and Auditing  ....................................  28
IX.  PROJECT  BENEFITS  AND  RISKS  .................................  28
X.   AGREEMENTS  REACHED    .....................................  28
ATTACHMENTS
Attachment A: GEF Project Cost Summary   ...............................  31
Attachment B: Incremental Costs  ......................................  33
Attachment C: Key Monitoring Indicators   ................................  35
Attachment D: Implementation Activities    ................................  37
Attachment E: Environment Unit Staff   ..................................  45
Attachment F: Implementation Key Activities Schedule  ........................  57
Attachment G: Equipment and Physical Works   .............................  61
Attachment H: Social Assessment of the Marine Park Component  .................  66
Attachment I:  Preliminary Environmental Analysis for the Marine Park Component   ... .. 68
Figure 1:   Environment Unit Organization Chart ...............................  72
Maps:    IBRD Nos. 27714 and 27865



1. BACKGROUND
A.    Gulf of Aqaba Physical Setting, Climate & Topography
1.    The Gulf of Aqaba is a small semi-enclosed northwestern branch of the Red Sea, 180 km long
and 5 to 26 km wide. Egypt occupies most of the Gulf's western shore, stretching some 200 km
northward from Ras Mohammed National Park, at the southern tip of the Sinai peninsula, to the resort
complex at Taba, before the Israeli border. Israel, with a coastline of approximately 14 km, runs from
the Taba border crossing, through the resort town of Eilat (pop. 36,000) to the Jordanian border, halfway
across the Gulf's 5 km north shore. From the town and port city of Aqaba (pop. 65,000), Jordan's 26.5
km stretch of Gulf coast runs southward to Saudi Arabia, which has some 130 km of largely undeveloped
coastline.
2.     The Gulf of Aqaba is one of two northern extensions of the Red Sea. To its west lies the
shallower, sandier and less ecologically diverse Gulf of Suez, with the Suez Canal providing a vital
maritime transportation link to the Mediterranean Sea. Passage of ships into the Gulf of Aqaba is
restricted to two navigation channels in the Strait of Tiran. The safer and more widely used of these
routes is the Enterprise Channel, 1189 m wide, which lies in Egyptian territorial waters between the Sinai
peninsula and Tiran Island. Less widely used is the 869 m wide Grafton Channel.
3.     The Gulf of Aqaba is a southern extension of the Syrian-African Rift, which reaches the Gulf
region after passing through the Jordan River Valley, the Dead Sea and the Wadi Araba desert. As the
southern extension of the 6,000 km long Rift, the Gulf - despite its narrow breadth - reaches a
maximum depth of 1828 m and an average depth of 800 m. Rising from the Gulf's western and eastern
shores are mountains primarily of Precambrian origin, with Gulf-fronting peaks reaching 1700 m in the
Egyptian Sinai, 900 m in Israel, 1600 m in Jordan, and 1800 m in Saudi Arabia. Inland ridges reach a
maximum height of 2600 m in the southern Sinai peninsula.
4.     Climate in the Gulf region is arid, with an average annual rainfall of 25 to 30 millimeters. Mean
daily air temperatures range from 14C in January to a maximum of 320C in August. Relative humidity
ranges from 30 to 55 percent. Prevailing winds are from the north, with occasional winter storm winds
blowing from the south.
5.     Marine water temperature in the Gulf remains at a constant 21.5C below a depth of 200 meters,
and varies from 20.50C in February to 27.30C in September at the surface. Salinity ranges from 40.3
to 41.6 parts per thousand. The unusually high salinity of the Gulf is explained by two factors: (i) a high
rate of evaporation caused by the Gulf's hot, dry year-round climate and (ii) a slow rate of water
exchange between the semi-enclosed Gulf and the main body of the Red Sea. Tides are semidiurnal, with
a tidal range of 30 to 100 centimeters, but circulation in the Gulf is primarily affected by evaporation,
with replacement water entering via the Strait of Tiran.
6.     Because of a low rate of exchange between the Gulf of Aqaba and the main body of the Red Sea,
there is a long average residence time for water. Based on preliminary observations made in the Strait
of Tiran, the residence time for shallow water is one to two years, while the lower mass of water
experiences a three-year average residence time. The Gulf's relatively small size, combined with the low
rate of water circulation and renewal, reduces the potential for dispersion of oil and other water
pollutants.



- 2 -
B.    Marine and Terrestrial Ecology in the Aqaba Region
7.     Though a relatively small body of water, the Gulf of Aqaba hosts an extraordinary diversity of
corals and related marine life. An estimated 50 percent of the Gulf's shoreline is fringed with coral reefs.
Over 192 scleractinian (reef-building) coral species and 120 species of soft coral have been observed in
the Gulf's waters. Within Jordan's Gulf waters, some 120 species of scleractinian coral and 10 species
of soft coral have been noted.
8.    In areas where coastal mountains rise steeply from the shoreline, corals reside primarily in narrow
fringing reefs (typically less than 30 m in breadth), yielding to steeply sloped fore reefs that host living
coral at depths exceeding 100 m. Alluvial fans formed by the outflow of wadis, particularly in the
southern Sinai, have produced broader reef flats and lagooner reefs in a number of areas. In Jordan, the
greatest diversity of corals has been observed in steeply sloped fore reef areas.
9.     According to conservative accounts, tropical and semi-tropical fish observed in Gulf waters
number 268 species. Other estimates place the total number at 1,000 species. While most species find
their habitats in reef or sea grass areas, pelagic fish species including skipjack tuna and bonito are
commonly found in the Gulf's open waters. Blacktip, hammerhead and whale sharks have also been
frequently observed.
10.    Sea grasses exist quite comrnmonly in the Gulf's coastal waters, particularly in the immediate
vicinity of coral reefs, providing an important nursery for fish, shrimp and other invertebrates and serving
as host organisms for many species of micro- and macroalgae. Intermittent mangrove stands are also in
evidence in Egypt, most notably in the Nabq area of the southern Sinai.
11.   The Jordan Rift Valley and Wadi Araba desert serve as a flyway for millions of birds migrating
from Europe and Asia to Africa and back. Over 200 bird species have been observed traveling this route,
among them the white and black stork and several species of birds of prey, the latter passing through the
Aqaba region and Wadi Araba particularly on their springtime northward migration. Many migrants also
rest and feed in the Aqaba area. The Gulf-fringing highlands may be inhabited by rare predators such as
Lammergeier and Sooty Falcon while the lower wadis contain typical desert and tropical species including
rarities such as Little Green Beeeater, Hooded Wheatear and Arabian Warbler.
12.    Marine mammals in the Gulf of Aqaba include dugongs (sea cows), observed in small numbers
feeding on sea grasses in the Tiran Island area. Spotted and bottle-nosed dolphin also inhabit the Gulf's
waters. Sea turtles observed in the Gulf include the green, hawksbill and leatherback turtles.
II. GULF OF AQABA ECONOMY AND DEMOGRAPHY
A.    Regional Overview
13.    Rapid economic development and population growth have occurred in the Gulf of Aqaba coastal
zones of three of the four Gulf-bordering states (Egypt, Israel and Jordan) over the past two decades.
These trends have placed an unprecedented strain on city and regional planning agencies as well as local,
regional and national fiscal resources in these nations.  Laws and regulations needed to ensure
environmentally sound and sustainable growth are deficient in many respects, and the institutional staffing
and training needed to implement such laws and regulations are lacking. In many instances, infrastructure



to accommodate essential urban needs (sewage, solid waste collection and disposal, transportation) has
fallen far behind existing demand. With growth trends predicted to continue and, in some areas, increase
in the coming years, the strains on government resources, pressure on the physical infrastructure and the
environment are expected to mount in the years ahead.
14.   In Egypt's Sinai peninsula, resort development is fast transforming the Gulf of Aqaba shoreline.
In the south Sinai town of Sharm el Sheikh, the number of hotel beds has multiplied tenfold in less than
a decade, from 1030 in 1988 to 12,248 today. With a development ceiling for the Sharm el Sheikh area
set at 23,000 beds and major new resort complexes currently under construction, hotel capacity is
expected nearly to double in the coming decade. Development along other portions of Egypt's Gulf of
Aqaba coast is also proceeding apace. In the Taba Tourism Planning Sector, running along 45 km of
shoreline south of the Egypt-Israel border, new resort hotels with an estimated 40,000 beds are projected
to be completed by the year 2005. These new facilities are expected to generate employment for some
22,000 workers, to be housed in nearby planned residential communities.
15.    Egypt's Gulf of Aqaba coastal zone currently hosts no significant manufacturing industries. Salt
brine from desalination plants in Sharm el Sheikh, Dahab, Nuweiba and Taba are the only significant
sources of land-based water discharges into the Egyptian Gulf. A single port facility exists at Nuweiba
whose primary function is to serve as the terminal for a trans-Gulf ferry service running between Aqaba
and Nuweiba. This service is owned and operated by the Arab Bridge Maritime Company, a joint
enterprise between the Egyptian, Jordanian and Iraqi Governments. Some 1.2 million passengers and
87,000 motor vehicles are transported by this service annually.
16.   In Israel, domestic and international tourism has fueled an intensive development drive along the
country's short, 14 km Gulf coastline. From a frontier town of a few hundred households in the 1960s,
Eilat has become a bustling resort town of 36,000 today, with holiday surges bringing the city's
population to 80,000-100,000. Just under 6,000 hotel rooms exist in Eilat today; by the year 2000, an
additional 4,000 hotel rooms are slated for completion.
17.   Other significant features of Israel's Gulf coastal zone are a naval dry dock facility, two oil
jetties, a phosphate storage and shiploading berth, a container vessel and "Ro-Ro" (roll-on, roll-off) port
facility, a commercial marina built on one of the Eilat's three artificial lagoons, a dolphinarium and a
marine research laboratory. The Eilat Coral Reserve stretches along 1.2 km of shoreline and extends
some 200 m into the Gulf, to a depth of 60 m. While no commercial fishing vessels dock in Eilat, Israel
produces approximately 1,000 tons of fish in mariculture cages in the Gulf's coastal waters, and
additional harvesting occurs at onshore fish ponds in the Eilat vicinity.
18.    Along Saudi Arabia's Gulf of Aqaba coastline, there is no port facility, no industry of any
magnitude, no significant tourist-oriented development, and only a few small human settlements. Pilgrims
on the way to the Mecca regularly travel through Saudi Arabia's Gulf of Aqaba coastline with a peak at
Ramadan.
19.   With the exception of the Aqaba-Nuweiba ferry service, economic development along the Gulf
of Aqaba has primarily taken place within individual littoral states, with little or no transboundary
consultation. Through multilateral and bilateral negotiations related to the Middle East peace talks, a
number of joint economic development and environmental initiatives in the Gulf of Aqaba region are now
under active discussion. Most notable and controversial among these is a proposed Red Sea-Dead Sea
Canal, which would utilize the 400 m drop in altitude between the Gulf of Aqaba and the Dead Sea to



- 4 -
generate electricity sufficient to produce 800 million cubic meters per year (MCMY) of desalinated water.
Other regional development projects now being debated include a Free Trade Zone in the Taba-Eilat-
Aqaba area, a regional airport servicing the Taba-Eilat-Aqaba area, a bypass highway network allowing
commercial vehicles to skirt urban settlements in the Taba-Eilat-Aqaba area, and a port development
scheme that would shift Eilat's phosphate-loading operations to the Port of Aqaba.
B.    Econoniic Development in Jordan's Aqaba Coastal Region
20.    During the past two decades, the Jordanian Gulf of Aqaba coastline has been transformed by a
variety of developments associated with economic growth. These include the construction of port and
storage facilities, power generation stations, fertilizer production industries, hotels, restaurants, beachside
concessions and roads. Industrial production is the largest revenue generator in the Aqaba region, with
annual revenues from fertilizer and mineral processing currently exceeding JD 200 million (US $360
million). While cargo handling activities in the Port generate more modest revenues totalling JD 41
million (US $70 million) in 1993, the Port is the largest single employer in the region, with over 5000
workers on the payroll as compared to 1700 workers in the industrial sector.
21.    As Jordan's only outlet to the sea, Aqaba is of crucial importance to the national economy. The
Port of Aqaba has emerged in the last two decades, pending political circumstances, as a major regional
shipping center, now ranking as the third largest Red Sea port after Suez, in Egypt, and Jeddah, in Saudi
Arabia. Between 1989 and 1993, the Port of Aqaba received an annual average of 2332 vessels handling
11.6 to 18.7 million tons of cargo each year. Total port revenues during this period ranged from JD 29 -
41 million (US $50 - 70 million).
22.   Exports through the Port of Aqaba during the 1989-1993 period ranged from 6.4 to 10 million
tons. Of these exports, phosphate has been the leading commodity in terms of overall tonnage, ranging
from 3.6 to 6.4 million tons in the 1989-1993 period (approximately 13 percent of world exports).
During the same period, general cargo exports totalled 1.3 to 2.6 million tons; potash exports were in
the 1.2 to 1.4 million ton range; cement exports ranged from 367,000 to 1.4 million tons; and fertilizer
exports were 412,000 to 668,000 tons.
23.   Imports through the Port of Aqaba during the 1989-1993 period ranged from 5.2 to 8.7 million
tons. Leading imports included grains (1.7 to 4.1 million tons); general cargo (1.2 to 1.8 million tons);
sugar (316,000 to 715,000 tons); steel and iron (315,000 to 524,000 tons); ammonia and sulphur
(218,000 to 354,000 tons); and vegetable oils (112,000 to 323,000 tons).
24.   Along with industrial and port activities, tourism is a key force in Aqaba's growing economy.
Tourism in the region generates estimated revenues of JD 40 million (US $68 million) and employs an
800-person workforce. The city of Aqaba's 40 hotels, with some 3600 beds, hosts an estimated total of
300,000 hotel bed nights annually. Significant expansion of the Aqaba tourism sector is envisioned by
the Aqaba Region Authority (ARA), which serves as the chief planning agency for the Jordanian coastal
region. According to current ARA plans, up to 10 new four-to-five star resort hotels will be built in



Aqaba's South Coast Tourism Zone, an undeveloped stretch of shoreline between the southern end of the
Aqaba port complex and the South Coast Industrial Zone, bordering Saudi Arabia. Some 2000 hotel beds
and 1000 vacation villas are slated for development along a five km stretch of shoreline.
25.   Commercial fishing is a modest though important feature of Jordan's Aqaba region economy.
The Aqaba Fishermen's Cooperative, with 120 fee-paying members, catches approximately 105 tons of
fish annually. This fish, primarily sold to local restaurants and hotels, is caught with shallow-water (5
to 15 m) baited cage traps, hand-drawn gill and seine nets, and hand lining with baited hooks and lures.
As Jordanian fishing vessels are barred from operating outside Jordan's confined territorial waters, the
local fishing fleet consists entirely of small outboard motor boats, approximately 5 m in length. With
fishing concentrated in or immnediately adjacent to reef areas, damage to reefs from short-line anchors,
snagged nets and lines, abandoned bait traps, and direct human contact is an ongoing concern. Marked
reductions in the abundance and diversity of coral-dwelling fish, observed in recent years, are also
attributed to current fishing practices.
26.   Aqaba's economic growth over the past two decades has been accompanied by a parallel growth
in population. Since 1972, Aqaba has expanded from a small town of 10,000 to a city of 65,000
inhabitants today. By the year 2000, Aqaba is predicted to reach a population of 75,000. Beyond the
year 2000, the region's planners anticipate a doubling of the coastal population to approximately 150,000
by the year 2020, taking into account current plans for resort hotel and vacation community development
as well as a new town of "Taibeh" in the upland area of Jordan's southern coastal zone.
III. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF GULF OF AQABA DEVELOPMENT
A.    Reef Damage Caused by Aquatic Tourism
27.   The mounting numbers of divers, snorkelers and boaters who visit reef areas have inflicted major,
widespread damage on Gulf of Aqaba coral. Direct destruction of fragile reef structures has been caused
by divers who rest on the sea bottom while adjusting their gear; snorkelers who inadvertently drag their
fins across shallow fringing reefs; underwater photographers who steady their cameras by bracing
themselves on reef formations; and boaters who drop anchor in coral areas. With the rapid expansion
of hotel rooms and related tourist accommodations along the Egyptian, Israeli and Jordanian Gulf
coastline, the numbers of tourists swimming, diving, snorkeling and boating in the Gulf's coastal waters
are certain to increase in the years ahead. Absent a strong commitment to public education, to a thorough
patrolling of heavily visited reef areas, and to enforcing prohibitions against coral-damaging activities,
major added damage will be done to Gulf reefs.
28.   In Egypt during 1995, a total of 520,000 visitors are expected to visit the Sharm el Sheikh area
alone. Of these visitors, an estimated 38 percent are divers, bringing the expected number of reef visitors
to nearly 200,000. To accommodate the growth in Sharm el Sheikh dive tourism, the number of area
dive centers rose from 6 to 26 between 1989 and 1994, and the number of dive boats correspondingly
increased from 25 to 200. Even with the intensification of dive activity in the Sharm el Sheikh area, area
park managers maintain that damage to coral has been substantially reduced through the use of fixed
moorings, a ban on the use of anchors, a ban on fish feeding, and a diver education program.



- 6 -
29.    In Israel's Coral Reserve, dive activity reaches a Gulf-wide high of 200,000 to 300,000 dives per
year along a 1.2 kilometer stretch of shoreline south of Eilat. Added to this extraordinary number of
dives is an undetermined number of snorkel visits to the Reserve, where very substantial damage to coral
is evident.
30.    Aquatic tourism in Jordan has yet to approach the levels now experienced in neighboring Egypt
and Israel. Rough estimates place the total number of divers in Jordan's Gulf waters during 1993 at a
modest 3000, up from 1250 divers in 1989. Jordan's three dive centers have a maximum combined
capability of hosting 160 divers at a time. Yet even at this relatively low level of dive visitation, Jordan's
reefs show significant physical damage at a number of prime dive spots. With regional tourism
increasing as a result of Jordan's peace treaty with Israel, and with major new resort hotel developments
planned for Jordan's South Coast Tourism Zone, a swift rise in the numbers of divers and snorkelers
visiting Jordanian reefs is expected in the coming years.
B.     Oil Spills
31.    Ship traffic in the Gulf poses a major, sustained risk of damage to coral reefs and related marine
life through oil pollution. Over 2300 ships pass through the Port of Aqaba annually, yet the Port has no
reception facility for oil-contaminated bilge or ballast water. Tankers with a cargo capacity of 100,000
to 150,000 tons of crude oil arrive almost weekly in Eilat, discharging some 3.5 million tons of oil per
year at the Eilat-Ashqelon Pipeline terminal. In the 1970s, nearly ten times the current volume of oil was
transported from Iran to this terminal. Jordan's oil terminal, though presently unused, may at some
future point resume operations as a major shiploading facility for truck-transported Iraqi crude oil.
32.    Ship traffic in the Gulf poses a risk of oil pollution from the following sources: (i) small spills
caused by the accidental or intentional release of oil-contaminated bilge or ballast water from freighters
(0-2 tons); (ii) minor spills caused by the release of oily ballast water from an oil tanker or the release
of bunker oil during terminal operations (2-20 tons); (iii) medium spills caused by the release of oil as
a result of defective equipment or procedures at an oil terminal or pipeline facility (100 tons); (iv) major
spills caused by the rupture of a bunker oil tank in a bulk/cargo vessel collision (500 tons), shipwreck
of a bulk/cargo vessel (1500 tons), or a tanker collision causing the rupture of a single oil tank (7500
tons); and (v) disastrous spills caused by the wreckage of a fully loaded oil tanker (100,000-150,000
tons).
33.    Small to minor oil spills have occurred frequently in the Gulf, causing localized damage to coral
and marring popular beach areas especially in the northern Gulf area, where shipping is most heavily
concentrated. In 1990, some 22 small to minor spills were reported in Israeli waters alone. Reliable
figures in other Gulf-bordering states are not available.
34.    To reduce the occurrence of small, intentional oil discharges (0-20 tons) into the Gulf, the Gulf-
bordering states may develop regulations requiring visiting cargo vessels to discharge oil-contaminated
bilge and ballast water into designate port reception facilities. The estimated capital cost of bilge water
reception facilities in the Port of Aqaba is US $350,000, with annual operating costs of $40,000 fully
recoverable through waste oil resale. The GEF project will finance preparation of an action plan for
waste oil port reception, including partial capital funding for a demonstration project in waste oil
recovery.



- 7 -
35.    Under the auspices of the Multilateral Working Group on the Environment, within the Middle
East Peace Talks, an Upper Gulf of Aqaba Oil Spill Contingency Project (UGAOSCP) has been launched
by the Governments of Egypt, Israel and Jordan, with the support of the EU and the Government of
Japan. The target of this joint effort is to create, in its first phase, an effective strategy for combatting
small to medium-sized spills (up to a combined total of 600 tons), with oil spill response centers located
in each of the three nations. Israel currently has an oil pollution response center, staffed 24 hours per
day, but parallel centers have yet to become operational in Egypt and Jordan. To complement these
efforts, the GEF project will finance a pre-feasibility study of measures to reduce the risk of major oil
spills, including electronic navigational aids, pilotage requirements, and tanker design specifications.
36.    Even once the oil pollution response centers in Egypt, Israel and Jordan are fully operational, the
threat of ecological devastation posed by a major spill or an oil tanker disaster, although reduced, will
remain. Given the Gulf's very finite dimensions, a spill occurring anywhere in its waters will quickly
travel to vulnerable coastal areas, where coral reefs and related marine life are primarily concentrated.
The slow rate of exchange between Gulf waters and the main body of the Red Sea will further hinder
dispersion and dilution of oil contamination.
37.    Short of a ban on tanker traffic in the Gulf, options to reduce the risks of major oil spills include
the adoption by the Gulf-bordering states of mandatory design and operational standards for cargo vessels
and oil tankers operating within the Gulf. Requiring double-hull or double-skin oil tanker designs and
introducing new navigational safety provisions are among the options to be considered.
C.    Waste Oil Contamination & Air Pollution Associated with Land Transportation
38.    Environmental hazards associated with land transportation are particularly acute in Jordan's Aqaba
region, largely because of the high volume of bulk/cargo transportation via truck to and from the Aqaba
Port and the industrial facilities in the South Coast Industrial Zone. An estimated 1200 haulage vehicles
enter or leave the Port of Aqaba each day, and several hundred additional trucks make deliveries to or
pickups from the South Coast Industrial Zone, resulting in total of over 400,000 truck trips along local
roads each year.
39.   Inadequate provisions for waste oil collection and recovery pose a hazard both to the Aqaba
marine environment and to shallow underground water resources in the Aqaba region. Despite an official
prohibition barring trucks from entering beach areas, truck drivers commonly drive their heavy haulage
vehicles to off-road areas within a few dozen meters of the water's edge. In many instances, waste oil
has been discharged from trucks in sensitive tidal areas, posing a direct hazard to near-shore coral and
related marine life. At a few points along the coastal truck route, prominent signage prohibiting trucks
from entering unpaved beachfront areas can be seen, but this ban remains to be enforced.
40.    The use of waste oil as a dust suppressant in unpaved truck repair yards is a further
environmental hazard, endangering shallow aquifers in the Aqaba coastal area. At the repair yard of the
Iraqi-Jordanian Land Transportation Company, some 85 heavy haulage vehicles are serviced each day.
Waste oil from these trucks is transferred to an on-site underground storage tank which is believed to be
concrete-lined. While most of the waste oil is pumped from the storage tank and transported to Jordan's
oil refinery in Zarqa, some 5-10 m3 of waste oil is sprayed on the unpaved surface of the truck yard each
month to reduce dust blowing into adjacent truck repair sheds. As this practice has been employed
throughout the 13-year duration of the facility's operation, an undetermined quantity of waste oil now
resides in the surface and subsurface soil strata. Soil and groundwater monitoring are urgently needed



-8-
to determine the extent of this contamination, and particular to determnine whether oil contamination has
percolated down to the shallow underlying groundwater of the transboundary (Israel-Jordan) Wadi Araba
aquifer.
41.    While waste oil mismanagement is the most urgent environmental hazard associated with land
transportation in the Aqaba region, other associated waste management problems must also be addressed.
In the absence of a clear hazardous waste management policy, used asbestos brake linings, exhausted
automotive batteries and worn tires are discarded in a haphazard and, in some cases, health-endangering
manner. At the Iraqi-Jordanian Land Transportation Company repair yard, a number of oil drums filled
with asbestos brake linings sat uncovered and unsealed in outdoor areas immediately adjacent to the main
repair shed. Tens of thousands of discarded tires were also observed both within the repair yard and
around its periphery. The handling of used batteries, though not observed, is another matter of probable
concern.
42.    Air pollution and noise pollution from  truck traffic in the Aqaba region are additional
environmental hazards. Although levels of exhaust gases have not been monitored, visual levels and
preliminary modeling results indicate high pollution concentration and noise levels in urban areas adjacent
to truck routes. Diversion of trucks from inhabited areas would reduce these impacts, but a recently
constructed bypass road through the Aqaba mountain zone remains largely unused because its grade and
slope length pose grave hazards to heavily loaded trucks. In 1994 alone, 20 drivers lost their lives in
truck accidents on the bypass road.
D.    Solid Waste
43.    Unlike the sporadic environmental impacts of oil pollution, solid waste generated by ship crews,
ferry passengers, beach vacationers and local residents poses a constant, high-visibility environmental
problem. Jordan's Gulf of Aqaba beaches and near-shore reef and sea grass areas are heavily impacted
by discarded plastic and other synthetic materials. Because of prevailing winds from the north, Egypt's
south Sinai coastline is particularly affected by garbage discarded into the Gulf's more heavily settled
northern reaches. Plastic, styrofoam and other synthetic materials wash ashore in such large quantities
that the visual gains of periodic beach cleaning efforts are quickly erased. Large numbers of animal
carcasses also wash up on south Sinai beaches, having been thrown overboard by livestock freighter crew
members prior to docking at Aqaba.
44.    The Port of Aqaba has solid waste receptacles in port areas and additionally provides a daily
garbage collection service via barge to ships anchored offshore. Some 30 tons of garbage are collected
by the Port of Aqaba each day, as compared to a daily average of 60 tons collected from Aqaba homes
and businesses. No such port reception capacity currently exists in the Egyptian port of Nuweiba, where
the Aqaba-Nuweiba ferry line docks one to two times daily. Much of the styrofoam and plastic garbage
found washing ashore in the south Sinai is traceable to the ferry service, with its 1.2 million passengers
per year.
45.    The efficient reception of marine vessel-generated waste in Jordan is not reflective of broader
solid waste management practices in Jordan's Aqaba region. A properly maintained solid waste landfill
is lacking. Instead, garbage from Aqaba households and businesses as well as the Port is transported to
an upland wadi due east of the planned South Coast Tourism Zone. At this site, piles of discarded waste



- 9 -
line both sides of a winding one-km road leading to the primary dumping area. Combustible garbage is
burned in open fires, and non-combustibles remain exposed to the elements. No systematic recycling is
currently practiced.
E.    Phosphate Dust from Port Activities
46.   Phosphate dust generated by shiploading facilities in Aqaba and Eilat is a major environmental
problem. Prior to the 1994 installation of two choke feeders on the phosphate berths in Aqaba, an
estimated 1 percent of the 3.5 to 6.4 million tons of phosphate loaded annually at the facility between
1989 and 1993 was released into the air. Following installation of the choke feeders, Aqaba Port officials
estimate that dust emissions from the phosphate facility have been reduced by 80 to 85 percent.
Nevertheless, substantial quantities of phosphate dust continue to be generated by shiploading operations.
Significant additional phosphate dust emissions occur during the unloading of phosphate from trucks and
train cars into the 6 store houses at the phosphate port.
47.   A large proportion of the phosphate dust generated by loading and unloading operations settles
on the Gulf's waters. By reducing water clarity, phosphate dust deposition is believed to be a factor
contributing to depressed coral growth rates in Jordanian coastal waters. In addition, phosphate emissions
raise dust levels in Aqaba residential areas well above maximum standards set by the World Health
Organization (WHO). Monitoring conducted by the Royal Scientific Society found maximum 24 hour
concentrations of dust in Aqaba residential areas to be 900 micrograms per m3, 7.5 times higher than the
WHO maximum 24 hour concentration of 120 micrograms per m3. Maximum one hour dust
concentrations were found to be more than 5000 micrograms per m3. Jordan's Ministry of Health found
a high incidence of restrictive lung disease (pneumonoconiosis and silicosis) in Aqaba phosphate workers.
48.   Substantial further reductions in phosphate dust emissions from port loading and unloading
operations are technically feasible. Improved operation of choke feeders can reduce dust emissions during
shiploading, technological changes can be made in the equipment used to unload phosphate from trucks
and train cars, and the design of conveyors and storage sheds can be enhanced. The cost of a
comprehensive dust collection system for the phosphate port at Aqaba has been estimated at US $4.5
million.
F.    Chemical & Thermal Pol1ution from Coastal Industries
49.   Jordan's South Coast Industrial Zone, immediately south of Jordan's planned South Coast
Tourism Zone and adjacent to the Saudi Arabian border, contains the primary polluting industries along
the Gulf of Aqaba coastline. The principal industries located within this Zone are: a large fertilizer
manufacturing facility owned and operated by the Jordan Phosphate Mine Company Ltd. (JPMC); a
storage area and loading terminal for potash from the Arab Potash Corporation; the "Solvochem" tank
farm for chemicals, oils and solvents, and an associated port facility owned by the Aqaba Port
Corporation; and a 260 MW thermal power station operated by the Jordan Electric Authority.
50.   The JPMC fertilizer factory produces 740,000 tons of di-anmmonium phosphate (DAP) and
270,000 tons of phosphoric acid annually. Sulfuric acid used in producing DAP is produced on-site from
elemental sulfur. A primary environmental concern pertaining to this facility is the possibility of reef-
damaging runoff during occasional flash floods from a "gypsum mountain" due east of the plant, where
2 million tons of fluorine-containing gypsum waste are deposited annually in an unlined, unconfined
setting. Chlorinated cooling water from the factory, released into the Gulf at a rate of 20,000 m3 per



- 10 -
hour, is an added concern. At the discharge point located 145 m from shore at a depth of 50 m, the
cooling water is approximately 8C above ambient marine water temperature, above World Bank
guidelines stating that the temperature of thermal effluent should not exceed 3C above ambient water
temperature. This issue will be addressed by the GEF project, as part of Activity A #3 - Action plan for
implementing a permit-based regulatory structure for Aqaba region industries and coastal development
projects (see Attachment D).
51.    Shiploading and unloading operations pertaining to the JPMC facility present added environmental
hazards. Raw sulfur used at the facility is unloaded from ships berthing at a nearby jetty, and fertilizer
product is loaded onto ships at the same jetty. Small quantities of sulfur and DAP are routinely spilled
during these processes, and there is a risk of larger accidental spills. Ammonia spillage during transport
to the plant from a separate, nearby jetty poses a further risk to the environment and human health.
52.    Other concerns pertaining to the JPMC facility include the possibility of explosion or health-
endangering gas releases from a 30,000-ton on-site ammonia storage tank, in which cooled ammonia is
maintained in a liquid state through refrigeration at -32C. As over 1,000 people are employed at the
facility, immediate health hazards as well as broader ecological dangers require careful attention.
53.    At the Arab Potash Company's storage facility in the South Coast Industrial Zone, 75,000 tons
of potash are stored in two partially enclosed storage sheds. Closed conveyors, adjustable booms in the
storage sheds, and dust collection equipment are generally effective in reducing on-site dust levels.
Nevertheless, inattention to proper operation of equipment suggests that elevated on-site dust levels may
still pose a health hazard to the facility's 100 workers.
54.    The Solvochem tank farm serves as a port reception and storage facility for imported chemicals
including toluene, xylene, acetone and other ketone, vinyl acetate monomer and ethanol. Imported
vegetable oils and beef tallow are also received from ships and stored on-site. The tank farm presently
has 17 tanks meeting American Petroleum Institute standards, and an additional 14 new tanks are
currently under construction. Approximately 12,000 tons of chemicals and 4000 tons of oils are received
at the site annually. As a safeguard against the release into the environment of hazardous chemicals and
oils, staff training and proper maintenance of firefighting and spill containment equipment are essential.
55.   The Jordan Electric Authority (JEA) currently operates a 260 MW thermal power station in
Jordan's South Coast Industrial Zone and is already under way with the construction of a second 260 MW
power station at the same site. High-sulfur oil transported from Iraq via tanker truck is used at the
current facility, with a 3.2 to 3.5 percent sulfur content. No desulfurization equipment is currently used
at the site, nor is such equipment planned for the new unit. With 1100-1200 tons of oil burned per day,
approximately 35 tons of sulfur are released from a 125 m stack with twin flues into the atmosphere daily
by the current plant, with double this amount expected to be emitted once the new facility begins
operation. While winds carry SO2 and other flue gas emissions into inland desert areas southeast of the
plant 90 to 95 percent of the time, S02 and other emissions may pose a health risk to workers in the
South Coast Industrial Zone and additionally present an aesthetic intrusion into the planned South Coast
Tourism Zone, directly north of the Industrial Zone. Special measures are being planned for the storage
and selective use of low-sulfur fuel during periods when wind shifts may direct plant emissions toward
populated areas.
56.    Heated cooling water discharges from the present and planned power stations warrant careful
monitoring given their potential impact on nearby coral and related marine life. At the present facility,



- 11 -
some 38,000 m3 of cooling water is discharged into the Gulf from an outlet 200 m from shore and 20
m below the surface. The temperature of this water is 5-80C above ambient water temperature. With
an identical cooling system planned for the new plant, the volume of thermal discharges from the
combined power stations will double in the coming years.
G.    Sewage Discharges into the Marine and Terrestrial Enviromnent
57.    Low nutrient levels are a major contributor to the diversity and abundance of coral in the Gulf's
coastal waters. Sewage discharges into the Gulf have resulted in the proliferation of algae, depressing
coral growth particularly in the Gulfs heavily settled northem beaches. The Municipality of Eilat, in
Israel, is the primary source of ongoing sewage discharges into the Gulf. Some 4 million fi3 of sewage
flow into the Gulf annually, after only primary treatment, from a creek located a few hundred meters east
of the city's north beach hotel district and just 700 m from the Jordanian border. In addition to causing
occasional beach closures because of health-endangering coliformn levels, this sewage is an attributed cause
of coral degradation along the Gulf's north shore.
58.    According to an agreement reached early in 1995 between the Municipality of Eilat and kibbutz
farmers in the Hevel Eilot region, in Wadi Araba, sewage previously discharged into the Gulf is diverted
to two inland reservoirs, one 7 km north of Eilat and the other some 30 km north of the city. From these
reservoirs, sewage is intended to be pumped for agricultural irrigation. However, with distribution pipes
yet to be fully installed, sewage overflow from the reservoir system now spills over onto desert land on
both sides of the Jordanian-Israeli border. There is an acute problem related to contamination of
groundwater near these installations.
59.    The City of Aqaba, in Jordan, has a sewage collection network that reaches approximately 65
percent of the city's population of 65,000 people. The remaining 35 percent of the population, primnarily
residing in the city's older, densely settled "Old Aqaba" and "Shalala" neighborhoods, are required by
the local building code to have operable septic tanks. Many households lack such systems, however, with
the result that untreated sewage is believed to percolate into underlying groundwater.
60.   Sewage entering Aqaba's sewage collection network is piped to the Municipal Sewage Treatment
Works, approximately 4 km north of the city. The sewage is then treated by oxidation in a three-stage
lined pond treatment system, capable of handling 9000 m3 of sewage per day. Current daily loading is
at 4500 m3 per day, or about 50 percent of capacity. Of this influx, an estimated 1700 m3 daily is lost
to seepage into the shallow, underlying brackish water aquifer and another 1300 to 1600 cubic meters
per day is lost to evaporation. Subtracting these losses, treated sewage in amounts up to 1400 m3 per day
in winter and 750 m3 per day in summer is available for landscape tree and agricultural irrigation.
61.   The cumulative daily loss of 3000 m3 per day from the Aqaba sewage treatment process
represents a lost opportunity for agricultural irrigation and for reducing demand on scarce fresh water
supplies. In addition, the seepage of treated sewage through unsealed pond linings into the shallow
transboundary (Israel-Jordan) aquifer poses a pollution threat both to the aquifer itself and possibly
through percolation into the Gulf's coastal waters. However, there are seven observation wells in the
vicinity of these ponds and monitoring of groundwater quality is an ongoing process.
62.   Along Egypt's Sinai coastline, hotel resorts and urban settlements generally adhere to a no-
discharge policy pertaining to sewage releases into the Gulf. Larger settlements are served by municipal
sewage treatment works, which apply post-treated effluent to barrier tree and other landscape irrigation.



- 12 -
A number of the larger hotel complexes have their own "package" treatment plants, whose effluent is
used for on-site landscape irrigation. These treatment plants have mixed performance records. At the
Hilton Hotel at Taba, on the Egypt-Israel border, raw sewage is periodically discharged directly to the
sea because fluctuations in hotel occupancy cause bacterial levels in the package plant to drop below
acceptable levels of efficiency. Smaller beachside hotels in the Egyptian Sinai have septic tanks that are
periodically pumped by tanker truck. Gray water (from showers and sinks) is segregated in some
instances for direct landscape application.
63.    Cargo vessels, tour boats, ferries and private yachts are additional sources of sewage discharges
into the Gulf. An undetermined proportion of cargo vessels using the ports of Aqaba and Eilat have on-
board sewage treatment systems, but none of the Gulf-bordering states employ measures to ensure the
effective operation of these systems while ships are in port. Moreover, the three vessels operated by the
Arab Bridge Maritime Company, servicing the Aqaba-Nuweiba ferry route, have no onboard sewage
treatment systems. As a result, untreated sewage from the 1.2 million passengers who travel this route
annually is dumped directly into the sea. In Eilat, tour boats carrying 800 to 1500 passengers daily
discharge their sewage into the Gulf by day or into the lagoon at Eilat's North Beach marina by night.
64.    Shipping Law No. 51 (1961) broadly prohibits the discharge of pollutants from ships into the
Gulf's waters. Nevertheless, ship-based sewage remains an unregulated and uncontrolled environmental
hazard. Because of the Gulf's narrow dimensions, cargo ships as well as recreational vessels frequently
ply near-shore waters, with the result that direct sewage discharges may pose a health hazard as well as
an aesthetic aggravation to swimmers, divers, snorkelers and sun bathers.
H.    Potential Environmental Impacts of Proposed Regional Infrastructure Projects
65.    As the Middle East peace process has progressed, a number of regional economic development
projects that raise environmental protection concerns, in the Aqaba region and elsewhere have been
envisaged. These concerns, in turn, have fostered an increased perception of the need for transboundary
consultation on major projects with potentially significant environmental impacts.
66.    The proposed Red Sea-Dead Sea Canal, generating hydroelectricity sufficient to produce 800
million cubic meters per year of desalinated water, is a prime focus for environmental concern. Weather
patterns and humidity levels in the now-arid Wadi Araba may be altered by the presence of open
reservoirs and a canal network stretching from the Gulf of Aqaba to the Dead Sea. Changes in regional
flora and fauna may result. Given recent earthquake activity in the Rift Valley, concern has been
expressed that the added weight of the proposed canal network and reservoirs could place destabilizing
pressure on the valley floor.
67.    A Free Trade Zone in the Taba-Eilat-Aqaba area is another economic development prospect now
under discussion. Establishment of such a zone raises a number of environmental planning and regulatory
concerns. Site selection will be one important factor influencing the environmental impacts of the zone.
The application of environmental laws, regulations and standards within the zone will also be a crucial
variable. To date, it remains unclear whether Egyptian, Israeli or Jordanian law, a hybrid of the three
nations' laws, or a newly created set of laws and regulations specially formulated for the zone would
apply. In the absence of a clearly established and rigorously enforced regulatory framework, the
proposed zone risks becoming a haven for industries seeking lenient environmental controls.



- 13 -
68.   Other projects (e.g., a regional airport servicing the Taba-Eilat-Aqaba area, a bypass highway
for commercial freight in the Taba-Eilat-Aqaba area, a shift in Eilat's phosphate-loading operations to
the Port of Aqaba) are seen as highlighting the need for immediate development and implementation of
environmental impact assessment procedures for major new development projects, with transboundary
consultation an integral feature of these procedures.
IV. CURRENT INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
A.    Governing Institutions in Jordan's Aqaba Region
69.   Aqaba Region Authority. General governing responsibility for the Aqaba Region, comprising
approximately one-tenth of Jordan's land area including Jordan's Gulf of Aqaba coastal zone, is assigned
to the ARA under the Law of the Aqaba Region Authority No. 7 (1987). The President of the ARA,
who has ministerial authority in running the ARA, is appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers and is subject
to approval by Royal Decree. The President chairs a 12-member ARA Board of Directors, which
includes representatives of national ministries, the Aqaba Ports Corporation, the Mayor of Aqaba, and
two other local representatives (see also para. 90).
70.    Daily management of the ARA is the primary duty of the ARA Secretary General, who supervises
the ARA's six main departments: Aqaba Town Planning; Tenders and Public Works; Finance;
Administrative Services; Regional Planning; and Research and Studies. Through its Town Planning and
Regional Planning departments, the ARA takes the lead in commissioning or drafting the plans for new
neighborhood development and urban renewal projects within the Town of Aqaba as well as for industrial
zones, road siting, and hotel and residential development outside the Municipality's boundaries.
71.   Within the ARA, an Environment Unit was established as part of the Special Bureau under the
Secretary General in 1994. A marine chemist and a civil engineer have recently been hired to staff the
Environment Unit. This Unit, at current levels of staffing, expertise and equipment, is vastly under-
equipped to address the complex tasks of environmental governance now facing the ARA. Existing port
and industrial activities on a very large scale call out urgently for effective environmental oversight; the
need for coherent planning of future port, industrial and tourism development projects present equally
pressing challenges that the ARA Environment Unit cannot currently meet. The absence of clear
regulatory guidelines for industrial plant performance, port activities and development planning further
hampers ARA efforts to ensure that environmental protection concerns are properly addressed.
72.   The Ports Corporation is directly responsible for the construction, operation and maintenance
of Aqaba port facilities, which currently occupy nearly 30 percent of the Jordanian Gulf of Aqaba
shoreline. Given the economic importance of port activities and the physical scale of port operations,
the Ports Corporation is a key partner to ARA efforts to address priority environmental protection
concerns in the region. The Ports Corporation also bears responsibility for ensuring the health and safety
of the largest work force in the Aqaba region. The Ports Corporation Director General is a member of
the ARA Board of Management.
73.   Assignment of responsibility for the sound environmental performance of shiploading conveyors,
jetties and port storage facilities has yet to be determined. Ports Corporation financed the installation of
two choke feeders at phosphate-loading berths in the main port area. For example, the environmentally



- 14 -
consequential operations of the fertilizer jetty, which is located some 20 km south of the Ports
Corporation's offices are not overseen.
74.   In addition to its responsibility for port facilities, the Ports Corporation has a Marine Department,
which is responsible for the safety of ship operations in port areas. Within the Marine Department is a
Marine Inspectorate, whose five inspectors periodically inspect ships for compliance with international
maritime safety rules.  These inspections primarily focus on the adequacy of navigational tools,
communication equipment, fire-fighting appliances, life boats and other life-saving gear, and safety-related
record-keeping. Observations pertaining to the environmnental performance of ships are not part of the
routine inspection report, but if ships are observed discharging oil or garbage into the marine
environment, the Inspectorate works with the Royal Jordanian Navy to ensure that the violating ship
remains in custody while formal charges are brought before a court of law.
75.    The Royal Jordanian Navy, formerly the Royal Jordanian Coast Guard, is the most active
presence in policing the environmental performance of marine vessels operating in Jordanian waters.
Using a 3 1-foot pleasure cruiser donated by His Majesty King Hussein and three sailors whose salaries
are paid by the RSCN, the Navy conducts daily patrols of port areas to monitor merchant vessel
activities. In addition, the Navy keeps a patrol boat on 24-hour watch in the ship anchorage area adjacent
to the main port. Where a ship is found to be discharging oil or garbage, the Navy boards the vessel,
orders the polluting activity to cease, and works with the Port to obtain a court order barring the ship
from leaving Port pending an emergency court hearing on the alleged violation, typically held within 48
hours of initial detection of the polluting activity. Reportedly, fines have been imposed in the ID 1000
to 10,000 (US $1600 to 16,000) range, though, as a result of serious enforcement, no incidents have led
to prosecution during the 1993-1995 period. The Navy also engages in preventive measures including
periodic meetings with shipping agents, at which the agents are urged to alert ship captains to Jordan's
readiness to take tough enforcement actions against marine polluters.
76.    The Aqaba Municipality plays a limited role in addressing environment-related concerns. Major
planning decisions reside with the ARA, and building permits are subject to ARA approval. Planning
of new park and landscape areas is conducted by the ARA, with execution of these plans assigned to the
Municipality for projects within the municipal boundaries. The Aqaba Municipality's 1995 budget
includes JD 186,000 (US $316,000) for landscape maintenance. Street cleaning and solid waste collection
are the other areas where the Municipality bears significant responsibility within its boundaries. In the
1995 budget, JD 200,000 (US $340,000) is earmarked for sanitation services. While five Municipality-
owned trucks collect garbage within the city, solid waste disposal is not controlled by the Municipality.
The existing dump site, located 15 kilometers outside the city, is the responsibility of the ARA.
Moreover, solid waste collection outside the Aqaba Municipality boundaries is the ARA's responsibility.
77.    Police protection in Aqaba is provided by a local unit of the Jordanian national police, the Public
Security Force. Though police officers seldom act against illegal littering, garbage dumping, illegal
truck parking in beach areas and other environmental violations, such actions lie within their official
mandate. Greater efforts to educate police officers about the need for greater vigilance in addressing
these concerns could result in more effective control over activities that adversely affect the terrestrial
as well as marine environment of the Aqaba region.
78.    The Aqaba Marine Science Station (MSS), administered jointly by the University of Jordan and
Yarmouk University, was established in the early 1980s with the objective of monitoring coral reef
ecological trends and providing facilities for training and research. Since its founding, the MSS has



- 15 -
conducted baseline research on coral life, marine water quality and the impacts of selected pollutants on
the marine environment. The MSS is also responsible for maintaining Jordan's only Marine Nature
Reserve, along a 500-m stretch of coastline immediately south of the Aqaba ferry terminal.
79.   A number of national authorities bear responsibility for particular environment-related concerns
in the Aqaba region. The Ministry of Health monitors effluent from the Aqaba sewage treatment works
and conducts hygiene inspections at restaurants, swimming pools and other public facilities. The Water
Authority, within the Ministry of Water and Irrigation, is responsible for the operation and maintenance
of the Aqaba sewage treatment works, including the use of wastewater effluent for landscape and
agricultural irrigation. The Ministry of Water and Irrigation is responsible for transporting sewage to
the Aqaba treatment plant and is responsible for issuing commnercial licenses. And the Ministry of
Tourism and Antiquities manages the Eyla archaeological site as well as the Aqaba castle museum. In
addition, the General Corporation for Enviromnental Protection, has been established pursuant to the
recently enacted Law of Environmental Protection No. 12 (1995), and will assume important
environmental protection responsibilities in the coming years.
80.   Other non-governmental and semi-governmental organizations play a significant role in addressing
Gulf of Aqaba environmental concerns in Jordan. The RSCN and the RSS contract with the ARA, the
Ports Corporation, and individual industries in the Aqaba region to monitor environmental quality and
industrial discharges. An independent environmental research and education organization, the Jordan
Environment Society, has spearheaded the creation of a seven-member Aqaba Environment Committee,
which seeks to introduce environmental awareness programs in the Aqaba public schools, and plans to
serve as an independent "watchdog" of Aqaba development activities.
B.    Institutions Fostering Regional Cooperation
81.   Active consultations on Gulf of Aqaba environmnental protection are already well under way
between Jordan, Egypt and Israel, largely as an outgrowth of the Middle East peace process. The
Multilateral Working Group on Enviromnent established Gulf of Aqaba environmental protection as
its first target for regional cooperation. The UGAOSCP, with Egypt, Israel and Jordan as active
partners, has emerged as a direct outgrowth of the Working Group's deliberations.
82.   In mid-1995, under the auspices of the Regional Economic Development Working Group
(REDWG), the EU sponsored the launching of the Taba-Eilat-Aqaba Macro Area ("TEAM" Area)
Experts Group, whose agenda is to identify priority economic development projects involving Egypt,
Israel and Jordan. A Special Economic Zone, a regional bypass road for commercial transit, and
development of a regional airport are among the topics now under discussion for the northern Gulf of
Aqaba area. Environmental action plans will be prepared for the Egyptian and Israeli portions of the Gulf
of Aqaba. Feasibility studies are being undertaken for a handicraft center, water and waste water use,
land use suitability, visitors management and joint marketing.
83.   Another consultative mechanism has been the ad-hoc Aqaba-Eilat Committee which drafted the
"Agreement on Special Arrangements for Aqaba and Eilat between the Government of the State of Israel
and the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan". Under Article 11 of this Agreement, a
Aqaba-Eilat coordinating committee will be established to assist in the implementation of the Agreement
which includes important provisions in environmental protection and marine park establishment (para.
85). The Israel-Jordan Binational Red Sea Marine Park Concept involves the creation of a cooperative
mechanism for marine park management in the Upper Gulf area.



- 16 -
84.   Under the auspices of the GEF-sponsored PPA for the Gulf of Aqaba Environmental Action
Plan, important strides have also been made toward forging regional cooperation in addressing priority
Gulf of Aqaba environmental protection concerns. The GEF PPA financing enabled the coordination of
efforts in coral protection. Experts from the Egyptian Environrental Affairs Agency have advised on
the creation of a marine protected areas strategy for the Aqaba coastline. Through this initiative, the Ras
Mohammed National Park Sector Development Project was invited to contribute to the formulation of a
marine park strategy for Jordan, in conjunction with leading scientists from the U.S. National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration.
V. LAWS AND REGULATIONS AFFECTING JORDAN'S GULF OF AQABA REGION
A.    Relevant Treaties and International Conventions
85.   Four principal international conventions to which Jordan is a party are relevant to the protection
of the Gulf of Aqaba:
*     The Regional Convention for the Conservation of the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden
Environment (Jeddah Convention, 1982) aims to protect the Red Sea, Gulf of Aden and
Gulf of Aqaba environments. Article 6 of the Convention calls for appropriate measures
against water and airborne pollution originating from land.  Under the Protocol
concerning Regional Cooperation in Combatting Pollution by Oil and Other Harmful
Substances in Cases of Emergency, a marine pollution emergency response center is to
be established, along with procedures for the exchange of scientific data and regional
technical assistance.
*     The International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution of the Sea by Oil (1954)
establishes controls on oil discharges into the sea from ships. Under this Convention,
the Red Sea including the Gulf of Aqaba is considered a special zone where heightened
protection applies.
*     The Convention of the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and
Other Matter (London Convention 1973) regulates the disposal at sea of waste and
other matter from ships, aircraft, platforms and other structures.
*     The Convention for the Control of Trans-boundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes
and their Disposal (Basel Convention 1989). In addressing the general secretariat of
this Convention, Jordan's delegate declared Jordan to be an area forbidden to the
importation or trans-shipment of foreign hazardous wastes.
86.   In addition, Jordan signed the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from
Ships (MARPOL 73/78) in December 1994. Jordan's ratification of this Convention is expected during
1996. Annex I of this Convention establishes the Red Sea and Gulf of Aqaba as a special area where the
discharge of oil and oily residues is prohibited. To foster compliance with this ban, Parties are required
to provide reception facilities for oil and oily residues from tankers and other ships using their ports.
Under Annex II, bans on the discharge of certain categories of noxious liquid substances are established,
along with the required provision of port reception facilities for such substances where needed. Annex
V prohibits the dumping from ships of garbage other than food wastes.



- 17 -
87.   The Peace Treaty between The State of Israel and The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan (24
October 1994) establishes a firm basis for environmental consultation and cooperation between these two
Gulf-bordering states. Under Annex IV of the Treaty, the two parties agreed to cooperate in several key
areas including the following:
*     Environmental planning, the conduct of environmental impact assessment, the exchanging
of data on proposed development projects.
*     Environmental legislation, regulations, standards, and the enforcement thereof.
*     Emergency response, monitoring, related notification procedures and control of damage.
Among the geographical areas identified as prime targets for bilateral cooperation, the Treaty gave first
priority to the Gulf of Aqaba marine environment and littoral zone. Effective controls over the
environmental impacts of industry, power generation, hazardous materials, solid waste, ports and tourism
were among the specific areas for cooperative effort.
88.   Further elaborating upon the objectives set forth in the Israel-Jordan peace treaty is the
Agreement between the Government of The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and the Government of
the State of Israel on Cooperation in Environmental Protection and Nature Conservation, initialed
by both nations in May 1995. Enhancement of legislative strategies and enforcement measures and the
development of improved monitoring of regulated activities are highlighted in this Agreement. The need
for effective methods of preparing and presenting environmental impact assessments of projects with
transboundary impacts is also reiterated.  Regular exchanges of professional delegations and
environmental experts, timely data exchange, and "activities to support international environmental
projects to help solve global and regional environmental problems and to create an atmosphere of
cooperation" were advocated.
89.   In January 1996, an Agreement was signed on Special Arrangements for Aqaba and Eilat
Between the Government of the State of Israel and the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of
Jordan. Key environmental protection provisions included in this agreement, are as follows:
*     A binational marine park called The Red Sea Marine Peace Park is to be established,
with the landward boundaries of the Park are to be set by each Party and the marine
boundaries generally established at the 70 m benthic line. Park regulatory procedures are
to be developed by a special joint team with a view toward adopting similar and
comparable standards and guidelines;
*     The Parties are to ensure that joint development projects are environmentally sound, with
minimal transboundary environmental impacts;
*     There is to be an exchange of timely and pertinent information related to environmental
monitoring and control measures taken by each Party;
*     Joint environmental education efforts are to be promoted, and mutual assistance in
emergency preparedness and response, including direct conimunication links and joint
training programs, is to be advanced;



- 18 -
*     Ship-based pollution (including oil, hazardous materials, and sewage) is to be abated and
combatted to the fullest extent possible, in conformity with internationally recognized
norms; and
*     Pollution from land-based sources is to be minimized to the fullest possible extent.
toward the goal of phasing out pollution by hazardous substances and substances that
bioaccumulate.
B.    Domestic Laws, Standards and Guidelines
90.   Under the Law of the Aqaba Region Authority No. 7 (1987), broad powers of governance are
assigned to the ARA, including the authority to plan and execute projects in the industrial, tourist.
agricultural and services sectors (art. 6), and to supervise other public and private agencies undertaking
projects in these sectors. The ARA Board of Directors includes representatives of key ministries
(Municipal, Rural Affairs and Environment; Planning; Industry and Trade; Tourism; Interior) as well as
the Ports Corporation, the Army, the Department of Lands and Survey, Mayor of Aqaba and two other
local representatives (art. 8). The Board is empowered to appropriate lands, dispose of Governrnent
property, and promulgate permits and licenses for activities carried out in the Region (Art. 10).
Regulations for the implementation of the ARA Law are to be prepared by the ARA President (art. 11),
and are to be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval (art.22).
91.   In September 1995, a Law of Environmental Protection, Law No. 12 (1995) was approved by
the Jordanian Parliament. This law establishes a national framework for environmental policy, including
the formation of a Higher Council for Environmental Protection on which the Secretary General of the
ARA will sit as a member. The Higher Council will set national environmental policy and will review
proposed environmental laws, specifications and standards prepared by a separate executive body, the
General Corporation for Environmental Protection. The General Corporation will be the primary body
at the national level responsible for implementing pollution prevention regulations including inspection
and monitoring of regulated premises.
92.   Despite the recent enactment of the Law of Environmental Protection, Jordanian environmental
protection standards and regulations remain piecemeal and largely without effective monitoring and
enforcement. Important progress in filling regulatory gaps pertaining to priority environmental protection
concerns in the Aqaba region have been made using PPA funding. Already completed are environmental
impact assessment procedures for proposed development projects; these procedures are now awaiting final
approval by the ARA. In addition, environmental auditing procedures for Aqaba region industries have
been prepared and are awaiting formal adoption by the ARA. Once adopted, the EIA and environmental
auditing procedures will be the first such regulations in Jordan. They are currently being viewed as
models for environmental regulation at the national level.
93.   Environmental planning in the Aqaba region has also been targeted for strengthening using PPA
funding, through the introduction of guidelines for coastal zone management (CZM). Draft CZM
regulations, developed with PPA financing, establish a multi-tier CZM system with separate zones for
tourism development, industrial activities, mixed use, and wilderness protection. The regulations also
include architectural, landscaping and environmental protection guidelines for coastal zone development
as well as aesthetic design standards for industrial and port facilities.



- 19 -
94.   Standards and procedures governing industrial activities in the Aqaba region have also been
prepared with PPA funding. While some standards for industrial wastewater discharges exist in Jordan
(para. 96), standards for ambient air quality or industrial air emissions have yet to be adopted. Air
emission and wastewater discharge standards specifically targeting priority pollutants in the Aqaba region
were also produced using PPA funding. A permit-based regulatory regime for Aqaba region industries
has also been recommended, and the guidelines for such a regime have been finalized.
95.   Marine Park regulations and boundary designation have been undertaken using PPA funding in
conjunction with the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Under the proposed
scheme, a Jordanian Red Sea Marine Peace Park will soon be officially established, to be govemed by
the regulations prepared with PPA funding. A full Marine Park management plan is to be prepared as
part of the proposed project.
96.   In controlling industrial waste water discharges, Jordan Standard Specifications No. 202 (1982)
(updated in 1991) establishes maximum allowable limits for some 37 pollutants discharged into streams,
wadis, or the sea, or used for natural recharge or irrigation. JSS 202 also includes narrative standards
for the protection of public and worker health, groundwater quality and aquatic life. The Water Authority
of Jordan (WAI) is reportedly responsible for monitoring industrial discharges semi-monthly, to ensure
compliance with JSS 202. However, to date such monitoring is unenforced.
97.   Publicly owned wastewater treatment works operated by the WAJ are subject to a new standard,
Jordan Standard Specifications No. 893 (1994). Under this standard, maximum limits are set for a
number of pollutants in sewage plant discharges, but no standards or guidelines are established for sewage
sludge.
98.   Several legal provisions address ship-based pollution. Shipping Law No. 51 (1961) bans ships
from dumping soil, stones, sand, scum, toxic and chemical waste, or any other material on land or water.
Appropriate measures are required under this law for the prevention of spills during the loading and
unloading of ships. The law sets fines for the violation of any of its provisions. Quarantine Aqaba
Port Law No. 32 (1972) bans the discharge of ship-based pollution, including bilge water. Daily feeds
to be paid by ships for garbage collection are established under Port Services Fees Law No. 49 (1976).
And Circular No. 31 - Waste Discharges from Ships (1971) requires that all sweepings, including
wood, paper, and soil collected from ships be transported outside the Aqaba City limits. Ship captains
are made personally liable for polluting substances released from their vessels under Article 24 of the new
Law of Environmental Protection. In addition to setting applicable fines and prison terms, the Law
requires remediation at the responsible party's expense.
99.   Some protection of fisheries and coral is provided under Agriculture Law No. 20 (1973). This
Law provides for the issuance of fishing licenses pursuant to specified conditions, and additionally
prohibits damage to or removal of corals. More explicit in banning the removal of coral or shellfish from
the Gulf, or harm to these forms of marine life, is Article 25 of the Law of Environmental Protection,
which specifies fines and prison terms for violators.



- 20 -
VI. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
A.    Overview
100.  The overriding objective of the proposed GEF project is to enable Jordan to develop and
implement the first phase of a strategic environmental action plan that will establish a regional
collaborative framework for sustainable environmental management and protection of the Gulf of Aqaba
and adjacent terrestrial areas. Central to the success of the project will be the development of institutions
that are capable of demonstrating Jordan's commitment to addressing priority environmental protection
concerns within Jordan's Aqaba region, and to provide institutional capacity for effective regional
cooperation in addressing these concerns.
101.  In an emerging era of Middle East peace, Jordan's Gulf of Aqaba coastal region is currently the
focus of intensive development pressure. Aware of the enormous economic benefits that neighboring
Egypt and Israel have derived from recreational tourism along their Gulf coastlines, Jordanian government
officials and private entrepreneurs are now targeting the nation's 27-kilometer Gulf coast for major resort
hotel and vacation villa development. At the same time, ambitious plans to expand mineral export and
other activities in Jordan's already bustling port are under active consideration.
102.  The objectives of this project are:
(i)    institutional capacity-building in Jordan's Aqaba region;
(ii)   establishing laws and regulations addressing priority environmental protection concerns
within Jordan; and
(iii)   environmental protection of coral reefs and coastal waters.
B.    Institutional Capacity Building Objectives
103.   In the Aqaba region, a preliminary commitment to environmental protection has been signalled
by the creation of an Environment Unit within the ARA. Primary objectives for institutional capacity-
building are:
(i)    strengthening management capacity at the ARA to achieve international, national and
regional environmental protection through a combination of training and technical
assistance for new management responsibilities;
(ii)   strengthening administrative capacity at the ARA in the areas of procurement, financial
management and accounting procedures; and
(iii)   strengthening technical capabilities of the ARA Environment Unit through technical
assistance and training.
C.    Regulatory Framework Objectives
104.  While there is an active debate about environmental protection concerns among Jordanian
government officials and in the non-governmental sector, effective regulation of Jordanian industry and



- 21 -
Jordanian development activity is presently lacking. In the fall of 1995, the Jordanian Parliament
approved a Law of Environmental Protection (Law No. 12 of 1995), which establishes a broad framework
for addressing environmental concerns within Jordan. To meet the objectives of this Law, a strong
regulatory framework will need to be developed for the Aqaba region, supported by the strengthened
technical capacity of the ARA.
105.  Primary objectives for building an effective regulatory framework are:
(i)   to develop a legal framework ensuring that new development activities are subject to
environmental planning guidelines and permitting procedures;
(ii)   to strengthen regulations governing the activities of land-based industries as well as
marine vessels operating in the Gulf;
(iii)  to strengthen enforcement tools applicable to violators of environmental protection and
planning laws and regulations;
(iv)   to endow the ARA Environment Unit with appropriate powers to carry out necessary
environmental protection functions; and
(v)    to introduce legal measures to promote consistency and harmonization of environmental
laws, regulations and standards in accordance with internationally recognized principles
and standards.
D.    Environmental Protection Objectives
106.  Given the intimate and intricate relationship between the Gulf of Aqaba and adjacent terrestrial
areas, environmental protection initiatives in the region must seek to advance an integrated approach to
resource conservation and management. Workshops, joint research projects, and technical consultations
will be developed between Jordan, Egypt and Israel to ensure that priority environmental protection needs
are addressed. The primary environmental protection objectives of the Gulf of Aqaba Environmental
Action Plan for Jordan are:
(i)    protection of globally important coral reefs through the development and implementation
of a managed resource marine park;
(ii)   prevention of oil contamination by marine vessel bilge and ballast water discharges and
coordination of planning and investments in oil spill response;
(iii)   prevention of marine pollution from  land-based sources including industries, hotel
developments, sewage discharges, land transport vehicles and port facilities;
(iv)   development of an integrated strategy addressing ship-based as well as land-based sources
of solid waste;
(v)    protection of coastal groundwater resources from contamination; and



- 22 -
(vi)   promotion of municipal and regional development that minimizes damage to coastal
environmental resources including terrestrial flora and fauna and landscape aesthetics.
VII. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
107.  Under the proposed GEF project, the Government of Jordan, in concert with Egypt and Israel,
will develop and implement priority measures to halt and prevent pollution of the marine environment
and the transboundary aquifers in the Aqaba coastal zone. Project components are the following:
(i)    development of a regulatory and institutional framework for Gulf of Aqaba environmental
protection;
(ii)    measures to reduce the risk of major oil spills and steps to promote waste oil recovery
and reuse;
(iii)  safeguarding transboundary groundwater resources through groundwater monitoring and
assessment of the effects of wastewater seepage on the quality and level of the
groundwater table in the Gulf of Aqaba region;
(iv)   development of an integrated marine and land-based transboundary solid waste
management strategy; and
(v)    protection of globally important coral reefs - development and implementation of a
managed resource marine park. The individual implementation activities to be carried
out under each project component, described more fully in Attachment D, are
summarized briefly below.
108.  Development of a regulatory and institutional framework for Gulf of Aqaba environmental
protection: Under this component, institutional reforms necessary to achieve environmental protection
priorities in the Gulf of Aqaba region will be identified and implemented. As a necessary first step, the
ARA will be designated as the lead agency for the project and the existing ARA Environment Unit will
be elevated to full departmental status within the ARA.
109.  An action plan for transboundary consultation and cooperation will be developed under this
component. In developing and implementing this plan, the ARA Environment Unit Director will work
with counterparts in Egypt, Israel and, if possible, Saudi Arabia to establish consultative mechanisms on
priority areas of environmental concern. Existing tri-national committees will promote harmonized laws
and policies in specialized areas (e.g. marine pollution from land-based industries; sewage management
and sewage water reuse; collection, disposal and recycling of solid waste from marine and land-based
sources). Joint research projects will be undertaken on issues pertaining to coral reef ecology, fisheries
management, and pollution impacts from land-based and marine sources. Training workshops will be
developed on topics of shared relevance (e.g. environmental impact assessment, industrial pollution
monitoring, marine vessel pollution prevention, fisheries management).
110.  The current research capabilities of the Aqaba Marine Science Station and other Jordanian
institutions will be strengthened through the development of a research agenda targeted at priority
environmental protection concerns. Augmenting this agenda will be fellowship support and research



- 23 -
grants, awarded on the basis of the proposals' substantive areas of focus as well as the shared
involvement of researchers from  two or more Gulf-bordering states in research projects.  Direct
cooperation between the MSS and counterpart institutions in Israel and Egypt will be promoted.
111.   The GOJ will be assisted under this component in developing standards and regulations for ship-
based pollution, including bilge and ballast water waste, noxious liquid substances, solid waste and
sewage. Regulatory, monitoring and enforcement measures will be developed to ensure GOJ compliance
with the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution by Ships (MARPOL 73/78), signed by
His Majesty King Hussein in 1994 and expected to be ratified in 1996.  Other areas in which
environmental regulations will be developed and implemented under this component are industrial facility
permitting and pollution prevention; coastal zone management including the adoption of a statutory CZM
map; and environmental impact assessment.
112.   Further institutional strengthening  will be provided  through  the purchase of computer
database/GIS systems and necessary staff training; and the strengthening of laboratory analysis and field
sampling capabilities to address priority pollutants and pollution indicators.
113.   Measures to reduce the risk of major oil spills and steps to promote waste oil recovery and
reuse: While the UGAOSCP, developed with EU and Japanese assistance, addresses risks associated with
small to moderate Gulf oil spills, there is an urgent need to develop adequate measures to minimize the
risk of potentially catastrophic oil spills.' This component of the GEF project will finance a pre-
feasibility study of measures to reduce the risk of major oil spills, including electronic navigational aids,
pilotage requirements, and tanker design specifications.
114.   In the absence of bilge or ballast water reception facilities in the Port of Aqaba, oily waste from
marine vessels is periodically discharged into the Upper Gulf. Impacts of these discharges are visible in
beach tar and surface oil slicks in port area waters. Waste oil from trucks, caused by roadside dumping
of lube oil by freight haulers and poor management of truck repair yards, is an additional source of waste
oil contamination in the coastal region. To address this problem, the feasibility of building a coordinated
(Jordan-Egypt-Israel) waste oil reception and recovery scheme will be assessed and a demonstration
project in waste oil recovery will be launched with partial grant support from the project.
115.   Safeguarding transboundary groundwater resources through groundwater monitoring and
assessment of the effects of wastewater seepage on the quality and level of the groundwater table
in the Gulf of Aqaba region: To control transboundary pollution of the Wadi Araba aquifer, the quality
of the groundwater around the transboundary periphery of the Aqaba municipal wastewater treatment
plant will be assessed, and mitigation measures will be defined. Under a second phase, a water resources
assessment will be undertaken with the objective of establishing sustainable future rates of usage and
management of wastewater effluent. The water resources assessment will include a multi-sector analysis
of current water resource uses, an evaluation of water quality applied to these uses, and projections as
to future water supply and demand. The potential for deterioration or depletion of groundwater resources
' Under the UGAOSCP, emergency response centers are to be established in Egypt, Israel and Jordan, each with a capacity
to handle spills of up to 200 metric tons of oil. As tankers now plying the Gulfs waters carrying 100,000 to 150,000 tons of
oil, measures to maximize tanker safety are urgently needed. The project would explore the possibility of promoting regional
agreement on tanker design and operational requirements, and other measures to reduce the likelihood of a major oil spill in
the Gulf.



- 24 -
under different development scenarios will be given priority focus, and measures to mitigate or avoid
these negative impacts will be proposed in the form of a prioritized action plan, including management
practices for pollution prevention in the recharge zone. Specific attention will be given to present
management and potential uses of sewage effluent, (e.g. agricultural irrigation, the proposed golf course
development and landscaping in the South Coast Tourism Zone), the preparation of a plan to control
potential adverse impacts on nutrient-sensitive coral reefs in nearby marine waters and transboundary
pollution of the Wadi Araba aquifer.
116.  Development of an integrated marine and land-based transboundary solid waste management
strategy: Large quantities of solid waste (plastic bags, foam cups, animal carcasses, glass, metal, etc.)
pollute the Gulf's international waters. Sources include recreational beach waste, litter generated by
passengers aboard the Aqaba (Jordan) - Nuweiba (Egypt) ferry and the discharge of dead livestock from
cargo ships. This component will ensure control of litter and transboundary garbage contamination of
coral reef and the marine environment. The following activities will be included: (i) the development
of consultative mechanisms to promote the development of an effective regional action plan for
transboundary solid waste management for waste originating from marine and land-based sources; (ii) the
improvement of port reception facilities for ship-generated solid waste; (iii) the strengthening of current
mechanisms to ensure that ship operators strictly enforce anti-litter provisions against passengers and
crew; (iv) the development of a solid waste collection, recycling and disposal plan that ensures reliable
collection of domestic garbage, effective sorting of recyclable materials, and environmentally sound
disposal (containment) of un-recyclable waste; and (v) development of strong anti-litter and anti-dumping
provisions to be adopted by the ARA.
117.  Protection of globally important coral reefs - development and implementation of a managed
resource marine park: This component will be undertaken within the framework of a tripartite
collaboration between Egypt, Israel and Jordan. Using PPA funding, the marine reserve proposal
prepared by IUCN was updated and draft marine park regulations were produced. Hence, the component
would entail: (i) establishment of a multi-use marine park incorporating detailed zonation and numerical
and spatial limitations on different user activities (including commercial and recreational fishing
regulations); (ii) installation of mooring buoys, the marking of boundaries, user zones and reef crossovers
points; (iii) hiring and training of marine park staff engaged in controlling park entry, enforcement of
zoning regulations, interpretation and visitor education, and implementation of monitoring and public
awareness programns; and (iv) in collaboration with ARA, the Port Corporation, NGOs, and the private
sector, development and implementation of a public awareness campaign targeting hotel visitors, dive
center customers, park visitors, and the general public.
VIII. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Project Management
118.  The ARA is the implementing agency for this Project, under the supervision of the Ministry of
Planning. ARA will, through its Board of Directors, oversee project implementation, forward planning,
and sustainability of the project. Within the ARA, oversight of implementation will be the responsibility
of the ARA Secretary General, to which the ARA Environment Unit is attached. A Director will be
appointed to head the Environment Unit. The role and activities of the Environment Unit are detailed
in Attachment D. The Unit will implement and enforce guidelines and regulations which integrate
environmental protection into Aqaba region development planning and economic activities. The Unit



- 25 -
would also develop and implement required action plans including a Marine Park management plan, a
marine water quality monitoring program, GIS, a waste oil recycling plan, a groundwater quality
mitigation plan, and a solid waste collection plan. In addition, the Environment Unit will coordinate with
the other ARA departments and with the other Jordanian governmental authorities at the national, regional
and local levels. For example, the Environment Unit Director will coordinate project functions with the
Ports Corporation, the Marine Science Station, the Royal Jordanian Navy, and non-governmental
organizations (inter-alia the Royal Red Sea Divers Association and the Royal Society for the Conservation
of Nature). Full consultation and coordination will also be promoted between the ARA and the General
Corporation for Environmental Protection, to be established under the recently enacted Law of
Environmental Protection No. 12 (1995).  Figure 1 provides an organization chart for the ARA
Environment Unit.
119.  To  assist the ARA  in project implementation, a Project Manager and a Project
Procurement/Disbursement Specialist (part-time) will be hired. The Project Manager will manage the
implementation of the GEF component of the GAEAP, based upon a Project Implementation Plan which
will be developed four months after Project signature.  The Project Manager will also assist in
coordination of regional activities. The Project Procurement/Disbursement Specialist will be responsible
for assisting the ARA Finance Department in implementing all financing, procurement, disbursement,
accounting, and auditing functions pertaining to the project. The Project Management Team (PMT) will
be equipped with vehicles to facilitate movement of staff to ensure appropriate communication. The ARA
will provide equipment, office and clerical support to the PMT to ensure the continuity of the project.
The Government will maintain the composition of the PMT during the execution of the project.
120.  The Project is scheduled to be implemented over a three-year period, with an anticipated starting
date of mid-1996. Attachment F describes the key project activities over the three-year period. At
negotiations, agreement was reached that the Project Management Team will submit quarterly progress
reports on Project implementation and annual audit reports. A recurrent cost recovery plan for operation
and maintenance of the Environment Unit will be developed towards the end of the first year of project
implementation. Following adoption of the recurrent cost recovery plan, the necessary by-laws would
be enacted.
B.    Project Monitoring
121.  The Project Manager's primary responsibility will be the timely execution of project
implementation as specified in the Key Activities Schedule (Attachment F). The Project Manager will
monitor project Key Monitoring Indicators (Attachment C) to track the progress and impact of the
project. Specific tasks include:
(a)    preparing the Project Implementation Plan, including updating if needed, of key activities
schedule and key monitoring indicators; the implementation plan will be submitting to the
Bank for review within four months of signature of the project;
(b)    preparing quarterly progress reports on project implementation, with supporting
documentation in the following areas:
*     hiring and training of Project consultants and staff;
*     progress in meeting milestones set forth in the Project Implementation Plan;



- 26 -
*     adoption and implementation of environmental protection regulations, including
but not limited to guidelines and standards developed with PPA funding;
*     inter-agency coordination in addressing priority concerns addressed under the
Project;
*     preparation and implementation of a Marine Park management plan, marine
water quality monitoring program, GIS, waste oil recycling plan, groundwater
quality mitigation plan, and solid waste collection plan;
*     development of mechanisms and implementation of activities to advance regional
cooperation with neighboring Gulf of Aqaba states, in accordance with specified
Project implementation activities (Technical Annex, Attachment D); and
*     development of physical facilities and infrastructure, in accordance with specified
Project implementation activities (Technical Annex, Attachment D).
(c)    measuring quantitative and qualitative objectives achieved and reporting such information
in annual progress reports, to be submitted to the Bank by December 30 of each year;
(d)   identifying priority areas for further analysis;
(e)    conducting background studies for possible follow-up activities and/or follow-up project;
and
(f)    preparing the Project Completion Report.
122.  Monitoring by the Bank would be carried out through visits to Aqaba two to three times per year,
to review progress in implementing the project and to revise, as necessary the Project Implementation
Plan and Key Activities Schedule.
C.    Procurement
123.  Procurement of works and goods under the proposed project would be carried out in a manner
consistent with Bank Procurement Guidelines (January 1995). Consultant services would be contracted
in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants (August 1981). Country procurement practices
have been reviewed, and found to be acceptable. Standard documentation of the country for works and
goods would be used, and World Bank standard forms of contracts would be used for consultant services.
Procurement would be carried by the ARA Finance Department, with technical assistance from a
procurement\disbursement specialist. The procurement arrangements are summarized in Schedule B.
124.  The total cost for works financed by the GEF is estimated at US$482,000, all of which would
be procured through national competitive bidding (NCB) procedures, because they would not be of
interest to foreign contractors. The works will consist mainly of small on-shore facilities for the Marine
Park and associated reef protection infrastructure. The Marine Park headquarters/visitor center, estimated
to cost about US$320,000, is the single largest physical work in the project.



- 27 -
125.   Contracts for goods above US$200,000 would be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB). Contract packages for goods between US$50,000 and US$200,000 would be awarded on
the basis of NCB. Contract packages for goods below US$50,000 would be awarded based on national
shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank. The total cost for goods and equipment is estimated at
US$665,000 of which only one package for laboratory equipment (estimated at US$220,000) would be
procured through ICB.
126.  The total cost for consultant services is estimated at US$1.498 million, which would consist of
packages for technical assistance for staff positions, and packages for studies, strategies, action plans. and
training activities, referred to as implementation and training activities.
127.  The Bank's prior review of procurement would apply to all contracts procured under ICB and
to the first two contracts under NCB regardless of the amount, and to all contracts in excess of
US$100,000 under NCB. The Bank will also subject to prior review all documentation (terms of
reference, short lists, evaluation methodology, evaluation of proposals, award recommendations and
contract) for all staff positions funded under the project. As most of the other consultant services are
technically specialized and are of low amounts (estimated from US$25,000 to US$100,000), prior review
is required for all other consultant services included in the project, when contract values for firms exceed
US$75,000 and when contract values for individuals exceed US$25,000. TORs for implementation
activities and technical assistance staff positions are provided in Attachments D and E. It is estimated
that the prior review process would cover about 75% of the Bank-financed contracts. All other contracts
will be subject to selective post review.
D.    Disbursement and Special Account
128.  Funds from the GEF grant are expected to be disbursed over a period of three years, including
retroactive financing of US$270,000. Disbursements of the GEF grant would be made against: works
for 100% of foreign expenditures and 95% of national expenditures; goods for 100% of foreign
expenditures and 100% of national (ex factory cost) expenditures and 90% of national expenditures for
other items procured locally; consultant services for 100% of all expenditures; and miscellaneous items
for 100% of all expenditures for electricity, fuel, repairs, maintenance services, and other operational
services related to the marine park facilities.
129.  Actions agreed at negotiations include development of a detailed Project Implementation Plan,
that will demonstrate adherence to the procedures described in this Project Document and the Bank
Guidelines for Procurement and for Use of Consultants.
130.  Documentation of Expenditures. Withdrawal applications would be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOE) for expenditures for each contract for goods and works costing less
than the equivalent of $100,000, except for the first two contracts under NCB regardless of the amount;
for each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$75,000; for each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $25,000; and for all training and operating expenditures under such terms and conditions
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. For expenditures on staff positions, the SOEs would
state that all staff positions had been previously approved by the Bank. The relevant documentation in
support of SOEs would be maintained at the ARA Finance Department and would be made available for
Bank staff review. Because of the large volume of disbursements expected to be claimed under SOEs,



- 28 -
special effort would be made for the selective review of SOE documentation by visiting Bank missions.
Expenditures in excess of the previous amounts would be fully documented.
131.  Special Account. A Special Account in U.S. dollars with a maximum authorized allocation of
US$300,000 representing approximately four months of average projected expenditures, would be opened
at the Central Bank of Jordan. The Special Account would be used for all payments less than 20% of
the Authorized Allocation. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted
on a monthly basis or more frequently if the amount withdrawn from the Special Account exceeded one-
third of its value.
E.    Accounting and Auditing
132.  The ARA would maintain records (in electronic and paper medium) for each project component,
and consolidate them into the project accounts and SOEs. Supporting documentation would also be
maintained by the ARA and be made available to Bank mission and independent auditors as required.
133.  Project accounts, including the special accounts and SOE, would be audited annually in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles applied by external private independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, with TORs and reports approved by the Bank; this was agreed at negotiations.
Cost of the consultant services to be employed by ARA for the annual audits would be eligible for
financing included in the GEF grant. Audit reports would be furnished to the Bank within five months
after close of the Government's fiscal year.
IX. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
134.  The major issue is the need for a strengthened institutional framework. By providing a proper
institutional, regulatory and enforcement system, as proposed under the project, the risks of continued
environmental degradation and failure to achieve the project's objectives would be minimized. While the
ARA has legal authority to introduce new regulations for the Aqaba Region, there is also a risk associated
with the possible delay in enforcement of those regulations. Toward this end, the ARA environment unit
should be strengthened to allow for effective management with enforcement authority. At a minimum,
provision of incentives for career development and the elaboration of management enforcement authority
is required.
135.  The project would result in the following benefits: prevention of further environmental
degradation, including the containment of marine pollution; improvement of the overall quality of the
urban and natural environment; reduction in existing point sources of pollution; maintenance of the
ecological balance of threatened ecosystems; and improvement of the efficiency of water use. It would
also establish standards and procedures which could be adopted at the national level, and provide an
opportunity to initiate regional cooperation in managing the environmental impacts of development
throughout the Gulf of Aqaba.
X. AGREEMENTS REACHED
136.  During negotiations, the following agreements were reached with the Government:



- 29 -
(i)   that ARA will establish an Environmental Unit with staffing and TORs satisfactory to the
Bank by July 1, 1996;
(ii)   that official designation of the Gulf of Aqaba Marine Park, including boundary
delineation, would be a condition for disbursement of those components of the Grant
related to the MP;
(iii)  that based on the MP regulations to be developed during the first three months of the
project, a by-law establishing the regulations for the operation of the Marine Park will
be presented to the Cabinet of Ministers by December 31, 1996;
(iv)   that immediate steps will be taken toward the formal adoption, by September 1, 1996,
of recommended guidelines and standards developed with PPA funding, including EIA,
CZM, environmental auditing, and industrial pollution prevention;
(v)   that the key project activities would be carried out according to the Schedule set forth in
Attachment F;
(vi)  that a recurrent costs recovery plan will be designed by December 31, 1996 and
implemented within 6 months; charges would be updated regularly according to the plan;
(vii)  that the equipment to implement the monitoring of sea water quality program will be
based at the Marine Science Station;
(viii)  that quarterly progress reports will be submitted to the Bank, with supporting
documentation, describing actions taken in the following areas:
*     hiring and training of Project consultants and staff;
*     progress in meeting milestones set forth in the Project Implementation Plan;
*     adoption and implementation of environmental protection regulations, including
but not limited to guidelines and standards developed with PPA funding;
*     inter-agency coordination in addressing priority concerns addressed under the
Project;
*     preparation and implementation of a Marine Park management plan, marine
water quality monitoring program, GIS, waste oil recycling plan, groundwater
quality mitigation plan, and solid waste collection plan;
*     development of mechanisms and implementation of activities to advance regional
cooperation with neighboring Gulf of Aqaba states, in accordance with specified
Project implementation activities (Technical Annex, Attachment D); and
*     development of physical facilities and infrastructure, in accordance with specified
Project implementation activities (Technical Annex, Attachment D).



- 30 -
(ix)   that annual audit reports will be provided to the Bank within five months after the close
of the Government's fiscal year; and
(x)    that a Project Completion Report will be prepared within four months after project
completion.



- 31 -
ATI7ACHMENT A
GULF OF AQABA ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Cost
A(i).   Trausboundary Water Issues: Overall Goals, Policies, Guidelines,
and Coordination with Egypt and Israel                                             144,000
-Further implementation of collaborative mechanisms                              50,000
-Computer equipment and vehicles                                                 94,000
A(ii).  Implementation of a Legislative and Regulatory Framework                           565,000
- Finalization of draft standards and regulations                                50,000
- Hiring and training of project management staff                               340,000
- Training for implementation                                                    25,000
- Consultant services                                                           150,000
A(ii). Coastal Zone Management and Implementation of EIA Guidelines                        106,000
- Implementation Guidance for CZM\EIA Permitting Procedures'                     70,000
- Hiring and training of ARA personnel                                           36,000
A(iv). Transboundary Environmental Management with a Regional Focus2                       475,000
- Hiring and training of ARA staff                                               72,000
- Preparation and implementation: marine water quality monitoring
with regional focus3                                                            90,000
- Establishment of GIS\data management systems with regional focus2             113,000
- Laboratory equipment2                                                         200,000
B.     Oil Pollution Hazards                                                               100,000
- Reduction of oil spill risks pre-feasibility study                             35,000
- Demonstration project in waste oil recovery                                    65,000
Consultation with neighboring states will include a regional workshop, within the framework of the WGE, to discuss the
implementation of the CZM and EIA guidelines which were developed in consultation with the regional counterpart agencies.
2 This component will be prepared in close collaboration with neighboring states.
The water quality monitoring program and GIS will be developed with neighboring states and the laboratory equipment
has been identified to ensure compatibility within the region.



- 32 -
C.    Transboundary Groundwater Resources                                             100,000
- Assessment and mitigation of groundwaters4                                100,000
D.    Transboundary Solid Waste Management Strategy                                   150,000
- Development of solid waste collection, recycling, disposal plan           90,000
- Action plan for ship-generated waste                                       60,000
E.     Implementation of Marine Park                                                 810,000
- Management plan for marine park                                           40,000
- Capital expenditures of Marine Park facilities/equipment                 600,000
- Hiring and training of Marine Park staff                                  120,000
- Marine Park operation and maintenance costs, Years I & 2                   50,000
Contingencies                                                                        250,000
TOTAL                                                                               2,700,000
4 This component will be carried out in close collaboration between Jordan and Israel and relevant institutional
responsibilities will be adopted for both countries.



- 33 -
ATTACHMENT B
GULF OF AQABA ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN
INCREMENTAL COSTS
Project Component                                                       Total    Incremental
Reasonable Baseline Analysis & (Cost/$mil)     Cost      Cost ($mil)
($mil)    [Funding
Source]
A(i). Regional         The objectives of this component consist of regional  .144  .144
Coordination     environmental management and coordination among            [GEF]
Mechanism        the regional actors which the Government of Jordan
cannot reasonably be expected to bear (0).
A(ii). Legislative &   The legislative and regulatory framework needed for
Regulatory       transboundary pollution control and management   .565      .565
Framework        falls beyond the scope of provisions established by        [GEF]
the Government for national environmental
management (0).
A(iii).                Although the Government of Jordan is committed to
Coastal Zone     developing EIA guidelines to address national    .106      .106
Management &    environmental concerns, the objective of this               [GEF]
EIA Guidelines   component is to minimize adverse environmental
impacts of a transboundary nature and, as such, is
an eligible incremental cost (0).
A(iv).                 The Government of Jordan is committed to
Transboundary    providing funding of $100,000 annually, or       1.275     .475
Environment      $300,000 over the life of the Project, to address          [GEF)
Management &    environmental management issues in the Aqaba area
Monitoring       which are of significance to Jordan. In addition, the
ARA is committed to reallocating $500,000 toward
the institutional framework underlying the
component. However, the Government cannot
reasonably be expected to finance the preparation of
a regional coral reef and water quality management
strategy or the establishment of regional monitoring
systems and requisite capacity (.80).
B.   Assessment of    The objectives of this component - to minimize the    7.6   7.6
Oil Pollution    risk of potentially catastrophic transboundary oil         [GEF    .10
Hazards          spills and to assess the oil pollution hazards to          EU      1.90
transboundary aquifers and marine waters - require a       Japan  5.60]
coordinated regional response (0).



- 34 -
Project Component                                                       Total    Incremental
Reasonable Baseline Analysis & (Cost/$mil)     Cost      Cost ($mil)
($mil)    [Funding
Source]
C.   Safeguarding      The cost of controlling transboundary pollution of    .10  .10
Transboundary    the shared aquifer and to undertake, as proposed           [GEF]
Groundwaters     under this component, a water resources assessment
of sustainable future rates of transboundary usage
qualifies as legitimate incremental expenditures (0).
Inasmuch as this component seeks to control     .15        .15
transboundary solid waste contamination of the             [GEF]
D.   Transboundary     Gulf's coral reefs and marine environment, the
Solid Waste      Government cannot adequately address this issue in
Management       the absence of regional commitment for, and
coordination of, a transboundary solid waste
management plan, as proposed under this component
(0) -
E.   Marine Park       This component will be undertaken within a tri-  1.08      .810
partite collaborative framework among Egypt, Israel        [EU .03;
and Jordan. The close geographic proximity of the          US .24]
three countries, the concentration of their industrial
and urban developments at the head of the Gulf
where the Marine Parks are located, and the globally
significant nature of the coral reefs make this
component a legitimate incremental expenditure (0).
F.   Industrial        The Government has committed $1.4 to reduce      1.40      0
Pollution        phosphate dust pollution negatively affecting water
Control          quality. (1.4)
G.   Contingencies     Contingencies for Government and other donor-   .25        .25
financed component costs have been included in the         [GEF]
respective component cost calculations. GEF cost
contingencies are provided for separately.
Total                                 (2.2)                       12.67     10.47
[GEF 2.7;
EU 1.93;
Japan 5.6;
US .24]



- 35 -
ATTACHMENT C
GULF OF AQABA ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN
KEY MONITORING INDICATORS
Table A. Project Implementation Plan Indicators
Project Component          End of Year 1             End of Year 2           End of Year 3
A. Institutional and   (i) 100% of project staff  (i) 100% of all          (i) 100% of staff
Regulatory             hired                     equipment delivered        and equipment
Framework          (ii) initiation of        (ii) fully operating           functional
Environment Unit          environment unit      (ii) full performance
mandate               (iii)decisions on             of Environment
(iii)development of           recommendations of        Unit
collaborative             all studies and       (iii)recurrent cost
mechanisms for Gulf-     implementation             recovery plan
wide cooperation on      initiation of action       adoption
environmental issues      plans, including      (iv)definition of
(iv) 100% of all             regulation                 collaborative
implementation            enforcement               guidelines
activities initiated  (iv)final recurrent cost
(v) draft recurrent cost      recovery plan
recovery plan         (v) review of Gulf-wide
collaborative
mechanisms
B. Oil Spill Measures   Preparation of action plans  Initiation of         Completion of all
and Waste Oil                                implementation            activities
Recovery
C. Transboundary       Preparation of Water      Initiation of water quality    Completion of all
Groundwater        Quality Assessment        monitoring                activities
Protection
D. Transboundary       Preparation of action plans  Initiation of pilot activities   Completion of all
Solid Waste                                                            activities
Management
E. Marine Park and    (i) official designation,    (i) 100% of equipment    (i) completion of
Protection of          by-laws and               delivered                 all activities and
Coral Reefs            regulations           (ii) initiation of            construction
(ii) initiation for all       construction of park    (ii) sustainability
activities and           infrastructure             plan subrnitted
equipment             (iii) draft
sustainability plan



- 36 -
Table B: Performance Monitoring Indicators
Project Component          Input        Output                 Outcome            Impact
A.  Institutional and   Capacity building    Adoption and    Enforcement      Preservation and
Regulatory       (staffed           implementation of   and policing     improvement of
Framework        environment unit)   land uses and      actions;         CZM,coral reefs
and environmental   performance       transboundary    and marine water
regulations        standards for       cooperation      quality (standards
sources of                          met for nutrients,
pollution                           coliform,
suspended solids,
thermal and
sediment
contaminants
________________  content)
B.  Oil Spill         Measures for       Plans for reduced    Demonstration    Reduced oil spill
Measures and     environmentally    risk of catastrophic  actions for    risks, reduced oil
Waste Oit       sound management  oil spills and for    waste oil        and ballast water
Recovery         of ship operations    waste oil recovery   recovery     discharges
and road transport                                     reduced waste oil
discharges
C.  Transboundary    Assessment of the    Transboundary      First phase     Improved
Groundwater      quality of the     groundwater         groundwater      transboundary
Protection       groundwater        quality monitoring   assessment     cooperation;
around the         plan               including        groundwater
transboundary                          definition of   issues defined as
periphery of the                       shallow         supported by data
wastewater                             groundwater     collection
treatment plant                        contamination   monitoring
including data
sharing and field
measurement
D.  Transboundary    Strategy            Plans for land      Demonstration    Reduced visible
Solid Waste                         based and ship      actions for litter  surface (land and
Management                          based solid waste    control,        marine) and
management         collection and    underwater wastes
landfill
management
E.  Protection of    Staff and           Marine park         Fully operating   Maintenance or
Coral Reefs      equipment; marine   management plan    marine park     improvement of
park boundaries,    and public                         coral reefs;
zoning, and        awareness plans;                    maintenance or
regulations; visitor   permitting,                     improvement of
center             policing and                        biological
enforcement                         diversity
actions



- 37 -
ATTACHMENT D
GULF OF AQABA ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN
IMPLEMENTATION ACTIVITIES
Terns of Reference
I. Role and Activities of the Environment Unit
A. The Environment Unit would be strengthened with environmental specialists with technical
background and experience in environmental coastal zone management issues (including land and sea
uses, planning and EIAs) and industrial and port pollution. Training for specific requirements to
flulfill the Unit's role will be provided. ARA Environment Unit's role and activities are detailed
below.
B. Role. The principal role of the unit would be to guide the ARA in addressing environmental
concerns in land and marine allocations, and investment decisions. Hence, the unit would set general
environmental objectives and requirements, and implement the environmental action plan while
ensuring public participation. In undertaking this role, the Environment Unit will give priority
attention to:
(a) defining the environmental goals for the Aqaba region, and adopting policies and guidelines
for environmentally sound development of the coastal and marine areas;
(b) ensuring overall coordination with other institutions on environmental matters; and
(c) defining, developing, and implementing regional collaboration activities in close consultation
with neighboring countries.
C. Activities to be undertaken by the unit will be detailed, and responsibilities and mechanisms for
implementation will be devised. They include:
(a) in view of proposed developments and their likely impact on the environment, review of the
Aqaba master plan for the development of tourism, industrial and associated activities (in
particular, the South Coast Tourist Area, Aqaba Master Plan). Specific areas and zones
(including: the three coral reef reserves of the southwest coast; the Aqaba fortress, Eyla city
and other archeological sites; and the Wadi Rum Reserve) should be designated as sensitive
and requiring higher levels of regulation and protection; the assessment phase of this work
has been completed with PPA financing;
(b) assigning environmental requirements and guidelines for development of each land and
marine (e.g., shipping lanes, coral reserves) use zones of the "Aqaba Town Land Use and
Transportation Context Plan" with a regional focus;



- 38 -
(c) updating (relaxing or tightening) environmental protection regulations as required following
review of the plans and options for development;
(d) ensuring enforcement of the environmental criteria, standards and regulations for each
terrestrial and marine zone;
(e) implementing environmental impact assessments procedures for all development projects,
review of ElAs, and issuance of permits in close collaboration with neighboring countries;
(f) monitoring environmental audits, to be conducted in accordance with EU procedures, by the
power plant and other large industries (at present, the JPMC fertilizer plant is the only
industry which monitors environmental impacts). The audits should include provision for
monitoring of sources of significant pollution production and should specify the control
measures to be implemented;
(g) establishing revenue generating mechanisms (e.g. special assessment or impact fees levied by
ARA on new construction in the coastal zone, solid waste, emissions, service and user
charges, bed tax and concessions for activities such as diving) that will ensure adequate long
term funding for the Environmental Unit, and possibly also could cover the cost of
environmental maintenance of beaches and coral reef reserves, etc.; and
(h) devising an air quality management strategy and provisions for implementation including
design of an air quality monitoring program in collaboration with RSS;
(i) identifying and quantifying point and non-point sources of nutrients to the Gulf. Preparation
of a costed sea water quality management and implementation strategy including regional
program elements for water quality monitoring;
(j) ensuring the implementation of water and air quality monitoring programs with a regional
focus;
(k) increasing public awareness by provision of full information on the status of the Aqaba
environment, including air and water quality, and the diversity of coral reef ecosystems; and
(I) in collaboration with the ad hoc committee: (i) assessing the role of the institutions involved
in environmental matters; and (ii) designing and implementing clear coordination
mechanisms, with appropriate enforcement authority, so as to avoid duplication of
responsibilities.
II. Activities to be Implemented under the GEF Project
COMPONENT A. DEVELOPMENT OF A REGULATORY & INSTITUTIONAL
FRAMEWORK FOR GULF OF AQABA ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
Activity A #1: Development of collaborative mechanisms for transboundary cooperation and
consultation in addressing Gulf of Aqaba enviromnental protection. Collaborative mechanisms will
be developed for region-wide consultation and cooperation in addressing priority areas of environmental
concern. The mechanisms will address options for establishing specialized committees to promote



- 39 -
dialogue on particular issues (e.g. land-based industrial pollution concerns; sewage and solid waste
management; marine vessel pollution prevention; environmental performance of port operations;
environmental data-sharing). Included would be mechanisms for organizing regional workshops on
priority policy areas (e.g. environmental impact assessment, industrial pollution monitoring, marine vessel
pollution prevention, fisheries management) and for implementing transboundary scientific research
projects on issues pertaining to coral reef ecology, fisheries management, and terrestrial flora and fauna.
Activity A #2a: Implementation plan for industrial pollution monitoring and abatement. An
integrated, cross-media approach will be undertaken to minimize pollution loads to the Gulf of Aqaba
region, including prevention of accidental/catastrophic events. Pollution prevention measures will be
discussed directly with industries and the financial feasibility of specific technology options will be
examined.  A key feature of the industrial pollution monitoring and abatement plan will be the
introduction of the "polluter pays" principle to industrial discharge sampling and monitoring functions.
Activity A #2b: Development of marine vessel pollution prevention and control standards and
regulations.  Pollution prevention and control standards for marine vessels, consistent with the
International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL 73/78), will be developed
under this task. Jordan, now a signatory to MARPOL 73/78, is expected to ratify the Convention and
certain key Annexes to the Convention during 1996. To meet its obligations as a MARPOL Party, Jordan
may be expected to develop regulations for marine vessel management of oily waste (bilge and ballast
water and tank washings), noxious liquid substances, solid waste, and possibly sewage. A study will be
conducted to examine the nature of the Kingdom's obligations under MARPOL, with specific attention
to the introduction and implementation of ship record-keeping and reporting requirements, port inspection
functions, and port reception facility needs.
Activity A #2c: Training in implementation of Gulf of Aqaba environmental protection policies and
regulations. A carefully targeted training program will be developed to strengthen Jordanian and
regional capacity to address key Gulf of Aqaba environmental protection concerns. Within Jordan,
priority will be given to training staff that promote the full and effective implementation of industrial
pollution prevention standards and permitting procedures, CZM and EIA guidelines, and Marine Park
regulations developed under the project. Special region-wide training efforts will also be carried out,
focusing on skill-building and institutional strengthening in areas of shared policy concern. Training
initiatives may consist of one or more of the following:
*   Twinning arrangements to provide on-site instruction and supervision by an outside consultant
in particular areas (e.g., water discharge sampling and monitoring techniques, computer database
development, marine vessel inspection, marine park management);
*   Workshop training in particular areas (e.g. environmental auditing, management skills,
enforcement training); and
*   Site visits and/or apprenticeships in relevant agencies outside Jordan (e.g. park management
authorities, environmental protection agencies).



- 40 -
Training coordination efforts will make maximum use of expertise through grants, apprenticeship
opportunities, and workshop resources made available by bilateral donor agencies (e.g. USAID, CIDA,
GTZ), specialized international agencies (e.g. International Maritime Organization), and non-
governmental organizations (e.g. International Union for the Conservation of Nature).
Activity A #3: Implementation gtidance for CZM and EIA/permitting procedures. Building upon
the preparatory studies and draft CZM and EIA procedures and the proposed industrial pollution
prevention regulations developed with PPA funding, the ARA will develop and implement guidelines to
supplement the existing requirements of governmental bodies at the national, regional and local levels.
Provisions will be made for the full coordination of responsibilities assigned to the ARA with the existing
and anticipated functions of national authorities (e.g. Ministry of Planning, Ministry of Municipal, Rural
Affairs and Environment, Ministry of Industry and Trade, and the General Corporation for Environmental
Protection, to be established pursuant to Jordan's newly enacted general environmental law) and key local
entities (e.g., Municipality of Aqaba, the Ports Corporation). Key features of this implementation
guidance will be:
* Development and adoption of a statutory coastal zone management map, compatible with
CZM regulations developed with PPA funding. To make CZM regulations operable as applied to
individual development activities in the Aqaba coastal zone, boundaries of coastal sub-zones (marine
waters, beach, backshore, upland, etc.) must be established through an official CZM map.
Preparation of this map will rely largely on existing topographical and planning maps presently
available at the ARA.
* Action plan for implementing a permiit-based regulatory structure for Aqaba region
industries and coastal development projects. Drawing upon the draft pollution prevention
regulations for Aqaba region industries prepared with PPA funding, an action plan will be developed
for establishing a permit-based system of environmental regulation for industries and major
development projects in the Aqaba region. Pilot efforts will be targeted at enforcement of pollution
prevention regulations applicable to selected major industries in the Aqaba region. Consultations
between Jordan and neighboring Gulf of Aqaba-bordering states will be undertaken, toward the goal
of harmonizing pollution prevention regulations among the neighboring states. Regional counterpart
agencies will include the Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency, the Israeli Ministry of
Environment, and Saudi Arabia's Meteorological and Environmental Protection Agency (MEPA).
*  Project-specific EIA requirements and EIS review.  The EIA procedures for the ARA
developed with PPA funding will need to be supplemented by guidance as to the application of those
procedures to specific projects or categories of projects. This guidance will be undertaken in the
early stage of the GEF project, with priority given to identified high-impact activities. Outside
expertise may also be required to assist the ARA in reviewing environmental impact statements
prepared during the early phase of EIA implementation. Under this task, outside experts in the
natural sciences, engineering, economics, or other related disciplines may be hired on a project-
specific basis.



- 41 -
Activity A #4a: Marine Water Quality Monitoring. A program for monitoring the Gulf's waters will
be designed by the Environment Unit in collaboration with MSS and implemented by MSS. The
framework for a marine water quality monitoring program is presented in Annex 9 of the October 1993
green cover report: "Gulf of Aqaba Environmental Action Plan-Jordan". Its objectives are to assess the
current water quality, and to establish measures to maintain and improve water quality. The monitoring
program should include baseline monitoring of the water quality once a month at selected localities along
the coast (including bathing areas) and from the offshore oceanic waters, so as to assess the horizontal
and vertical distribution and movement of nutrients, inorganic components, algae, and oxygen, salinity,
etc. The program would include monitoring water, currents and circulation. This could involve the use
of tracer techniques to analyze the dispersion characteristics in the Gulf. Equipment purchases to
implement the monitoring program will be based at MSS. Equipment shall only be recommended where
a sustained demand for sampling/monitoring functions justifies the expenditure. The equipment is listed
in Attachment G. The monitoring program will be coordinated with other riparian countries monitoring
activities.
An outline of priority research activities, which will provide ARA with understanding of critical and
essential environmental and ecological processes, will be prepared. Design of the research program must
be guided by the need for solutions to existing and foreseen problems. Consequently, design and
subsequent review of the applied research program must be directed by specialists directly involved in
fornulation and implementation of program actions. Research topics are likely to include:
(a) assessment of the causes of atypical filamentous algal growth on the reefs and of unseasonal
algal blooms;
(b) investigations of dissolution of plant available phosphate from the raw phosphate dust;
(c) assessment of status and trends of the coral reefs diversity and abundance by updating the
Mahasneh 1984 Coral Reef Survey;
(d) monitoring of sedimentation levels associated with phosphate loading activities, and of heavy
metal and other toxic contamination of the coastal sea bed associated with the application and
use of antifouling agents; and
(e) applied research in coral reef ecological systems with emphasis on demonstrating and measuring
significant ecological responses to the principal anthropogenic influences.
Activity A #4b: Procurement specifications and bid evaluation assistance for computer/GIS database
implementation. Under this activity, an assessment will be conducted of the information technology
needs compatible with an effective pollution and environmental monitoring capability for the Aqaba
region. Information technology systems will be designed specifically to promote planning, monitoring
and enforcement actions to be implemented under the project. Specifications shall include the purchase
and installation of appropriate hardware and software and necessary staff training in information
technology applications directly applicable to the project. Competitive bids for information technology
software, hardware and training will be evaluated. In addition, professional qualifications and terms of
employment will be developed for database technicians, positions will be advertised, and candidates will
be screened. Mechanisms for facilitating data exchange and coordinated data management between Jordan
and other Gulf-bordering states will be identified as a priority feature of this activity.



- 42 -
COMPONENT B. MEASURES TO REDUCE THE RISK OF MAJOR OIL SPILLS AND
STEPS TO PROMOTE WASTE OIL RECOVERY AND REUSE
Activity B #1: Reduction of oil spill risks through tanker safety improvements and navigational aids.
Through the Upper Gulf of Aqaba Oil Spill Contingency Project (EU-Japan), significant steps have been
taken to prepare for small to moderate oil spill response through the establishment (ongoing) of oil spill
response centers in Nuweiba (Egypt), Eilat and Aqaba. The Contingency Project, targeting spills of up
to 600 metric tons of oil, leaves unaddressed the risk of a potentially catastrophic spill (up to 150,000
metric tons) resulting from a tanker collision or grounding in the Gulf. To address this hazard, a pre-
feasibility study of measures to enhance tanker safety will be conducted, examining the economic
feasibility and practical benefits of electronic navigational aids, pilotage requirements for tankers
operating in the Gulf, and tanker design specifications (e.g. double-hull design). Harmonization of
proposed measures among Gulf-bordering states will be explored as integral to this analysis.
Activity B #2: Demonstration project in waste oil recovery. Phase one of this activity will be the
preparation of an action plan for waste oil collection, recovery and reuse in the Upper Gulf of Aqaba
region. Building upon consultations with the International Maritime Organization initiated with PPA
funding, different technology options for collection, storage, transport and recycling of waste oil from
ships will be examined. Provisions for integrating waste oil from land transport vehicles into the
collection and reuse system will be introduced. The feasibility of building a coordinated (Jordan-Egypt-
Israel) waste oil recovery scheme will also be assessed. Fee-based measures of cost recovery will be
proposed, and sources of initial financing will be explored for a demonstration project in integrated waste
oil recovery and reuse. In phase two, procurement specifications will be prepared, bids will be invited,
and bid evaluations will be carried out for the demonstration project. In phase three, the demonstration
project will be implemented with partial grant support from the GEF project.
COMPONENT C. SAFEGUARDING TRANSBOUNDARY GROUNDWATER RESOURCES
THROUGH GROUNDWATER MONITORING AND IMPLEMENTATION OF WATER
RESOURCES MANAGEMENT POLICIES IN THE GULF OF AQABA REGION
Activity C #1: Assessment and mitigation of contamination of groundwater recharge and coastal
areas. Under this activity, contamination of groundwater recharge and coastal areas by sewage, waste
oil and other industrial wastes will be assessed through selective soil and well sampling, and through
inspected of surface and underground fuel storage tanks. In areas where waste oil or other industrial
wastes are found to pose a significant hazard to aquifers or the marine environment, mitigation and
remediation measures, including estimated costs, will be proposed. Pre-feasibility concepts for more
effective utilization of treated sewage water will be presented, reinforcing Jordan's "no-discharge" policy
regarding sewage influx into the Gulf of Aqaba. Technical and economic feasibility of sewage water
reuse will be examined with respect to both the existing treatment plant and the new facility planned for
Jordan's South Coast Tourism Zone.
COMPONENT D. DEVELOPMENT OF AN INTEGRATED MARINE AND LAND-BASED
TRANSBOUNDARY SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT STRATEGY
Activity D #1: Development of a solid waste collection, recycling and disposal plan for Jordan's
Aqaba region. A systematic plan for solid waste collection, recycling and disposal will be developed



- 43 -
under this component of the project. This study will entail the preparation of a solid waste collection,
recycling & disposal plan examining the financial feasibility and environmental impacts of such options
as separation of compostable organic waste and recycling of plastics, paper, and metal waste.
Mechanisms for safe handling, transport and disposal of medical waste will be presented in the study, and
measures to ensure the segregation of hazardous wastes from the solid waste stream will be examined.
Fee-based systems for cost recovery will be examined, and options for bidding out specific solid waste
management functions to private contractors will be explored.
Activity D #2: Action plan for regional management of ship-generated solid waste. In phase one of
this activity, an action plan to address ship-generated solid waste will be developed, and will include an
evaluation of current port reception facilities and recommendations for expanded facilities and collection
services, including fee-based systems for cost recovery. Options for bidding out specific functions to
private contractors will be explored. Measures shall be developed to educate ships' crews and passengers
against discarding solid waste overboard, and enforcement mechanisms shall be developed. Under phase
two, the ARA and the Ports Corporation will work with counterparts in other Gulf-bordering states to
develop and implement an effective management plan for ship-based solid waste.
COMPONENT E. PROTECTION OF GLOBALLY IMPORTANT CORAL REEFS -
DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION OF A MANAGED RESOURCE MARINE PARK
Activity E #1: Management plan (including regulations) for Gulf of Aqaba Marine Park. Under this
task, a multi-use Marine Park will be officially established in Jordan, drawing upon the guidance and
recommendations made with PPA funding. Authorizing legislation will be finalized, and a management
plan will be developed. This plan will include:
i  specific regulations governing different user activities (e.g. motorized and non-motorized
boating, diving, snorkeling, swimming, fishing, beach recreation);
3  detailed specification of boundary demarcations for different user zones within the Marine Park,
including design specifications and locational mapping for mooring and marker buoys, terrestrial
fencing, floating platforms, reef crossovers, and informational signs;
*  development of gift shop concession bidding documents;
*  preliminary design specifications for Marine Park visitor facilities and staff offices;
*  procurement specifications for major capital expenditures (e.g. furnishings and office equipment
for visitor center and staff offices, patrol boats, 4-wheel drive land patrol vehicles);
*  a detailed operating budget (itemizing projected office expenses, operation and maintenance of
land and marine patrol vehicles, and building and landscape maintenance) incorporating user fees
and other means of financing ongoing Marine Park operations; and
* development and implementation of a public information & awareness program. Under this
element, printed information brochures for different user categories (divers & snorkelers,
boaters, fishermen, sun bathers & swimmers) will be developed. Audio-visual presentations will
also be prepared, for use at the Marine Park visitor center, in Aqaba area hotels, and in public
school and adult educational settings.



- 44 -
Table Dl - Cost Estimates for Implementation Activities
Activity Number                       Descriptions                       Cost Estimates
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (U S $ )
A #1              Development of collaborative mechanisms for                     50,000
transboundary cooperation
A #2a             Implementation plan for industrial pollution monitoring         25,000
A #2b             Development of marine vessel pollution prevention and           25,000
control standards and regulations
A #2c             Training in implementation of environmental protection          25,000
policies and regulations
A #3              Implementation guidance for CZM and EIA/permitting              70,000
procedures
A #4a             Marine water quality monitoring program design                  90,000
A #4b             Procurement specifications for computer/GIS database            23,000
B #1              Reduction of catastrophic oil spill risks pre-feasibility       35,000
study
B #2              Demonstration project in waste oil recovery                     30,000
C #1              Assessment and mitigation of shallow groundwater               100,000
contaminations
D #1              Development of regional solid waste plan                        90,000
D #2              Action plan for ship-generated waste                            40,000
E #1              Management plan for marine park                                 40,000
TOTAL                                                                            643,000



- 45 -
ATTACHMENT E
GULF OF AQABA ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE STAFF
Terms of Reference
I. Project Manaeement Team
The Project Management Team will consist of a full-time Project Manager (technical assistance), for
the three-year duration of the Project, and a Project Procurement/Disbursement Specialist on a part-time
consultant basis. Both consultants will be financed by the GEF funds.
1. Project Manager (Consultant). The Project Manager shall have the following duties:
*  development and implementation of a management plan for all project components;
*  management of implementation activities (see Attachment D) to ensure full and timely
achievement of stated tasks in accordance with defined objectives;
*  provision of specialized environmental guidance to the Environment Unit Director;
*  preparation of progress reports on Project implementation activities, in accordance with World
Bank/GEF requirements;
*  refinement of job profiles, and participation in the screening and selection of personnel to be
hired under the project, pursuant to procedures set forth for project oversight;
-  collaboration with the Project Procurement/Disbursement Specialist in overseeing project
financing and procurement activities;
*  facilitation of GOJ contacts and communication with counterparts in Egypt and Israel;
*  planning for and oversight of training efforts targeted at providing GOJ officials, scientists and
technicians with the skills and knowledge needed to perform their assigned duties under the
project; and
*  collaboration with ARA Secretary General and Ministry of Planning in ensuring effective project
coordination with related activities.



- 46 -
Necessary professional qualifications and skills of the Project Manager shall include:
*   Master or PhD in management, environmental planning, and marine biology, or other relevant
professional skills;
*   strong executive and managerial skills, as demonstrated by 10 years' prior work experience in
project management in the public or private sector;
*   strong professional experience in managing international environmental protection and/or
environmental development projects;
*   ability to work effectively with management-level personnel and technical staff at national,
regional and local government agencies and regulated enterprises in Jordan, and at counterpart
agencies in Egypt and Israel; and
*   English-language fluency required, including strong demonstrated oral presentation, writing and
report preparation skills. Arabic proficiency desired.
2. Project Procurement/Disbursement Specialist. The Project Procurement/Disbursement Specialist
shall be hired as a part-time consultant to the Project, and shall have the following duties:
-   qualification of consultants, suppliers and contractors, preparation of short list for bidding,
review and evaluation of bidding documents for adherence to procurement procedures;
i   ensuring timely disbursement of project funds for consultants, equipment purchases, and other
project-related expenditures in accordance with procurement and disbursement guidelines;
i   ensuring timely preparation of financial accounting reports and replenishment applications to
World Bank/GEF; and
*  training of ARA Finance Department personnel in the management of project funds, including
procurement procedures, payment of consultants, and World Bank/GEF financial accounting and
reporting requirements.
Necessary professional qualifications and skills of the Project Procurement/Disbursement Specialist shall
include:
*   Certified Public Accountant or equivalent degree in administration, accounting and procurement
skills;
*   a minimum of 5 years' work experience in procurement and accounting, using international and
local procedures; and
*   fluency in written and spoken Arabic and proficiency in written and spoken English.



- 47 -
II. Proiect Technical Specialists
The Project Implementation Team shall be composed of two categories of personnel: (i) consultants
to be financed by the GEF funds and seconded to positions at relevant GOJ entities; and (ii) personnel
to be financed directly by the GOJ. It is expected that a core environmental management team will be
maintained by the Government of Jordan following project completion.
The following positions are to be filled by full-time project consultants, to be funded by the GEF
funds over a three-year period:
1. Industrial Pollution Prevention Specialist (ARA  Environment Unit).  Within the ARA
Environment Unit, a consultant will be hired to implement pollution prevention guidelines and standards
for land-based industries in the Aqaba region prepared with PPA funding. The Industrial Pollution
Prevention Specialist shall have the following duties:
*   supervision of task-specific implementation activities pertaining to industrial pollution prevention
(see Attachment D);
*   negotiation of environmental permits for Aqaba region industries;
e   conducting periodic (announced and unannounced) inspections of industrial and port facilities;
3   on-site sampling of industrial wastewater discharges (assisted, as necessary, by the ARA
Environmental Monitoring Technician);
e  review of air emissions and wastewater discharge monitoring data prepared or commissioned by
facility operators;
*   inspection of solid and hazardous waste management practices;
3 review of industrial emergency preparedness plans;
*   preparing inspection reports, including identification of regulatory violations and recommended
remediatory measures;
*   entering inspection report findings and recommendations into the ARA computer database;
*   overseeing the preparation of industrial environmental audits consistent with the auditing
procedures prepared with PPA funding; and
*   assisting the ARA Environment Unit Director in consulting with counterpart officials in Egypt
and Israel, to promote harmonization and cooperation in addressing industrial pollution problems
affecting the Gulf of Aqaba.
Necessary professional qualifications and skills of the Industrial Pollution Prevention Specialist shall
include:
*  university training in chemical engineering, environmental auditing, or industrial management;



- 48 -
*  a minimum of 3-5 years' experience in mechanical engineering and/or industrial engineering;
*  demonstrated skills and prior professional experience in field sampling techniques and laboratory
analysis procedures for air and water quality monitoring;
*  ability to work effectively with management-level personnel and technical staff at regulated
industries;
*  demonstrated aptitude, or willingness to be trained, in computer database management; and
*  Arabic and English-language proficiency.
2. Environmental Monitoring Technician (ARA Environment Unit). An Environmental Monitoring
Technician shall be hired to assist the ARA Environment Unit's Industrial Pollution Prevention Specialist
in monitoring industrial wastewater discharges and in analyzing the impacts of different substances (either
from wastewater discharges or cross-media air pollution) on marine water quality. The Technician shall
perform the following functions:
  sampling of marine water quality and industrial wastewater discharges, as directed by the ARA
Industrial Pollution Prevention Specialist;
*  ambient air quality monitoring and industrial air emissions sampling, where feasible and as
directed by the ARA Industrial Pollution Prevention Specialist; and
*  laboratory analysis, preparation of laboratory reports, and database entry of analysis results,
where feasible.
Necessary professional qualifications and skills of the Environmental Monitoring Technician shall include:
e  technical training in areas directly relevant to the Technician's specified duties;
e  demonstrated skills and a minimum of 3 years' prior work experience in environmental sampling
techniques and laboratory analysis procedures;
*  demonstrated aptitude, or willingness to be trained, in computer database/GIS management; and
*  Arabic and English-language proficiency.
3. Coastal Zone Management & EIA Specialist (ARA Environment Unit). Within the ARA
Environment Unit, a consultant shall be hired to implement coastal zone management (CZM) and
environmental impact assessment (EIA) guidelines applicable to coastal region development. With respect
to CZM, this consultant shall perform the following functions:
* participation in the finalization of CZM guidelines, including CZM statutory map;
*  assisting the ARA Environment Unit Director in establishing an inter-agency CZM advisory
committee, responsible for reviewing all proposed development projects in the Aqaba coastal
zone to ensure their compliance with the ARA's CZM regulations;



- 49 -
*  serving as a technical resource to the CZM advisory comnittee in its review of proposed
development projects;
* communication with developers (including state agencies and enterprises, company executives,
architects, engineers, landscape planners) through all stages of project review, to ensure that
ARA CZM regulations and any directives of the CZM advisory committee are complied with;
and
* consultation with counterpart planning agencies in Egypt and Israel, in order to promote
harmonization of CZM guidelines for development projects throughout the Gulf of Aqaba coastal
zone.
With respect to EIA, the consultant shall perform the following functions:
*  supervise implementation activities related to project-specific EIA guidelines for development
projects in the Aqaba region (Attachment D);
*  communication with developers (including state agencies and enterprises, company executives,
architects, engineers, landscape planners) through all stages of EIA preparation and review, to
ensure that ARA EIA regulations and any project-specific requirements developed for particular
projects are complied with;
*  assisting developers in identifying qualified experts to undertake EIA-related studies or
assignments;
*  assisting the ARA Environment Unit Director in providing input and guidance to developers
during the scoping stage and subsequent EIS review stage for all development projects that are
subject to EIA; and
X  assisting the ARA Environment Unit Director in consultations with counterpart planning agencies
in Egypt and Israel, in order to promote harmonization of EIA procedures and cooperation in
EIA preparation and review of all development projects with potentially significant
transboundary environmental impacts in the Aqaba region.
Necessary professional qualifications and skills of the CZM/EIA Specialist shall include:
*  university training in environmental management, natural sciences, economics, engineering,
architecture, urban and regional planning, or other pertinent field(s);
*  a minimum of 3-5 years' work experience in management, planning, design or another
professional occupation with application to CZM and EIA implementation;
*  ability to work effectively with business leaders as well as professionals in the engineering,
planning and design professions; and
*  Arabic and English-language proficiency.



- 50 -
4. ARA Environment Unit Computer & GIS Programmer. The ARA Environment Unit Computer
& GIS Programmer shall perform the following functions:
*  full operation of GIS system, including data entry and retrieval;
*  management of all computer data functions of the ARA Environment Unit, including entry and
retrieval of data on environmental audit findings, industrial wastewater discharges, marine water
quality, air emissions, and ambient air quality in the Aqaba coastal zone; and
*  training of ARA, Ports Corporation and Marine Science Station personnel in computer database
skills pertaining to their particular job functions.
Necessary professional qualifications and skills of the Computer & GIS Programmer shall include:
*  university training in computer programming, database management, or related skills;
*  a minimum of 3-5 years' work experience in computer programming or database management;
*  ability to work effectively with ARA Environment Unit administrative and technical personnel;
*  demonstrated ability to teach technical applications related to computer programming and
database management; and
*  Arabic and English-language proficiency.
5. Marine Park Manager. A core management team for the Marine Park will be established. Heading
this team will be the Marine Park Manager, who shall have the following duties:
*  overall management of the protected area and of Marine Park team including facilitation of local
consultation for the development and implementation of the management plan;
=  implementation of Marine Park regulations and preparation of supplemental, user-specific
regulations pertaining to diving activities, fishing, boating, etc.;
*  oversight of construction and maintenance of Marine Park visitor and staff facilities, and of
purchase and maintenance of marine and land patrol equipment;
*  supervision of Marine Park wardens and other Marine Park staff, including organization of
training for Marine Park staff;
*  direction of Marine Park visitor information and public awareness activities;
*  representation of the Marine Park at official meetings, including consultations with regional
counterparts in Egypt and Israel; and
*  management of Marine Park budget and finances.



- 51 -
Necessary professional qualifications and skills of the Marine Park Manager shall include:
*   Master or Ph.D in protected area management, marine biology, marine ecology, or other field
directly relevant to marine protected area management;
*   prior full-time employment in park management, or a related area;
*   demonstrated ability or aptitude for financial and administrative management;
*   ability to work effectively with top management in the private and public sectors, as well as with
technical personnel within the MSS, the ARA, the Ports Corporation, and other relevant
agencies;
*   ability and commitment to maintaining a strong "field" presence, including Marine Park
patrolling and enforcement actions and commnunication with Marine Park users (e.g. hotel
managers, recreational boaters, dive shop operators, tourists), ARA Environment Unit
administrative and technical personnel;
*   certification as a life guard and certified training in emergency medical assistance; and
*   Arabic and English-language proficiency.
6. Marine Park Wardens (2 positions). Two Marine Park Wardens will be hired as assistants to the
Marine Park Manager, and shall have the following duties:
*   visitor orientation at Marine Park facilities;
*   terrestrial and marine patrolling of Marine Park, including active enforcement of Marine Park
regulations;
X   regular communication with identified user constituencies (dive center operators, snorkelers and
swimmers, boaters, fishermen);
*   public education through lectures, brochures, and radio/TV announcements; and
*   park maintenance oversight.
Necessary professional qualifications and skills of Marine Park Wardens shall include:
*   training in marine biology, marine ecology, or other field directly relevant to marine protected
area management;
*   strong interpersonal communication skills;
*   ability and commitment to maintaining a strong "field" presence through direct contact and
communication with Marine Park users (e.g. hotel managers, recreational boaters, dive shop
operators, tourists);



- 52 -
*   certification as a life guard and certified training in emergency medical assistance; and
*   Arabic and English-language proficiency.
III. Staff Positions to be Financed by the Government of Jordan
It is expected that the Government of Jordan (ARA, Ports Corporation) will provide full funding and
overhead for the following positions, as counterparts to project implementation team members hired under
11, above.
1. ARA Environment Unit Director. Within the ARA Environment Unit, a new position will be
established for a Unit Director, who shall have the following duties:
*   development and implementation of a management plan for all project components;
*   oversight of all activities assigned to the ARA Environment Unit (e.g. industrial pollution
prevention and industrial environmental auditing; emergency oil and chemical accident
preparedness and response; waste oil collection, recycling and reuse; implementation of coastal
zone management guidelines and EIA procedures; solid waste management; and marine protected
area management);
*   periodic reportage on the ARA Environment Unit's areas of responsibility to the ARA President,
Secretary General and Board of Governors; and
*  development and oversight of joint projects with regional counterparts (Egypt and Israel) on such
matters as:
  harmonization of environmental protection policies and pollution prevention standards;
*  establishment of cooperative environmental monitoring networks, including computer data-
sharing and computer linkages;
*  joint research projects on marine and terrestrial ecology;
*  coordinated regional management of solid waste, waste oil, marine protected areas, and
emergency preparedness; and
*  joint training workshops on priority policy or technical subjects (e.g. environmental impact
assessment, industrial pollution monitoring, marine vessel pollution prevention; fisheries
management).
Necessary professional qualifications and skills of the ARA Environment Unit Director shall include:
*   Master or Ph.D in environmental or natural sciences management;
*   prior managerial experience (public or private sector);



- 53 -
*   ability to work effectively with management-level personnel and technical staff at national,
regional and local government agencies and regulated enterprises in Jordan, and at counterpart
agencies in Egypt and Israel; and
*   Arabic and English-language proficiency (written and spoken).
2. ARA Envirorunent Unit Marine Chemnist and Civil Engineer. The Marine Chemist and Civil
Engineer currently assigned to the ARA Environment Unit will be made available to the Project by the
GOJ, with job descriptions to be developed by the ARA Environment Unit Director.
3. Marine Vessel Pollution Prevention Specialist (Ports Corporation Marine Inspectorate). Within
the Ports Corporation's Marine Inspectorate, a qualified official will be trained to serve as a Marine
Vessel Pollution Prevention Specialist, with the following duties:
*   conducting regular (announced and unannounced) inspections of marine vessels operating in
Jordanian waters or harbored at Jordanian port facilities;
*   taking samples of marine vessel discharges, bilge and ballast water, and potentially harmful
liquid, packaged or containerized substances to detect or prevent violations of marine vessel
pollution control and pollution prevention regulations;
* preparing inspection reports, including identification of regulatory violations and recommended
remediatory or enforcement measures;
*   entering inspection report findings and recommendations into a Ports Corporation computer
database;
*   preparing periodic reports on marine vessel performance, based on inspection reports and any
enforcement actions taken, for submission to the ARA Environment Unit Director;
*   consulting with MARPOL implementation officers at the International Maritime Organization
(which serves as the MARPOL secretariat), to promote full Jordanian compliance with its
obligations under the treaty; and
*   consulting with counterpart officials in Egypt and Israel, to promote harmonization and
cooperation in addressing marine vessel-based pollution problems affecting the Gulf of Aqaba.
Necessary professional qualifications and skills of the Marine Vessel Pollution Prevention Specialist shall
include:
*   university training in naval engineering, chemical engineering, or marine biology; or prior work
experience as an engineer on board a cargo or naval vessel;
*   willingness to maintain an active "field" presence in fulfilling the duties outlined above;
*   ability to work effectively with ship owners, operators and crew;
*  demonstrated aptitude, or willingness to be trained, in computer database management; and



- 54 -
* Arabic and English-language proficiency.
Additional relevant skills include prior work experience as captain or crew member on a cargo or naval
vessel; prior work experience in a management position at the Ports Corporation; or managerial
experience in a government agency or the industrial sector.
4. Two bilingual secretaries (ARA Enviromnent Unit). Two full-time bilingual secretaries shall be
financed by the GOJ, one to be assigned to the Environment Unit Director, the other to be assigned to
the Environment Unit's Marine Park division. They shall have the following professional skills and
qualifications:
*  a high level of proficiency in computer word-processing skills, in both Arabic and English;
*  proficiency in the generation of computer graphics for inclusion in technical reports; and
*  strong oral communication skills in both Arabic and English.
5. Marine Park Rangers (2 positions). After-hours protection of Marine Park facilities will be
provided by two guards, to be financed by the GOJ.
6. Two drivers (ARA Environment Unit). Two full-time drivers shall be financed by the GOJ for
assignment to the ARA Environment Unit.



- 55 -
Table El: Costs for Consultant Staff
Position                   Funding       Duration        Cost ($)
ARA Env. Unit Industrial Pollution           GEF           3 years         36,000
Prevention Specialist
ARA Env. Dept CZM\EIA Specialist             GEF           3 years         36,000
ARA Env. Unit                                 GEF          3 years         36,000
Computer\GIS Specialist
ARA Env. Unit Marine Park Manager             GEF          3 Years         54,000
ARA Env. Unit Env. Monitoring Technician      GEF          3 years        22,000
ARA Env. Unit Marine Park Wardens (2)         GEF         2 x 3 years     44,000
Project Manager                               GEF          3 years        300,000
Project Procurement/Disbursement Specialist   GEF         52 weeks        40,000
(part-time status)
Consultant Services                           GEF          3 years        150,000
718,000
Total:



- 56 -
Table E2: Costs Financed by The Government of Jordan
Description                      Funding          Duration    Costs ($)
Environment Unit                          Government of Jordan   1 x 3 years   72,000
Director
Environment Unit                          Government of Jordan   5 x 3 years    108,000
Technical and Administrative Staff (5)
Marine Chemist, Civil Engineer, Computer
Engineer, Accountants (2))
Environment Unit and Marine Park Bilingual  Government of Jordan   2 x 3 years  31,000
Secretaries (2)
Marine Park Rangers (2)                   Government of Jordan   2 x 3 years   31,000
Environment Unit Drivers (3)             Government of Jordan   3 x 3 years    47,000
Port Corporation                         Government of Jordan   I x 3 years    25,000
Marine Vessel Pollution Prevention Specialist
Environmental Studies                    Government of Jordan      3 years    107,000
Marine Park Infrastructure               Government of Jordan       1 year    142,000
Vehicle (1)                              Government of Jordan       1 year     50,000
Operation and Maintenance for 3 Vehicles  Government of Jordan   3 x 3 years   75,000
Office Services and Office Equipment     Government of Jordan      3 years     82,000
Office Space                             Government of Jordan      3 years     30,000
Total:                                                       _                800,000



- 57 -
ATTACHMENT F
JORDAN
GULF OF AQABA ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN
IMPLEMENTATION: KEY ACTIVITIES SCHEDULE



JORDAN: Gulf of Aqaba Environmental Action Plan
ID   Task Name                   Duration      Start         Finish                          1        2                        1                3    otr 4 iQtr 1 |Qr 2
1    A. INSTITUTIONAL                783d         7/1196       6130199                  _
2    Project Staff                   783d         7/1/96       6/30/99
3        Industral Pollution Spec.   783d         7/1/96       6/30/99
4        CZM\EIA Specialist          783d         7/1/96       6/30/99
5        Compuler\GIS Specialist     783d         7/1196!      6/30/99 _                              i                                                _
6   I    MP Manager                  783d         7/1/96       6/30/99
(  7     MP Wardens (2)              783d         7,1/96       6/30/99
8        Project Manager       i     783d         7/1/96j      6/30/99
9        Procure/Disburse Spec       783d         7/1/96       6/30/99
10       Consultant Services          783d         7/1/96'      6/30/99
11   Governrment Staff               783d          7/1196       6/30/99
12       Env. Unit Director          783d          7/1/96       6/30/99
13       Marine Chemist              783d          7/1/96       6/30/99
14       Civil Engineer               783d         7/1/96       6/30/99
15       Computer Engineer     '     783d          711196       6/30/99
s6       Accountants (2)              783d         7/1/96       6/30/99 
17       Secretaries (2)             783d          7,1/96       6/30/99
13       MP Rangeis (2)              /83d          7l1/96       6/30/99
19       Drivers (3)                  783d         7/1/96       6/30/99
20   Institutional Activities         717d /      10/1196       6130199
21       A#1:                         717d        10/1/96       6/30/99         _     _     _     _     _il i,                                      _     _,,
22       A #2a:                        89d        10/1/96       1/31/97
23       A #2b:                        89d        101196        1/31/97
24       A#2c:                 |_368d |           "31"971       613.0198_i
25        A #3:                       368d        1/3197        630198
3113/96



2                                                                      JORDAN Gulf of Aqaba Environmental Action Plan
ID   Task Namne                  Duration      Start        Finish     OQtr 3    Ott 4    G Q  I    Otr 2    O Qtr 3  |Qr 4           rtt  | Qtr 2    Qtr 3      Qtr 4    Otr 1  tr 2
26       A #4a.                      565d         5/1/97       6/30/99
27       A #4b:                       89d         10/1/96      1/31/97
28   Institutional Goods             6S9d         7/1/96       10/1198
29       Ofrice Equipment            240d         7/1/96       5/30/97
30       Vehicles                    240d         12/2/96     10/31/97              _        _
31       GIS System                  415d        2/28/97        10/1/98                      _
32       Laboratory Equipment        261 d        9/2/96        9/1/97      _        _                                                                                       |
33    ._ 
34
35   B. OIL POLLUTION                607d         7/1196       10/27193 8)                                                                                                   |
36   Oil Pollution Activites         492d         711196         5/5/99
37        B #1                                                                             _ 327d  213/97  .  __ __ |
38        B #2:                       349d         7/1/96      10/30/97
39   Waste Oil Recovery              237d         12/1/97      10/27/98
40        Pilot Equipment             237d        12/1/97      10127/98
41
42
43   C. GROUNDWATER                   622d         6/1/97       4/30/99
44   Groundwater Activities           622d         5/1/97       4/30/99
45        C #1:                       522d         5/1/97       4/30/99
46
47
48   D.SOUD WASTE                    4USd          7/1/97        4/1/99
49   Solid Waste Activities          301d          7/1197        9/11/9311.
60        D #1:                       154d         7/1/97       1/30/98
3/13/96



3                                                                     JORDAN: Gulf of Aqaba Environmental Action Plan
ID   Task Nae                    Duration     Start         Finish      Qtr 3    Qtr 4    Qtr 1   Qtr 2      Qtr 3    Qtr 4    Otr 1    Qtr 2  f Qtr 3    Otr 4    Qtr1     Qtr 2
51       D #2:                       262d         9/1/97        9/1/98 
52   Solid Waste Goods               2S4d         3/2/93        4/1M99
63    PIlot Equipment                284d         312/98        4/1/99                                                       _
64
66
56   E.MARINE PARK                   736d         9/2/96       6/30/99    _
57   Marine Park Activilies          195d         9/2/96       5/30197    VI
Se       E. _                        195d         9/2/96       5/30/97
69
60   MP Works\Goods                  673d        12/2/96       6130/99
61       MP Building                 348d         1/1/97        5/1/98 
62       MP Infraslructure           348d         1/1/97        5/1/98          Ig
63       MP Ofrice Equipment         130d        11/3/97        5/1/98                                                    -
64       MP Mobile Equipment         152d        12/2/96        7/1/97
65       MP O&M Costs                522d         7/1/97       6/30/99
3/13/96



- 61 -
ATTACHMENT G
GULF OF AQABA ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN
EQUIPMENT AND PHYSICAL WORKS
COMPONENT A. DEVELOPMENT OF A REGULATORY AND INSTITUTIONAL
FRAMEWORK FOR GULF OF AQABA ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
COMPONENT A(i): Office Equipment and Vehicles for ARA Unit
Description                           Unit      Price      Cost
l______               (US$)
Basic computer system based on:
IBM compatible 486/mhz, 8MB Ram                      4         1,500     6,000
3.5" floppy disk drive, 850MB capacity
Super VGA Graphics Card
Keyboard & mouse
Operating system: DOS 6.22/Windows 3. 11 or
Windows 95
CD-ROM computer system:
IBM compatible mhz Pentium CPU, 8MB Ram               1        2,500     2,500
3.5" floppy disk drive, 850MB capacity CD ROM
drive
Super VGA Graphics Card
Keyboard & mouse
Operating system: DOS 6.22/Windows 3.11
or Windows 95
Monitors: Color SVGA                                            4          300      1,200
Printer:   Black and white laser printer, 4 MB RAM              1         2,000
. _____                2,000
Software:
Microsoft office packages with Arabic and English        5          400      2,000
Fax Machine:                                                    1          300        300
Vehicles:
Four-wheel drive pick-up trucks                          2       40,000    80,000
TOTAL:                                                                             94,000



- 62 -
COMPONENT A(iv): Transboundary Environmental Management
Geographic Infonnation System (GIS) / Data Management System                       (US$)
Basic computer system based on high performance SCSI Data Bus:
IBM compatible 133Mhz Pentium CPU, PCI mainboard, 32MB Ram
3.5" floppy disk drive, 2Gbyte capacity wide-SCSI hard disk, SCSI-CD-Rom drive
4 serial & 2 parallel ports
2MB Ram Super VGA Graphics Card, 1280x1024 pixels res., 72hz refresh rate
Keyboard & 3 button Logitech mouse
Operating system: DOS 6.22/Windows 3.11 or Windows 95                        7,000
Backup system (SCSI 1Gbyte changeable hard disk system, inc. 10 cartridges)         3,700
Monitor (20", 1280x1024 pixels at 72hz refresh rate)                                3,500
Plotter & Printer
Color inkjet plotter, 600dpi, single sheet, inc. standard printing software  7,500
Black & white laser printer with 4MB Ram                                     1,600
Plotter software (to print ENVI Vector information on color plotter)         1,000
GPS data logger                                                                     2,900
Graphical data presentation software                                                 800
Scanner (1200dpi inc. scan software)                                                2,000
Digitizer                                                                           3,500
Interface Software to use digitizer under ENVI                                      1,000
Power Supply (uninterruptible power supply, 1200W, 20min. battery power supply)     1,200
GIS Software
ENVI 2.0 GIS Software for image processing, image overlay & vector overlay
running on Windows 3.1 and Windows 95                                        8,000
Satellite Images (Jordan coastline)
7 band Landsat Thematic Mapper, 30x30m resolution,
Full scene 173xl83km                                                  5,500
Quarter scene 95x88km                                                 3,900
1 ban Spot Pan panchromatic, lOxIOm resolution, 6Ox6Okm                     4,100
Export handling & shipping of complete system                                       1,800
Installation & Initial Training (2 weeks)
Installation of GIS computer system in Jordan
Basic training for local staff on hardware & operating system
Consulting services inc. fees, accommodation, transport & expenses           8,000



- 63 -
Supplemental GIS training and/or training with ENVI specialist                    8,000
Replacement parts & service (3 years at $5,000.00 per year)                   15,000.00
TOTAL                                                                            90,000
COMPONENT A(iv): Transboundary Environmental Management
Marine Water Quality Monitoring Equiipment to be based at MSS
Nutrient Monitoring (phosphates, nitrogen, ammonia)
Analytical balance (digital, 6 decimals)                                   3,000
Multi-purpose pH meter                                                     1,000
Portable dissolved oxygen meter for sea water                              1,000
Water samplers, Nishken type with thermometer                              1,000
Auto-analyzer for nutrients, phenol, cyanide, etc.
and all accessories                                                  3,000
COD analyzer                                                              10,000
Bathing Water Quality Monitoring (pathogenic coliforms)
Bacterial colony counters (2)                                              2,000
BOD incubator                                                              5,000
Hood (sterilized) for bacteriological analyses                             8,000
Autoclave                                                                  2,000
Bacteriological water sampler                                              2,000
Centrifuge                                                                 3,000
Phosphate Dust and Sediment Monitoring
Marine compass and global positioning system instrument                    2,000
Echo sounder and/or depth indicator                                        2,000
Turbidity meter in-situ with probe                                         3,000
Submarine photometer                                                       1,000
STD with salinity range of 0-70%, and related probes                      15,000
Tide gauge                                                                 1,000
Outboard motors (2 x 65 HP)                                               35,000
Set of light measuring equipment                                           8,000
Conductivity meter                                                         2,000
Petroleum Hydrocarbon Monitoring
Still and video monitoring equipment                                       3,000
Cellular telephone                                                         1,000
Fluorimeter, digital with all accessories                                  5,000
Gas chromatograph, with all accessories and spares                        40,000



- 64 -
Thermal and Coral Reef Monitoring
Biological field sampling equipment                                           3,000
Computer hardware, software, and printer                                      3,000
Underwater still camera                                                       3,000
Underwater video camera                                                       2,000
TOTAL                                                                              200,000
COMPONENT B: OIL POLLUTION HAZARDS
Demonstration Project in Waste Oil Recovery
Collection equipment (pumps, barrels, reservoirs, adsorbent materials, piping etc.)  15,000
Transfer / temporary storage facilities (above ground reservoirs, pumps, meters, etc)  20,000
TOTAL                                                                               25,000
COMPONENT D: TRANSBOUNDARY SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Action Plan for Ship-Generated Waste
Bins for ships and at port\terminal facilities                                      10,000
Transfer and temporary storage facilities                                           15,000
Audio-visual equipment and publicity materials                                       5,000
TOTAL                                                                               30,000
COMPONENT E: IMPLEMENTATION OF MARINE PARK
Building for Marine Park Headquarters and Visitor Information Center
Marine Park headquarters & visitor information center ( includes exhibition room, small
auditorium for slide show orientation and lecture programs, gift shop, store room, cafeteria,
and toilet\shower facilities) 350 square meters @ $750 per square meter    262,500
Dive equipment cleaning & storage facilities                                  5,000
Professional fees (architecture/engineering)                                 22,500
sub-total                                                                   290,000
Infrastructure for Marine Park
Infrastructure hookups (water, sewage, electricity, phone)                   30,000
Landscaping, parking areas, walkways
Security fencing                                                             15,000
Shore markers                                                                 2,000
Signage
Reef crossover walkways                                                     45,000
sub-total                                                                   146,500



- 65 -
Equipment for Marine Park
Office and audio-visual equipment:
Office equipment (copying machine, computer, fax)                         15,000
Slide projectors (2) & screen                                                700
Video camera, VCR, TV monitor                                              3,500
Furniture (office, auditorium, cafeteria, gift shop)                      75,000
sub-total                                                                 94,500
Mobile equipment:
24-foot hard boat with outboard motors (2 x 65 HP)                        35,000
One spare 65 HP motor                                                      7,000
One 14-foot semi-rigid inflatable boat with motor (40 HP)                 14,000
Two boat trailers                                                          4,000
Safety and rescue equipment                                                2,500
Marine VHF radio (base & two hand-held)                                    1,500
Diving gear (4 sets, 8 tanks)                                              5,000
sub-total                                                                 69,000
TOTAL (capital expenditures for Marine Park facilities and equipment):          600,000
Operation and maintenance costs for Marine Park, Years I and 2
Building operation & maintenance, inc.. electricity ($10,000/yr x 2)      20,000
Landscape maintenance, inc. water ($10,000/yr x 2)                        20,000
Boat maintenance and moorings, marker buoys, fencing ($5,000/yr x 2)      10,000
TOTAL (Marine Park operation and maintenance costs, years 1&2):                  50,000



- 66 -
ATTACHMENT H
GULF OF AQABA ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT OF THE MARINE PARK COMPONENT
Although the biodiversity value of the Marine Park is high, its geographical area is small. It
is likely to cover an area (terrestrial and marine) of approximately 100 m of beach front along a 6 km
stretch and will extend approximately 200 m into the water. Therefore, social impacts are minimal
and will be fully addressed through the preparation of the management plan.
Consultation. Extensive and broad-based public participation consultations on the Marine
Park component of the proposed project were held with representatives of national and local
Government, the ARA, academic and research institutions, private sector interests and NGOs. The
participation process was facilitated through a series of consultative meetings conducted in Ammnan
and Aqaba both in Arabic and English. At the regional level, similar meetings were held in Egypt
and Israel. Ongoing dialogue with potential private sector investors in the tourism industry is
currently being enhanced through the sharing of experience gained from Egypt. International
consultations were jointly held with the Governments of Jordan, Egypt, and Israel, IUCN, NOAA and
USAID. The non-government stakeholders consulted during the preparation of the Marine Park
component include the Royal Society for the Conservation of Nature, the Jordan Environment
Society, the Aqaba Fishermen's Cooperative (AFC), MSS, diving clubs, ferry operators, glass boat
operators, and hotels. Government stakeholders include ARA, the Ports Corporation, the Aqaba
Municipality, the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Planning and the Ministry of Municipal, Rural
Affairs and the Environment, and the Royal Jordanian Navy.
At the local level, the future Marine Park is not inhabited and the setting of its boundaries
will not involve any resettlement. Local perspectives, goals, aspirations, and priorities were discussed
with communities in the area surrounding the proposed park. All stakeholders share the common goal
of conserving the coral reefs. There were no concerns about adverse impact on the local community
who will retain access to the recreational use of the beach and its reef.
Fishermen. There are no resident fishermen inside the envisaged boundaries of the future
Marine Park. However, approximately 50 small boats illegally fish on an occasional basis within the
boundaries of the future park. These fishermen have other income sources besides illegal intrusion of
coral reefs into the Park. A number of members of the fishing community have converted to non-
fishing activities and are deriving income from the non-consumptive use of coral reef resources via
tourism. For example, some fishermen have converted their boats to glass bottom boats. The
management plan will explore with the fishermen alternatives to illegal fishing and a small fund will
be established for assisting them, if necessary during the transition. This aspect will be closely
monitored during project implementation and discussed in the mid-term review.
Preparation of the Management Plan. The management plan will be prepared by the
Environment Unit through a participatory process. Stakeholder involvement will continue throughout



- 67 -
project implementation. All stakeholders would be represented on the Park's board or similar
structure to be established including representatives from the Aqaba Fishermen's Cooperative. The
management plan will provide a framework for local participation. Meetings with all stakeholders
will be held at each stage of the planning process. The discussion meetings will enable the project
team to receive information and to discuss ideas and issues. In addition, components of the plan will
also be implemented by stakeholders such as RSCN, MSS, the Fishermen's Cooperative and the
diving clubs.



- 68 -
ATTACHMENT I
GULF OF AQABA ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN
PRELIMINARY ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
FOR THE MARINE PARK COMPONENT
Background. The Marine Park is located along the southern portion of the Jordanian coastline,
in an area that is mainly undeveloped. It extends from near the Marine Science Station southward to the
Royal Diving Center, as illustrated on the map entitled Red Sea Marine Peace Park Plan (IBRD 27865).
Once designated, the Marine Park will extend outward into the sea until the 70 m isobath (underwater
topographical contour), and approximately 100 m landward from the mean high water mark.
Marine Park Zoning based on Environmental Baseline Conditions. Current knowledge on the
environmental baseline conditions for the area has been taken into consideration in developing the
proposed activity zones for the Marine Park, which are illustrated on the above referenced map. The most
sensitive fringing reef coral areas have been designated as no entry zones, with adjacent swimming and
diving zones. Another valuable coral reef area has been zoned exclusively for scientific research and is
located adjacent to the Marine Science Station at the northern end of the Marine Park. Multi-use areas
are to be located in the Marine Park in areas that do not have living coral reef, and are characterized by
sand and seagrass. A comprehensive Marine Park management plan and formal Marine Park regulations
will be drafted to specify the activities allowed and prohibited in the marine and land portions of the
Marine Park.
Impacts of Small Scale Marine Park Structures. The small scale structures planned for the Marine
Park include a small building to serve as a Marine Park headquarters and visitor information center, and
above surface structures to allow swimmers and divers to cross over the coral reefs to prevent physical
damages to the reef (called "crossovers"). The preliminary site selection and design concepts for these
small scale structures already minimize impacts, and further studies are planned to improve the mitigation
measures.
The Marine Park headquarters and visitor center is currently planned near the proposed marina
at Big Bay. This location would minimize any impacts of onshore construction, but the final location will
have to be coordinated with the other adjacent planned land uses. Water runoff control plans will be
prepared and runoff control infrastructure will be constructed to provide mitigation for the Marine Park
building and other adjacent land uses.
The site locations for the crossovers will be selected based on field inspections to locate areas of
minimum impact. It is anticipated that several gaps with sandy bottoms in the coral reef will be found
where marker buoys can be set up to guide swimmers in crossing over the reef. Alternatively, low
impact structures such as floating docks with simple anchoring systems or fixed docks supported by posts
will be located at appropriate locations.
Impacts of Planned Adjacent Land Uses. Activites already included in the Project, will regulate
the impacts of adjacent land uses and other infrastructure that could affect the Marine Park. The Marine



- 69 -
Park management plan, EIA requirements and CZM regulations will be developed under the Project, and
they will apply to high-impact activities that are proposed on the lands within and\or adjacent to the
Marine Park. High impact land uses include proposed sites for international hotels, the proposed
amusement park and road construction. Potential impacts involve sedimentation onto coral reef areas,
quality of surface runoff waters and percolating groundwaters, locations for accesses to the Marine Park
and aesthetic impacts. The Marine Park regulations, CZM regulations and EIA reports will develop
mitigation measures and standards.
Family camping, the Qaboos tourist village, a zone for family and resort uses and a
proposed golf course are all examples of planned moderate intensity land uses. A proposed marina site,
to be financed by private investors, is tentatively projected for the sandy Big Bay area where the growth
of seagrass indicates effects from wadi runoff, and lack of living coral reefs. Although the construction
of finger piers, would have minimal direct impacts to the marine ecosystem, a full environmetal analysis
would be required to develop a comprehensive set of mitigation measures.



GULF OF AQABA ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN
Preliminary Envirommental Mitigation Plan
Actions with                                  Preliminary Environmental Mitigation
Potential Impacts                                                                                                   Agency Responsible
for Mitigation
Ongoing Major                             Future Detailed Mitigation
Mitigation
1.    Construction
of Small                                                                                                             ARA
Scale
Structures
for Marine
Park:
- Marine Park        Preliminary location of   - development of aesthetic landscape and architectural plans
headquarters and     a small building in the                                                                                ARA
visitor information  Big Bay area beyond     - development of a runoff control plan with appropriate structures integrated
center               100 m landward of the   into the landscape plans
mean high water
- development of specifications for sewage management
- development of visitor management plan.
- crossovers         Use of natural sandy    - visual field surveys to identify locations for minimal impact
gaps for swimming                                                                                     ARA
crossovers; use of      - development of specifications and pre-qualification lists of specialized
floating docks and      suppliers and contractors
finger docks for
crossovers              - close environmental monitoring and inspection of construction activities



Actions with                                    Preliminary Environmental Mitigation
Potential Impacts                                                                                                        Agency Responsible
Ongoing Major                               Future Detailed Mitigation                             for Mitigation
Mitigation                   ._.
2.     Zoning of      Development of a         - develop regulations for operation of marine vessels
Activities     Marine Park
within the    management plan           - develop regulations for swimming, snorkeling, diving and interference with      ARA
Marine Park:  (including regulations)    marine life
(see Attachment D,
Activity E #1)           - develop restrictions on fishing activities through a participatory process
- develop regulations for limited access areas, temporary closure areas and
other measures to allow recovery of living marine resources
3.     Development  Adoption and               - designation of specific land uses for the South Coast Tourist Area
of Adjacent   implementation of CZM
Land Uses:    map and regulations       - development of setback criteria and low density land uses along shoreline        ARA
(see Attachment D,
Activity E #3)           - establishment of controlled public parking and public access areas to the
Marine Park
- establishment of runoff control plans and performance standards for runoff
control structures
Implementation of EIA    - specify EIA guidelines for proposed international hotels, for proposed golf  ARA and private
requirements for specific  course, for proposed amusement Marine Park. for proposed marina and for  developers
projects                 intensive tourist activities - phase 11
(see Attachment D,
Activity A #3)
Marine water quality     - locate sampling stations for monthly monitoring of nutrients, of bathing
monitoring               water quality and of sediment deposition                                   ARA and MSS
(see Attachment D,
Activity A #4)           - locate sampling stations for visual observations of filamentous algal growth
on the reefs, unseasonal algal blooms and solid waste deposition






IBRD 27714
ISRAEL!
I *Aqaba
JORDAN                                      N           Town
THE GULF OF AQABA                                                       JORDAN
ARAB REPUBLIC
OF EGYPT
,              SAUDI ARABIA
0      10      20      30
K                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
lbo, as  ismp do-ot oplyoas. par. of The World honk
Cp. aiy a4=st asUI eo     iA y ter,Pay o y
JANUARY 1 996






IBsR 27865
II                           JORD~X AN
- /                   RED SEA MARINE PEACE PARK PLAN
SOUTH COAST TOURIST AREA, AQABA - TEEBA
'\m   Te.ecommuniion   iMASTER PLAN 1995 - 2020
\y0'Telecommunicaltion '\
N    ! ~~Station         . 
TEEBA TOWN III
RAS AL-YAMANIAH                                      7
PROJECT
QABOOS
.   TOURIST                      m Mosque
VILLAGE
1Beach
BASH AYER
HOUSING SUB                     TEEBA TOWN III
DIVISION
I-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~1
AMUSEEN                 EEBA  ONI
- - - - PROPOSED ROADS
Ja                      I                         I Y EXISTING ROADS
>   /,   ~~~~INTENSIVE                                 - THRU- WAY
TOURIST    ~ ~ ~   ~ ~       E.]HOTEL COMPOUNDS
PH/ 8 ASE tt               // } / } I I RAS AL-YAMANIAH PROJECT AREA
- z-                           8                          riloL 11 /y X / X (HOTELS AND QABOOS TOURIST VILLAGE)
- J  t  ,,            sm  f    z         ,s           _   EXISTING ROYAL DIVING CENTER
MARINE SCIENCES STATION RESERVE
t -   7  ,@             //t           {      t              1   SWIMMING ZONE - NO BOATING
FRINGING REEF SWIMMING ZONE
|,Z ///FRINGING REEF NO ENTRY ZONE
1/ /  X   /   7    ./    t   1 ~~~~DIVING ZONE 
MULTI-USE ZONE
||~- ,MARINA AND CHANNEL









~y
IMAGING
Report No:         15290 JO
Type: PD
@Printed on recycled paper



