Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25253
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-283 16)
ON A
GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 2.7 MILLION
TO THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A
GULF OF AQABA ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN
December 24, 2002
Rural Development, Water and Environment Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar JD
US$ 1.0 = JD0.688
FISCAL YEAR
CALENDER YEAR
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARA    -      Aqaba Region Authority
ASEZA-        Aqaba Special Economic Zone Authority
CEREA-        Commission for Environmental Regulation and Enforcement Affairs
GAEAP-        Gulf of Aqaba Environmental Action Plan
GCEP -        General Corporation for Environmental Protection
GTZ    -      Gessellschaft fuer Technische Zussamenarbeit
JREDS -       Jordan Royal Ecological Diving Society
MSS    -      Marine Science Station
NGO     -     Non Govermmental Organization
PERSGA-       Programme on the Environment of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden
RSCN    -     Royal Society for the Conservation of Nature
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:  Joseph P. Saba
Sector Director:  Leititia Obeng
Task Tearn Leader:   Nicole Glineur



JORDAN
GULF OF AQABA ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Pnncipal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                7
6. Sustainability                                                                    8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     8
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   9
9. Partner Comments                                                                 10
10. Additional Information                                                          12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                14
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                16
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                17
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                18
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   19
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               20
MAPS: IBRD 27865
IBRD 27714






Project ID: P005237                                      Project Name. GULF OF AQABA EAP
Team Leader Nicole Glineur                               TL Unit MNSRE
ICR Type. Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 24, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: GULF OF AQABA EAP                             L/C/TF Number: TF-28316
Country/Department: JORDAN                                              Region  Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector. Central government administration (94%); Solid
waste management (6%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 08/21/1992                               Effective: 06/27/1996        06/27/1996
Appraisal:  02/13/1996                               MTR: 12/15/1999           12/15/1999
Approval.  06/13/1996                             Closing: 12/31/1999          06/30/2002
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOJ/AQABA REGION AUTHORITY; GOJ/Subsequently ASEZA; GOJ/Aqaba
Govemorate; GOJ/Aqaba Municipality; GOJ/Port Authonty
Other Partners GCEP; MoT; JREDS; RSCN; Donors
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                        Kemal Dervis
Country Manager      Joseph P. Saba                           Inder K. Sud
Sector Manager:      Salah Dharghouth                          Anand Seth
Team Leader at ICR:  Nicole Glineur                           Nicole Glineur
ICR Primary Author   Douglas I. Graham
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=HMghly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainabilty: HL
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance* S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective.
Original Objective
The primary objective of the GEF project was to enable Jordan to take the lead in establishing and



implementing a regional collaborative framework for sustainable management and protection of the Gulf of
Aqaba and the conservation of its coral reef. Specific project objectives were to: (a) develop regional
collaborative mechanisms for environmental management for the protection of the coastal zone and marine
biodiversity; (b) develop and implement the legal framework and regulations to control transboundary
pollution; (c) safeguard against oil pollution of aquifers and the marine environment; (d) establish and
implement guidelines for the sustainable development of the coastal zone; (e) assess effects of wastewater
seepage on transboundary groundwater table; (f) control transboundary solid waste impact; and (g)
establish the Jordanian segment of the Red Sea Marine Park.
Context
The project objectives need to be assessed in the context of the overall Jordan Gulf of Aqaba
Environmental Action Plan (GAEAP) which was presented in November 1993 at the Cairo meeting of the
Environmental Multilateral Working Group of the Middle East Peace Process. The Jordan GAEAP
comprised investments and technical assistance in six categories of activity, namely: legal and regulatory
framework; institutional strengthening; infrastructure investments; marine park management; monitoring
and applied research; and public awareness and environmental education. The non-GEF components were
implemented by the Government of Jordan, the European Union. the Government of Japan, GTZ, and
USAID/NOAA, while the GEF project focused on crucial trausboundary actions, the highest priority being
given to the establishment of the legal and regulatory framework for implementation of curative and
preventive environmental measures addressing transboundary water issues.
Assessment of Original Objective and Design
The project objectives addressed the key needs of the country in the area of sustainable coastal zone
management. In addition, they were fully consistent with the CAS discussed by the Board on October 24,
1995, particularly in its emphasis on environmentally sustainable development. The project met GEF
eligibility criteria by addressing critical transboundary threats to the ecological viability of a globally
significant waterbody (the Gulf of Aqaba was identified as a globally significant biogeographic zone in a
1995 World Bank/IUCN report). Potential risks were minimized by limiting the objectives to a series of
closely interrelated activities to be undertaken by one competent implementing agency with the appropriate
legal authority, while financing of parallel investments by donors was kept separate. The prospects for
transboundary cooperation were favorable following the signing of a peace treaty between Jordan and
Israel (October 24, 1994) and, despite the subsequent political circumstances between the main countries
bordering the Gulf of Aqaba, progress in implementing transboundary components was maintained and
outcomes were beyond expectations.
3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A
3.3 Original Components:
Under the project, the Government of Jordan, in concert with parallel efforts in Egypt and Israel, was to
*develop and implement priority measures to halt and prevent further pollution of the marine environment
and the transboundary aquifers in the Aqaba Coastal Zone. The GEF project components, within the
overall context of the Gulf of Aqaba Environmental Action Plan (GAEAP), were as follows:
A. Development of Regulatory and Institutional Framework for Gulf of Aqaba Environmental Protection:
(i) Definition of overall goals, policies and guidelines for environmental management of international
water transboundary issues of the Aqaba region, and establishment of collaborative mechanisms
-2 -



for coordination of relevant institutions and regional partners, i.e. Egypt and Israel;
(ii) Implementation of a Legislative and Regulatory Framework for the control and management of
transboundary pollution;
(iii) Coastal Zone Management and implementation of EIA guidelines; and
(iv) Transboundary Environmental management, including monitoring with a regional focus.
B. Emergency assessment of oil pollution hazards and of pollutants contained in ballast and bilge water
and measures to promote waste oil recovery and reuse.
C. Safeguarding transboundary groundwater resources through groundwater monitoring and assessment
of the effects of wastewater seepage on the quality and level of the groundwater table in the Gulf of
Aqaba region.
D. Development of an integrated marine and land-based transboundary solid waste management strategy.
E. Protection of globally important Coral Reefs through the development and implementation of the
Jordanian Marine Park.
The components were appropriate to achieving the objectives set out for the project, each component being
linked to the specific project objectives. They incorporated the lessons learned from previous international
waters projects in the region, which indicated the need for a programmatic approach to country-based
international waters projects. The choice of ARA as the implementing agency was appropriate as it had the
administrative and financial management capacity and the independence of action needed to undertake these
components.
3.4 Revised Components:
The only change in components resulted from the transfer of the solid waste component to GTZ. The
budget for the component ($30,000 for equipment and $90,000 for training) was reallocated to the Visitor
Center. In addition, the implementing agency, the Aqaba Region Authority (ARA), was transformed into
the Aqaba Special Economic Zorie Authority (ASEZA) on 14 February, 2001. All project activities and
outcomes were transferred to ASEZA. The efficient Environmental Department created within ARA under
the project was instrumental in influencing the organizational set-up and management systems of ASEZA.
All the environmental by-laws (EIAs, Marine park, CZM, etc.) legally adopted under ARA were revised,
and resubmitted for legal endorsement, to fit in the new ASEZA legal entity. These changes did not require
any restructuring of the project
Chronology of extensions: The original project was appraised in February 1996 and the grant became
effective on June 27, 1996, with a closing date of December 31, 1999. The project suffered two major
hiatuses: the first, from November 1997 to May 1998, due to changes in the ARA management; the second
from August 1998 to January 1999, due again to changes in the ARA management, which led to the
paralysis of all activities and resignation of the project leader. Each of these interruptions lost about a year
of project implementation and resulted in the need for extensions of the project. The first extension to
December 31, 2000 was approved on December 14, 1999; a second extension to December 31, 2001 was
approved on November 7, 2000; a third and final extension to June 30, 2002 was approved in December,
2001.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The project objectives were consistent with the CAS,
particularly in their emphasis on environmentally sustainable development, and with Government
-3 -



priorities and with the international priorities of the Red Sea littoral nations. The project
specifically responded to the transboundary environmental cooperation envisaged in the
Jordan-Israel peace treaty of 1994. The Bank's environmental safeguards were fully incorporated
into project design. The project components were well prepared and consistent with achieving
the project objectives. The choice of implementing agency, the ARA, was appropriate and the
envisaged implementation period of three years was also realistic - it could not be foreseen that
changes in the management of ARA would hold up project execution by two years.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective.
Achievement of the project objectives is rated as satisfactory. All the project objectives were met and the
resources used served to obtain the outcome of improved environmental management and transboundary
cooperation. In the area of regulatory and institutional development and regional collaboration,
achievements exceeded expectations. In the area of transboundary cooperation, objectives were fully
achieved, despite the political circumstances, because of the practical necessity for cooperation in the linked
spaces of the gulf and also due to the determination of project teams on all sides not to allow politics to
enter into the field of enviromnental cooperation. The sustainability of the main project components has
been assured by their incorporation into ASEZA and by the cost recovery mechanisms established; the
marine park sustainability will depend largely on improved management and enforcement of regulatory
mechanisms.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Development of Regulatorv and Institutional Framework CES2: The project's achievement in this
component has exceeded expectations. It has had an enormous development impact and plays an essential
role in ensuring project sustainability. The Environment Department created under the project and all of its
staff were fully integrated into ASEZA. It provided staff (including of: the project; ASEZA/former ARA;
Port Authority; MSS; Ministries of Health, Agriculture, and Tourism; NGOs; local industries, fishermen,
etc.) essential training and experience that enabled the set-up, running, and institutional mainstreaming of
an exemplary Environment Commission- setting up a precedent for the country. Chief amongst the
achievements is the fact that he Aqaba region, under ASEZA, is the only region in Jordan where a legalized
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) system is enforced (EIAs have yet to be a requirement at the
national level in Jordan). It also enabled the establishment and implementation of the Marine Park as well
as other activities on the ground. Achievement of outputs of each of the four sub-components is described
below:
(i)  Definition of Overall Goals and Establishment of Collaborative Mechanisms.   Two
directorates, established within the Environment Commission of ASEZA, are fully operational:
the Directorate of Environmental Planning and the Directorate of Environmental Supervision and
Enforcement. The Directorate of Environmental Planning incorporates, among others, the
environmental impact assessment, environmental inspection and auditing, and industrial pollution
prevention standard-setting functions of the Project.  The Directorate of Environmental
Supervision and Enforcement includes divisions addressing public awareness, coastal policing
and enforcement, marine pollution prevention and response, and marine park management - all
central elements of the GAEAP. With regard to regulatory capacity-building, key Project
elements (e.g. environmental impact assessment and environmental auditing procedures) have
been fully incorporated into binding ASEZA legislation. Other elements (e.g. coastal zone
management, marine park management, marine vessel pollution prevention, industrial pollution
prevention) are generally mandated, with specific implementing provisions to be adopted through
- 4 -



subsequent regulations.  Regional Cooperation efforts are another exemplary result of the
project, especially in the light of the political circumstances. Active participation in the Red Sea
Marine Peace Park Steering Committee meetings continues. The project has catalyzed efforts by
other donors, such as the USAID MERC project, which is based on operational capacity buwlt by
the project. A joint Jordanian and Israeli sea monitoring program is being devised under the
USAID MERC project. ASEZA has been confirmed as Jordan's official representative to
PERSGA and has already been recognized as a leader in carrying out the PERSGA agenda,
having been instrumental in increasing regional cooperation and information exchange.
(ii)  Management of Transboundary Pollution. The ASEZA's Environmental Protection By-Law
includes provisions regulating pollution from ships, substantially reflecting the Kingdom's
commitment to implementing its obligations under the Intemational Convention for the
Prevention of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL). The financial liability provisions pertaining to
ship-based pollution include specified penalties per incident, damage recovery, and an additional
ASEZA surcharge amounting to 25% of all assessed penalties and damages (Art. 62). Of central
importance is the assignment of enforcement authority regarding marine vessel pollution. A
special coastal police is to be established within ASEZA's Commission on Environment,
Regulation and Enforcement Affairs, in response to the limited powers of the Royal Jordanian
Navy pertaining to civilian traffic under intemational law. Under a draft Memorandum of
Understanding between ASEZA and the Public Security Forces (police), personnel from the
Public Security Forces are delegated to ASEZA to enforce marine vessel pollution prevention
measures.
(iii) Coastal Zone Management and Implementation of E I A      Guidelines.  Under the
Environmental Protection By-Law for the Aqaba Special Economic Zone, environmental impact
assessment (EIA) procedures are set forth in detail (Arts. 8-24 plus annexes). These procedures
closely follow the EIA Guidelines developed under the GAEAP Project Preparation Advance that
were adopted by the ARA Board of Govemors, reflecting significant, constructive continuity
between different phases of the Project. Based on the new ASEZA Master Plan and legal
regulations as well as draft CZM guidelines prepared under the GAEAP, ASEZA has prepared a
revised framework for the CZM Guidelines to reflect changes from ARA to ASEZA. This
revised framework is to be implemented in a potential consolidation phase project.
(iv) Transboundary Environmental Management, including Monitoring with a regional Focus.
Regular marine water quality monitoring by the Marine Science Station (MSS) is ongoing. All
equipment purchased under the project is functioning and monthly reports of monitoring data are
submitted to ASEZA. The 2001 Annual Synthesis Report, which addressed comments made by
the Bank, has been finalized. The Industrial Pollution prevention activity has been successfully
completed and provides an exemplary model for the rest of Jordan with its zero discharge
strategy The ASEZA law outlines how audits will be carried out and, defines a pollution charge
system and fining regulations for violations. The law is being implemented and fines for
violations have been issued. The Geographic Information Systems (GIS) activity has been
completed beyond expectations. The GIS Division, formally assigned to the Environment
Departnent, is now supporting all the Commissions of ASEZA and is heavily involved in the
planning process, e.g. land use and infrastructure development. These efforts to integrate
environmental data for both planning and environmental monitoring are outstanding, providing a
model of integration which demonstrates the important role GIS applications can assume in
planning and decision-making while ensuring environmental sustainability.
-5-



B. Emergencv Assessment of Oil Pollution lEnzards (S2: oil spill risk minimization and waste oil
recovery. This component has been successfully completed and is rated as satisfactory The Memorandum
of Understanding between the Ports Authority and ASEZA, defining responsibilities for oil spill response
and legal measures as well as outlining preventive measures for chemical oil spill prevention, has been
signed. The Port Authority has upgraded all its facilities into environmental compliance under the new
ASEZA laws, a notable achievement. Solid waste for instance is the Port Authority's responsibility and is
subject to environmental compliance. The oil spill contingency plan has been updated. The Jordan
Petroleum Refinery, together with ASEZA, has completed a system for waste oil recovery from trucks and
small garages to prevent the sale of this noxious product to fuel ovens. ASEZA and Ports Authority staff
have been trained in state-of-the-art oil spill prevention operations and marine vessel pollution prevention
procedures. The training program was designed to help establish in depth knowledge about oil spill
preparedness and response, pollution prevention, emergency cases, wastes treatment and handling from
ships in legal, technical and organization contexts.
C. Safeguardinp, Transboundarv Groundwater Resourzces (SQ: This component has been completed
satisfactorily in conjunction with the monitoring committee and within the project's limits and is catalyzing
larger scale efforts based on operational capacity built by the project. As a result of the groundwater
study's recommendation of need for further data collection for planning purpose, ASEZA has acquired the
Visual MODFLOW software to model availability of groundwater resources and carry out short and
long-term simulations using various water demand scenarios. A consultant assisted in the calibration of the
model and with additional essential fieldwork and data collection on the groundwater aquifer. The data
collection report and the modeling exercise was completed. The model will serve to assess the annual yield
of the aquifer as well as to simulate the path lines of pollution into the Gulf. It will also assist in tracing the
sources of pollution in the groundwater aquifers.
1D. Develop,ment of an llntegrzted Marine and Land-Based Trannsboundary Sold Waste Management
Straten: During the February 2000 mission, this component was reassessed to take account of a ARA
decision to take the solid waste management function back from the private sector and hand it to the
municipality. Given GTZ's readiness to provide TA and equipment, it was agreed that the component
would be carried out by GTZ with GTZ funding. The budget for the component ($30,000 for equipment
and $90,000 for training) was reallocated to the Visitor Center.
E. Protection of Globally l[mportant Coral Reefs - Development and Implemnentation of the Jordanian
Marine Park (§): The mandate to protect the marine environment has been clearly established under the
Environmnental Protection By-Law (Arts. 52-64). On January 30, 2001, the Cabinet approved Marine
Park By-Law No. 22 for the Year 2001. Art. 5 of this By-Law, calling for the establishment of an "Aqaba
Marine Park Committee " (which includes representation of diverse stakeholder groups), has been
implemented. The conmmittee, which is responsible for administering the Park under the chairmanship of
the Commissioner for Environmental Affairs, is fully operational. The annual Marine Park Management
Plan is updated on a regular basis. The last update, under the project, was finalized and subsequently
adopted by ASEZA Board, pursuant to Art. 5 of the Marine Park By-Law. The Marine Park By-Law
gives general enforcement powers to Park employees, public security forces and coastal policemen, with
delineation of specific powers and procedures to be set forth in an instruction that is to be approved by the
ASEZA Board. Zoning and infrastructure of marine park facilities have been completed, including: 4
jetties (2 funded by the project), terrestrial demarcation, toilet and shower facilities, umbrellas, parking,
camping grounds, ranger posts, and first-aid station. ASEZA has constructed one additional jetty in the El
Morjan beach area to provide access to bathers without damaging coral reefs. Construction has also been
completed of additional toilet facilities, camping and parking demarcation and sun shades south of the of
the Visitor Center as an ASEZA contribution. The Visitor Center has been completed, including
- 6-



multi-media equipment, interpretation and public awareness activities. The implementation of the
landscaping of the surrounding area, funded by ASEZA, is to be completed by end 2002. Rangers training
and hiring is completed. The Marine Park Management Plan has been updated and subsequently adopted
by ASEZA's Board. The Arabic version has been updated accordingly and its fundamental principles and
supporting regulations are disseminated widely through public relations materials. The Public Awareness
Specialist has been recruited as an ASEZA staff. All Marine Park brochures have been finalized and
printed in Arabic and English.
Social Aspects. Response of the Aqaba community to the Marine Park Beach has been very positive, as
demonstrated by the exemplary usage of the beach, particularly on weekend days, and respect for the coral
reef and fishes. Recommendations of the Project's CZM specialist regarding enhancement of the public
beach front have been implemented with very positive results.
NGOs, especially the Jordan Royal Ecology Diving Society (JREDs), RSCN, the Hashemite Fund and
Queen Alia Foundation have been collaborating closely with ASEZA in implementing the public awareness
agenda. The diving community continues to play an important role in ensuring compliance throughout the
marine area of the coast through education and awareness during diving classes and direct intervention
when in the water. ASEZA works closely with the diving community and meets with them regularly to
provide an update to the group on ASEZA activities and to hear concems or problems from the diving
centers. Following an issue raised by the divers, i.e. the lack of public access to some of the dive sites near
the Royal Diving Center, ASEZA opened a new access point just north of the RDC. Similar efforts to meet
with individual stakeholder groups such as hotels and small businesses are being pursued. Continued
vigilance will be necessary to ensure that availability of public access is maintained, particularly in view of
the large upmarket developments which are under construction in the vicinity of the marine park.
ASEZA's staff participate in radio shows to discuss environmental issues in Aqaba and the GEF project is
well known in this context. The radio show entitled "Environment and People" highlights the Aqaba
region. ASEZA's Commission for Environmental Regulation and Enforcement Affairs has an
Enviromnental Library, which is open to all staff and the public.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate ofreturn:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact has exceeded expectations. The project has played an important role
in developing ASEZA's capacity and hence Jordan's ability to enhance the sustainability of its CZM
operations. In particular, Jordan is now equipped with financial and productive human resources to sustain
sound CZM. The main institutional features of the ASEZA's Commission for Environmental Regulation
and Enforcement Affairs (CEREA) incorporate the environmental impact assessment, environmental
inspection and auditing, industrial pollution prevention and standard setting functions of the project, as well
as public awareness, coastal policing and enforcement, marine pollution prevention and response, and
marine park management - all central elements of the project.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Despite the disturbed regional political context, transboundary components have been satisfactorily
-7 -



implemented.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The project was stalled on two occasions, between November 1997 and January 1999, during which there
were seven changes in the senior management of the project. During this period of changes, the interim
management tearns did not have authority to make decisions. Despite this, Govemment commitment to the
project was very high.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementing agency commitment to the project objectives was high. The commitment went beyond the
project to transfer project lessons and achievements into the overall implementing agency methods of
working. A key element of the success of the project was the caliber and continuity of personnel
implementing the project and the productive working partnership between the implementing agency and the
Bank staff. ARA/ASEZA contributions through the provision of staff and infrastructure were outstandingly
higher than budgeted. Since the closing of the project, there is less attention on the protection of the marine
resources due to the current void in the position of the marine park manager.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Total project costs were originally estimated at US$3.5 million, financed through a GEF grant of US$2.7
million and Government contribution of US$0.80 million equivalent. Total cost of the project proved to be
higher (US$3.6 million) than the original plan and the Government contribution was higher (US$0.90
million). The Government also contributed to related activities which were outside the project, e.g., the
creation of ASEZA and additional park infrastructure. In addition, parallel financing was provided by
Japan ($5.60 million) and the EU ($1.90 million) for oil pollution prevention, and by the EU ($0.03
million) and USAID ($0.24 million) for pollution monitoring. All projects funds have been disbursed
(99.9%).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated as highly likely. Overall, there is an adequate institutional and legal framework to
sustain project impacts over the long term. The institutional and legal framework of the ASEZA has
successfully incorporated most of the project's environmental objectives and, in certain areas, has even
exceeded expectations as far as exemplary legislation supporting the institutional framework is concerned.
The functions developed under the project are fully incorporated into ASEZA, as are the project staff. The
sustainability of the marine park will depend largely on the implementation of the overall management
functions of the marine park and improved enforcement of the regulatory mechanisms developed by both
the project and ASEZA. Cost recovery mechanisms put in place include marine park fees (diving fees,
visitor fees, and beach facility fees); issuance of permits (air emission permits, cooling water discharge
permits; resource user fees for import/export of all goods to be set at .05 piasters/ton, 25% surcharge on
use of port reception facilities once they exist); and fines for environmental damages, including industrial
pollution and oil spills. All revenue from these fees and fines will be earmarked for the Department of
Environment, Regulation and Enforcement.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N/A
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
-8 -



Bank
7.1 Lending:
Lending performance is rated satisfactory. At the project identification stage, the Bank, in conjunction with
the Government and other major stakeholders, identified the need to develop a EAP for the Gulf of Aqaba,
the primary environmental "hot spot" in the region, on a collaborative basis with the Red Sea littoral states.
The project identified was consistent with the Government's development strategy and with the Bank's
assistance strategy for Jordan. During project preparation, the project team prepared a detailed, well
researched design for the project in close collaboration with the client. The Bank brought together a highly
skilled team of experts to appraise the project. Subsequent implementation was facilitated by the careful
preparation and no major revisions were necessary to project design. Throughout the lending process,
harmonious relations with the Borrower helped to develop a strong sense of ownership of the project.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision performance was satisfactory. Feedback from GOJ indicates that they highly valued the Bank
supervision input and team compositions. Supervision was carried out frequently - at least every six
months - by a consistent team which was proactive in detecting and resolving implementation problems.
Missions were well prepared with appropriate terms of reference and aide memoires and follow-up letters
were well organized, focusing on key issues and solutions. The supervision team consistently provided
appropriate advice to the implementing agency and agreed on action plans with the project authorities to
improve implementation.  Reporting of project implementation progress and the realism of project
performance ratings was highly satisfactory, as was the discussion of development impacts in PSRs.
Supervision of financial management was excellent and the quality of audit reports was high. These
fndings are in line with the highly satisfactory ratings given in the QSA3 review of project supervision.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall, the Bank's performance was satisfactory during project identification, preparation, appraisal and
implementation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The implementation agency performance in the project preparation was satisfactory. Staff from the
implementing agency showed a high degree of ownership and worked closely with the Bank's project team
with commitment and eagerness.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government Implementation Performance has been satisfactory. Government contributions to the project
were timely and have exceeded planned contributions, with substantial investments being made in related
activities. The project benefited from the continuity and the high caliber of staff both at the leadership and
implementation levels.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency has been satisfactory, despite two hiatuses early in the project
(see para 3.4), thanks partly to the Government policy of strengthening ASEZA. The high caliber staff
made available to the project were evidence of the strong commitment to the project and were largely
responsible for its successful implementation. The agency submitted meaningful quarterly reports on a
regular basis and provided satisfactory financial management of the project. The implementation of cost
recovery mechanisms has been successful. The project was able to leverage its contribution to have a
major influence on the new implementing agency and attract other donors' funding.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance
-9-



Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory at all levels throughout the preparation and implementation
process, with strong stakeholder commitment.
8. Lessons Learned
Project Desin
o   The intensive preparatory work on a CZM framework paid off. The goals and objectives agreed
amongst the stakeholders were clearly defined using a participatory approach of all stakeholders,
including the local population. The consensus obtained on the framework greatly facilitated the
implementation of a sound coastal zone management plan.
o In the project design, the function of the project manager called for international expertise and
experience in state-of-the-art coastal zone management to transfer knowledge to the country. The
first two international managers had difficulties coping with the idle periods of decision making in
ARA. The subsequent hiring of a national with top managerial experience and environmental
expertise enabled adequate handling of local politics and delegation of authority to the project
Project ]Implemenmtation
o Strong stakeholder commitment and the realization that positive economic returns can flow from
investment in environmentally sound projects promoted outstanding achievements.
o   The project demonstrated how demand driven interventions based on an effective CZM framework
with stakeholder participation, including involvement of the general public, can bring about
effective management of the environment through the active involvement of all stakeholders
o   The project showed that crossing institutional borders through having different ministries and
organizations (Health, Port Corporation, private sector, NGOs, police) participate together in
training and capacity building activities can enhance the overall effectiveness of implementation.
o On-the-job training and motivational tools contributed to the full integration of managerial and
operational project staff and of the project's Environmental Department, created by the project,
into ASEZA. This was an essential element towards sustaining the achievements of the project.
o Well designed cost recovery mechanisms with strong enforcement can help to ensure financial
sustainability. The cost recovery mechanisms developed by the project and currently in force help
to deter further environmental pollution as well as serving as revenue sources to assist
sustainability.
o   Initiating a dialogue with polluters can bring about a consensus and lead to solutions. During
implementation, project staff initiated a dialogue with three major producers of waste oil to tackle
the issue of land based oil reeovery. Not only was the dialogue successful in leading to group
consensus on the issue, but a national oil refinery agreed to accept and pay JD35/ton for the
recovered waste oil, thereby eliminating a source of pollution.
9. Partmer Comments
(a) Borrower/limplementing agency:
- 10-



Introduction
The GEF grant agreement became effective on June 27, 1996. Early stages of project implementation
were very productive. However, they were interrupted by two periods of change in the management of the
implementing agency, Aqaba Region Authority, the first in 1997 and the second in 1998. It was not until
1999 that the project resumed a rate of rapid and effective implementation. The delays incurred required a
series of three extensions to the project, until June 30, 2002.
Project Objectives and Components
The project objectives' focus on transboundary cooperation reflected hopes for mutual cooperation in
addressing the needs of the Gulf of Aqaba in the aftermath of signing the peace treaty between Jordan and
Israel. The emphasis on a combination of institutional development and investment activities recognized
the need for capacity building supported by practical sub-project activities. Choice of components was
appropriate to the achievement of these objectives.
Achievement of Project Objectives
In the area of transboundary cooperation, objectives were fully achieved despite the political circumstances.
This is because of the practical necessity for cooperation in the confined spaces of the gulf and also due to
the determination of project teams on both sides not to allow politics to enter into the field of environmental
cooperation. In the field of institution building, achievement has surpassed expectations. The project's
developments of the regulatory and institutional framework have been incorporated into the environmental
regulations and execution capabilities of ASEZA.
Implementation Results by Component
A. Developing the Regulatory and Institutional Framework: has been extremely successful. All of its
sub-components have been realized in the legal basis of ASEZA.
B. Oil Pollution Hazards: has been successful. Particularly noteworthy is the fact that the strict laws are
being enforced: two ships have been successfully prosecuted to date. Jordan is a signatory to MARPOL.
C. Safeguarding Transboundary Groundwater Resources: ASEZA completed the assessment and is
monitoring the state of the aquifers using a computer model and is sharing the results with its neighbor.
Due to careful environmental management, the state of the aquifers is not an issue.
D. Solid Waste Management: has been successfully undertaken with GTZ financing and the municipal
service is now excellent, although there are still problems with collection of plastic bags.
E. Marine Park Management: is the most important physical output of the project The preservation of 8
kilometers of shoreline is legally assured and physically enforced by a team of rangers with two patrol
boats. Reef fishing has been stopped and recreational fishermen have been compensated through training
and other activities. Professional fishermen have been assisted by the gift of two boats from the King to
enable them to fish off the coast of Yemen. The Visitor Center financed under the project has been
completed; concessions for its cafeteria and gift shop are being bid for by the private sector. Collaboration
with NGOs, i.e. JREDS, has contributed to Marine Park management.
- 1 1 -



Experience Related to Implementation
Implementation has been satisfactory. Sustainability has been assured by the absorption of the GEF
project components and staff into ASEZA. Implementation was facilitated by the special status of the
Aqaba region which gives it a certain independence in decision making.
llmplementing Agency Performance
The performance of the implementing agency has been excellent, thanks partly to the Govemment policy of
strengthening ASEZA. Govemment contributions to the project have exceeded planned contributions. The
GEF project has been able to leverage its contribution to have a major influence on the new implementing
agency and attract other donors' funding.
World IBank Performance
Preparation: the project team produced a well designed project document. It prepared a project which built
up capacities and did not create dependencies. No revisions were necessary to project design.
Supervision: was very good. The extemal presence of the Bank helped to influence project implementation;
good, action oriented aide-memoires helped ensure follow-up. The Bank provided support when needed.
The integration into the supervision teams of CZM legal and other experts responded to our needs.
Lessons Learned
The continuity of the relationship with the World Bank is important. With the creation of ASEZA and the
integration of the project components, the Bank was able to call upon the same external coastal zone
management experts to develop the detailed steps to integration. The support of the GEF and the World
Bank was instrumental to GOJ in addressing conservation issues. The prolongation of this relationship
through the preparation and implementation of a second phase project, which would include updating of the
CZM plan and focus on conservation of the waterfront and the carrying capacity of competing uses, would
be highly desirable.
(b) Cofinanciers
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Enformation
N/A
- 12 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
iridlca'tIr/Matrlx '                Projected In la$t PSR,        *    ''Actuat!Latest Estimate,
(A) Institutional and Regulatory Framework.  Enforcement and Policing Actions and  Environmental unit staffed and trained,
transboundary cooperation             performance standards adopted
Enforcement regulabons adopted and
policing actons undertaken; actve
transboundary cooperation with staff training
exchanges as well as monitonng techniques
shared.
(B) Oil Spill measures and Waste oil  Demonstration actions for waste oil recovery  Demonstration actions underway
recovery
(C) transboundary groundwater protecton.  First phase groundwater assessment,  Given the political circumstances, sound
including definiton of shallow groundwater  progress. Transboundary groundwater
contamination.                        assessment completed
(D) Transboundary solid-waste management. Demonstration acbtons for litter control,  N/A
collecton and landfill management.
(E) Protection of coral reefs         Fully operating marine park.           Staff in place, boundaries defined,
management plan completed, policing and
enforcement actons in place
Projected in last PSR =Projected Outcome in Appraisal Document of May 1996
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                 Actual/LatestEstimate,
End of project
- 13 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
, "',Prjoject' Cost' By Component  '   , ~ ~ !l US$ million  US$ million
A. Development of Regulatory and Institutional Framework  1.95    2.08            107
B. Oil Pollution Hazards                            0.10          0.09            90
C. Transboundary Groundwater resources              0.10          0.10            100
D. Solid Waste management                           0.15          0.00             0
E Marine Park                                       0.95          1.33            140
Total Baseline Cost                                 3.25          3.60
Physical Contingencies                             0.25          0.00              0
Total Project Costs             3.50           3.60
Total Financing Required             3.50           3.60
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
z "  -  -= S  <  ,  '  - ''  Procurement Method       -
ExpenditureCategory  ,    ICB      Procu        Method          N.B.F.    Total Cost
NCB         Othier    _  _ _  _ _    _ _ _  _
1. Works                     0.00         0.48         0.00         0.14        0.62
(0.00)       (0.48)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.48)
2. Goods                     0.22         0.31         0.14         0.05        0.72
(0.22)       (0.31)       (0.14)       (0.00)      (0.67)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         1.50         0.42         1.92
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.50)       (0.00)       (1.50)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.05         0.19        0.24
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.05)       (0.00)       (0.05)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     0.22         0.79          1.69        0.80         3.50
(0.22)       (0.79)       (1.69)       (0.00)      (2.70)
-14 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Prourrne~tMe-tho`d
Expendituire Category                   l  cu                                      Total Cost
CB        ~~NC         'Other2       'N.B-
1. Works                        0.00           0.71          0.00          0.00          0.71
(0.00)         (0.66)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.66)
2. Goods                        0.05           0.30          0.00           0.00         0.35
(0.05)         (0.27)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.32)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00          0.60           0.00         0.60
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.53)        (0.00)        (0.53)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          1.94           0.00          1.94
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.19)        (0.00)        (1.19)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00         0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00         0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        0.05           1.01          2.54           0.00          3.60
(0.05)         (0.93)        (1.72)        (0.00)        (2.70)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to: (i)
managing the project; and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
fl  -r A;- lpp-  .  .l  Percentageof  raisal
1    ¢ompon nt,            Appraisal Estimate       -   Actual/Latest Estimate   |
Bank      Govt.     CoF.      Bank      Govt.     CoF.     Bank   Go%t.  CoF.
A. Development of Reg.   1.44      0.65                1.38       0.70              95.8   107.7
and Inst. Framework
B. Oil Pollution Hazards  0.10     0.00                0.09       0.00              90.0    0.0
C. Transboundary         0.10      0.00                0.10       0.00              100.0   0.0
Groundwater Resources
D. Solid Waste Mgt.      0.15      0.00                0.00       0.00               0.0    0.0
E. Marlne Park           0.91      0.15                1.13       0.20              124.2  133.3
Total                    2.70      0.80                2.70       0.90              100.0  112.5
-15 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Beneflts
N/A
-16 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions.
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation  Development
Monthi/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
08/1992
Appraisal/Negotiation
02/1996
Supervision
12/1996                      2   Task Manager (1),                                 S
Environmentalist/Cons. (1)
06/1997                      2    Task Manager (1);                                 S
Environmentalist/Cons. (1)
10/1997                      2   Task Manager (I);                                 S
Environmentalist/Cons. (1)
07/1998                      2    Task Manager (1);                                 S
Environmentalist/Cons. (1)
01/2000                       1   Task Team Leader (1)                             U
06/2000                      2    Environmental Lawyer (1);                         S
Environmental Consultant (1)
06/2000                      2    Task Team Leader (1);                             S
Environmental Lawyer (1)
05/2001                       1   Task Team Leader (1)                              S
06/2001                       5   Task Team Leader (1); UNEP                        S
Consultant (1); Legal Consultant
(1); CZM Consultant (1);
Infrastructure Spec. (I)
ICR
11/2002                      2    Sr. Environmental                                S
Spec/TTL (1); Fin Mgt
Spec/Consultant (1).
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                                            70.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                                                 90.6
Supervision                                                          242.1
ICR                                                                   14.5
Total                                                                417.2
- 17 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Gblectfves/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
0 Macro policies                       O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
O Sector Policies                      O H  t SUOM     O N  O NA
O Physical                             O H  OSUOM      ON   O NA
0 Financial                            OH   OSUOM      ON   ONA
Z Institutional Development            0) H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                        O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction              O H  OSUOM      (3 N  O NA
•Gender                          O H OSUOM ON ONA
O Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
(? Private sector development          0 H  O SU ® M   0 N  0 NA
s Public sector management             0 H  O) SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
OOther (Please specify)                OH   OSUOM      ON   O NA
-18 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
Z Lending                                           OHS*S       OU     OHU
Z Supervision                                       OHS OS      O U    O HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS      O U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
? Preparation                                       OHS OS      O U    O HU
S Government implementation performance             O HS O S    0 U    0 HU
z Implementation agency performance                 *HS OS      OU     O HU
F Overall                                          OHS OS       O U    O HU
-19-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports and Project Status Reports.
2. Project Progress Reports.
3. Consultant Study reports financed under the project.
4. Project Document of the Gulf of Aqaba Environmental Action Plan, May 1996, Report No. 15290 JO.
5. Quality of Supervision Assessment, QSA3, QAG, 1999.
- 20 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 27865
coral                                          JORDAN
reeF'            %          RED SEA MARINE PEACE PARK PLAN
FAMILY         SOUTH COAST TOURIST AREA, AQABA - TEEBA
CAMPING                   MASTER PLAN 1995 - 2020
Telecommunication
Station
\  \3st'    ' ' 9 _RAS AL-YAMANIAH/
BOOS < ,           PROJECT
' |   '   ~ QABOOS    i 
'TOURIST     R              Mosque
r                     PAEHESADQS VILLAGE)
>  ~~\ ,  Becch- 
\>,8' ~Areo 
t-=t ^   \ \\  BASH AYER
corol  t    \S.               ~~~~~~~~HOUSING SUB          TEEBA TOWN III
reefX\ DIVISION 
Gulf              IL F$ GOLF COURSE  \\A
Aqabat           E,'ORT@\\
9 \S\H>~USEME       .       TEEBA (W
\ .\,     PARK 
>7 { 2            ) f ~~~~~~~ ~~ - -  PROPOSED ROADS
/  i' ]1   1  I    Y               ] ~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING ROADS
/                             /1  IN~~~~~~~~~~~~~HTELNSIVEUND
~~~~~~ACTIVITIES <_a-TR A
refC|t~o                                                         PAE1 / / JII RAS AL-YAMDANcIAAH PcROCJTECT VLAREA
oz/A;, z  S S    ww/      /           lq  _      ~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING ROYAL DIVING CENTER
g-tSN ww .}// { f A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARINE SCIENCES STATION RESERVE
{  /  @        ,f///       |      t      \    _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~SWIMMING ZONE - NO BOATING
1I          8-    f           //|        ,                        FRINGING REEF SWIMMING ZONE
J  1 /     // /     f   X   /      /         | ~~~~~~~~~~~~FRINGING REEF NO ENTRY ZONE
1l /  /  /  J  /      |   | ~~~~DIVING ZONE
R       : //,Cy        11    /               ] ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MULTI-USE ZONE
\ K f , || XY e ~~~~~~~~~~~~MARINA AND CHANNEL
MARCH 1996



IBRD 27714
ISRAEL !
Aqaba
JORDAN                                                     Town
THE GULF OF AQABA                                                           JORDAN
ARAB REPUBLIC
7X S           SAUDI ARABIA
0       10      20      30
KILOMETERS
The ho-d.nen, color, deno--ntion  -d ny other-6-t-n a
nho-' on this snp do -ot -ply, o- the pet of Th. World Bo-k
G-p, any td -e  on she leal sttn  f -y t-ty, o  -n
endor n o -cpta-  f sh oodo-
JANUARY 1996






Type: ii           25253



