Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF GRANT NUMBER TF028316
Global Environment Facility Trust Fund
Grant Agreement
(Gulf of Aqaba Environmental Action Plan)
between
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated June 27, 1996
GEF GRANT NUMBER TF028316
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 27, 1996, between THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting 
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant 
funds provided to the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund (GEF Trust Fund) by 
certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF.
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements are confirmed 
in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank establishing the GEF Trust Fund;
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance 
from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund in the financing of the Project, and the Bank 
has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of 
Resolution No. 94-2 referred to above;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Section 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol "SDR" 
mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the 
term "Bank" shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; and
(vii)
a new sub-paragraph is added after sub-paragraph (j) in Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: "an extraordinary 
situation shall have arisen in which any further disbursement 
under the GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources 
available for disbursement from the GEF."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following terms 
have the respective meanings therein set forth:
(a)
"ARA" means the Aqaba Regional Authority, a semi-autonomous governmental 
agency established and operating pursuant to Law No. 7 of 1987; and
Page  3
(b)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to one million and nine hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR1,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
U.S. Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through ARA with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate environmental, engineering, maritime, and administrative practices and 
with due regard to ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
Page  4
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than five (5) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties.
Section 5.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all 
their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Minister of Planning
P.O. Box 555
Amman
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Cable address:
Telex:
     MINISTRY OF PLANNING
21319 JO
Page  5
     Amman
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
By /s/ Fayez Tarawneh
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the
Global Environment Facility
By /s/ Gianni Brizzi
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
GEF Trust Fund
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
    300,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
95% of local 
expenditures
(2)
Goods
    400,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 90%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
Page  6
(3)
Consultants’
    900,000
100% 
services and
training
(4)
Operating expenditures
    100,000
100% 
(5)
Unallocated
    200,000
TOTAL
  1,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and
(c)
the term "operating expenditures" means operating expenses for staff 
salaries, electricity, fuel, water, maintenance and repairs in respect of the 
facilities referred to in Part E of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 190,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after February 15, 1996; and (b) under Categories (1) and (4), 
until the official designation of the Red Sea Marine Peace Park, including boundary 
delineation, has been completed.
4.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank. 
5.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) under the first two contracts 
awarded under National Competitive Bidding procedures; (b) under each contract for 
goods and works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 equivalent; 
(c) under each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less 
than the equivalent of $75,000; (d) under each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000 each; and 
(e) for all training and operating expenditures under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient: (i) in establishing 
and implementing a framework for sustainable management and protection of the Gulf of 
Aqaba, including its coral reefs and adjacent terrestrial areas; (ii) in strengthening 
the legal framework for environmental protection in the Aqaba region; and (iii) in 
strengthening the institutional capacity of ARA for regulation of land-based and 
marine activities in the Aqaba region.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A
Development of a regulatory and institutional framework for environmental 
protection of the Gulf of Aqaba, including:
(a)
Development of procedures and standards for regulation of ship-based 
pollution, licensing of industrial facilities, prevention of pollution, management of 
coastal zones, and preparation of environmental impact assessments.
Page  7
(b)
Coordination of data among Gulf-bordering states concerning marine and 
land-based pollution, sewage management, solid waste disposal, coral reef ecology, and 
fisheries management.
(c)
Strengthening of technical capabilities to monitor pollution, including 
the provision of computer database systems and strengthening of laboratory analysis 
and field sampling capabilities.
Part B
Assessment of measures to reduce risk of major oil spills and introduction of 
measures to promote waste oil recovery and reuse for bilge and ballast water and waste 
oil from vehicles.
Part C
Multi-sector assessment of water resources in the Gulf of Aqaba, including 
groundwater monitoring.
Part D
Management of marine and land-based solid waste in the Aqaba region, through: 
(a)
Development of a solid waste collection, recycling and disposal plan for 
the Aqaba region, including planning for a confined landfill site and public awareness 
campaigns; and
(b)
Development and implementation of an effective management plan for 
ship-based solid waste, including construction of adequate reception facilities in all 
port areas, and provision for systematic enforcement measures.
Part E
Establishment and operation of the Red Sea Marine Peace Park, including: 
designation of different zones for coral research, limited use managed zones for 
recreational activities, and maritime transportation corridors, provision of a 
visitor’s center, marine park staff, perimeter fencing, and mooring and marker buoys 
for implementation of procedures for effective management of different zones.
*       *       *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B, namely: the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall 
apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Page  8
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, and works may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to the first two contracts awarded under national competitive 
bidding procedures, and each contract awarded under international competitive bidding, 
and each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$75,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $25,000.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Recipient shall establish by July 1, 1996 and thereafter maintain the ARA 
Environment Unit with staffing and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
The Recipient shall promulgate, by December 31, 1996, regulations for operation 
of the managed resource marine park to be established under Part E of the Project.
3.
The Recipient shall adopt, by September 1, 1996, environmental standards and 
Page  9
regulations for coastal zone management, environmental auditing, prevention of 
industrial pollution, and environmental impact assessments.
4.
The Recipient shall cause ARA to: (a) by December 31, 1996, design measures for 
recovery of recurrent costs for operation and maintenance; (b) furnish the proposed 
measures to the Bank for its review and comments; (c) finalize the recommendations of 
the plan taking the Bank's comments into account; (d) within six (6) months of 
completion implement the recommendations of the plan; and (e) update regularly cost 
recovery charges based on the methodology proposed in the plan.
5.
The Recipient shall base the equipment to monitor sea water quality at the 
Marine Science Station.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $300,000 
to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
 (i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
Page  10
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated 
to the eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
