CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 229 CM
Development Credit
Agreement
(Douala Port Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 14, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 229 CM
Development Credit
Agreement
(Douala Port Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 14, 1971


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 14, 1971, between the FEDERAL
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Section 5.01 thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Port Commander" means the Capitaine du Port referred to in the
Borrower's R&glement sur la police a l'int6rieur du combinat portuaire
Douala-Bonab6ri published by the Borrower's Decree No. 64/DF/12
of January 8, 1964, amended by Decree No. 64/DF/152 of
April 30, 1964.
(b)   "Port Directorate" means the Borrower's Direction des Ports et des
Voies Navigables responsible for the operation and management of the
port of Douala-Bonab6ri and includes any organization or agency
succeeding thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an


﻿4
amount in various currencies equivalent to one million five hundred thousand dollars
($1,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank
in August 1969, and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1973, or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June I and
December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from th- Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
June 1    and   December 1     commencing    June 1, 1981    and   ending
December 1, 2020, each installment to and including the installment payable on
December 1, 1990 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, engineering and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall employ engineering consultants
acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association to supervise the construction of the deep water quay
included in Part A (1) of the Project, to prepare tender documents for, and
supervise the construction of, Part B of the Project, and to carry out Part C of
the Project.
(b)   In carrying out Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall employ in
the Port Directorate, for a period of not less than eighteen months starting not
later than May 1, 1971, or such other date as may be agreed to by the Association,
a cost accounting advisor acceptable to the Borrower and the Association upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
contrac.tors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall use its best efforts to cause the establishment, not later than April 30, 197 1,
of a company under Statuts which shall have been approved by the Association,
which shall at all times ifter its establishment, have full and exclusive responsibility
for the operation in accordance with sound commercial practices of the log depot
located in the port of Douala-Bonab6ri, pursuant to a concession agreement and
a cahier des charges approved by the Association, and of such other log depots
as shall be entrusted to it.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against marine, transit and other hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿6
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents, work and
procurement schedules, for the Project, and any material modifications or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall take all steps necessary to ensure that
the operation of its ports shall at all times be conducted, their affairs managed,
their future investments planned, and a sound financial situation maintained, in
accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering practices and under
the direction of competent and experienced management.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the facilities, equipment, machinery, or other
property necessary or useful in the operation of the port of Douala-Bonab6ri to
be operated, maintained, renewed and repaired in accordance with sound
engineering and management practices.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, in respect of the port of Douala-Bonab6ri:
(a)   appoint a competent and experienced Port Commander;
(b)   delegate to the port director, not later than on April 30, 197 1, the
powers required for a flexible and efficient management of the ports, as provided
under Section 4.01 of this Agreement; and


﻿7
(c)   institute, not later than on June 30, 197 1, and after consultation with
the Association, adequate rules relating to the use of the storage facilities located
in the Douala-Bonab6ri port area, providing, in particular, for reasonable time limits
and penalties for extended storage of cargo in such facilities.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall consult the Association on any substantial
change in port organization in the territories of the Borrower.
Section 4.04. The Borrower undertakes to have its dredger Garoua operated
in the ports of Cameroon with the efficiency required to ensure adequate dredging
of such ports and of their approaches.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall (i) cause the Port Directorate to be
represented in any organization which may be established to operate the industrial
zone expected to be created at Bonab6ri, and (ii) cause the Port Directorate to
be consulted on any allocation of land for industrial purposes in Bonab6ri.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall consult the Association prior to any
modification of port rates or charges in the port of Douala-Bonab6ri.
(b)   The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all measures required
to improve the efficiency of operation of the port of Douala-Bonab6ri so that
the operating ratio at said port shall not exceed percentages to be determined
in agreement with the Association upon completion of Part D of the Project and
in line with the results of the financial analyses therein included; subject to such
results, it is intended not to exceed a ratio of 80% in the fiscal year beginning
on July 1, 1971; 78% in the fiscal year beginning on July 1, 1972; 76% in the
fiscal year beginning on July 1, 1973; and 74% in the fiscal year beginning on
July 1, 1974, and in each fiscal year thereafter.
(c)   For the purposes of this Section, the term "operating ratio" means
the ratio of total expenses of operating the port of Douala-Bonab6ri, including
major   repairs, administrative  and  maintenance   expenses and    straight-line
depreciation, but excluding interest and other charges on long-term debts and taxes
(if any), to total income from the operation of said port.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, all measures
required to ensure that there shall accumulate in the Port Renewal Fund provided
for in the Port Directorate annex to the Borrower's Budget, reserves for future
port capital expenditures, in an amount which, by June 30, 1974, shall be not
less than the equivalent of $3,600,000, provided, however, that capital expenditures
for any project established in consultation with the Association, other than the


﻿8
Project provided for in this Agreement, may be deducted from the amounts thus
accumulated.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall take all measures required to ensure as
far as possible an equilibrium in the accounts related to the operation of the ports
of Garoua, Kribi and Victoria/Tiko.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of the Port Directorate and of
any other departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for the operation
of the ports of Douala-Bonab6ri, of Garoua, of Kribi, and of Victoria/Tiko; in
particular, the Borrower shall cause separate accounts to be maintained in
accordance with such practices to reflect the operations and financial condition
of the port of Douala-Bonab6ri and the operating ratio of said port, as such term
is defined in Section 4.06 (c) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, in respect of
the Project, of the Port Directorate and of any other departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, the
organization and development of ports in the Borrower's territories, and, in
particular, of the port of Douala-Bonab6ri, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.


﻿9
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of
the Port Directorate and of any other departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance
by the Borrower of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to inspect all installations, sites, works,
buildings, property and equipment related to the Project and to visit any part
of the territories of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
.         the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately


﻿10
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that any legislation or regulation
of the Borrower relating to the establishment, powers, organization or financial
structure of the ports of the Borrower in general, or of the port of Douala-Bonab6ri
in particular, shall have been amended, repealed, suspended or waived so as to
have an adverse effect on the Project or on the operations of the port of
Douala-Bonab6ri.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The date March 31, 1971 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.04 (a) and
Article IV of this Agreement, and the provisions of Section 7.02 of this Agreement,
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Planning and Development of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Federal Ministry of Planning
and Development
Yaound6
Cameroon


﻿11
Cable address:
Minplan
Yaound6
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ Michel Koss Epangu6
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mohamed Shoaib
Vice President


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in           % of Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)         to be Financed
I.    Civil works and re-             955,000            65% of total expendi-
lated equipment for                                tures (representing
Part A of the Proj-                                the estimated foreign
ect                                                expenditure component)
II.   Suction cutter dredg-           200,000            100% of foreign ex-
er                                                 penditures
III.  Services of consul-             120,000            100% of foreign ex-
tants for the Proj-                                penditures
ect
IV.   Unallocated                     225,000
TOTAL         1,500,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any member of the Bank (other than the Borrower) or of Switzerland; provided,
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another member
of the Bank in the territories of which goods are produced or from the territories
of which services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or
services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; and


﻿13
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
*        therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I shall
increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
A.    Civil Works
(1)   At Douala-Bonab6ri, the construction of a new deep water quay,
approximately 200 meters long and 8.5 meters deep.
(2)   In the log-handling area at Douala, (a) the construction of a
shallow-draft quay for loading logs in barges, approximately 30 meters long and
2 meters deep, (b) the construction of sloping concrete aprons approximately
60 meters long for launching floatable logs, (c) the paving of approximately
20,000 square meters of roads and timber stacking areas, and (d) shifting the
existing 20-ton overhead crane to the edge of the new shallow-draft quay.
(3)   The dredging of approximately 100,000 cubic meters in front of the
log-handling area at Douala to facilitate movement of barges and floating logs.
(4)   The installation at Douala of four buoys for three mooring stations
for timber-loading ships.
B.    The acquisition of a small suction cutter dredger to carry out dredging work
required in the Project and maintain attained depths.
C.    A  study comparing the feasibility of establishing new  timber-handling
facilities at Japoma-Manoka and at Douala.
D.    The elaboration of a modern, accrual-basis accounting system for the port
of Douala-Bonab6ri based on adequate costing and internal budgetary
methods, and the preparation of an inventory of the assets located in the
port of Douala-Bonab'ri or required for its operation and the valuation of
such assets. Such assets inventory and valuation is expected to be completed
by September 30, 1971.
E.    The acquisition by, or for the exclusive use of, the mixed company referred
to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement, of adequate mobile and floating
log-handling equipment for use in the port of Douala-Bonab6ri; such
acquisition is expected to take place on or before September 30, 1971.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1972.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
I.    With respect to Parts A (1) and B of the Project:
(a)   Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, all civil works included
in Part A (1) of the Project shall be included in a single contract.
(b)   Prequalification, as described in paragraph 1.3 of the Guidelines, shall
be employed for civil works and dredger bidders. A period of 30 days shall be
allowed for submission of prequalification documents. Prior to prequalification,
the Borrower shall send to the Association a list of all firms requesting
prequalification, together with the proposed list of prequalified contractors and
the reasons for approval or rejection.
(0)   Prior to issuing and publishing invitations to bid, the Borrower shall
send to the Association, for its comments, two copies of the invitation to bid,
draft forms of contract, specifications and all other bid documents together with
a complete description of the international advertising procedure to be used
(including a list of publications in which the advertisements will appear and the
*        time to be allowed for bid preparation) and shall make such modifications in such
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Bidders shall
be allowed at least 60 days to submit their bids and shall not be required to
be registered in Federal Republic of Cameroon as a condition to submit bids. Should
any other formality be required of a successful bidder before undertaking the works,
every facility shall be furnished to the contractor to avoid any possible delay.
(d)   Contracts shall include adequate escalation clauses, as described in
paragraph 4.4 of the Guidelines, and shall show unit prices. The Borrower shall
ensure that all necessary import permits for materials or equipment required for
carrying out such contracts shall be issued promptly.
(e)   After bids have been received and analyzed, two copies of the analysis
of bids, the recommendations of the engineering consultants referred to in Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement and the proposals of the Borrower for award, together
with the reason for such proposals, shall be submitted to the Association for its
review and comment prior to the award of the contract or issuance of a letter
of intent. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts shall be awarded
to the lowest evaluated bidder. If it is proposed to award any contract to other
than the lowest evaluated bidder, the reasons for such proposal shall be stated.
The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower whether it has any objection


﻿16
to the intended award on the ground that it would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits referred
to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement or with the Development Credit Agreement,
and shall state the reasons for any objections it may have.
(f)   If the contracts shall be awarded over the Association's reasonable
objection, or if their terms and conditions shall, without the Association's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked, no expenditure
thereunder shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(g)   Two conformed copies of each contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
II.   With respect to contracts for civil works included in Parts A (2), A (3) and
A (4) of the Project:
(a)   The international competitive bidding procedure applicable shall not
require more than local advertising coverage, by reason of the expected smallness
of such contract.
(b)   Copies of all documents, including the invitation to bid, the tender
documents, bid analysis and evaluation, two conformed copies of each such
contract, and the reasons for the award of each such contract, if any, to other
than the lowest bidder, shall be sent to the Association promptly after the execution
of any such contract and prior to submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any
such contract.
(c)   The Association shall, promptly after receipt of the documents referred
to in paragraph (b) hereof, inform the Borrower if it finds that the award of any
such contract is not consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement or
with the Development Credit Agreement and, in such event, no expenditure under
any such contract shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


