                    INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET
                            APPRAISAL STAGE

I. Basic Information
Date prepared/updated: 01/23/2012                                    Report No.: AC6632
1. Basic Project Data
Original Project ID: P097181                 Original Project Name: Nutrition
                                             Enhancement Program II
Country: Senegal                             Project ID: P129398
Project Name: Additional Financing Nutrition Enhancement Project (PRN2)
Task Team Leader: Menno Mulder-Sibanda
Estimated Appraisal Date:                    Estimated Board Date: May 24, 2012
Managing Unit: AFTHE                         Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program
                                             Loan
Sector: Other social services (40%);Health (40%);Sub-national government
administration (20%)
Theme: Nutrition and food security (70%);Child health (20%);Population and
reproductive health (10%)
IBRD Amount (US$m.):             0
IDA Amount (US$m.):             10
GEF Amount (US$m.):              0
PCF Amount (US$m.):              0
Other financing amounts by source:
         BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                            0.00
                                                                       0.00
Environmental Category: C - Not Required
Simplified Processing                        Simple []           Repeater []
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery)
                                                                  Yes [ ]     No [X]
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies)

2. Project Objectives
To expand access to and enhance nutrition conditions of vulnerable populations, in
particular those affecting growth of children under five in poor urban and rural areas

3. Project Description
The Additional Financing will continue to support the existing three components with the
following additional activities:



 Component 1: Community-based nutrition – This component currently supports a
package of community services and activities that include growth monitoring and
promotion, community integrated management of childhood illnesses, and the promotion
of enhanced micronutrient status through dietary diversification and micronutrient
supplementation. Following the impact of the global food price and economic crises, the
Government of Senegal has shown increased interest to strengthen food security and
social protection. Under the proposed Additional Financing, the project will add
community-based food security interventions to the existing package of community
services and activities. These activities include: (i) promotion of backyard gardens for
the production of fruits and vegetables to enhance dietary diversification and increase
nutrient intake, particularly during the non-harvest season; (ii) village grain banks for the
storage of staple food to enhance access to and availability of the principle staple foods
during the lean season; and (iii) promotion of small livestock to enhance dietary intake,
dietary diversification as well as livelihood security. In addition, following new
guidelines from WHO on the prevention and management of iron deficiency anemia in
young children, the Additional Financing will initiate the roll-out of integrated anemia
control interventions in approximately a quarter of the intervention areas. In 2007, when
the project was designed, the possibility of adding supplemental iron to the child’s diet
was halted worldwide as a result of an unfinished controversial study that indicated
increased risk of death as a result of an interaction between supplemental iron and
malaria. New findings have now led to revised guidelines that provide a programmatic
basis to engage in more effective programs to reduce widespread anemia in women and
children in a way that was not possible when the project was designed in 2007. In
Senegal, the prevalence of anemia is 75 percent in under-five year old children and 54
percent in non-pregnant women.



  Component 2: Multisectoral support to nutrition – This component currently supports
the health and education sectors to implement pro-nutrition activities and enhance their
role in promoting health growth and good nutrition in women and children. Because of
funding limitations, the support was limited to the health and education sectors only, even
though the agriculture, water and sanitation sectors had been identified as eligible sectors
as well. During the budget crisis of 2007-2008, support for this component was reduced
to a minimum in order to prioritize the community activities under component 1. As a
result, the activities under this component have not reached the scale that was intended
(even though the project indicators have performed well). In addition, the agriculture and
water sectors have become two additional important sectors through which to leverage
pro-nutrition activities. The proposed Additional Financing will therefore cover the
financing gap for multisectoral pro-nutrition activities under component 2.



 Component 3: Support to Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation of the Nutrition
Development Policy – This component will continue to support the strengthening of the
performance of the “Cellule de Lutte contre la Malnutrition? (CLM) and its decentralized
representations at the regional level in promoting greater involvement and ownership of
the local actors, including Local Government representatives and public sector service
providers. This component was given new directions following the mid-term review in
2009, namely systematically strengthening the role of Local Government in social
mobilization and monitoring of the PRNII. Meanwhile, following unclear results from
the 2010 Demographic and Health Survey, the CLM and the Ministry of Health held
consultations with development partners and decided that a new national anthropometric
household survey that is representative at the Departmental level is needed to strengthen
the information base for monitoring and evaluation. Based on these two developments,
the proposed Additional Financing will support a national household survey, which will
provide a quantitative basis for Local Government to initiate a qualitative local
consultation process of problem prioritization around health and nutrition. The pro-
nutrition activities that will be identified will be integrated in the Local Development
Plans, thereby further strengthening Local Governments’ role and ownership of PRNII
activities and outcomes.

4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard
analysis
The project will be implemented nationwide with an emphasis at community level
activities.

5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists
   ()

6. Safeguard Policies Triggered                              Yes         No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                                    X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                            X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                     X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                                 X
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                          X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                    X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                              X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                         X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                  X

II. Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project.
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:
The environmental and safeguards category for the requested additional funding remains
C and no social safeguards will be triggered. The proposed Additional Financing will not
trigger any exceptions to Bank policies.

2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area:
N/A.
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize
adverse impacts.
N/A.

4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
N/A.

5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
N/A.



B. Disclosure Requirements Date
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
  For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive
  Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
* If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources,
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental
Assessment/Audit/or EMP.
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please
explain why:
  C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the
  ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting)

  The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information
  Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's       No
  Infoshop?
  Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a       No
  form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected
  groups and local NGOs?
  All Safeguard Policies
  Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities    N/A
  been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard
  policies?
  Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project   N/A
  cost?
  Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the           N/A
  monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies?
  Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the             N/A
  borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal
  documents?


  D. Approvals

Signed and submitted by:                              Name                         Date
Task Team Leader:                   Mr Menno Mulder-Sibanda                      01/23/2012
Environmental Specialist:           Ms Liba C. Strengerowski-Feldblyum           01/23/2012
Social Development Specialist
Additional Environmental and/or
Social Development Specialist(s):

Approved by:
Sector Manager:                     Mr Jean J. De St Antoine                     01/23/2012
  Comments:
