                                   Document of
                               The World Bank

                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                     Report No: 66812-SN




                                PROJECT PAPER

                                      ON A

                      PROPOSED ADDITIONAL CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.5 MILLION
                      (US$10 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      AND

                                RESTUCTURING


                                     TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL

                                    FOR THE

                  NUTRITION ENHANCEMENT PROJECT II

                                  March 1, 2012




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.


                                        i
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2012)


                      Currency Unit = Franc CFA (F CFA)
                        F CFA 498 = US$1
                        US$ 1.5511 = SDR 1

                           FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 – December 31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL    Adaptable Program Loan
BCC    Behavior Change Communication
BEN    Bureau Exécutive National / National Executive Bureau
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CEA    Community Executing Agency
CIDA   Canadian International Development Agency
CLM    Cellule de Lutte contre la Malnutrition / Unit for the Fight against
       Malnutrition
CMAM   Community Management of Acute Malnutrition
CMU    Country Management Unit
DA     Designated Account
DHS    Demographic and Health Survey
EOP    End of Project
FM     Financial Management
FY     Fiscal Year
GAIN   Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition
GPN    General Procurement Notice
IA     Implementing Agency
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank)
IDA    International Development Association (World Bank)
IEG    Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)
IFAC   International Federation of Accountant
IFR    Interim Financial Report
ISR    Implementation Status Report
LG     Local Government
LQAS   Lot Quality Assurance Sampling
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
MDG    Millennium Development Goals
MECD   Ministry responsible for Early Childhood Development
MOA    Ministry responsible for Agriculture
MOE    Ministry responsible for Education
MOH    Ministry responsible for Health
NGO    Non-Governmental Organization

                                  ii
ORAF     Operational Risk Assessment Framework
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PRN      Programme de Renforcement de la Nutrition / Nutrition Enhancement
         Program
PRSC     Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SAM      Severe Acute Malnutrition
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SUN      Scaling Up Nutrition
TF       Trust Fund
UN       United Nations
UNDB     United Nations Development Business
UNICEF   United Nations Children Fund
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
WFP      World Food Programme
WHO      World Health Organization




                     Vice President:      Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                   Country Director:      Vera Songwe
                    Sector Manager:       Jean Jacques de St Antoine
                  Task Team Leader:       Menno Mulder-Sibanda




                                   iii
 
                                                           SENEGAL

                               NUTRITION ENHANCEMENT PROJECT II

                                             ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                                                          CONTENTS

Project Paper Data Sheet .......................................................................................................... v
Project Paper
        I.        Introduction ......................................................................................................... 1
        II.       Background and Rationale for Additional Financing ......................................... 2
        III.      Proposed Changes ............................................................................................... 5
        IV.       Appraisal Summary ............................................................................................ 8


Annexes
     1.           Revised Results Framework and Monitoring ................................................... 11
     2.           Operational Risk Assessment Framework ....................................................... 15
     3.           Revised Implementation Arrangements and Support ....................................... 18




                                                                   iv
 
                                         SENEGAL
    ADDITIONAL FINANCING NUTRITION ENHANCEMENT PROJECT (PRNII)
                             PROJECT PAPER DATA SHEET

                           Basic Information (Additional Financing)
Country Director: Vera Songwe                     Sectors: Other social services (40%); Health
Sector Manager/Director: Jean J. De St             (40%); Sub-national government
Antoine                                           administration (20%)
Team Leader: Menno Mulder-Sibanda                 Themes: Nutrition and food security (70%);
Project ID: P129398                               Child health (20%); Population and
Expected effectiveness Date: May 5, 2012          reproductive health (10%)
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan Environmental category: C
Additional Financing Type: Scale Up;              Expected closing date: June 14, 2013
Financing Gap; Restructuring
                             Basic Information (Original Project)
Project ID: P097181                               Environmental category: C
Project Name: Nutrition Enhancement               Expected Closing Date: June 14, 2013
Project II                                        Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan
                                     Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan [X] Credit [ ] Grant [ ] Guarantee [ ] Other:
Proposed terms: Standard IDA Credit
                                      AF Financing Plan (US$m)
                           Source                                   Total Amount (US $m)
Total Project Cost:                                                            10
Total IDA Financing:                                                           10
                                       Client Information
Recipient: Senegal
Responsible Agency:
Cellule de Lutte contre la Malnutrition
Rue 7, Point E, P.O.Box 45001
Dakar, Senegal
Tel: +221-33-869-0199         Fax: +221-33-864-3861
ben@clm.sn
www.clm.sn
                         Estimated disbursements (IDA FY/US$m)
FY                                                    12                          13
Annual                                               3.50                        6.50
Cumulative                                           3.50                       10.00




                                              v
Original Project Development Objective:
To improve nutrition conditions of vulnerable populations, in particular those affecting growth
of children under five in poor urban and rural areas

Revised Project Development Objective:
To improve nutritional conditions of vulnerable populations, in particular children under five
years of age in the Intervention Areas

Project description:
The Additional Financing will continue to support the existing three components with the
additional activities as described below: Component 1 refers to Community-based Nutrition and
supports a package of community services and activities that include growth monitoring and
promotion, community integrated management of childhood illnesses, the promotion of
enhanced micronutrient status through dietary diversification and micronutrient
supplementation; and the promotion of household food security. Component 2, Multi-sectoral
Support to Nutrition, currently supports the health and education sectors, to which the
agricultural sector will be added, to plan for and implement pro-nutrition activities and enhance
their role in promoting healthy growth and good nutrition in women and children through:
advocacy and strategic communication; technical assistance to, and coordination with line
ministries to update and strengthen their annual work plans aimed at creating the right
conditions for child growth at community level and enhance implementation of the HIV/AIDS
and nutrition strategy. Component 3, Support to Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation of
the Nutrition Development Policy, supports the strengthening of the performance of the CLM
and its decentralized representations at the regional level in promoting greater involvement and
ownership of the local actors, including Local Government representatives and public sector
service providers. This component was given new directions following the mid-term review in
2009, namely systematically strengthening the role of Local Government in social mobilization
and monitoring of the PRNII.
                               Safeguard and Exception to Policies
Safeguard policies triggered:
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                                              [ ]Yes [X] No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                      [ ]Yes [X] No
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                               [ ]Yes [X] No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                          [ ]Yes [X] No
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                                           [ ]Yes [X] No
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                                    [ ]Yes [X] No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                              [ ]Yes [X] No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                        [ ]Yes [X] No
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                                   [ ]Yes [X] No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                            [ ]Yes [X] No
Does the project require any waivers of Bank policies?                           [ ]Yes [X] No
Have these been endorsed by Bank management?                                     [ ]Yes [ ] No




                                                vi
                              Conditions and Legal Covenants:
 Financing Agreement
       Reference         Description of Condition/Covenant                Date Due
Schedule 2, Section    No withdrawal shall be made for              Ongoing
IV.B.1                 payments made prior to the date of the
                       Financing Agreement, except for
                       withdrawals up to an aggregate amount
                       not to exceed SDR 550,000 equivalent
                       for payments made prior to this date but
                       on or after February 1, 2012, for Eligible
                       Expenditures under Category (1).




                                           vii
 
                                    REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL

                        NUTRITION ENHANCEMENT PROJECT II

                   ADDITIONAL FINANCING AND RESTRUCTURING

I. Introduction

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an Additional
Financing credit and Restructuring for the Senegal Nutrition Enhancement Project II (Projet de
Renforcement de la Nutrition II – PRNII; Credit No. 4245-SE; P097181) in the amount of SDR
6.5 million (US$10 million equivalent) with an extension of the closing date by 13 months to
June 14, 2013. The PRNII is a US$15 million second phase APL (Credit 4245 SE) approved on
November 13, 2007 with an original closing date of May 14, 2012. As of December 2011, 99
percent of the IDA proceeds have been disbursed. The proposed additional credit would help
implement modified and additional project activities which cannot be funded under the initial
project, specifically: (i) the expansion of nutrition activities to scale up the project’s impact and
development effectiveness under Component 1 (community-based nutrition) and Component 3
(support for implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the nutrition development policy);
and (ii) the financing gap for multisectoral pro-nutrition activities under Component 2
(multisectoral support for nutrition).

2.       The Project Development Objective (PDO) of the PRNII is reformulated under the
Additional Financing from “to improve nutritional conditions of vulnerable populations, in
particular children under five years of age in poor urban and rural areas” to “to improve
nutritional conditions of vulnerable populations, in particular children under five years of age in
the intervention areas. The change is deemed necessary to clarify the intent of the original
project development objective and focus the formulation on the outcomes to be achieved. Most
outcome indicators remain the same: three intermediate outcome indicators are being dropped
because of lack of relevance; one PDO outcome indicator has been added to reflect the additional
activities aimed at anemia control; and one intermediate outcome indicator has been added to
reflect the additional activities aimed at household food security. The indicator targets have been
revised upwards, as appropriate, in line with current performance and the extension of the Project
closing date.

3.      Various development partners and donor agencies provide support to parallel nutrition
projects implemented by the same implementing agency, the Cellule de Lutte contre la
Malnutrition (CLM). These partner organizations include UNICEF, WFP, USAID, the
Micronutrient Initiative/CIDA, the Spanish MDG Achievement Fund, and the Global Alliance
for Improved Nutrition (GAIN). Since 2007, these partner organizations participate in joint
implementation support missions; since 2010 a nutrition donor support group has been set up;
and since 2011, Senegal has joined the global Scaling Up Nutrition (SUN) movement which
calls for Governments to provide institutional leadership for large scale nutrition policies and
programs and for the donor community to provide coordinated support.




                                                 1
II. Background and Rationale for Additional Financing in the amount of US$10 million

4.      Bank support over the period 2002-2012 was originally envisioned to be through an
Adaptable Program Loan (APL) in three phases. The overall objective of the PRN is to
contribute to the attainment of the first Millennium Development Goal (MDG) of eradicating
extreme poverty and hunger through implementation of the National Policy on Nutrition which
aims to improve the nutritional status of vulnerable groups, notably children and pregnant and
lactating women. Specifically, the program aims to reduce underweight malnutrition in children
under the age of five by 25 percent in the intervention areas by 2011.

5.      The first phase of the Nutrition Enhancement Project was a US$14.7 million APL (PRNI,
Credit 3619 SE) implemented from 2002-2006. It aimed to extend nutrition and growth
promotion interventions into rural areas and build the institutional and organizational capacity to
enable the Recipient to develop, implement and monitor multisectoral nutrition activities. The
project outcome of the PRN1 was rated highly satisfactory in the Implementation Completion
Report as was the performance of the Borrower while Bank performance was rated satisfactory.
The Bank’s Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) rated the project outcome satisfactory,
including substantial efficiency and efficacy. Borrower and Bank performance were both rated
as highly satisfactory.

6.      PRNII supports the second strategic plan for nutrition and is dedicated to scaling up
interventions and refining the implementation capacity. The Recipient’s contribution to the
overall program increased seven-fold to US$11 million. In the wake of the food price crisis in
2008 (and the ensuing global economic crisis), the PRNII was seen as an important instrument to
invest in effective social protection programs including safety nets and nutrition. The Bank
mobilized and provided support to mitigate against the negative effects of the global crises and
protect the nutritional status and growth of young children through a credit and grant of US$18
million for a Rapid Response Child Focused Social Cash Transfer and Nutrition Security Project
(Cr. No. 4605-SN; TF094372; P115938) which is being implemented successfully through the
implementation platform of the PRNII. With the expansion of project activities, including other
donor-supported project activities, the client and the Bank became acutely aware of the increased
M&E needs and successfully processed an Institutional Development Fund proposal for US$0.5
million to strengthen the capacity on operational evaluation in program implementation.

7.      Originally, the third strategic plan was expected to be supported by a third phase of the
APL aimed at extending coverage nationwide and consolidating the development of an effective
nutrition system capable of providing nutrition services cost-effectively, adjusting to local needs,
and working cooperatively with communities and local government. After PRNI, there were
discussions between the Bank and the client agreeing to forego the third phase and fold the third
phase objectives into the second phase. On this basis, the proposed Additional Financing
operation is aiming at complementing and scaling up the APL’s second and final phase.

8.     The Second Nutrition Enhancement Project (PRNII) has contributed to the Recipient’s
long term nutrition objectives and program, and has three components. Component 1 refers to
Community-based Nutrition and supports a package of community services and activities that
include growth monitoring and promotion, community integrated management of childhood


                                                 2
illnesses, and the promotion of enhanced micronutrient status through dietary diversification and
micronutrient supplementation. Component 2, Multi-sectoral Support to Nutrition, supports the
health and education sectors to implement pro-nutrition activities and enhance their role in
promoting healthy growth and good nutrition in women and children. Component 3, Support to
Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation of the Nutrition Development Policy, supports the
strengthening of the performance of the CLM and its decentralized representations at the
regional level in promoting greater involvement and ownership of the local actors, including
Local Government representatives and public sector service providers. Following the mid-term
review in 2009, it was recommended that this component focuses on systematically
strengthening the role of Local Government in social mobilization and monitoring of the PRNII.

9.      The Project is rated highly satisfactory since 2008 on both the Project Development
Objective (PDO) and Implementation Progress, all legal covenants have been complied with and
there are no outstanding audit reports. Project disbursement stands at 99 percent as of end
January 2012. As shown in paragraph 24, all four original PDO indicators on: (i) program
coverage in rural areas; (ii) exclusive breastfeeding rate; (iii) use of insecticide-treated nets by
pregnant women and children under five; and (iv) number of people with access to a basic
package of nutrition services (i.e., core indicator) have surpassed the end-of-project target.
Similarly, all intermediate outcome indicators have surpassed the end-of-project target (see
Annex 1). The project is characterized by a well-performing Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
system, a decentralized project management structure which allows for flexible and rapid
integration of new initiatives and projects, a competent resource mobilization and financial
management unit, and a near-flawless procurement service. In the last Implementation Status
Report (ISR), financial management is rated satisfactory, and project management, counterpart
funding, procurement and M&E are rated highly satisfactory.

10.     With respect to the overall objective of the APL project, in particular its aim to reduce
underweight malnutrition in children under the age of five by 25 percent in the intervention areas
by 2011, the PRN has seen underweight rates drop by over 50% in the intervention areas (i.e.,
from 24 percent to 11 percent). Nationally, the prevalence of underweight is 25% down from its
level in 2000 (i.e., from 20 percent to 15 percent). While Senegal has made great progress in
reducing overall malnutrition, i.e., Senegal has one of the lowest stunting and underweight
malnutrition rates in sub-Sahara Africa, there are still major challenges that require more
effective approaches. Although conclusive data is not available, UNICEF estimates that close to
20 percent of infants are born with low birth weight. Iron deficiency anemia, a major cause of
low birth weight, as well as reduced productivity and compromised cognitive development, is
also widespread. More than 75 percent of under-five children and over 50 percent of non-
pregnant mothers are anemic. Meanwhile, the combined effects of the global food price and
economic crises on food security and dietary intake have underscored the need to mainstream
household food security measures as part of the promotion of healthy growth and good nutrition
in women and children.

11.      The Recipient contribution to the program was a modest US$0.33 million per year during
the first phase (2002-2006). During negotiations of the second phase, and following the success
of the first phase, the Recipient committed to increase the annual contribution to approximately
US$2.3 million. In 2010-2011, Recipient’s commitment was taken up as a prior action under the
Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit (PRSC), and following the support provided through the

                                                 3
PRSC dialogue, the Recipient expressed in April 2011 its commitment to increase its annual
contribution to the program three fold to approximately US$7.8 million between 2012 and 2016
which by then will represent more than 50% of the total program budget of approximately
US$15 million per year. Donor contributions to the program, other than the Bank, represent
approximately 10% of the program, while parallel financing represents approximately another
10%. With the introduction of the Rapid Response Child-Focused Social Cash Transfer and
Nutrition Security Project in 2009, the Bank has remained the largest single source of financing
of the program. Both projects are set to close in 2012. A new Health and Nutrition Project is in
the pipeline for FY14 leaving a gap between the closing of the current investment projects and
the beginning of the new project.

12.     Given the impressive improvements in nutrition conditions (see paragraph 24), and the
partnerships which have been established (e.g., between central-level government, Local
Government and Civil Society Organizations for community-based nutrition interventions;
public-private partnership for food fortification; and among nutrition donors), it would be
inopportune for the Bank to now withdraw its support from the sector until it returns in FY14.
The alternative for the Bank to request Additional Financing together with an extension of the
current Project is therefore considered most appropriate by the Recipient, the Bank management
and the Task Team. Additional Financing will enable the Bank to continue to support the
implementation and the objectives of the second Nutrition Strategic Plan as described in the
PRNII Project Appraisal Document (PAD), and will provide a suitable transition period to the
new Health and Nutrition Project and the increased contribution from Recipient.

13.     In light of these developments, the Recipient submitted a request for Additional
Financing for the PRNII, which was received on July 21, 2011. The request highlighted the need
to: (i) maintain (and increase) program coverage and intensity; and (ii) scale-up additional
program activities to mitigate potentially harmful consequences of the food price and economic
crises on maternal and child growth and nutrition, thereby rendering the outcomes of the
development objective more sustainable. In this request, the Recipient expressed its interest to
build on the achievements of the PRNII and the Rapid Response Project to strengthen: (i) the
multi-sectoral pro-nutrition activities under the community-based nutrition program with a
particular focus on household food security interventions; and (ii) the multi-sectoral support for
nutrition in the agriculture and water sectors in addition to the health and education sectors,
which were the two sectors emphasized under the original project.

14.    The proposed activities have a strong link with the Africa Strategy, specifically Pillar 1
(Competitiveness and Employment) and Pillar 2 (Vulnerability and Resilience). Nutrition is a
major foundation of human capital; nutrition interventions increase women’s access to services,
technology and income-generating activities, are pro-poor and can mitigate the impact of
economic shocks on vulnerable populations; and decentralized nutrition programming can build
community capacity to prepare for shocks in the first place. The proposed activities are also
consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) under Pillar II on Human Development /
Social Services / Shared Growth which aims to reduce child mortality below 13 percent during
the CAS period through a series of actions aimed at reducing underweight malnutrition rates in
children under 5 years old, in line with the MDGs and the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PRSP) objectives. This Project is also aligned with Pillar II of the PRSP (accelerated
development of human capital through nutrition).

                                                4
III. Proposed Changes

15.     The revised PDO under the Additional Financing, is to improve nutritional conditions of
vulnerable populations, in particular children under five years of age in the intervention areas.
These areas include the 326 Local Government (LG) areas in which the project operates. The
reformulation is deemed necessary to clarify the intent of the original project development
objective and focus the formulation on the outcomes to be achieved. The proposed Additional
Financing would require an extension of the closing date of the Original Financing Agreement to
June 14, 2013. Further to the Recipient’s request and the discussions with the client, the
Additional Financing will continue to support the existing three components with the following
additional activities:

16.     Component 1 – Community-based Nutrition (US$ 7.6 million): This component
currently supports a package of community services and activities that include growth
monitoring and promotion, community integrated management of childhood illnesses, and
behavior change communication (BCC) on: (i) infant and young child caring and feeding
practices including exclusive breastfeeding for the first six months and complementary feeding
from six months on; (ii) household care of and care seeking for the sick child; (iii) the use of
insecticide-treated bednets (following the procurement and distribution earlier in the program);
(iv) enhanced micronutrient intake through dietary diversification and micronutrient
supplementation; (v) pregnancy care at household and community level; (vi) maternal nutrition.
The interventions are implemented in all 69 Districts but the focus is on Districts and LG with
higher burdens of malnutrition.

17.     Following the impact of the global food price and economic crises, the Recipient has
shown increased interest in strengthening food security and social protection. Building on
existing experience by the Community Executing Agencies of the Nutrition Enhancement
Program as well as the USAID-funded Feed-the-Future initiative, the proposed Additional
Financing operation will add community-based food security interventions to the existing
package of community services and activities. These activities include: (i) promotion of
backyard gardens for the production of fruits and vegetables to enhance dietary diversification
and increase nutrient intake, particularly during the non-harvest season; (ii) village grain banks
for the storage of staple food to enhance access to and availability of the principle staple foods
during the lean season; and (iii) promotion of small livestock to enhance dietary intake, dietary
diversification as well as livelihood security. These activities are secondary “long-term”
investments that will draw on international guidance on successful pro-nutrition food security
interventions at community and household levels, and that will strengthen the existing package
of effective community nutrition interventions. The targeting of these interventions and any
other relevant and appropriate intervention is the same as for the BCC interventions but also
depends on the local suitability (culturally and climatologically) for such interventions.

18.    In addition, following new guidelines from World Health Organization (WHO)1 on the
prevention and management of iron deficiency anemia in young children, the proposed

1
  Supplemental iron in low doses as in sprinkles in malaria endemic areas can be distributed if accompanied by
malaria control interventions, such as the promotion of insecticide-treated bed nets.

                                                        5
Additional Financing will initiate the roll-out of integrated anemia control interventions in
approximately a quarter of the intervention areas. In 2007, when the project was designed, the
possibility of adding supplemental iron to the child’s diet was halted worldwide as a result of an
unfinished controversial study that indicated increased risk of death as a result of an interaction
between supplemental iron and malaria. New findings have now led to revised guidelines that
provide a programmatic basis to engage in more effective programs to reduce widespread anemia
in women and children in a way that was not possible when the project was designed in 2007. In
Senegal, the prevalence of anemia is 75 percent in under-five year old children and 54 percent in
non-pregnant women.

19.     Component 2 – Multi-Sectoral support for Nutrition (US$ 1.3 million): This
component currently supports the health and education sectors, to plan for and implement pro-
nutrition activities and enhance their role in promoting healthy growth and good nutrition in
women and children. The proposed Additional financing operation will extend activities to
embed nutrition-related aspects into sector portfolios of agriculture, in addition to health and
education. This will be achieved by: (i) updating and strengthening annual work plans of the
Ministry responsible for Agriculture (MOA), Health (MOH), Education (MOE) and Early
Childhood Development (MECD) with nutrition-relevant actions through the identification of
areas of collaboration between the CLM and MOA, MOH and MOE; (ii) updating of nutrition-
relevant norms for the promotion of a strategy to fight anemia; (iii) advocating for nutrition
within the health, education and agricultural sectors; (iv) integrating health and nutrition
education in sector programs; (v) delivering essential health and nutrition services (including
supervision by MOH of community activities implemented under Component 1 of the Project);
(vi) promoting food and nutrition security at household level; and (vii) technical assistance to,
and coordination with Sector Ministries designed to create the right conditions for child growth
at community level and enhance implementation of the HIV/AIDS and nutrition strategy.

20.     In health, the focus is on supervision of and guidance to community workers by front-line
health staff, the twice-yearly distribution of high-dose vitamin A supplements and deworming
medication to children 6-59 months, the administration of high-dose vitamin A supplements to
new mothers within eight weeks after giving birth, and the community management of acute
malnutrition (CMAM), including quarterly screening as well as therapeutic feeding and follow
up of children suffering from severe acute malnutrition (SAM). In education, the focus is on
weekly distribution of micronutrient supplements, nutrition training and education in literacy
schools as well as early childhood centers. The support was limited to the health and education
sectors only, even though the agriculture, water and sanitation sectors had been identified as
eligible sectors as well. Under the proposed Additional Financing, the agriculture and water
sectors will be two additional important sectors through which to leverage pro-nutrition
activities, including the promotion of household food security and food processing technologies
through agricultural extension workers (e.g., small scale irrigation, manure production
techniques, food conservation), and the promotion of appropriate safe water technologies (e.g.,
water boiling, purification) in areas where access to safe water is a problem. The proposed
Additional Financing will therefore cover the financing gap for multisectoral pro-nutrition
activities under component 2.




                                                6
21.     Component 3 – Support to Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation of the
Nutrition Development Policy (US$ 1.1 million): This component will continue to support the
strengthening of the performance of the CLM and its decentralized representations at the
regional level in promoting greater involvement and ownership of the local actors, including
Local Government representatives and public sector service providers. Following the mid-term
review in 2009, it was recommended that this component focuses on systematically
strengthening the role of Local Government in social mobilization and monitoring of the PRNII.
Meanwhile, following unclear results from the 2010 Demographic and Health Survey (DHS;
e.g., anthropometric results contradict findings from national and district-level surveys that have
been conducted before and after the DHS), the CLM and the Ministry of Health held
consultations with development partners and decided that a new national anthropometric
household survey that is representative at the Departmental level is needed to strengthen the
information base for monitoring and evaluation. Based on these two developments, the proposed
Additional Financing will support a national household survey, which will provide a quantitative
basis for Local Government to initiate a qualitative local consultation process of problem
prioritization around health and nutrition. The pro-nutrition activities that will be identified will
be integrated in the Local Development Plans, thereby further strengthening Local Governments’
role and ownership of PRNII activities and outcomes.

22.    The total cost of the proposed project is SDR 6.5 million (equivalent to US$ 10 million).
Retroactive financing will be anticipated for expenses incurred from February 1, 2012. The table
below describes the financing allocation by category of expenditure of the proposed Additional
Financing.

Table 1: Project Cost and Financing

Category of Expenditure                  Original Costs     Additional Financing      Total Costs

Drugs, pharmaceutical equipment, other
goods, services (including audits),
                                              5.3                   2.8                   8.1
training and operating costs for the
project (excluding Component 1)
Good and services required for
                                              9.5                   7.2                  16.7
subprojects under Component 1
Refund of PPF                                 0.2                    -                    0.2
Total                                         15.0                  10.0                 25.0


23.    The institutional and implementation arrangements remain the same as the ones currently
in place. The main implementing agency is the CLM, a coordination forum attached to the
Prime Minister's Office. Day-to-day management of program and project activities is assured by
the Executive National Bureau (BEN) and its three regional representation offices. Detailed
annual work programs and budgets are prepared by the BEN and approved by the CLM in
December of each year. Component 1 is implemented by 326 LG in partnership with 18
Community Executing Agencies (CEA) in all 14 Regions and 69 Districts through Grant
subprojects. The LG/CEA have set up over 1,100 community nutrition sites and mobilized over
4,300 community nutrition volunteers. The implementation of project activities is supported by
public health workers and other sectoral public service providers. Component 2 is implemented

                                                     7
by line ministries through technical agreements derived from annual work programs.
Component 3 is implemented by the CLM.

24.     Project performance and proposed PDO indicators are shown in the table below
(including one new PDO indicator) and in Annex 1. All indicators are project-level indicators
(except for vitamin A supplementation coverage, which is a program-level indicator). The
indicator targets have been revised upwards, as appropriate, in line with current progress and the
extension of the Project closing date.

Table 2: Proposed project development indicators
                                                                              EOP1 target   Progress    EOP target
Indicator                                                          Baseline    PAD 2007     Dec 2011     AF 2012
PDO#1: Overall program coverage of children under five in
                                                                     15           40           62          62
rural areas (percent)
PDO#2: Infants exclusively breastfed for the first six
                                                                     34           44           58          60
months in intervention areas (percent)
PDO#3: Pregnant women and children under five sleeping
under insecticide treated nets in the intervention areas             12           40           71          75
(percent)
PDO#4: People with access to a basic package of health,
nutrition and population services (CORE Indicator; refers to       265,073      709,124     1,100,000   1,100,000
children reached by the nutrition program; number)
PDO#5: Children aged 6-23 months receiving yearly a
minimum of 90 micronutrient sprinkles sachets for three
                                                                      0          NA            0           30
months in interventions areas (NEW PDO Indicator;
percent)
1.          EOP = End of Project


IV. Appraisal Summary

25.     Economic and technical analysis: The economic analysis does not change as a result of
the proposed Additional Financing. Malnutrition slows economic growth and perpetuates
poverty through three routes: direct loss in productivity from poor physical status; indirect loss
from poor cognitive function and deficits in schooling; and losses owing to increased health care
costs. The activities proposed by the Recipient have favorable cost-effectiveness ratios as
documented in the Bank’s “Repositioning nutrition as central to development” report (2006) and
“Scaling up Nutrition: What does it cost” (2010). To allow sufficient time for implementation of
the activities under the first Additional Financing, and completion of the activities financed
under the Original Financing, an extension of the closing date to June 14, 2013 would be
required.

26.   Fiduciary arrangements: Financial management (FM) and procurement are assured by
the BEN.

           Financial Management (FM): The project will build on the institutional arrangements of
            PRNII. The CLM will handle additional activities through the BEN and its three regional
            representation offices which assure day-to-day management of project. The FM


                                                               8
       arrangements for the additional financing will be based on the existing arrangements in
       place under the ongoing PRNII. The overall performance of the Project in FM was
       satisfactory at the last FM supervision undertaken in June 2011. The accounting system
       operates satisfactorily, and staffing has remained adequate to handle additional activities.
       The auditors have issued an unqualified opinion on the 2010 financial statements of the
       project and the internal control procedures are in place. The interim un-audited financial
       reports for the on-going project have also been submitted on time and the quality of the
       reports was satisfactory. However an improvement point related to the reduction of CEA
       operating cost when signing new contracts in order to increase allocated budget for
       activities, was identified. The overall risk for the additional financing is rated moderate.
       The FM system has been reviewed again by an FM specialist who has confirmed that the
       FM arrangements satisfy the Bank's minimum requirements under OP/BP 10.02 and
       therefore is adequate to provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely FM
       information on the status of the project required by World Bank.

      Procurement: Procurement is managed by competent and experienced staff and is rated
       highly satisfactory. The Project will follow the World Bank's “Guidelines for the
       Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA
       Credits & Grants by World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011 and “Guidelines:
       Selection and Employment of Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits & Grants
       by World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011. A procurement plan for the Additional
       Financing has been reviewed and approved before negotiations. An additional General
       Procurement Notice (GPN) would be advertised in the United Nations Development
       Business (UNDB) and the Client connection in addition to local newspapers of wide
       national circulation after the Additional Financing is approved. The overall risk rating for
       procurement at the project level is low. The Bank’s Anti-Corruption Guidelines apply to
       the implementation of the project as outlined in the “Guidelines on Preventing and
       Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
       and Grants” dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.

27.    Safeguard and Bank policies: The environmental and safeguards category for the
proposed additional funding remains C and no social safeguards will be triggered. The proposed
Additional Financing will not trigger any exceptions to Bank policies.

28.    Risks: The overall risk for the Additional Financing is moderate. Two main risks have
been identified. The first risk refers to the sustainability of the achievements. This risk was
higher at the beginning of the original project, but in spite of improvements, the sustainability
risk remains substantial due to unpredictable financing from other donors and in the past also
from the Recipient. Since 2009/10, the Recipient’s contribution to the program has been
consistent covering approximately one third of the program budget. In 2011, the Recipient
expressed its commitment to increase its annual contribution to the program three fold between
2012 and 2016 which by then will represent more than 50% of the total program budget of
approximately US$15 million per year. Meanwhile, the Bank will continue to support the
resource mobilization from Recipient and donor contributions.




                                                9
29.     The sustainability risk is closely related to the evolving role of the CLM which started as
a project implementing agency, moved to a program facilitator and is now in the process of
redefining its role as a policy watch dog, innovation center, etc.. This process is conducted in a
participative manner involving all relevant stakeholders of the program. The CLM anticipates
finalizing this process which will result in the third Strategic Plan for Nutrition in the course of
2012. This plan will inform the Bank on its role in the follow-on investment.

30.     A second risk, rated moderate, is the weak donor coordination among donor agencies that
support the program (i.e., specialized UN agencies such as UNICEF and WFP, international
technical assistance NGOs such as Micronutrient Initiative and Helen Keller International, and
specialized global programs such as Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition or GAIN). Since
2007, under World Bank leadership, the donors conduct joint supervision missions of the
Nutrition Strategic Plan implementation and in 2010 established a Nutrition Donor Coordination
Group that meets every two months. The Bank will continue to strengthen the donor
coordination, building on new impulses from global initiatives, including the global Scaling Up
Nutrition (SUN) movement, supported by a wide range of donors and development partners,
which Senegal joined in April 2011. This movement calls for enhanced institutional leadership
and coordinated support to national programs for the scaling up of nutrition activities. In terms
of design and governance, based on past project performance, the project is rated as low risk.

                                     Risk Ratings Summary Table

                  Stakeholder Risk                                 Moderate
                  Implementing Agency Risk
                   - Capacity                                      Low
                   - Governance                                    Low
                  Project Risk
                   - Design                                        Low
                   - Social and Environmental                      Low
                   - Program and Donor                             Moderate
                   - Delivery Monitoring and Sustainability        Substantial
                  Overall Implementation Risk                      Moderate


31.     Conditions: The Additional Financing Agreement will have no conditions of
effectiveness.




                                                   10
                          Annex 1: Revised Results Framework and Monitoring

          SENEGAL: Additional Financing for the Nutrition Enhancement Project II


Revisions to the Results Framework                                         Comments/
                                                                           Rationale for Change
PDO
Current (PAD)                                           Proposed
To improve nutrition conditions of vulnerable           Reformulated       To improve nutritional conditions of
populations, in particular those affecting growth of                       vulnerable populations, in particular children
children under five in poor urban and rural areas                          under five years of age in the Intervention
                                                                           Areas.
PDO indicators
Current (PAD)                                           Proposed change*
PDO#1: Overall program coverage of children under       Target revised     End of project target has been achieved and
the age of five in rural areas (percent)                                   will be raised to current progress level of 62
                                                                           percent
PDO#2: Infants exclusively breastfed for first six      Target revised     End of project target has been achieved and
months in intervention areas (percent)                                     will be raised to 60 percent
PDO#3: Pregnant women and children under five           Target revised     End of project target has been achieved and
years of age sleep under insecticide-treated bed nets                      will be raised to 75 percent
in intervention areas (percent)
PDO#4: People with access to a basic package of         Target revised     Core indicator: End of project target has
health, nutrition and population services (number)                         been achieved and will be raised to current
                                                                           progress level of 1,100,000
PDO#5: Children aged 6-23 months receiving yearly       New                This indicator reflects the new activities on
a minimum of 90 micronutrient sprinkles sachets for                        distribution and promotion of supplemental
three months in interventions areas (percent)                              iron
Intermediate Results indicators
Current (PAD)                                           Proposed change*
IOI#1: Targeted children aged 0-24 months showing       Target revised     End of project target has been achieved and
adequate monthly weight gain in intervention areas                         will be raised to 80 percent
(Percent)
IOI#2: Pregnant women making at least four prenatal     Target revised     End of project target has been achieved and
care visits in intervention areas (percent)                                will be raised to 56 percent
IOI#3: Mothers of target children participate in        Target revised     End of project target has been achieved and
monthly information and education sessions in                              will be raised to 90 percent
intervention areas (percent)
IOI#4: Children aged 6-59 months in intervention        No change
areas receiving high preventive doses of vitamin A
supplements twice yearly (percent)
IOI#5: Children receiving a dose of vitamin A           No change          Core indicator: Information derived from
(number)                                                                   IOI#4
IOI#6: Children aged 12-59 months receiving             Dropped            This indicator is tied to IOI#4 as both
deworming medication twice yearly (percent)                                interventions are coupled
IOI#7: Target number of insecticide-treated bed nets    No change          End of project target has been achieved
distributed (percent)
IOI#8: Long-lasting insecticide-treated malaria nets    No change          Core indicator: End of project target has
purchased and/or distributed (number)                                      been achieved. Information derived from
                                                                           IOI#7.
IOI#9: Adoption of child growth promotion in            No change
children under two years old and revision of anemia
prevention and control strategy by MOHP
IOI#10: Planned supervision activities by implicated    Dropped            This indicator is not even an output indicator
health districts conducted (percent)                                       but more an input indicator


                                                              11
Revisions to the Results Framework                                        Comments/
                                                                          Rationale for Change
IOI#11: Targeted children in primary education           Target revised   End of project target has been achieved and
receiving weekly micronutrient supplements in                             will be raised to 90 percent
school year period in the intervention areas (percent)
IOI#12: Targeted children in primary education           Dropped          This indicator is closely tied to IOI#9 as both
receiving deworming medication twice in a one-year                        interventions are coupled
period in the intervention areas (percent)
IOI#13: Backyard gardens in intervention areas           New              This indicator reflects new activities on
(number)                                                                  promotion of food and dietary diversification
IOI#14: Nutrition indicators are integrated in           No change
monitoring tools and documents of Poverty
Reduction Strategy and Millennium Development
Goals
IOI#15: At least 25% of targeted LGs have                Target revised   End of project target has been achieved and
incorporated nutrition objectives and interventions in                    will be raised to 35 percent
Local Development Plans by 2011
IOI#16: Direct project beneficiaries (number), of        New              Core indicator: While data on the total
which female (percent)                                                    number will be available, data on the
                                                                          proportion female will not.




                                                               12
                                            REVISED PROJECT RESULTS FRAMEWORK
Project Development Objective (PDO): To improve nutritional conditions of vulnerable populations, in particular children under five years of age in the
Intervention Areas
                                                                                   Cumulative Target Values                                                                  Description




                                         Core
                                                Unit of              Progress to                                                     Data Source/    Responsibility for
PDO Level Results Indicators*                             Baseline                                                 Frequency                                                  (indicator
                                                Measure                 date         2012             2013                           Methodology      Data Collection
                                                                                                                                                                            definition etc.)
PDO#1: Overall program coverage of                                                                                                  Routine data     CEA together with
                                                                                                                Monthly data
children under five in rural areas              Percent     14           50            62              62                           from community   LG, MOHP and
                                                                                                                Quarterly reports
                                                                                                                                    register         CLM
PDO#2: Infants exclusively breastfed                                                                                                DHS, HH
for first six months                            Percent     34           63            -               65       End of project                       CLM
                                                                                                                                    Survey (LQAS)
PDO#3: Pregnant women and
children under five years of age                                                                                                    DHS, HH
                                                Percent     12           71            -               75       End of project                       CLM and MOHP
sleeping under insecticide-treated bed                                                                                              Survey (LQAS)
nets in intervention areas
PDO#4: People with access to a basic                                                                                                                 CEA together with    Refers to children
package of health, nutrition and                Number    265,073    1,100,000     1,100,000        1,100,000   Quarterly reports   Routine data     LG, MOHP and         reached by the
population services                                                                                                                                  CLM                  nutrition program
PDO#5: Children aged 6-23 months
                                                                                                                                    Routine data     LG with help from
receiving yearly a minimum of 90                                                                                Monthly data
                                                Percent      0           0             15              30                           from community   CEA, MOHP, and
micronutrient sprinkles sachets for                                                                             Quarterly reports
                                                                                                                                    register         CLM.
three months in interventions areas


                                                                      INTERMEDIATE RESULTS

Intermediate Result (Component One): Community-based Nutrition
IOI#1: Targeted children aged 0-24                                                                                                  Routine data     LG with help from
                                                                                                                Monthly data
months showing adequate monthly                 Percent     50           80            80              80                           from community   CEA, MOHP, and
                                                                                                                Quarterly reports
weight gain                                                                                                                         register         CLM.
IOI#2: Pregnant women making at
                                                                                                                                                     CLM together with
least four prenatal care visits in              Percent     40           52            54              56       Yearly              LQAS
                                                                                                                                                     MOHP
intervention areas
IOI#3: Mothers of targeted children
                                                                                                                                    Routine data     LG with help from
participating in monthly information                                                                            Monthly data
                                                Percent     60           95            90              90                           from community   CEA, MOHP, and
and education sessions in intervention                                                                          Quarterly reports
                                                                                                                                    register         CLM.
areas
IOI#4: Children aged 6-59 months in
intervention areas receiving high                                                                                                   Routine
                                                Percent     70          120            90              90       Twice yearly                         MOHP, CLM
preventive doses of vitamin A                                                                                                       monitoring
supplements twice yearly



                                                                                               13
IOI#5: Children receiving a dose of                    1,580,                                                                     Routine
                                          Number                   2,149,169     1,580,000        1,580,000   Twice yearly                         MOHP, CLM
vitamin A                                               000                                                                       monitoring
IOI#6: Target number of insecticide-                                                                          Annual Activity
                                          Percent         0          100            100             100                                            CEA and LG
treated bed nets distributed                                                                                  Reports
IOI#7: Long-lasting insecticide-
                                                                                                              Annual Activity
treated malaria nets purchased and/or     Number          0        500,000        500,000         500,000                                          CEA and LG
                                                                                                              Reports
distributed
IOI#8: Backyard gardens in                                                                                                                         CEA together with
intervention areas                        Number        N.A.          0             20              350       Quarterly reports   Routine data     LG, MOHP and
                                                                                                                                                   CLM
Intermediate Result (Component Two): Multisectoral Support for Nutrition
IOI#9: Adoption of child growth
promotion in children under two
years old and revision of anemia         Y/N            N              Y           Y              Y                                                MOHP
prevention and control strategy by
MOHP
IOI#10: Targeted children in primary
                                                                                                            Quarterly             Education
education receiving weekly
                                         Percent         0             95          90             90        Education             Information      MOE
micronutrient supplements in school-
                                                                                                            Activity Reports      System
year period in the intervention areas
Intermediate Result (Component Three): Support to Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation of Nutrition Development Policy
IOI#11: Nutrition indicators are
integrated in monitoring tools and                                                                                                PRSP and MDG
documents of Poverty Reduction            Y/N            N            Y              Y               Y        Annual data         monitoring       CLM
Strategy and Millennium                                                                                                           reports
Development Goals
IOI#12: Targeted LGs having
incorporated nutrition objectives and                                                                                             CLM activity
                                          Percent         0           31            33               35       Annual data                          CLM
interventions in Local Development                                                                                                reports
Plans
IOI#13: Direct project beneficiaries,                                                                                             Routine data
of which female                                                                                                                   from community
                                                                                                                                  register,
                                                                                                                                                   CEA and LG
                                                                                                                                  Routine                              Includes IOI#4,
                                          Number        N.A.       2 000 000     2 200 000        2 300 000   Annually                             MOHP, CLM
                                                                                                                                  monitoring,                          IOI#5 and IOI#10
                                                                                                                                                   MOE
                                                                                                                                  Education
                                                                                                                                  Information
                                                                                                                                  System




                                                                                             14
                                    Annex 2 - Operational Risk Assessment Framework (ORAF)
                                SENEGAL: Additional Financing for the Nutrition Enhancement Project II
                                                           Stage: Board

Project Stakeholder Risks                                           Rating                    Moderate
 Description: The project is characterized by the implication of
 a broad range of stakeholders including communities, Local
 Governments, civil society organizations, public service
 delivery systems, and the private sector. All stakeholders are     Risk Management: Continued coordination and information exchange is needed to ensure national
 represented in local and central level coordination and            level stakeholders are involved.
 decision-making structures. There is minor tension between
 central level structures. These refer to program ownership.
 This tension has existed since 2002 and before, but is gradually
 waning in the light of success of the program.                     Resp: Client              Stage: Implementation      Due Date :                 Status: Ongoing
Implementing Agency Risks (including fiduciary)
 Capacity                                                           Rating:                  Low
 Description: The IA has adequate implementation,                   Risk Management: The same arrangements as well as financial management and administrative
 monitoring, financial management and procurement capacity          procedures will be maintained.
 as shown by experience from the PRNI and PRNII.
                                                                    Resp: Client               Stage: Implementation      Due Date :                 Status: Ongoing
 Governance                                                         Rating:                   Low
 Description: The project is guided by a Nutrition
 Development Policy Letter and Strategic Plan that is updated
 every five years. The decentralized nature of the project and
 intricate coordination and stakeholder involvement at the local    Risk Management: Capacity of the decentralized structures will continue under the Additional
 level could pose a risk. However, the experience under the         Financing. The client will maintain its supervision structure of the implementing agencies at the local
 current project has demonstrated good dialogue between the         level.
 actors and stakeholders at local level and between local and
 central levels. As a result, the decentralized management has
 grown gradually with adequate capacity strengthening of the
 institutions. Generally, the implementing structures at local
 level follow FM and Procurement procedures without major           Resp: Client              Stage: Implementation      Due Date :                 Status: Ongoing
 problems.




                                                                                15
Project Risks
 Design                                                           Rating:                  Low
 Description: Since 2002, the project has grown in complexity
 involving a broad range of stakeholders and a wide range of
 activities. The complexity increased as the capacity of the IA
 became stronger. The design involves a three-party
 partnership arrangement between Local Government, NGOs
 and public service providers. This design has proven itself as
 effective and efficient over the past years. Local Governments   Risk Management: The project will maintain the same design for implementation whereby NGOs fill
 have an extremely weak capacity to manage complex projects       the capacity gap in Local Government and the public service delivery system.
 on their own. The partnership with NGOs has allowed Local
 Governments to engage in complex development issues
 successfully. Similarly, public service providers have limited
 scope to bring about community development – a gap that is
 complemented by the partnership with NGOs. In some areas,
 the density of competent NGOs is low. However, the PRNII
 now operates with competent NGOs in all districts.
                                                                  Resp: Client             Stage: Implementation      Due Date :                   Status: Ongoing
 Social & Environmental                                           Rating:                  Low
 Description : The project is environmental category C. The
 project does not trigger any social safeguards. In fact, the
 community-based activities have shown to strengthen the          Risk Management: No special measures are needed.
 social fabric at community level, empower community
 members with knowledge and information as well as access to
 local decision makers.
 .                                                                Resp: Client              Stage: Implementation      Due Date :                      Status: Ongoing
 Program & Donor                                                  Rating:                   Moderate
 Description: The IA has taken on a growing number of donor       Risk Management: Even though the donors, other than the Bank, are relatively small, donor
 funded projects, each with different disbursement and            coordination will need to be strengthened. The global Scaling-Up-Nutrition (SUN) movement which
 reporting mechanisms. At the same time, the IA tries to          Senegal has recently joined provides an opportunity to strengthen the donor partnership around the
 coordinate with a parallel funded project funded by USAID.       national nutrition program. Given the nature of the donor agencies (including different UN specialized
 Notwithstanding the scale and number of operations, the IA       agencies; donor funded organizations; a bilateral donor that prefers parallel financing; and global
 demonstrates adequate capacity to handle the growing number      program funds) the partnership needs to be based on very pragmatic principles of targeting and
 of funds and fund flows. This has been possible as operational   reporting. The Bank will continue to convene the donors for improved coordination and program
 management has been largely decentralized to the local level.    support.
 Donor coordination, though weak, has improved since the start
 of twice-yearly joint supervision missions in 2007 and the
 establishment in 2010 of a nutrition donor coordination group
 that meets bimonthly.                                            Resp: Bank/Partners      Stage: Implementation      Due Date :                    Status: Ongoing



                                                                              16
    Delivery Monitoring & Sustainability                             Rating:                      Substantial
    Description: Monitoring: The project has been characterized      Risk Management: Since 2009/10, the Recipient’s contribution to the program has been consistent
    by one of the portfolio’s most accurate and timely M&E           covering approximately one third of the program budget. In 2011, the Recipient expressed its
    systems. The project’s capacity to deliver, monitor and report   commitment to increase its annual contribution to the program three fold to approximately US$7.8
    on results is well-known in the Bank and highly appreciated by   million between 2012 and 2016 which by then will represent more than 50% of the total program
    the Recipient.                                                   budget of approximately US$15 million per year. Donor contributions to the program, other than the
      Sustainability: The project has suffered from inadequate       Bank (IDA), represent approximately 10% of the program, while parallel financing represents
    resource mobilization in the past due to unpredictable           approximately another 10%. The Bank will continue to leverage resource mobilization from the
    financing from other donors and in the past also from the        Recipient and donor contributions. At a time when the Recipient has expressed its commitment to the
    Recipient.                                                       program and intend to increase its contributions significantly, the Additional Financing will contribute
    .                                                                to further enhancing motivation and national commitment.
                                                                     The sustainability risk is closely related to the evolving role of the CLM which started as a project
                                                                     implementing agency, moved to a program facilitator and is now in the process of redefining its role as
                                                                     a policy watch dog, innovation center, etc.. This process is conducted in a participative manner
                                                                     involving all relevant stakeholders of the program. The CLM anticipates finalizing this process which
                                                                     will result in the third Strategic Plan for Nutrition in the course of 2012 and will inform the Bank on its
                                                                     role in the follow-on investment.
                                                                     Resp: Bank/Client            Stage: Implementation       Due Date :                   Status: Ongoing
    Comments:
Overall Risk
 4.1. Implementation Risk Rating: Moderate
 Comments: A Moderate Risk was selected for implementation risk referring to the risks regarding sustainable financing (substantial) and donor coordination (moderate).
 Both these risks are seeing significant progress in the application of mitigation measures.
 




                                                                                 17
                  Annex 3: Revised Implementation Arrangements and Support
         SENEGAL: Additional Financing for the Nutrition Enhancement Project II

1.      The institutional and implementation arrangements remain the same as the ones currently
in place. The main implementing agency is the CLM, a coordination forum attached to the
Prime Minister's Office. Day-to-day management of program and project activities is assured by
the Executive National Bureau (BEN) and its three regional representation offices. Detailed
annual work programs and budgets are prepared by the BEN and approved by the CLM in
December of each year. Component 1 is implemented by Local Government (LG) in partnership
with Community Executing Agencies (CEA) in all 14 Regions and 69 Districts through Grant
subprojects. The implementation of project activities is supported by public health workers and
other sectoral public service providers. Component 2 is implemented by line ministries through
technical agreements derived from annual work programs. Component 3 is implemented by the
CLM.

2.     External audit: The Financing Agreement will require the submission of Audited
Financial Statements for the PRNII to the Bank within six months after year-end. The TOR of
the external auditor of the PRNII will be expanded to additional activities. An opinion on the
Audited Project Financial Statements in compliance with International Federation of Accountant
(IFAC) and a specific opinion on the use of funds at community level will be required. The
external auditors will prepare a Management Letter giving observations and comments, and
providing recommendations for improvements in accounting records, systems, controls and
compliance with financial covenants in the Financing Agreement.

3.     Disbursement arrangements and flow of funds: Disbursement for the project will follow
the existing disbursement arrangements for the original Project. The IFR-based method for
disbursement will continue to be used. A Designated Account (DA) will be opened at a
commercial bank to facilitate payment for eligible expenditures. The DA will be managed
according to the disbursement procedures described in the Administrative, Accounting and
Financial Manual and Disbursement Letter.

4.     Reporting and Monitoring: The un-audited Interim Financial Report (IFR) format will
be updated by including the additional financial activities related to the PRN II. It will include
sources and uses of funds by project expenditures classification, a comparison of budgeted and
actual project expenditures (commitments and disbursements) to date and for the quarter. The
BEN will submit the financial reports to the Bank within 45 days following the end of each
calendar quarter.

5.      The BEN will produce the project’s annual financial statements, which will comply with
IFAC and World Bank requirements. These financial statements will include: (a) a statement of
sources and uses of funds; (b) a statement of commitments; (c) accounting policies adopted and
explanatory Notes; and (d) a Management Assertion that project funds have been expended for
the intended purposes as specified in the relevant financing agreements.2
2
  The project financial statements should be all inclusive and cover all sources and uses of funds and not only those
provided through IDA funding. It thus reflects all project activities, financing, and expenditures, including funds
from other development partners

                                                         18
6.      Financial Covenants:       The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial
management system including records, accounts and preparation of related financial statements
in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank. The Borrower will be compliant
with all the rules and procedures required for withdrawals from the Designated Accounts of the
project.

7.     Implementation Support Plan: Based on the outcome of the FM risk assessment, the
following implementation support plan is proposed. The objective of the implementation
support plan is to ensure the project maintains a satisfactory financial management system
throughout the project’s life.


    FM Activity                                             Frequency

    Desk reviews
    Interim financial reports review                        Quarterly
    Audit report review of the program                      Annually
    Review of other relevant information such as            Continuous as they become
    interim internal control systems reports.               available
    On site visits
    Review of overall operation of the FM system            Annual for PRNII
                                                            (Implementation Support
                                                            Mission)
    Monitoring of actions taken on issues highlighted in    As needed
    audit reports, auditors’ management letters, internal
    audit and other reports
    Transaction reviews (if needed)                         As needed
    Capacity building support
    FM training sessions                                    During implementation and as
                                                            and when needed.




                                               19
