 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14725

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 03/16/2015

               Country: Senegal
             Project ID: P097181                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Nutrition                    Project Costs (US$M):                       15.0                 25.0
                         Enhancement
                         Program Ii
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                       15.0                 25.0
      Sector Board:      Health, Nutrition and        Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Population
          Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                                11/13/2006
                                                               Closing Date:            05/14/2012          06/14/2014
          Sector(s):      Other social services (47%); Health (33%); Central government administration (17%);
                          Sub-national government administration (3%)
         Theme(s):        Child health (29%); Nutrition and food security (29%); Population and reproductive health
                          (14%); Education for all (14%); Health system performance (14%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Katharina Ferl            Judyth L. Twigg         Lourdes N. Pagaran          IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    This project is the second phase of a three-phase Adaptable Program Loan. The overall objective of the Senegal
    Nutrition Enhancement Program was “to contribute to the attainment of the first Millennium Development Goal of
    eradicating extreme poverty and hunger through implementation of the National Local Development Program,
    which aims to improve the nutritional status of vulnerable groups, notably children and pregnant and lactating
    women. More specifically, the program aims to reduce underweight malnutrition in children under the age of five
    by 25 percent in the intervention areas by 2011.”

    The objective of the second phase, according to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) (p. 5), was “to expand
    access to and enhance nutritional conditions of vulnerable populations, in particular those affecting growth of
    children under five in poor urban and rural areas.”

    According to the Loan Agreement of December 5, 2006 (p. 6), the objective of the project was “to improve
    nutritional conditions of vulnerable populations, in particular children under five years of age in poor urban and
    rural areas.”

    According to the Additional Financing Loan Agreement (p. 4) of April 30, 2012, the objective of the project was "to
    improve nutritional conditions of vulnerable populations, in particular children under five years of age in the
    Intervention Areas." Under the additional financing, program coverage was increased and additional project
    activities were scaled up to continue the work towards the objective of the project.

    This Review will use the PDOs in the two different Loan Agreements, which are essentially the same, as basis for
    the validation.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 03/29/2012

c. Components:

    The project consisted of three components:

    Component 1: Community-based nutrition (appraisal estimate US $ 10.4 million; additional financing US $7.6
    million; actual US$ 18.0 million, 180% of appraisal): This component was to finance: i) promoting of
    community-based growth monitoring and promotion; ii) providing insecticide-treated bed nets and promoting iron
    and Vitamin A supplements and deworming medication to mothers and pregnant women; iii) educating mothers
    in nutrition by providing cooking demonstrations; iv) mobilizing extended care givers to participate in social and
    behavior change communication activities; v) screening for acute malnutrition and training on community
    management of identified cases of acute malnutrition; vi) providing community-level communication activities to
    create demand for iodized salt, Vitamin A and iron supplements, and dietary diversification; and vii) providing
    training and supervision for nutrition aides in communities.

    Component 2: Multi-sectoral support to nutrition (appraisal estimate US $ 1.4 million; additional financing US
    $1.1 million, actual US$ 2.7 million, 193% of appraisal): This component was to finance technical assistance to
    the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education, and the National Agency for Early Childhood
    Development to provide training and supervision of community workers and develop monitoring and recording
    tools.

    Component 3: Support to implementation , monitoring and evaluation of the nutrition development policy
    (appraisal estimate US $ 3.2 million, additional financing US $1.1 million; actual US$ 4.3 million, 134% of
    appraisal): This component was to finance technical assistance to strengthen the Project Implementation Unit,
    the Coordination Unit for the Fight against Malnutrition (CLM), on the national and regional levels, and to further
    develop the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

    Project Cost: The project was estimated to cost US$ 15.0 million (PAD, p. 33). Actual cost was US$ 25.0 million
    (167% of appraisal estimate).

    Financing: At the end of the first phase, the Bank decided to cancel the third phase and consolidate the second
    and third phase into one, at a total amount of US$ 10 million instead of US$ 34 million of IDA financing.

    The project was financed as follows:

        A US$ 15 million IDA credit.
        A US$ 10 million IDA credit (additional financing).
        US$ 11.1 million in parallel financing from other partners, which included the African Development Bank (for
         clinical and community-based integrated management of childhood illness), UNICEF (for accelerated child
         survival activities), the World Food Program (for locally acquired food for cooking demonstrations), and the
         Micronutrient Initiative (for support of the project's micronutrient agenda). The breakdown of estimated and
         actual financing from these partners is not available, according to the Project Team.

    Borrower Contribution : At appraisal, the estimate for the Borrower’s contribution was US$ 16.3 million; actual
    disbursement was US$ 23.4 million, according to the Bank task team.

    Dates: The project was restructured four times:

        On June 13, 2008 funds were reallocated between different components.
        On December 1, 2011 funds were reallocated between different components.
        On March 1, 2012 the closing date was extended from May 14, 2012 to June 14, 2013, and targets for
         indicators that had been achieved were revised upward.
        On April 30, 2012 the Bank approved additional financing of SDR 6,5 million (equivalent of US$ 10 million) to
         increase program coverage and intensity, scaling up additional program activities so that potentially harmful
         consequences of the food price and economic crises on maternal and child growth and nutrition could be
         sufficiently mitigated,
        On May 15, 2013 the closing date was extended from June 14, 2013 to June 14, 2014.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   High: The objective was highly relevant to country conditions, as malnutrition among children under the age of
   five years and pregnant and lactating women presented an important public health concern in Senegal.
   According to a Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey, 23 percent of children under five years old and 15 percent of
   women aged 15 to 49 years were underweight at the time of appraisal (PAD p. 58). The objective was in line with
   Senegal's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper of 2006, which identified a decrease in malnutrition as critical for
   achieving the Millennium Development Goal on halving the proportion of people who suffer from hunger between
   1990 and 2015. The objective was also in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategies of 2003 and 2007,
   which aimed to improve access to social services especially for vulnerable populations. The current Country
   Partnership Strategy (2013-2017) highlights reduction of food security among the most vulnerable (p. 33) under
   its outcome on increased agricultural productivity and marketing. The project's objective built seamlessly on the
   first phase of the APL.

b. Relevance of Design:

   Substantial: The planned activities to expand access to and enhance nutritional conditions of vulnerable
   populations included training and supervision of nutrition aides, screening of malnutrition in children under five,
   and distribution of deworming medicine and iron supplements in schools. Teachers at literacy schools and early
   child development centers were to be trained in nutrition. Communication campaigns on fortified foods were to
   be implemented to raise awareness of the importance of iron and Vitamin A and to promote the consumption of
   enriched oil and wheat flour. Activities resulting from additional financing contributed to the expansion of program
   coverage and the sustainability of project outcomes. The causal relationships between these interventions and
   underlying assumptions about how program actions would lead to intended outcomes were logical and properly
   laid out.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Improve nutritional conditions of vulnerable populations , in particular children under five years of age in poor
   urban and rural areas :

   Substantial

   Outputs:

   Expand access to and enhance nutritional conditions

        The number of people who have access to a basic package of health, nutrition, and population services
         increased from over 265,000 in 2006 to over 1.6 million in 2014, surpassing the target of 1.1 million people.
        Over 2.3 million pregnant/lactating women, adolescent girls and/or children under the age of five were
         reached by basic nutrition services, surpassing the target of 1.7 million people.
        The percentage of children under the age of five in rural areas who were covered by the program increased
         from 14% in 2006 to 73% in 2014, surpassing the original target of 40% and the revised target of 70%.
        The percentage of infants who were exclusively breastfed in the intervention areas increased from 34% in
         2006 to 65% in 2014, surpassing the original target of 44% and meeting the revised target of 65%.
        The percentage of pregnant women and children under five years of age sleeping under insecticide treated
         bed nets in intervention areas increased from 12% in 2006 to 86% in 2014, surpassing the original target of
         40% and the revised target of 75%.
        1, 321 backyard garden interventions took place, surpassing the target of 350 interventions.

   Adequate child growth

        The number of children under the age of 24 months who benefited from improved infant and young child
         feeding practices in the target area increased from 200,000 in 2006 to 272,796 in 2014, surpassing the
         target of 222.500.
        The percentage of pregnant women in the target area who made at least four prenatal care visits increased
         from 40% in 2006 to 61% in 2014, surpassing the original target of 50% and the revised target of 60%.
        The percentage of mothers of targeted children who participated in monthly information and education
         sessions increased from 60% in 2006 to 90% in 2014, surpassing the original target of 80% and achieving
         the revised target.
        19,799 targeted children under the age of five were treated for moderate or severe acute malnutrition. No
         target was specified, since the project aimed to treat the maximum possible number of children while at the
         same time reducing the prevalence of malnutrition.

    Improved micronutrient status in targeted children aged 6-59 months

        Over 2 million children between the age of 6 and 59 months were receiving Vitamin A supplements,
         surpassing the target of 1.6 million children.
        20% of targeted children aged 6 to 23 months received a yearly minimum of 90 micronutrient sprinkles
         sachets for three months in intervention areas, not meeting the target of 30%.
        500,000 long-lasting insecticide treated malaria nets were purchased and/or distributed, achieving the target.
         100% of insecticide treated bed nets were distributed, meeting the target.
        The percentage of children aged 6 to 59 months in the target areas who received high preventive doses of
         Vitamin A supplements twice a year increased from 79% in 2006 to 95% in 2014, surpassing the original
         target of 80% and meeting the revised target of 95%.

    Sectoral ownership and accountability for nutrition results, particularly in Health and Education

        A child growth promotion strategy for children under two years was adopted, and the existing anemia
         prevention and control strategy was revised by the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs.
        99% of targeted children in primary education received weekly micronutrient supplements in the school year
         period, surpassing the original target of 80% and the revised target of 90%.

    Government awareness at all levels of importance of nutrition in development and effectively
    monitoring implementation progress of the National Nutrition Policy

        Nutrition indicators were integrated in monitoring tools and documents of the Poverty Reduction Strategy
         and Millennium Development Goals.
        34% of targeted Local Governments incorporated nutrition objectives and interventions in Local
         Development Plans, surpassing the original target of 25% and essentially meeting the revised target of 35%.

    Outcomes:

        The percentage of children aged 0 to 24 months in poor and rural target areas who showed adequate
         monthly weight gain increased from 50% in 2006 to 84% in 2014, surpassing the original target of 75% and
         the revised target of 80%.
        Chronic malnutrition among children decreased to 16 percent in 2012 from being twice as high twenty years
         earlier.
        The percentage of children who are underweight decreased from 20% in 2000 to 14% in 2012.
        The government focused on stunting in its national nutrition development policy, which was supported by
         this project. A decrease in stunting occurred over a period of 12 years, of which 10 years benefitted from
         project funding. Stunting decreased from 30% in 2000 to 16% in 2012. 

5. Efficiency:

    Substantial

    The PAD (p. 62) conducted a cost-benefit analysis calculating the costs of the project (civil works, equipment,
    pharmaceuticals, consultants, etc.) and applies a discount rate of 5%, which results in costs of US$ 37.4 million.
    To monetize the benefits, the analysis assumed that the project would have 130,346 beneficiaries, a malnutrition
    rate of 17%, 20% of children covered, and 58% of mothers practicing good nutrition (exclusive breast feeding),
    Applying a discount rate of 5%, the total benefits of avoiding malnutrition-related diseases/conditions was US$
    1,261 million. The investment had a benefit/cost ratio of 32.67/1. The Net Present Value (NPV) was calculated
    as US$ 1,223 million.

    The ICR (p. 44) also conducts a cost-benefit analysis, following similar assumptions, finding that the investment
   had a cost/benefit ratio of 19.65/1.00 and a NPV of US$ 901 million.

   The difference between the results of the cost-benefit analyses in the PAD and in the ICR results from the ICR
   only taking the health care costs avoided of three diseases (acute respiratory infection, malaria and diarrhea) for
   children under five years into account. The analysis conducted in the PAD took a variety of nutrition-related
   diseases for the entire country into account. However, the investment’s benefit exceeded its cost significantly.

   Also, analytical work has shown that the implementation of this type of activities are known to be among the most
   cost-effective for improving nutrition outcomes.

   The Bank accelerated disbursements early in the project period to compensate for the Government's failure to
   make its planned contribution. Delays in disbursement and implementation of activities were indicative of minor
   inefficiencies in the use of the Bank’s financial resources (see Section 9b). However, the first credit of US$ 15
   million was fully disbursed by the original closing date and the additional financing of US$ 10 million was
   disbursed within two years. Also, the project had a lean management structure, with management costs below
   12% and overhead costs below 3%. Taking into account these operational and economic efficiencies, overall
   efficiency is rated Substantial.
   .

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

   Appraisal                       No
   ICR estimate                    No
                                      * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

   Relevance of objectives is rated high, given the urgent need to improve nutritional conditions for vulnerable gr
   oups. Relevance of design is rated substantial, as the project's planned activities were logically and plausibly
   linked to anticipated outcomes. The project's objective was substantially achieved. Efficiency is rated substantial
   based on a high benefit/cost ratio and NPV and evidence of operational efficiency. Taken together, these ratings
   are indicative of minor shortcomings in the project's preparation and implementation, and therefore an Outcome
   rating of Satisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

    The government is committed to improving nutritional conditions of vulnerable populations and has continuously
   increased its financial support for the CLM since the beginning of Phase 1. A third of Local Governments have
   included nutrition as an important aspect in their planning processes. However, Senegal remains vulnerable to
   economic downturns, and therefore the program’s financial sustainability is at risk, particularly since shortfalls in
   government contributions were already a challenge for this project. Also, increases in food prices and extreme
   weather such as droughts and floods are areas of concern, as well as the double burden of diseases the country
   faces. Millennium Development Goal number 5 (maternal mortality) will not be achieved, and non-communicable
   diseases may lead to households falling into poverty.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   Phase 2 built on lessons learned from phase 1, which showed that community-based communication can
   change behavior and reduce malnutrition, and that engagement with local governments supports
   sustainability of a program after project closing. Also, the Bank integrated the strategy “Repositioning
   Nutrition as Central to Development” from 2006 and the Copenhagen Consensus (2008 and 2012), which
   emphasize the importance of community nutrition programs.

   The Bank coordinated with other agencies and partners to share knowledge and improve implementation
   arrangements. The Bank identified relevant risk factors during preparation, such as the level of ownership of
   the project at administrative levels as a result of national elections in 2007. The Bank tried to mitigate this risk
   by supporting the Official Group for the Reduction of Malnutriton (CLM) to communicate results from the
   project to motivate high-level interest and strengthen ownership. However, the Bank’s planned mitigation
   efforts were not sufficient (which eventually led to delays in project implementation due to lack of counterpart
   financing).


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   In order to provide timely input, the Bank team conducted bi-annual supervision missions. The Bank also
   coordinated an increasing number of development partners to avoid fragmented donor assistance.

   The Bank prepared a risk mitigation plan in case of a funding gap for the national program. When the
   government did not make its planned contribution on time, the Bank was therefore able to reallocate 15% of
   the credit to ensure the implementation of the core activities of the project. However, several project activities
   had to be scaled down or cancelled. The Bank worked closely with the Project Implementation Unit and the
   government to ensure the release of government funds. The ICR does not provide information on what exact
   actions the Bank took to address this challenge.

   The Bank successfully restructured the project, which allowed the program to increase coverage and
   strengthen outcomes. Also. the Bank provided the government with additional financing and proactively
   applied for and successfully received funds for nutrition interventions from international partners.




  Quality of Supervision Rating :                Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The government was committed to the implementation of the project. However, as was identified as a
   potential risk during project preparation, after the elections in 2007, the level of commitment changed. The
   Project Implementation Unit was moved from the Prime Minister’s Office to the newly created Ministry of
   National Solidarity. However, based on advice by the project coordinator and the Bank, the Prime Minister
   later moved the Project Implementation Unit back to the Prime Minister's Office. Due to financial constraints,
   the government did not provide the agreed counterpart funding for this project and for all other Bank projects
   in the country. This led to the modification of several critical activities, and the Bank was concerned about the
   project not being able to achieve its objective. However, this concern did not materialize and the government
   increased its contribution to the program from US$ 0.15 million per year to US$ 5 million per year in 2014 and
   has committed to increasing its contribution even further to US$ 7 million per year in 2016.

   Different levels of government collaborated closely with the Bank, which had a positive impact on the
   decentralization of project implementation to local governments. The government appointed qualified staff for
   the Project Implementation Unit. However, since 2010 health districts have been holding back data, which
   hinders the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs' ability to have adequate national health and nutrition
   statistics. The ICR does not comment on how the government has addressed this challenge.
  Government Performance Rating                             Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The project was implemented by the Coordination Unit for the Fight against Malnutrition (CLM). The CLM
   had a clearly defined mandate, and staff had specific roles for which they were well qualified. According to
   the ICR, the project became effective earlier than planned due to efficient project preparation by the CLM and
   the Bank. The CLM worked across sectors and built partnerships with the Ministry of Education and the
   Ministry of Agriculture.

   The CLM tried to overcome M&E challenges related to health districts holding back data by conducting
   household surveys and quality assurance sampling surveys. Also, a national survey at the departmental level
   was used to evaluate data from local stakeholders.

   Challenges in the procurement of sprinkles sachets led to delays in project implementation and an extension
   of the closing date by twelve months. The ICR (p. 27) states that those delays could have been avoided if
   the CLM had consulted the Bank’s procurement specialist on the Bank’s procurement requirements. The
   Bank team later added that once the procurement challenge was solved, the distribution of the entire stock of
   powders across the country proceeded smoothly and took less than three months.

   The CLM, supported by the Prime Minister, proactively searched for additional resources to scale up project
   interventions by building partnerships with local development partners, and by participating at several
   international events on maternal, newborn and child health. The additional financial resources were used to
   widen the intervention area but were not sufficient to include all districts. The Ministry of Economy and
   Finance awarded the CLM twice with the Alpha prize for best performing project management unit.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                  Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                     Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The causal chain between inputs, outputs and outcomes was clear. The Results Framework in the PAD (p. 24)
   included three PDO indicators and 12 intermediate outcome indicators. Also, a Bank core indicator was defined
   to track progress towards the PDO. The M&E framework from phase 1 was refined to better reflect the roles of
   the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education and the local governments.

   The indicators were well defined and measurable. However, the majority of indicators focused on outputs rather
   than outcomes. The M&E system was managed by the CLM and coordinated with the Community Executing
   Agencies. The M&E was well embedded institutionally and built on the M&E framework that had already been
   implemented during phase 1.

b. M&E Implementation:

   During the Additional Financing/third project restructuring in 2012, some modifications/refinements to the Results
   Framework were made. The project objective was refined to improve its focus on outcomes and clarify the intent
   of the original objective. A fifth PDO indicator was added to increase the focus on anemia control among children
   between six and 23 months old. Since the targets for the original three PDO indicators and Bank core indicator
   had already been achieved, these targets were further increased at the time of Additional Financing. One
   intermediate outcome indicator, focusing on the protection of nutrition of vulnerable groups and on reducing the
   exposure to external shocks, was added. Three intermediate outcome indicators focusing on supervision were
   considered less important and taken out of the Results Framework.
   The ICR does not comment on why indicators related to deworming were removed, especially since deworming
   was an important project activity.
c. M&E Utilization:

   Results from the various surveys informed decision making. Regular feedback to regional stakeholders was
   provided to allow for adjustments in project implementation when necessary.

   Since 2010, health districts have held back data, which hinders the Ministry of Health to have adequate national
   health and nutrition statistics. The ICR does not comment on how this lack of data influences the project’s M&E.


M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   According to the ICR (p. 11), no safeguards were triggered under this project. The project was Environmental
   Category C.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   Financial Management :

   The ICR (p. 11) states that the annual planning and budgeting process was of high quality. In 2012, the project
   experienced a five-month delay in setting up a disbursement mechanism for new activities that had been added
   under the Additional Financing.

   All audit reports with unqualified opinion were submitted on time and were accepted by the Bank, according to
   the ICR.

   Procurement:

   The project’s procurement plan was based on the plan from Phase 1 of the program. Procurement was rated
   satisfactory by the Bank. According to the ICR (p. 11), the internal control system performed well. The project
   experienced over a year delay due to a complex procurement process between the CLM, UNICEF, and the Bank
   in the procurement of sprinkles sachets. However, once the procurement challenge was solved, the distribution
   of the entire stock of powders across the country proceeded smoothly and took less than three months.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

   None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                           ICR                IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                  Disagreement/Comments
                   Outcome: Satisfactory             Satisfactory
        Risk to Development Moderate                 Significant            There are risks to the financial
                   Outcome:                                                 sustainability of the program. Senegal
                                                                            is vulnerable to increases in food
                                                                            prices, extreme weather, and a double
                                                                            burden of diseases.

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory           Satisfactory

      Borrower Performance : Satisfactory            Satisfactory
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The ICR (p. 28) identifies several valuable lessons, including:

    In vulnerable situations, it is critical to also take desirable longer term outcomes (in this case, households being
     less vulnerable to external shocks) into account in order to increase the sustainability of project outcomes.
     This project transitioned from improving nutrition intake to providing households with better mechanisms to
     deal with food insecurity through fostering the development of over 1,300 backyard gardens in the intervention
     areas.
    Combining nutrition related activities with activities for other areas such as malaria prevention or maternal
     health can take advantage of synergies between the different interventions and lead to better results.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


     The quality of the ICR is rated Satisfactory, with shortcomings. The ICR provides a good overview of project
     preparation and implementation, but is very lengthy and not always sufficiently outcome-driven. Also, the ICR
     could have undertaken a more in-depth analysis of certain aspects of project performance, such as procurement
     and financial management, and how challenges were addressed by the Bank and the Government. The ICR is
     not sufficiently clear on project costs and financing.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
