                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 29408

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (SCL-42450)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                                 FOR A

           CENTRAL BANK MODERNIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT




                                              June 29, 2004




Brazil Country Management Unit
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Latin American and the Caribbean Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 2004)

                                      Currency Unit = Brazilian Real (Rs$)
                                               1 Rs$ = US$
                                               US$ 1 = Rs$3.12

                                            FISCAL YEAR
                                     January 1 -       December 31

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCB       (Banco Central do Brasil ) Central Bank of Brazil
BIS       Bank for International Settlements
CADINF    (Cadastro de Instituições Financeiras) Financial Institutions Reference System
CAPEF     (Cadastro Restritivo de Pessoas Fisicas) Natural Persons Restrictions Reference System
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CBTAL     Central Bank Modernization Technical Assistance Project
CMN       National Monetary Council
CVM       (Comissão de Valores Mobiliários do Brasil) Brazilian Securities Commission
CR        (Central de Risco) Credit Bureau
DEFIN     (Departamento de Gestão de Informações do Sistema Financeiro) IT Department within DIFIS
DEINF     (Departamento de Tecnologia da Informacao) IT Department
DIFIS     (Diretor de Fiscalização) Deputy Governor for Supervision
DEPLA     (Departamento de Planejamento e Orçamento) Planning and Budgeting Department
DESIN     (Departamento de Supervisão Indireta) Off-site Supervision Department
DESUP     (Departamento de Supervisão Direta) On-site Supervision Department
DIRAD     (Diretor de Adminstração) Deputy Governor for Administrative Affairs
DW        Data Warehouse
FSTAL     Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
IFC       International Finance Corporation
IMF       International Monetary Fund
MOF       Ministry of Finance
NBF       Not Bank-financed
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PCU       Project Coordinating Unit
PFSECAL   (First) Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
PROER     Program for Restructuring and Strengthening of the National Financial System
PROES     Program for Reduction of State level participation in banking activities
QAG       Quality Assurance Group (World Bank)
SOE       Statements of Expenditure
TA        Technical Assistance
TOR       Terms of Reference
UNDP      United Nations Development Program


                                    Vice President:         David de Ferranti
                                 Country Director           Vinod Thomas
                                  Sector Manager            John D. Pollner (Acting)
            Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                  Modibo Khane Camara

                                           BRAZIL
               Brazil Central Bank Modernization Technical Assistance Loan I


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                          10
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            17
6. Sustainability                                                                18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 19
8. Lessons Learned                                                               20
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            36
Annex 8. Brazil Selected Economic Indicators                                     38

Project ID: P048357                                                  Project Name: Brazil Central Bank Technical
                                                                     Assistance Loan I
Team Leader: Modibo Khane Camara                                     TL Unit: LCSFF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Brazil Central Bank Technical Assistance Loan I L/C/TF Number: SCL-42450
   Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Banking (97%); Law and justice (3%)
                  Theme: Standards and financial reporting (P); Regulation and competition
                            policy (P); Other public sector governance (S); Legal institutions for
                            a market economy (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/17/1997                                     Effective:                           03/02/1998
     Appraisal: 01/15/1997                                         MTR:                             12/14/2000
      Approval: 11/18/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2000                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL/Central Bank of Brazil
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Vinod Thomas                                   Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:                 Fernando Montes-Negret                         Sri-Ram Aiyer
Team Leader at ICR:             Modibo K. Camara                               S. Alber-Glanstaetten
ICR Primary Author:             Modibo Khane Camara; Manuel
                                Lasaga


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Project Preparation Background. Major bank failures and restructurings since the 1994
introduction of the Real Stabilization Plan had exposed institutional weaknesses of the Central
Bank of Brazil (BCB), particularly of its banking supervision and enforcement functions. Along
with other measures, the National Monetary Council (CMN) and the BCB instituted in 1995 a
program of incentives to allow the restructuring of banks (PROER ­ Programa de Estimulo a
Restructuracao e ao Fortalecimento do Sistema Financeiro Nacional) and created a private
deposit insurance agency. Motivated by bank intervention and restructuring costs, the BCB had
begun a long-term modernization initiative to upgrade its ability to anticipate and prevent major
bank failures, to better manage the resolution of failed banks, and to make the financial system
more crisis-resilient.

The Real Plan had succeeded in sharply reducing inflation, which had been the driver for bank
earnings during the previous years of hyperinflation, since the banks would re-invest non-interest
bearing deposits in high yielding financial instruments. The end of inflationary profitability had left
the banks exposed to high-cost structures, non-performing loans and few earnings alternatives.
Failure to adapt to a new competitive environment led to the failure of a number of banks
including two large institutions: Banco Economico and Banco Nacional. In 1996, Bamerindus,
the fifth largest bank in the country, also encountered problems and was sold in early 1997 - under
the PROER scheme - to a major international bank. The BCB's seeming unpreparedness to
resolve these major bank failures, and the discovery that the huge losses were the result of fraud
and mismanagement, which could have been corrected with appropriate supervision, was a blow
to its credibility.

Having battled serious banking difficulties, the BCB embarked on a program of institutional
renewal to strengthen their regulatory and supervisory capabilities for which the Bank's support
was sought in the form of a Technical Assistance (TA) Project. The overall objective of the
Project as stated in the PAD and the Loan Agreement was to assist the BCB in its long-term
modernization effort, with primary focus on banking supervision.

Traditionally, banking supervision in Brazil had emphasized compliance with laws and regulations.
Enforcement relied basically on two extremes: (i) largely ineffectual informal memoranda and (ii)
the threat of bank liquidation, both of which lacked an effective deterrent factor. The BCB's loss
of independence in setting its own compensation policies in the mid 1990s and changeover to the
civil service system which governed the whole public sector resulted in an exodus of
long-experienced examiners. These factors combined with the poorly managed and outdated
information systems have resulted in inadequate monitoring of banks and contributed to the bank
failures that occurred in the mid-1990s. These events convinced the BCB management of the
urgent need to upgrade its supervision function and change its basic strategic approach to
management.




                                                 - 2 -

An evaluation of the BCB's supervision department performed in 1997 by a Bank consultant
revealed that management had already acted on numerous initiatives aimed at upgrading their
supervisory practices prior to the Bank's involvement; nevertheless it welcomed Bank support in
those areas.1 Having already successfully dealt with a number of major problem banks under the
PROER program, BCB management sought Bank support in terms of overall institution building.
Accordingly, the Project took on a broader view regarding reorganization / modernization
initiatives in other areas of the BCB.

Assessment: The project objectives were relevant as demonstrated by the very strong
commitment of the BCB's management. The need for cultural change in the modus operandi of
banking supervision was very clear and the BCB had already initiated corrective steps of its own,
which were later supported by the project. In fact, the conceptual framework for the
modernization program was originally proposed by the of the BCB, Gustavo Loyola (1995 ­
1997).

3.2 Revised Objective:
The Project objectives remained unchanged.

3.3 Original Components:
This Project marked a new working relation between the Bank, the BCB, and the Government of
Brazil which the Bank had been prospecting since 1995. The design of the Project was atypical in
terms of its flexibility. The broad areas of support were identified, but a detailed activity plan was
defined only for the first year. These activities amounted to about US$6.0 million or roughly
one­third of the total project costs. The remaining activities for the multi-year implementation
period were to be specified on a year to year basis in the context of annual reviews. Given the
volatile policy environment in Brazil at the time of project design, it was felt that such a flexible
design of the Project would allow the Bank to be more responsive to the needs of the borrower.

The difficulties faced by the BCB at the time of project preparation, particularly its loss of
credibility arising from the failure of several significant banks during 1996-1997, and its limited
budget autonomy at a time of severe government fiscal cutbacks, required the adoption of other
exceptions in the typical project preparation cycle. The other unusual features of the loan were the
relative lack of effectiveness conditions and design of the counterpart funds requirements. The
Project was designed to commence disbursing soon after Board approval, and thus no
effectiveness conditions were specified. This made sense given the high degree of borrower
commitment to the modernization initiative. Also, the Bank financed to nearly 100 percent the
consultants costs, training expenses and and equipment purchases related to specific project
activities, whereas the Borrower covered all expenses related to the operation of the project
management unit and incremental costs.




___________________________

1See M. Mackenzie, Banking Supervision in Brazil: Interim 1997 Evaluation and Market Feedback, December
1997.



                                                  - 3 -

Finally, the BCB was extremely sensitive to any conclusions drawn by Bank reports during the
appraisal that, if disclosed could compromise its credibility and thus its ability to manage financial
system problems. In response to these concerns the Bank reached an informal agreement with the
Government that it would restrict the distribution of any internal reports. As a consequence,
documentation in the project files was curtailed beyond what is normally prescribed by Bank
policies. Due to the BCB's severe budgetary restrictions, the Bank also made an exception by
agreeing to finance a very high percentage of total project costs. Without this exception, Bank
staff felt that the BCB would not have been able to meet the disbursement conditions and thus its
modernization initiatives would have been crippled during a critical period of need.

(a)     Component I: Upgrading of banking supervision
Banking supervision was the principal component of the Project. The BCB recognized that it
needed improvement in the area of banking supervision in terms of human capital, structural and
work flow organization, tools and technology. Whereas there was a general idea of what was
missing, the specific measures to be taken were still to be elaborated. Therefore, the component
was designed to be flexible and allow for a thorough diagnostic study to be performed first, before
a comprehensive institutional strengthening program was designed. The activities identified for the
initial phase of the project were accordingly limited to only 3 areas: the training of banking
examiners and supervisors, the purchase of IT equipment, and the upgrading of databases used by
examiners.

The effectiveness of banking supervision hinges on the quality of the staff, and thus effective
training of the staff was perceived as a good way to start upgrading supervisory activities. The
focus of the training was to be on modern bank supervision and strategies, advanced / specialized
and continuing training in risk-management models, effective utilization of information
technologies and new financial products. Training was to be transmitted via the hiring of experts,
organizing of internal seminars, establishing cooperative arrangements with banks, and extended
studies abroad and twinning arrangements with other bank supervision agencies. At the time of
design, the Bank had earmarked about 30 percent of Project resources for training, both
supervision and non-supervision staff, which underscores the importance of this component for
the modernization efforts.

Information technology is an essential tool for banking supervision while the rapid evolution of
technology demands constant attention to innovations and their application to supervisory
practices, particularly in view of the market dynamics driven by such technological changes. The
new emphasis on risk management and supervision also generates greater demand for technology
driven tools. From the start, this sub-component has been a core element of the modernization
strategy. The key objectives of the IT modernization in the initial phase included harmonizing
various networks, changing the system-architecture to allow greater access by management across
data bases to facilitate decision-making. Initially the major databases identified by this initiative
were the financial institution reference system (CADINF), the legal reference system (CAPEF),
while other databases where expected to be addressed during Project implementation. In addition
to the consolidation and development of databases, this component included the acquisition of
laptop computers for examiners and specialized software to model and assess risk management
issues. In retrospect, the design of this component may have benefited from additional



                                                - 4 -

coordination with the IT department regarding the demand on its resources generated by the
Project's numerous IT initiatives. During the initial Project implementation period, as explained in
the next section, an IT expert from the US Federal Reserve Board was brought in to assess the
needs of the BCB. Perhaps this expertise should have been introduced much earlier since some of
the recommendations made by the Fed review would have been relevant to the design of the
Project.

In order to assess the qualitative aspects of the outcome of these banking supervision initiatives,
annual performance evaluations were introduced as a project sub-component. The PAD contained
a Guide to Annual Evaluations of Banking Supervision with a detailed listing of performance
benchmarks,2 which was to serve as a fundamental tool to measure performance improvement and
instill a culture of continuous quality improvement. This evaluation was to be made on an annual
basis covering the following five main areas: (i) developing human resources; (ii) changing focus
of banking supervision to a risk-based approach; (iii) expanding the use of enforcement powers
with respect to banks; (iv) developing information strategies; and (v) improving the quality of
audited financial information. The evaluations were to include market feedback on the quality of
supervision. In order to achieve greater consistency of the evaluations over time, the design of the
reviews could have taken on a more structured format in terms of the areas to be addressed and
the presentation of the analysis. Performance benchmarks could have been presented in a matrix
format showing qualitative assessments such as improving or no change for each sub-component.
At the same time, these evaluations should have incorporated an ordering of priorities in terms of
the annual improvement goals or a weighing of importance in terms of the various benchmarks in
order to produce a performance report card that could be monitored over time. The type of
annual review of outcome introduced by this Project could also be adapted to other types of
lending operations undertaken by the Bank where outcomes cannot be measured exclusively by
quantitative indicators.

(b)      Component II: Enhance the BCB's asset liquidation & disposition and State Bank
restructuring
Historically the BCB has played the dual role of banking supervisor and liquidator of intervened
institutions. With the increased number of major bank failures in the second half of the nineties,
the BCB's Management perceived that its liquidator function had become too burdensome.
Alternative institutional solutions were being sought for carrying out this function. Another
pressing issue was the sizeable assets that had been accumulated under BCB management as a
result of previous interventions. Bank / BCB dialogue on this issue centered on the establishment
of an outside agency such as a Liquidation Trust Fund under independent management.
Unfortunately, any initiative to create a new agency to handle the resolution of a very sizeable
amount of non-productive assets was very contentious. While the BCB was keen on the idea of
shifting this responsibility to another entity, it would have been more useful to have discussed this
matter with other Government agencies in order to assess its viability. As discussed in the section
on implementation, this component was subsequently cancelled.

_______________________________
2See PAD Annex 2, Attachment 2.




                                                   - 5 -

(c)     Component III: Financial Sector Review & Other Selected Research
This Project component was designed to elaborate a strategic vision for the strengthening of the
private sector banking system in Brazil to form the basis for future policy reforms, as such
enjoyed strong support by successive BCB s. The vision to be developed by the study was to be
consistent with changes occurring in the financial sector including recent developments in the
competition between banks and non-bank financial interediaries. The study was to take int
account the Government's policies to reduce the dominance of state-owned banks. BCB / Bank
dialogue concerning the vision study yielded agreement on the following areas to be covered by
the study: the enabling environment and credit culture; promoting sound bank management;
promoting competition; and access to financial services.

(d)     Component IV: Project Management & Other Modernization Initiatives (incl.
Training BCB­wide)
During project preparation, a variety of other initiatives outside the area of banking supervision
were identified as active components of institutional modernization. Initially the following
activities were agreed upon: a review of human resources policies; English language training, and
techniques for asset management, with special application to the management of international
reserves. This component was also appropriately left open to other initiatives that were expected
to materialize during the implementation phase.

3.4 Revised Components:
Rationale. Fiscal austerity triggered by liquidity pressures and the devaluation of the Real in
February 1999, led to substantial implementation delays in the first two years of the project. In
addition, the BCB experienced substantial volatily in its leadership team with no less than three
different s in a relatively short period of time. The design of this Project had been under the
leadership of Gustavo Loyola (President 6/13/95 ­ 8/20/97); the initial implementation period,
rocked by the fiscal austerity measures, was overseen by Gustavo Franco (President, 8/20/97 ­
3/4/99); and during most of the remaining implementation period the Project was under the
tutelage of Arminio Fraga (President, 3/4/99 ­ 1/01/03). With each change of President, so did
the institution's views of its modernization needs and project's priorities, which in turn
contributed to a weak BCB budgetary advocacy and ability to protect the project from budget
cuts. As a result, a number of adjustments were made to the original first-year activity plan and, as
implementation progressed, new activities were added.

The revisions included (i) the elimination of the component dealing with the liquidation of bank
assets and (ii) the restructuring of State-owned banks early in Project implementation. Even
though the BCB was keenly interested in implementing this initiative, it was a politically charged
topic. As already explained, the Bank should have tested the political waters outside of the BCB
at the time of design. With respect to the remaining components, thirteen activities were dropped
from the project, and either carried out with other BCB funds or merged into other new project
components. Nevertheless, these changes did not alter the fundamental modernization objectives
espoused by this Project. Actually, Arminio Fraga was instrumental in getting the project
implementation on a satisfactory course after nearly two years of delays.

Based on a comprehensive Mid-term Review, the reformulated Project components were



                                               - 6 -

specified as follows:

(a) Component I: Upgrading of Banking Supervision
·       Diagnostic of the banking supervision area
The banking supervision function within the BCB underwent a thorough and systematic review /
benchmarking of its internal organization, supervisory approach, tools and procedures. This study,
which was carried out by Arthur Andersen, constituted a cornerstone for the ambitious reform
program that was subsequently designed and implemented under the technical assistance loan.

·       Development of new supervision manuals
To improve consistency, knowledge management and raise quality standards, the BCB hired
KPMG to help develop new detailed and comprehensive supervision manuals covering all phases
of the on-site and off-site supervision and introducing new analytical tools such as financial
models for risk assessment. These new manuals were made available in Portuguese and in English,
and in parts on the internet in order to familiarize the banking community with the inspection
process and thereby facilitate the work of bank examiners.

·       Development of internal bank rating tool for off-site supervision
Following the recommendations by Arthur Andersen, the BCB initiated the work on a new
internal system of bank ratings to elevate its risk-based supervisory approach to international best
practice. This internal rating model incorporated quantitative and qualitative criteria, with the
latter ones being based mostly on an assessment of the quality of internal controls and risk
management of the supervised institutions.

·       Development of a new Credit Bureau (Central do Risco, CR)
With the modernization efforts in the supervision area, the BCB's demand for market data and
analytical tools to manage the latter increased substantially. This led - among other things ­ to a
major overhaul of the credit information system used by supervisors. An outside consulting team
was hired for several months to perform a diagnosis of the credit information market, after which
the work on the new credit risk system was initiated in December 2001.

·       Consolidation of numerous financial institutions databases under a single databank
(UNICAD)
The purpose of this project was to link over 40 different systems within the BCB to allow users to
(i) access more easily financial structure information in a more centralized manner, (ii) minimize
redundancies, and (iii) eliminate data inconsistencies. As such, it is an extension of the originally
planned unification of the financial institution reference system (CADINF), and the legal reference
system (CAPEF). The development of this system marked a new direction for having one central
repository for all information regarding the organizational structure of financial institutions.

·       Creation of a uniform catalogue for all information related to financial institutions
(SICAD)
The objective of this sub-component was to facilitate data / document search by establishing an
extensive catalogue of the data managed within the supervision area and link every entry with the
specific departments handling this data. Doing this, the BCB also expected to streamline the



                                                  - 7 -

number of specific databases maintained by staff in various units and improve data consistency.
This system was developed as a pilot project using a `best practice' model of project management
methodology (PMO) under the new IT architecture J2EE, Java, Web client, and client server. It is
web-supported and accessible to all financial institutions, government entities, the public, and
internal staff.

·       Additional Training for supervision staff (including English)

(b)     Component II: Financial Sector Review & Other Selected Research
The original vision study was perhaps too broad. Initial enthusiasm waned during implementation.
According to the component description in the PAD, the study should have presented well
documented findings of key trends in those relevant areas including a five year projection
accompanied by policy prescriptions within that timeframe. The development of a five year time
profile for expected changes in the financial system, while well intentioned, could have become
somewhat speculative, thus dimishining the potential policy impact. This forward looking analysis
would have required extensive consultations with market participants as to their expectations,
followed by a synthesis of these views into a reasonable set of assumptions regarding future
trends. Change in BCB management was also a factor for adjusting the component. When
Arminio Fraga was named President, he brought with him a different set of priorities. His main
interest was in studies dealing with specific issues with immediate policy relevance. Some of the
specific topics which the BCB wanted to pursue were: issues involving bank supervision;
liquidation and failure resolution procedures; analysis of the current deposit insurance scheme;
reform of the bankruptcy laws, leasing regulation, housing regulation, taxation of credit and
savings, among others. In view of the strong ownership of this approach by the new BCB
management, the Bank appropriately revised this component.

(c)     Component III: Project Management & Other Modernization Initiatives (incl.
Training BCB­wide)
By the time of the Mid-term review this component had been fleshed out in terms of the specific
activities to be supported by the Project. The activities to be carried out consisted of the
following:

·       Upgrade of software and hardware for various departments

·       Development of a Data Warehouse (DW)
Following a diagnostic performed by IT specialists from the US Federal Reserve Bank, the BCB
initiated a complete transformation of its IT function and IT-infrastructure. As part of this
process, a transition of the    data entry and management system was made from isolated
department-specific solutions to an integrated cross-functional and cross-organizational "data
warehouse". While such a system stores the data outside the transaction processing environment,
it allows users at the same time a more efficient access to the information (data mining). Without
the Data Warehouse environment, it would have been much more difficult to develop such large
and complex databases as the Foreign Exchange System (with about 20 million data items) or the
new Credit Information System.




                                                - 8 -

·       Diagnostic of human resources function
A thorough review and benchmarking of the BCB's human resource function was conducted as
part of the efforts to improve job satisfaction and efficiency, through opportunities for career
development, and the enhancement of managerial skills and culture within BCB. As in the case of
the supervision area, the diagnostic was performed by Arthur Andersen.

·       Design and implementation of a Cost Controlling System
Acting on recommendations by Arthur Andersen, the BCB initiated the design of an
(activity-based) costing and managerial information system. The objective of this new activity
was to help (i) improve the BCB's operational cost efficiency, (ii) encourage more strategic,
tactical and operational resource management         (e.g., with respect to outsourcing), and (iii)
promote a "corporate culture" throughout all levels of management. The new system was
developed with the assistance of KPMG.

·       Improvement of payment system operations.
Work on upgrading the Brazilian payments and securities settlement system was initiated by the
BCB in 1997. The backbone of the reform was the introduction of a new BCB operated real time
gross settlement system (Sistema de Transferencia de Reservas, STR) which is available for
interbank transfers and settlement of the clearing cycles of all other systemically important
payment systems. Under this new system, financial institutions are no longer be able to show a
negative balance in their reserves accounts at the BCB, which has been a substantial source of
financial risks for the BCB up to now. The project funded external advisory assistance for the
project. The Bank has also provided technical assistance in this field through the Western
Hemisphere Payments and Securities Clearance and Settlement Initiative.

·       Training of non-supervision staff (including English).

·       Study on how to ensure a more efficient distribution of currency in circulation through the
financial system.

·       Support of the economic research unit in development of inflation-targeting methodology.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is judged to be satisfactory. Overall Project design was relevant in terms of the
BCB's goal of building up its credibility. The Government was deeply concerned about a banking
system crisis threatening macroeconomic stability, and was thus fully supportive of the BCB's
institutional renewal and its proposed cooperation with the Bank. This was the first Bank loan
addressing broad financial sector issues in Brazil. The technical merits of the broad Project
components were deemed to be sound, and the risks assessment proved to be adequate. The BCB
as executing agency was considered among the better public institutions in Brazil. Its senior
management was considered highly competent and motivated to support the modernization of the
BCB. A Quality Assurance Group evaluation at the time of implementation concluded that the
design of the project was sound and ready for implementation at the time of approval.

Project Monitoring Indicators. The PAD contained some stylized quantitative "macro"



                                                - 9 -

indicators such as decreasing incidence of bank failures, improvements in bank ratings assigned by
rating agencies; access by banks to capital market finance that were supposed to measure the
impact of the Project. Unfortunately these indicators were too broad, making it difficult to isolate
the specific TA contributions from a myriad of other factors influencing their behavior. At the
same time the indicators were ambitious in expecting that modernization of the BCB would have
a measurable impact on the financial system such as improving banks' access to capital market
finance. The quantitative indicators were not really appropriate for this Project. A more realistic
approach would have been to focus on "micro" indicators such as number of supervisory
personnel, average years of experience of bank examiners, application of risk rating methodology
to the principal banks, enhanced efficiency of the databases, and number of BCB staff
participating in training programs. Even with the use of these alternative monitoring indicators, a
realistic measure of impact would probably not be feasible until well after this evaluation since a
number of key Project developments were added subsequently and/or are still in progress.

Equally important were the qualitative monitoring indicators. This Project dealt with numerous
"soft" management issues for which a qualitative evaluation is more appropriate. The design of an
ongoing assessment of banking supervision through the use of performance benchmarks was a
very good effort in this regard. Another key measure of performance is the feedback provided by
market participants. The Bank could have designed periodic surveys of banks with specific
questions regarding their perception of the change in the quality and effectiveness of banking
supervision. However, this survey would have had to be administered by an independent entity
such as the Bank or a reputable firm unrelated to the BCB or the Government. Another important
source of information would have been a survey of BCB staff as to their perception of the
changes produced by the modernization efforts. More work in the development of appropriate
performance indicators would have been helpful.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Implementation Background. Despite the high degree of flexibility built into the structuring of
project outputs, implementation suffered extensive delays early on but was able to recoup two
years after the start of the Project. In fact implementation progress was rated Highly Satisfactory
in the PSRs starting in June 2002 and through project closing. The principal culprit in the initial
implementation delays was a drastic fiscal austerity policy implemented by the Ministry of Finance
in response to a series of macroeconomic shocks (e.g., emerging market crises in 1997-98), that
led to dramatic cuts in the budget allocations to the BCB. As a result, project implementation was
very slow in the initial phase of the project. By end 1999, less than 15% of the loan funds had
been disbursed and no progress had been made on the institution-building program except for the
purchase of approximately 250 notebooks for the BCB's inspection teams. Other factors that
contributed to these delays were (i) the high volatility in the BCB leadership during this period,
and (iii) the initial resistance by the BCB's mid-level management to the disciplined project
management approach imposed by the Bank.




                                                 - 10 -

Not surprising, a Quality Assurance Group (QAG) supervision assessment in July 1999, when the
fiscal problems were at their peak, expressed the Bank's concern for slow implementation.3
Overall assessment of quality was satisfactory, but the QAG concluded that the Project had
achieved little in terms of institution building. The Bank's implementation process was strongly
criticized for not anticipating the problems that led to the delays and for not overcoming the
challenges posed by inadequate budget provisions for the BCB. The QAG report noted that the
Bank team "has not managed to persuade the Brazilian authorities to make available the budget
needed to implement this project and to keep hold of the best of the experienced banking
supervision staff who were being encouraged to retire."4

Obviously, the budgetary problems could not have been forecasted at the time of appraisal.
Similarly, it would have been somewhat unrealistic to expect Bank staff to intervene in the
Brazilian government's budget allocation process in order to free up financial resources for the
project as was recommended by the QAG report. Yet, the Bank team responded proactively and
was able to find a solution to overcome some of the budget hurdles by transferring the project
disbursement account to the UNDP. Once this was accomplished, the Task Manager was able to
get the Bank's disbursement division to make an exception in terms of the conditions for funds
release that allowed the Project to achieve the half-way mark for disbursed funds in 2000, thus
opening the way for full scale implementation.5 Brazilian budgetary rules consider Bank
disbursements to UNDP as committed expenditures and thus protected from mid-year cutbacks.
Another determining factor in jump starting the Project's implementation phase was the arrival of
a new BCB governor, Arminio Fraga, in March 1999, who became an enthusiastic promoter of
the modernization initiatives and who was instrumental in garnering MoF support on budgetary
allocations.

The outcome of this Project is considered satisfactory in terms of its contribution to the overall
objective of fostering a more effective management culture at the BCB with a proactive approach
to its regulatory responsibilities. This rating is based on the contribution from the current and
expected implementation of Project initiatives on the overall objective. The resources were fully
utilized in spite of the initial delays in project implementation.6 Nevertheless, implementation
delays did not materially affect the outcome of the Project, although it posed significant risks at
that time.
_______________
3Based on the PAD, July 1999 was the expected Mid-term review point for the Project.
4See Quality of Supervision Assessment, July 12, 1999, page 6. With respect to the exodus of bank examiners, the
issue was not really whether they were being encouraged to retire, but rather that a 1996 government decision to
submit the Central Bank to overall public sector civil service regulations as opposed to the Central Bank's own
policies, meant that the staff at that time would loose substantial pension benefits that had been accumulated over
many years of service.
5Memo from Sr. Disbursement Officer February 11, 2000 stating that the Bank "exceptionally agrees to accept
disbursing a further advance to UNDP without having received the usual 60 percent documentation justification."
6Based on the PAD, the implementation period was estimated at 3 years, but the actual implementation was 5.5
years.




                                                        - 11 -

The expected outcome of the Project was to achieve progress in the BCB's efforts to enhance its
credibility and effectiveness primarily in its banking supervision function, with sustained results
expected over a period of as many as five additional years after Project closing. Longer term, the
potential outcome would include increased efficiency in mobilization of resources in the banking
system and lower fiscal costs resulting from the effectiveness of banking supervision in preventing
banking failures. Based on the BCB's commitment to modernization and the high quality of its
professional staff, it is reasonable to expect that the components that are still in the early stages of
implementation will proceed as planned, and once they are fully operational, their combined effect
will result in a successful outcome with the above mentioned benefits.

The satisfactory rating is also supported by the Annual Evaluations of banking supervision
performed by independent consultants. As explained below, these periodic assessments were very
favorable in terms of the progress achieved during the implementation. The cultural change in
supervision to a risk-based rather than a compliance oriented approach marks an important
institutional accomplishment. The work supported by this Project was also instrumental in the
subsequent design of two programmatic financial sector adjustment loans.


4.2 Outputs by components:
The principal outputs of the Project by component are summarized below.

(a)     Component I: Upgrading of banking supervision
The outcome of the Regulation and Supervision component is considered satisfactory. The BCB
has devoted substantial efforts to strengthen its banking supervisory processes since late 1999.
Considering how supervision was conducted prior to the technical assistance project, the
progress7 achieved by the BCB especially in the last three years has been noteworthy. In
particular, the BCB succeeded in updating prudential regulations to reflect international practice
and standards, creating a new Offsite Surveillance function within its organizational structure, and
elevated its entire supervisory approach by revamping processes, tools and examination
procedures. More importantly, the Banking Supervision area has been in a constant process of
organizational improvement since the comprehensive diagnostic study conducted by Arthur
Andersen. The most recent move consisted in creating 4 new specialized divisions under the
Onsite Supervision department to increase the focus of its market surveillance. It was also decided
(i) to incorporate the financial sector data collection and knowledge management unit (DECAD)
to the Supervision department, and (ii) to strengthen the anti money-laundering department. The
project also funded an extensive training program to upgrade the skills of the supervision staff.
This included participation in training sessions abroad, visits to other supervisory agencies, and a
structured training program offered by the Toronto Center focusing on building teams and
enhancing the effectiveness of on-site examinations.

Among the new supervision tools introduced by the project, the most important achievements
included:

_______________
7As stated by the latest FSAP report of compliance with applicable BIS' ROSC and standards.




                                                     - 12 -

v        The development of a very elaborate Supervision Manual and work papers reflecting full
scope Onsite Examinations­Global Consolidated Inspections (IGC) approach. This will help the
BCB to better         institutionalize the new procedures and methodologies across its internal
organization.
v        The development of a bank rating methodology, that when fully implemented, will enable
the BCB to further enhance its risk-based supervisory approach. This new tool will produce
summary risk assessments for banks, by integrating the work of both functions (onsite and
offsite) and combining into composite ratings relevant quantitative (offsite ratios) and qualitative
(management) factors. The system is being currently tested on a group of ten banks selected by
the supervision department. Based on the refinements generated by this initial exercise a second
set of trials will be launched.
v        The development of an early warning system to detect potential systemic and/or
institution-specific problems, which is managed by the off-site supervision area.
v        The development of a new version of the Credit Bureau (CR) when fully operational and
after supervisory staff has acquired sufficient training on its utilization, will significantly enhance
the supervision of credit risks by the BCB and by the commercial banks themselves. The available
information now includes bank ratings of borrowers, of individual loans, trends in debt servicing,
more detailed information on the loan contract, including a description of the loan guarantees and
their valuations.
v        The consolidation of all financial institutions information into a single data system with
more reliable data and accessible by both on- and off-site supervision staff.
The detailed cataloguing of the financial system information managed in the superivision area
will facilitate data search, streamline the number of databases and improve data consistency. The
system is available to all financial institutions, their branches, and subsidiaries. Financial
institutions are required to enter data directly into the system with built-in data editing parameters
that check for data quality, which are again reviewed and verified by BCB staff for accuracy and
timeliness.

The combined effect of these outcomes is to enhance the productivity and effectiveness of the
banking supervision staff. With more sophisticated tools at their disposal and strong off-site
analysis capabilities these initiatives have improved the examination process. In addition, the
upgraded infrastructure in terms of methodologies, hardware, software, and greater training are
expected to generate significant efficiencies of operation and thus add to the effectiveness of
supervisory activities. For these benefits to fully materialize, however, it will be essential to
complete their implementation. Currently, a number of these new tools ­ e.g., the bank rating
methodology or credit bureau, are still being tested or are in a preliminary phase of
implementation. This is normal because an institutional transformation of this scale has to be
gradual and the related cultural change take years to be fully implemented. At the same time,
however, there is a risk that some of these new tools may never go beyond their current
implementation stage because of an increasingly noticeable "reform fatigue" in the supervision
area.8

_______________
8This is the main reason for not maintaining the "highly satisfactory" rating granted in the most recent project
status reports prepared by the Bank staff.



                                                    - 13 -

Similarly, it has become increasingly obvious that substantial follow-up work will be needed to
better integrate the various reform initiatives sponsored under the project. For instance, the new
IGC examination manual still makes no reference to the risk rating tool, although both deal with
the same processes. Or the stress tests being performed on a regular basis for the various
categories of risks are not aggregated into a worst case scenario which includes all risks at the
same time. A detailed discussion of these issues has been provided to the banking supervision area
in a detailed aide-memoire prepared by the Bank team during a supervision mission in December
2002. Most issues remain valid today. Therefore, it will be important that the BCB strengthens its
internal benchmarking and quality assurance process within the BCB to ensure the continuity of
the modernization efforts in this area. Such a step will increase the likelihood for the project to
have a lasting impact well beyond the expiration date.

(b)      Component II: Financial Sector Review & Other Selected Research
The outcome of this component is considered satisfactory although its contribution to the overall
institution-building objectives has been marginal. The development of key studies on specific
financial sector issues was very supportive of reforms in that sector, especially with respect to the
legal and regulatory environment. For example, the research work on bankruptcy was influential
in the design of a new bankruptcy law that was recently approved and is expected to provide
relief to the historically high lending rates in Brazil. Other studies conducted included (i) an
analysis of best practices in leasing and housing regulation, (ii) legal studies on issues relating to
central bank autonomy, (iii) studies on issues related to exchange rate determination, interest
rates, and the impact of bankruptcy costs on interest rate spreads charged by commercial banks.
An international seminar on efficiency and risks of financial systems was also organized and
funded under this component. Most activities undertaken in this component were under the direct
supervision of the office of the presidency of the BCB.

(c)      Component III: Project Management & Other Modernization Initiatives (incl.
Training BCB­wide)
The outcome of the component to support other modernization initiatives is considered
satisfactory. A significant contribution to institution-building was made in the areas of project
management, information technology (IT), human resources, and payment system operation.

Project Management. As an outgrowth of this Project, the BCB established an Executive
Committee to be comprised of representatives from each department and will be charged with the
task of reviewing and prioritizing all major initiatives and projects. The committee is slated to
meet monthly to review new project requests and to monitor progress on existing projects. Until
recently, the Planning Department (DEPLA) acted as administrator of the committee and
coordinated all of the inputs from various departments involved in the development of new
projects. This function was transferred on May 5, 2004 to a new centralized project management
function reporting to the Executive Director in charge of Administration. This arrangement will be
particularly helpful for the coordination between the areas initiating a new project and the IT
department in order to facilitate project implementation. It is worth mentioning, that the former
project management unit under the Bank loan now forms the backbone of the new department.
This demonstrates the BCB management's appreciation of the Bank's project management
approach.



                                                - 14 -

IT Function. During implementation, the IT department (DEINF) was reorganized to meet a
surge in demand for its service in the context of the modernization efforts, as well as the changing
needs of the BCB. To administer these IT projects more effectively, DEINF adjusted its IT
governance model and an IT project management office was established to promote a stronger
partnership between DEINF and business departments. Instead of the traditional approach of
leaving the project ownership in the hands of the IT Department, the business departments take
ownership of the projects under this new model, with DEINF acting as a service provider. This
new IT governance model enabled DEINF to become more responsive to the needs of the other
departments and is regarded as a major accomplishment of the project.

As the modernization efforts progressed, it also became apparent that the prevailing IT
architecture at the BCB needed to be aligned to the new business requirements in terms of need
for integration of old and new applications, independent development platform, and reusability of
codes across different applications. With the assistance of the project, DEINF was able to make a
successful transition from mainframe-centric to a "distributed processing platform" under the
J2EE architecture. In developing some of the information systems, outside consultant services
were extensively employed, but DEINF professionals have been able to gain knowledge of new
technologies from them. The infusion of a new management and more than 40 IT professionals
played a role in transforming its skill levels.9 The project's specific contribution to the upgrade of
the BCB's IT architecture included:

v       The upgrading of hardware and software through the purchase of laptops and other large
computers and new software systems;
v       The development of a Data Warehouse to consolidate all of the BCB's information with
user access across different platforms. The users of the system are extremely satisfied with its
performance and the now much easier data access. They are now able to respond to data
requests--internal or external--which take only a few minutes compared to a week's time in the
past.

HR function. A diagnostic study of the human resources function at the BCB was prepared.
Based on recommendations made by the study, the BCB has reorganized the department with the
emphasis on placing human resources personnel directly in each of the areas of the institution. The
human resources representative in the department of supervision assisted with the drafting of a
new standardized staff development plan. Most of the other recommendations for organizational
adjustments were not implemented because they were perceived to be in conflict with current
labor regulations applying to the BCB. However, the BCB invested substantial efforts in
developing an activity-based costing and managerial information system. The system can be used
to monitor costs by individual projects and will thus facilitate budget decisions and promote
operational cost efficiency. When fully implemented with other cost management systems
currently in the design stage, it will enable the BCB to price more adequately the services it offers
to   the    public    such    as     credit    information       services.    The       new   system   was
_______________
9See Report of World Bank/ Federal Reserve Joint Mission to the Central Bank of Brazil, December 2003.




                                                   - 15 -

implemented in February 2003 and training was provided to employees and management staff.
However, it has not yet reached its full potential as a management tool. To this effect, it is
supposed to be embedded in a new management information system currently under development
that will link this new system with other components dealing with staff costs as well as other
expenses that will be used to produce a comprehensive analysis of costs. Similarly, work is being
done on creating an interface between this new costing system and the existing resource
management and staffing system in the banking supervision area.

Payment System.           Although the project's financial contribution was relatively modest, it
provided critical assistance to this very successful BCB initiative. The new system was
successfully completed in April 2002 after a six-month testing with commercial banks. During the
requirements definition stage, business owners visited several central banks in different
countries--Canada, France, Italy, Japan, and United States­to learn about different systems,
unique requirements, and management issues before the determination of final design. Some 60 IT
staff and 25 business department staff participated in its design and development. Currently, the
Bank is providing further assistance on payment issues under the new TA operation.

Other Project Outcomes. This consisted in the following studies:

v       A Study on the efficiency of the currency distribution system: An extensive analysis of the
distribution of currency in circulation which is currently done through Banco do Brazil. The idea
was to assess the feasibility of contracting this service with commercial banks in order to improve
the efficiency of the process while increasing at the same time the availability of bills of smaller
denominations. As an outcome of this study, a new currency distribution system was designed.
Under this new approach, notes and coins distribution will be opened up to commercial banks
under a competitive bidding process.
v       A study to support the economic research unit in the development of the BCB's
inflation-targeting methodology, which contributed substantially to the upgrading of the BCB's
monetary policy operations.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the Project is deemed to be substantial based on the
output of the three components with emphasis on banking supervision. This Project supported a
number of initiatives that have improved the strategic orientation of the BCB in pursuing its
mission and goals, in establishing new methodologies and procedures and in communicating them
to all employees. This Project was also instrumental in bringing about a cultural change in the
BCB in terms of banking supervision practices, management efficiency, and effectiveness of
communications across organizational units. A clear indication of the banking system's improved
health was its ability to withstand the sharp pre-electoral exchange rate depreciation in 2002




                                                 - 16 -

without the need for intervention by the BCB.

Through diagnostic work, the Project helped to design the restructuring of various departments.
BCB staff members interviewed for this report were appreciative of how this Project contributed
to greater coordination between different departments working on common projects such as the
banking supervision and the central IT departments. The IT             and other departments have
strengthened their partnership to clearly define business goals, analyze user requirements, and
implement standard project development processes. The creation of an Executive Committee to
review and approve new BCB initiatives adopting practices learned in the implementation of this
Project marks a significant contribution to institutional development.

Nevertheless, a number of initiatives are still in the implementation phase and additional work in
other areas is needed to elevate the institutional structure of the BCB to the standards of OECD
countries as aimed by the management. Achievement of this goal will depend on continued
progress and new initiatives, such as those supported by the Bank's current Financial Sector
Technical Assistance Loan.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Macroeconomic volatility during the 1997-1999, including the currency devaluation in February
1999, was one of the principal factors for the slow start of the Project. Since this is a TA project
supporting institutional development of the BCB, its outcome was not influenced by other
macroeconomic and political factors that would have been more relevant to a policy-based
adjustment loan.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Strong Government commitment to the reforms of the financial system, and specifically the
modernization of the BCB was a decisive factor in the successful outcome of the Project. But,
the fiscal austerity measures imposed during 1998-1999 resulted in implementation delays. Also,
the project was substantially affected by the successive changes in the BCB leadership in the initial
phase of the project. Finally, the cancellation of the component to identify a new asset disposition
entity outside of the BCB was caused by a lack of will to proceed with this politically sensitive
initiative.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The BCB was strongly committed to its modernization program in spite of the enormous
organizational challenge it represented,          In this regard, the technical capacity and strong
leadership within the BCB was critical to the project's positive outcome. When Arminio Fraga
assumed the presidency of the BCB in 1999, he embraced the goals of the Project enthusiastically
which proved instrumental in moving the Project out of the doldrums during the initial
implementation phase. Delays in the implementation of some components were experienced as a
result of a lack of familiarity with the Bank's procurement practices, although these issues were
resolved expeditiously.




                                                     - 17 -

5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal, project costs were estimated at US$24.6 million, with Bank disbursements of
US$20.0 million to be disbursed over a period of three years, with 80 percent of the total to occur
during the first two years of implementation. The BCB was to provide US$4.6 million to cover
the expenses of the Project Coordinating Unit housed within the BCB. At the closing date of
December 31, 2003, the Project expenditures reached US$24.5 million, of which US$19.9 million
was Bank financing. Thus the project achieved 99.9 percent of its targeted expenditures.

As explained in the previous sections, disbursement was slow during the initial two year period,
so that by March 2001, only about US$5.7 million (i.e. 28.5%) of Bank funds had been disbursed.
Once the government's budgetary problems were resolved, project implementation was
accelerated, with the remaining US$14.2 million disbursed within about one and a half years. The
US$4.6 million applied to the PCU were utilized to cover staff and other operational expenses
associated with the implementation of the project. The latter includes local taxes and exchange
rate differentials amounting to approximately US$0.8 million, which are typically not financed by
the Bank.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of this Project is judged to be likely. There is a strong commitment by the BCB
management to the modernization initiatives and further the overall institutional development
efforts. The Bank's new Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project has earmarked US$11.0
million to provide additional assistance in selected areas, building up on some of the achievements
of this first technical assistance Project. The second level management across the various units of
the BCB is supportive of the modernization efforts, and some of them have made a sizeable
investment to implement the modernization strategies and thus have a direct stake in its
continuing success. As mentioned by personnel interviewed for this report, the Project helped to
bring about a cultural change in the institution that would be very difficult to turn back. The high
quality of the BCB staff also bodes well for continuing improvement of their management and
supervisory practices.

However, a level of uncertainty remains in the supervision area with respect to the extent to which
those activities currently still in the development stage will be completed and/or successfully
implemented. The challenge of integrating and adequately implementing all the new tools has led
to a substantially more cautious stance by the area management towards new initiatives and, to
some extent, to a certain level of "reform fatigue", which is understandable albeit not advisable in
some areas. Another important consideration for the long-term sustainability of the project
outcome is adequate staffing, especially in the supervision area. As of the date of this report,
DESUP had a staff of 537, of which 440 are inspectors. The average work experience of the
inspectors is about 4 years, a relatively young profile. As shown in the table below, the number of
examiners has been steadily declining as the number of new hires has been slowing in contrast to a
steady outflow. The shortfall in the number of experienced examiners will continue to hamper the
full implementation and effectiveness of the new supervision tools. This situation needs to be
monitored by the BCB management.



                                                 - 18 -

                                DESUP: Total Number of Inspectors

                                                   1998   1999  2000   2001    2002    2003

      Beginning of Period:                           358   483    449     466    437    403

      New Hires (incoming)                           246     58   104      16     14     16

      Outgoing (retiring, resigning, etc.)           121     92    87      45     48     79

      End of Period                                  483   449    466     437    403    340




6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in lending preparation and design is rated satisfactory. The design of the
Project was risky in terms of its flexibility, but it was an appropriate strategy in view of the Bank's
goal of establishing a working relationship with the Government in the financial sector. This
Project was the door opener for a broader collaboration in Brazil on financial sector issues
including subsequent Bank adjustment loans and a second TA project.

Preparation might have benefited from greater consultation with other stakeholders in the case of
the asset disposition component which became a politically controversial issue. Bank concerns
about BCB sensitivities regarding confidentiality of project documents, particularly during
appraisal and preparation, while well intentioned, perhaps was more restrictive than necessary,
thus limiting the availability of project-related documentation during that period.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance during Project supervision is rated satisfactory. Based on interviews for this
report, the Borrower was appreciative of the dialogue with the Bank particularly in terms of
international practices. Bank participation also gave the BCB's modernization program greater
credibility in the international financial markets. The slow implementation during the initial period
was caused by factors outside the control of the Bank. But, the then Task Manager took a
proactive and innovative stance to overcome the problems, and this attitude was maintained
throughout the project duration.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is deemed to be satisfactory.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation is deemed satisfactory. Initially the BCB expressed
some resistance to the TA project, particularly because of the novelty of the proposed working



                                                  - 19 -

relationship with the Bank in this area. This changed quickly following the banking sector
problems in the 1996-1997 period, after which the BCB developed a strong interest in
collaborating with the Bank to modernize its policy and regulatory practices. With BCB
management taking strong ownership of the project, BCB staff became highly motivated in
bringing about a cultural institutional change and maintained a very close and productive dialogue
with the Bank during preparation.


7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance was satisfactory. As stated earlier in this report, the
successful outcome of this Project is attributed in large part to the strong commitment by the
Government through the MoF to the reforms supported by the BCB's modernization program.


7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency was also satisfactory. After initial resistance at the
middle management level, the BCB embraced the modernization program enthusiastically and
embarked on a cultural change in its management practices. This working relationship has carried
forward into the second TA project. The Project Coordinating Unit within the BCB was very
diligent in handling the procurement process and in maintaining ample documentation on Project
implementation. They also worked closely with individual departments to assist with project
requests and to monitor their implementation.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
After consideration of the above-mentioned factors and of the outcome of the Project, the overall
performance of the Borrower is rated as satisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned

The principal lessons derived from the outcome of the Project include the following:

v       Strong ownership of a TA Project is a decisive factor for success. This was the first
financial sector operation of the Bank in Brazil. It was important for the Bank to establish
credibility as a partner in furthering reforms in the financial sector. The Bank thus designed the
Project with ample flexibility to allow the BCB much greater input in terms of its modernization
agenda. While this was a risky proposition, it was justified by the quality of the BCB staff.

v       Flexibility of design works well in a fluid environment but efficient implementation
under those circumstances depends on having a combination of a good implementing
agency and a good Task Manager. In this case strong BCB commitment to the modernization
program was instrumental in seizing the opportunity to adjust the agenda during implementation.
This approach gave the implementing agency greater opportunity to consolidate ownership of the
project. But, the flexibility of design also created a moving target that complicates substantially
project monitoring and evaluation.

v       Analysis of government budgetary processes regarding execution of Bank projects



                                                - 20 -

including sensitivity analysis should be formalized as part of a project appraisal report. For
this project it was particularly fateful that severe budget cuts were imposed during the early
period of implementation, at a time when the credibility of the Project still needed to gain
acceptance by the BCB managers. These budget setbacks were a bit of a surprise to the Bank.
Proactive response by Bank staff managed to overcome some of the budget hurdles by
transferring the project disbursement account to the UNDP.

v       Sometimes too much emphasis is made on the quantitative indicators of project
outcome even when their relevance may be questionable. This Project dealt with numerous
"soft" management issues for which a qualitative evaluation is more appropriate. The design of an
ongoing assessment of banking supervision through the use of performance benchmarks was a
very good effort in this regard.

v       It is important to focus on development of human skills when modernizing
management practices. In general, Project outputs emphasized upgrading of IT and
development of new supervision techniques, and to a lesser extent, the training of supervision and
other BCB staff. Considering that the effectiveness of banking supervision hinges on the skills of
those responsible for supervising banks, it may have been more appropriate to have spent more
resources on training, particularly in house and on-the-job training as suggested in the PAD.
Sometimes it may be more effective to spend resources on training people than in developing
more sophisticated models for financial analysis, whose effectiveness is in turn dependent on the
capacity of the examiners to understand and manipulate the models.

v       Project preparation needs to perform a careful assessment of IT needs and the
capacity of the implementing agency to meet the demand. The development of numerous
databases under the Project put a strain on DEINF's (the IT Department) resources. Several
activities were developed simultaneously as different departments approached DEINF with their
own IT needs. At the time of Project design the Bank did not assess the capacity of DEINF to
meet the demand on their resources arising from numerous initiatives that were based on IT.
Thanks to the technical capacity of the IT team, the job was done, but with delays due to the lack
of coordination and planning.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
These comments were received from the Central Bank of Brazil.

i) Status before start of Program

Following the success of the Real Plan, the economic stabilization program introduced in 1994,
the BCB began tackling issues relating to adaptation of the National Financial System (SFN) to a
low-inflation environment. Although the problems were solved in a timely manner and a banking
system crisis was averted, it was realized that the procedures for bank supervision had to be
modernized.

The problems faced in the banking system after the Real Plan evidenced the need to strengthen the
legal framework within which the BCB operates and the need to modernize its procedures for



                                               - 21 -

supervision, personnel training and technology upgrades. In sum, the task was to prepare the BCB
to face challenges presented by advances in information and communications technology and by
the globalization of financial markets.

In this context, in 1997 the BCB and Finance Ministry defined the following components of the
technical assistance loan agreement with the World Bank to modernize the BCB's supervision
instruments: promotion of studies to reflect on the future of the financial system and verify the
feasibility of changes in the present system for managing and realizing the assets of financial
institutions undergoing liquidation or privatization; strengthening and modernization of banking
supervision; training and development of personnel in all areas that interact directly or indirectly
with the financial system. In short, the aim was to plan for the future of the financial system and
identify the ways in which the BCB should interact with it, preparing the institution to achieve the
goals set.

The main purpose of the loan, which has come to be known as the Program to Enhance the
Instruments with which the Central Bank of Brazil Operates in the National Financial System
(PROAT), was to modernize the BCB's procedures and processes for supervision of the banking
system. Efforts had been undertaken previously to modernize supervision procedures using
state-of-the-art techniques, and the BCB had reformulated its philosophy to focus less on formal
aspects and more on the financial situation of banks, mainly taking into account the risks assumed.
Nevertheless, the BCB's supervision and enforcement procedures still required enhancement and
above all an increase in scope to incorporate international best practice.

To address these challenges the BCB needed to enhance its capabilities and modernize.
Deficiencies in banking supervision required investment in human and material resources, as well
as a new, more proactive and analytical approach to problem solving and risk management. This
proactive approach and more effective use of the BCB's enforcement powers were expected to
help it resolve the deficiencies of financial institutions before they became uncontrollable, thereby
averting or minimizing the cost of liquidation.

The following specific issues, among others, were detected at the time and addressed by the
program: difficulties with supervising the IT systems used by financial institutions; the need to
enhance monitoring and control of various risks (credit risk, market risk etc); difficulties with the
privatization of official banks controlled by state governments; and the need for more interaction
by the BCB's supervisory staff and outside auditors.

ii) Objectives

The principal objective of PROAT was to modernize the BCB's supervisory system by equipping
it with instruments that enhanced the efficiency and effectiveness of the actions taken by the
institution to supervise the National Financial System (SFN).

Development of a strategic vision for the SFN and overall enhancement of banking supervision
practices were expected to make the financial system healthier, create a more appropriate
infrastructure for the markets and reduce systemic risk, thereby also enhancing the effectiveness
of monetary policy.



                                                 - 22 -

The various actions planned with this aim focused on changing the attitudes of BCB supervisors
from an emphasis on rule enforcement to a consideration of the overall situation of each
institution supervised, thereby assuring more preventive or proactive oversight. The program also
set out to equip the supervision department with appropriate information technology systems and
train staff to use them.

Institutional strengthening of the BCB was also expected to include education and training of
personnel not only in the specific area of supervision but also in all other areas of the institution
that interact significantly with the domestic and international financial systems.

iii) Achievements

PROAT was developed by the Project Secretariat (Sepro), recently renamed Executive Project
Management Unit (Gepro). This unit was specially created by the BCB to perform the following:
coordination of planning activities and competitive bidding procedures for procurement of goods
and services; physical and financial monitoring of contract execution; management of payments
under the contracts in question; reporting to the World Bank; and dealing with internal and
external auditors.

PROAT activities proceeded with relative regularity despite budgetary difficulties due to frequent
spending cuts or disbursement restraints imposed by the Government. The most critical phase in
this regard was the first two years of the Program. According to the timetable approved as part of
the loan agreement, a total of US$16 million should have been disbursed during fiscal 1998 and
1999, but budget appropriations proved insufficient to commit more than US$5.2 million.

In addition to this major obstacle, the following difficulties internal to the BCB also contributed to
an initial delay in execution of the Program: lack of experience with production of the basic
documents on the part of the BCB units responsible for activities included in PROAT (these
documents included project plans, technical specifications and terms of reference); deficiencies in
coordinating interaction among the units involved; insufficient emphasis on planning of Program
activities; and insufficient knowledge of the requirements and working methods of the partner
institutions (UNDP and World Bank).

The problems were gradually resolved and in the ensuing years the conditions for disbursement of
funds to finalize PROAT became far more favorable as the Federal Government eased budgetary
restraints. The World Bank loan was fully disbursed and all activities to which BCB was
committed under the agreement were completed in all stages.

In mid-2003, differences of opinion with the World Bank regarding appropriate reporting
procedures delayed disbursement of US$19,000, which would have been sufficient to attain 100%
of the US$20 million loan. The disagreement was sorted out and the disbursement was effected,
leading to finalization of financial execution and the delivery of reports on all amounts covered by
the Program.

It is important to note that execution of the Program accelerated significantly in the period



                                                - 23 -

2000-2002, largely making up for the earlier delays. Nevertheless, it was impossible to complete
PROAT within the originally agreed time frame and an extension of the loan agreement with the
World Bank was required to December 31, 2003. This extension allowed time for the
development of two important projects: an upgrade of the Credit Information System (Credit Risk
Management Center), and creation of a Costing & Management Indicator System, both scheduled
for completion at the end of 2002 but actually completed in mid-2003 owing to the considerable
complexity of the activities involved.

iv) Impacts

The aims of PROAT have been accomplished, especially with regard to the following: reduction
of the fiscal cost of banking problems in Brazil; enhanced efficiency of the actions taken by the
BCB in the sphere of bank supervision; enhancement of the health and security of the financial
system, consequently reducing risks and the likelihood of systemic crisis; and increased integration
of Brazil into the international financial system.

The results can easily be perceived by all those who work directly or indirectly in the BCB's
supervisory activities, by the institutions that participate in the National Financial System, by the
media, and by public opinion. They have also been noted in papers and articles by financial experts
and academics.

The attached spreadsheet contains a project-by-project assessment of the impacts of all PROAT
activities. This assessment can be summarized by saying that the projects in question encompassed
practically all areas of the BCB and that the results were better than expected, both in terms of the
scope of the activities carried out and in terms of the quality of the products developed.

Besides the area on which the Program initially focused (supervision), other relevant areas of the
BCB whose operations are closely integrated with supervision in many respects (e.g.
administration, rehabilitation of official banks, monetary policy, and economic policy) were also
called upon to take part in the Program one way or another. This contributed significantly to
accomplishment of the PROAT's goals.

v) Experience acquired

With regard to the knowledge and experience acquired by the BCB thanks to execution of
PROAT, it is worth highlighting the lessons learned in the field of project development and
management. This experience brought about a new conceptual and practical approach to all
activities on the part of all the BCB units involved with the Program.

BCB units now interact more effectively and above all manage their activities by project in
accordance with methodologies presented by experts from businesses and organizations of
comparable size to the BCB itself. A practical consequence of this new approach to operations
can be seen from the new projects now being developed by Gepro for PROAT II. The same units
that previously submitted disorganized requests for resources to meet their needs now submit
well-structured, customized and more realistic projects when applying to PROAT or other
sources.



                                                 - 24 -

It is most important to report that the partnership between technical personnel from the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP), World Bank and BCB was extremely positive and
enabled BCB staff to overcome the considerable challenges presented by execution of PROAT.
The Program played a major role in the process of culture change at the BCB, especially in the
area of banking supervision. Implementation of project offices in relevant sectors of the BCB was
the most visible part of this culture change. Gepro, originally known as Sepro, is currently
consolidating its role as a corporate project office responsible for managing the portfolio of
strategic projects developed by all areas of the BCB.

In sum, the experience acquired is embodied not just in a set of new working methods but above
all in the adoption of a new paradigm for the development of activities.

vi) Next steps

Despite the obstacles faced, the PROAT experience undoubtedly enabled the BCB to make
significant progress with modernization, especially in regulation and supervision of financial
institutions. Positive results were also achieved in the issuance of prudential standards of
paramount importance to supervision, in line with international best practice. The BCB has also
greatly enhanced its methods of supervision and problem solving.

Training of personnel with PROAT support has enabled the BCB to:
-       keep pace more effectively with changes in the domestic and international financial
        systems;
-       enhance the procedures for rehabilitation of official banks;
-       create or enhance the mechanisms for solving problems experienced by banks;
-       develop models and studies in the field of economic and monetary policy as a
        contribution to governmental decision making.

The new focus for supervision remains the most auspicious part of the changes that have
occurred. What can be observed now is a new stance in banking oversight and enforcement,
which prioritizes indirect supervision so as to better monitor the risks involved in the financial
system. The following highlights should be mentioned:
-       issuance of prudential standards of paramount importance to supervision, in line with
        international best practice;
-       enhancement of the direct and indirect supervisory methodologies used by the BCB;
-       new approaches in developing solutions to problems detected, thanks to the enhanced
        managerial and technical competencies of supervisors.

The benefits derived from some of the projects developed under PROAT can easily be observed.
A good example is the Credit Information System, which enables financial institutions that lend
directly to consumers to assess the individual risk of each borrower on the basis of his or her
individual loan repayment record. Thus individuals with clean credit records can be given
preferential treatment by banks.

Another example worth highlighting is the Supervision Manual project. The process of



                                                - 25 -

"manualizing" the activities of bank inspectors is intensely recommended by international best
practice and essential to oversight and enforcement. Systematizing accumulated knowledge and
the procedures to be used in the form of this manual enhanced the efficiency of direct inspection
and indirect assessment, reducing the likelihood of errors and thereby contributing concretely to
the enhancement of security for users of supervised institutions.

In light of the above, there can be no doubt that the loan agreement was fully justified as leading
to progress of the greatest utility to the BCB. Nevertheless, all leaders of the institution share the
perception that much remains to be done to guarantee maintenance of the level of excellence
achieved while continuing to stay abreast of the new challenges that constantly arise in this
ever-changing sector. The excellent professional relations we have with the World Bank will
continue to be a key driver of success for the Program. The partnership will proceed in various
forms, from exchanges of experience and access to information or experienced consultants, to
benchmarking of the BCB's supervisory performance against international best practice.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information

OUTLOOK & SUGGESTIONS FOR FURTHER COLLABORATION BETWEEN THE BCB
AND THE BANK

The WB financial sector team has developed excellent working relationship with the BCB at
various levels of management under the project. The sizable technical assistance provided to the
institution under the CBTAL (and continuing under the FSTAL) have generated a substantial
amount of goodwill towards the Bank. With the flow of technical assistance bound to decrease in
coming years, it may be advisable to build upon the "relationship capital" and establish some sort
of formal institutional partnership between the BCB and the Bank.

There are at least three areas for a possible regular collaboration:

(i)     Economic Research: A collaboration with the BCB in this area would enable the Bank to
have a constant access to a significant source of data and local research capacity on a permanent
basis. On the other hand, the BCB would benefit hugely from the Bank's own research capacity as
well as its academic network as demonstrated under the project.

(ii)    Quality Assurance: For instance in Banking supervision, the Bank could help the BCB to
undertake regular benchmarking exercises and thereby institute a process of constant operational
review and improvement.
(iii)   Capacity Building: This could take place in the form of staff exchanges as well as study
tours / on-the-job training for officials of other countries under technical assistance programs
similar to this project. Such a study tour was organized recently for instance for officials of the
Honduran Banking Supervision Authority currently receiving technical assistance from the Bank
under a financial sector technical assistance project.


                                                 - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                           1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Decreasing incidence of bank failures       Not quantified                      According to the Deposit Insurance Fund
                                                                                bank assets under liquidation as a result of
                                                                                bank failures have fallen from R259 million in
                                                                                1996 to R6.9 million in 2003
Improvement in bank ratings by rating       Not quantified                      Press reports indicate an overall
agencies                                                                        improvement of the Brazilian Banks' ratings
                                                                                since the mid nineties.
Access of banks to capital market finance   Not quantified                      Not applicable
Positive qualitative evaluation by outside  Qualitative indicator               See reference to positive evaluations by
consultant                                                                      consultants in the text of this report
Improved managerial practices               Qualitative indicator               Based on BCB's financial statements,
                                                                                administrative expenses as a percent of total
                                                                                assets fell from 0.40 % in 2000, to 0.20% in
                                                                                2003. Risk management practices have also
                                                                                improved substantially at least at the largest
                                                                                banks.
Increase in number of bank personnel and    Not quantified                      Number of examiners has declined (see text)
improved training                                                               but training programs have improved the
                                                                                skills of examiners.
Develop a risk-management approach to       Qualitative indicator               Development of new manuals and risk rating
supervision                                                                     methodology has instilled risk-based
                                                                                supervision, although progress has been
                                                                                somewhat slow




                                                               - 27 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                    1
                Indicator/Matrix                Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Studies                                    NA
 Study on Bankruptcy Law                                                 Completed
 Study on Interest Rate Spreads                                          Completed
 Study on Inflation Targetting                                           Completed
 Prepared a diagnostic study of the                                      Completed
   Human Resources Division
 Diagnostic study of the Supervision                                     Study completed by Arthur Anderson in
   Department                                                             2001
 Diagnostic study of the distribution of                                 Completed
   currency in circulation
Training                                   NA
 Developed training programs for both                                    Programs implemented with coordination
   senior and junior bank examiners                                        by the Toronto Center
 Provided English training to senior                                     Program implemented for a total cost of
   supervision staff                                                       $474,197
IT Upgrades                                NA
 Developed the software to prcess the                                    Done
   cadastre of banking information
 Developed a catalogue of all information                                Done
   dealing with the financial system
 Developed a Data Warehouse (DW) to                                      DW has been developed and individual
   consolidate all data systems                                            information systems are being input.
 Developed an enhanced version of the                                    New version of Credit Bureau being tested
   Credit Bureau                                                           and should be operational in the near
                                                                           futur
 Purchase of Laptops for field examiners                                 Purchased 235 notebooks
 Upgrade of the Payments System                                          Purchased hardware to expand the
                                                                           capacity of the system
 Other Project Outputs
 Preparation of Supervision Manuals                                      Manuals published and made available
                                                                           through BCB's web site
 Develope a methodology for risk rating                                  Methodology developed and being tested
   of financial institutions                                               on selected institutions
 Participation by supervision department                                 Done
   staff in international seminars
 Hosted seminars on inflation targetting                                 Done
 Develop a system to measure costs of                                    Basic staff cost information system
   various activities by department                                        developed and implemented, currently
                                                                           developing a comprehensive cost
                                                                           management system to integrate all
                                                                           relevant cost components

1End of project




                                                      - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                         Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                      Component                         US$ million  US$ million
Asset Resolution/Disposal                                  1.00           0.00             0
Financial Sector Vision/Other Selected Research            1.00           0.40            40
Improvement of Banking Supervision                        14.00         15.60         111.43
State Bank Restructuring                                   0.20           0.00             0
Training other than Bank Supervision/Other                 3.00           0.90            30
Other Activities                                           0.80           3.00           400
Project Management                                         4.60           4.60           100

Total Baseline Cost                                       24.60         24.50
                        Total Project Costs               24.60         24.50
                  Total Financing Required                24.60         24.50




                                                - 29 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                          Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
   2. Goods                                4.80               0.00               0.50             0.00              5.30
                                          (4.80)             (0.00)             (0.50)           (0.00)             (5.30)
   3. Services                             9.00               0.70               5.00             0.00              14.70
                                          (9.00)             (0.70)             (5.00)           (0.00)            (14.70)
   4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00               0.00             4.60              4.60
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
       Total                               13.80              0.70               5.50             4.60              24.60
                                          (13.80)            (0.70)             (5.50)           (0.00)            (20.00)


  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   2. Goods                                5.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              5.00
                                          (5.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (5.00)
   3. Services                             10.30              1.10              3.50             0.00             14.90
                                          (10.30)            (1.10)            (3.50)            (0.00)           (14.90)
   4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             4.60              4.60
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               15.30              1.10              3.50             4.60             24.50
                                          (15.30)            (1.10)            (3.50)            (0.00)           (19.90)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Asset Resolution/Disposal      1.00                                  0.00                                0.0
Financial Sector               1.00                                  0.40                               40.0
Vision/Other Selected
Research
Improvement of Banking        14.00                                 15.60                               111.4



                                                          - 30 -

Supervision
State Bank Restructuring  0.30                   0.00           0.0
Training other than Bank  3.00                   0.90           30.0
Supervision/Other
Other Activities          0.80                   3.00           375.0
Project Management                4.60                  4.60          100.0
TOTAL PROJECT             20.00   4.60          19.90   4.60    99.5  100.0
COSTS




                                         - 31 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Cost Benefit Analysis

NOT APPLICABLE IN THE CASE OF CBMTAL

                             Present Value of Flows
                          Economic Analysis            Financial Analysis
                      Appraisal   Latest Estimates   Appraisal       Latest
                                                                   Estimates
Benefits
Costs


Net Benefits
IRR/NPV




                                        - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               09/1996                   1     TTL
               12/1996                   2     TTL, 1 Bank Supervisor
               02/1997                   7     TTL, 1 Economist, 2 Bank
                                               Supervisors, 1 Bank Resolution
                                               Expert
               03/1997                   7     TTL, 1 Economist, 2 Bank
                                               Supervisors, 3 Consultants

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               09/1997                   1     TTL


 Supervision
               01/1999                    2    TTL, 1 Economist                       S               S
               05/1999                    3    TTL, 1 Economist, 1 Bank               S               S
                                               Supervisor
               09/1999                    2    1 Economist, 1 Bank Supervisor         S               S
               01/2000                    1    TTL                                    S               S
               05/2000                    5    TTL, 1 Bank Supervisor, 1 IT           S               S
                                               Expert, 1 Training Specialist, 1
                                               Specialist in IT/Financial
                                               Reporting
               12/2000                    2    TTL, 1 Economist                       S               S
               04/2002                    2    TTL, 1 Bank Supervisor                 HS             HS
               12/2002                    2    TTL, 1 Bank Supervisor                 HS             HS
               06/2003                    2    TTL, 1 Bank Supervisor                 HS             HS
               12/2003                    2    TTL, 1 Bank Supervisor                 HS             HS

 ICR
               04/2004                   1     1 Consultant
               05/2004                   3     TTL, 2 Bank Supervision                S               S
                                               Consultants



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               43.6                            188.1
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    31.5                            115.7
  Supervision                             112.8                            419.3
  ICR                                        3.0                             11.5
  Total                                   190.9                            734.6




                                               - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Andima, Sistema de Pagamentos Brasilerio, February, 2002.

Arthur Andersen, Central Bank of Brazil: Diagnostic Study of Supervision and Regulation,
Volumes 1, 2, and 3, March 2001.

Arthur Andersen, Diagnostico da Eficiencia e Aficacia das Politicas e Praticas de Recursos
Humanos, March 2002.

Barents, Risk Center Review Project, March 2000.

Alber-Glanstaetten, S. and Camara, M., Brazil BTO: Mid-term review of CBMTAL, December
19, 2000

Camara, M. and Gutierrez, J., Preliminary Insights of Review of Bank Supervision Component,
December 17, 2002.

Central Bank of Brazil, Institutional Arrangements to Supervise Anti-Money Laundering
Measures, W. do Anjos, No Date. (PPT presentation)

Central Bank of Brazil, DESIN, Missao da Area de Supervisao Indireta, No Date.

Central Bank of Brazil, Supervision Manual, May 2002.

Central Bank of Brazil, Boletim de Custos, November 2003.

Central Bank of Brazil, Financial Stability Report, November 2003.

Federal Reserve Bank / World Bank, Mission Report on Information Technology Planning, April
2000.

Federal Reserve Bank / World Bank, Report on Joint Mission to the Central Bank of Brazil,
January 2004.

World Bank, Project Appraisal Document for a Central Bank Modernization Technical Assistance
Loan, Brazil, Report No. 16867-BR, October 23, 1997

World Bank, Loan Agreement, Loan Number 4245-BR, January 29, 1998.

World Bank, Project Agreement, Loan Number 4245-BR, January 29, 1998.

World Bank: Quality Supervision Assessment, July 12, 1999.

World Bank, CBMTAL Results of Mid-Term Review, PPT Presentation, March 1, 2001.



                                               - 36 -

World Bank, CBMTAL Mid-Term Review, March 7, 2001.

World Bank, Mid-Term Review, March 7, 2001.

World Bank, Project Appraisal Document for a Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan,
Brazil, Report No. 22603-BR, August 7, 2001.

World Bank, Banking Supervision Reports:

        M. Mackenzie, Interim 1997 Evaluation and Market Feedback, December 1997.

        W. Zunic, Banking Supervision in Brazil, 1999

        M. Camara and J. Gutierrez, Banking Supervision in Brazil: Second Generation Issues,
        January 2003.

        M. Camara and J. Gutierrez, Overall Project Status: Progress Achieved during 2003,
        January 2004.

        World Bank, Central de Risco de Credito, (PPT presentation), March 14, 2002.

Project Status Reports:

        PSR: 03/31/1998
        PSR: 02/05/1999
        PSR: 06/22/1999
        PSR: 10/01/1999
        PSR: 02/14/2000
        PSR: 08/04/2000
        PSR: 03/14/2001
        PSR: 12/10/2001
        PSR: 05/31/2002
        PSR: 06/11/2002
        PSR: 11/25/2002
        PSR: 05/29/2003
        PSR: 12/03/2003




                                             - 37 -

Additional Annex 8. Brazil Selected Economic Indicators

                                  1995        1996    1997     1998    1999     2000    2001    2002    2003

GDP growth (%)                       4.2        2.7     3.3      0.1     0.8      4.4     1.3     1.9    -0.2
Inflation (IGP - DI):
 average                           59.7        11.1     7.9      3.9    11.3     13.8    10.4    13.5    22.8
 year-end                          14.8         9.3     7.5      1.7    20.0      9.8    10.4    26.4     7.7

Interest Rates (yr.avg.):
  Selic Rate                     54.92         27.6   25.17     29.5  26.26    17.59   17.47   19.11   23.37
 Lending rate

Exchange Rate (Reais / US$)
 average                          0.97        1.04    1.12    1.21    1.79     1.95    2.32    3.53    2.89
   (% chg)                                      6.9     7.4      8.3    48.0      9.3    18.7    52.3  -18.2
 year-end                         0.92        1.00    1.08    1.16    1.82     1.83    2.35    2.93    3.07
   (% chg)                                      9.7     7.3      7.6    56.4      0.8    28.6    24.6     4.8

Public Sector Surplus (+) / Deficit (-) (% of GDP)
  Nominal                           -7.2       -5.9    -6.1     -7.6    -5.8     -3.6    -3.6  -4.58   -5.16
  Primary                            0.4       -0.1    -0.9      0.0     3.3      3.6     3.6    3.89    4.32

Balance of Payments (US$s millions):
Current Account                (4,528) (23,137) (33,445) (33,616) (25,335) (24,225) (23,215)  (7,718) 4,051

Financial Account:
 FDI (net)                                 16,071   20,815  20,622   26,888   30,498  24,715  14,108  9,894
  Portfolio (net)                               na      na       na  3,802     6,955     77   (5,119) 5,308
 Other (net)                               18,192    5,272       42 (13,371) (18,127) 2,260    (133)  (9,659)
   Net Financial Account                   34,263   26,087  20,664   17,319   19,326  27,052  8,856   5,543

Errors & Omissions                 (30)       (321)   (559)  (4,333)   194     2,637   (531)   (836)  (1,099)

Overall Balance                       2     9,017   (7,845) (17,285) (7,822)  (2,262) 3,307     302   8,496

Current Acct as % of GDP             0.0       -3.3    -3.7     -4.0    -4.7     -4.0    -4.6    -1.7     0.8

Source: Central Bank




                                                    - 38 -

- 39 -

