Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16867-BR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
CENTRAL BANK MODERNIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
October 23, 1997
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Country Management Unit 5
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY UNIT - Real (Rs.$)
US$1 = Rs.$1.09
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BBA         Brazilian Bankers Association
BIS          Bank for International Settlement
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CB           Central Bank
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IFC         International Finance Corporation
MERCOSUR Common Market of the Southern Cone (Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay,
Uruguay)
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
PCU         Project Coordinating Unit
QCBS         Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection
SOE         Statements of Expenditure
TA           Technical Assistance
TOR         Terms of Reference
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme
Vice President                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Director, Country Management Unit                  Gobind T. Nankani
Director, Finance, Private Sector & Infrastructure Unit    Sri-ram Aiyer
Task Manager                                       Stefan Alber



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Project Apirail Docueat                                   Project Tide: Canbta B-nk Modernization Tecluaia Aaisance Loan
Cemaby Brazil
Brazil
Central Bank Modernization Technical Assistance Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BLOCK 1: PROJEcT DEscRIFrnoN .............................................................2
1. Project development objectives ............................................................2
2. Project components .............................................................2
3. Benefits: .............................................................4
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements: .............................................................4
BLOcK 2: PROJECT RAnONALE ............................................................5
S. CAS objective supported by the project .............................................................5
6. Main sector issues and Government strategy: .............................................................6
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices: .............................................................7
8. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection: ............................ ................................7
9. Major related projectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies ..........................................8
10. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design: .............................................................8
11. Indications of borrower commitent and ownership: ............................................................8
12. Value added of Bank support: ............................................................8
BLOCK 3: SUMMARY PRojECr ASSESSMENTS ................................9
13. Economic/FinancialAssessment: ..............................9
14. TechnicalAssessment: ..............................9
15. InstitutionalAssessment: .............................9
16. SocialAssessment: .............................9
17. EnvironmentalAssessment: .............................9
18. Participatory Approach: .............................                                              10
19. Sustainability: ............................. 10
20. Critical Risks: ............................. 10
21. Possible ControversialAspects: .............................                                        10
BLOcK 4: MAIN LOAN CONDmONS ..............................  I
BLOCK 5: COMPLIANCE WnTH BANK POIJCES                  ............................... 11
List ofAnnexes
Annex 1:                 Project Design Summary
Annex 2:                 Detailed Project Description
Annex 2 Attachment 1  Agreed First Year Work Program
Annex 2 Attachment 2  A Guide to Annual Evaluations ofBanking Supervision
Annex 2 Attachment 3  Complementarity ofPresent and Proposed Actions
Annex 2 Attachment 4  Strategic Vision for the Banking and Financial Industry in Brazil
Annex 3:                 Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4:                 Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 5:                 Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 6:                 Documents in Project File
Annex 7:                 Status of Bank Group Operations in Brazil
Annex 8:                 Brazil at a Glance
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project Awaial Docunet                         Pioject r.ie: Central Bank Modenizat Technical Aidaibce Loan
C-: Bazil
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Latin America and the Cafibbean Regional Office
Project Appraisal Document
Brazil
Central Bank Modernization Technical Assistance Loan
Date:              October 23, 1997               [1 ] Draft       [XI Final
Task Manager:      Stefan Alber                    Country Manager:    Gobind T. Nankani
Project ID:        BR-PE-48357                     Sector:              Financial Sector
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan      PTI:       I  Yes          [X] No
Project Fnancing Data            [Xi Loan  [   Credit 1   Guarantee    [   Other
[Specifyl
Amoun!!t_(U gJ                 _ US$20.0 million
Proposed Terms:                    [XI Single Currency (US$)
Grace Period (Years)    S          [Xm  Libor-Based
Years to Maturity       15
Commitment Fee (%/o)    0.75
Financing plan (USSm):
Source                         Local           Foreign          Total
Central Bank                      4.6                               4.6
IBRD                                               20.0           20.0
Total                                       24.6
Borower:                    Federative Republc of Brzil
Responsible agency:      Central Bank of Brazil
Esfimated disbursements (Bank                   1998       1999    2000
FY/US$M):
Annual              1.5        13.0     5.5
Cumulative              1.5        14.5    20.0
Expected Effectiveness Date:  March 31, 1998            Closing Date:  December 31, 2000
1



Project Appraisal Document                     Project Title: Central Bank Modernization Technical Assiatancc Loan
Countq: Brazil
BLOCK 1: PRoJEcT DESCRIPTION
1. Project development objectives
(see Annex 1 for key performance indicators):
Major bank failures and restructurings since the 1994 introduction of the Real stabilization
Plan have exposed institutional weaknesses of the Central Bank, particularly of its banking
supervision and enforcement functions. Motivated by bank intervention and restructuring
costs, the Central Bank has begun a long-term modernization effort to help it
anticipate/prevent major bank failures, allow it to manage failures more expertly, and make the
financial system more crisis-resilient. A major reorganization study, covering all Central Bank
functions, has been completed and is currently under review.
The Project's development objective is to complement the Central Bank's modernization
effort at this crucial juncture when its motivation is high. The Project will support a three-
year improvement program with the primary focus on professionalizing banking supervision
and mainstreaming international best practices. Financial regulation and supervision play an
essential role in fostering the robustness of financial systems. Better banking supervision will
be achieved via training in advanced methods (moving away from rule-based to risk
management approaches), applying a ladder of enforcement tools, upgrading the Central
Bank's information quality and analytical capacity and using new information technology
equipment.
Other Project components include laying the foundations (legal and financial feasibility
studies, to determine inter alia, the viability of private sector participation) for the creation of a
framework allowing the management of the disposal of failed banking assets outside the
Central Bank. The surge of bank failures, having added significantly to the Central Bank's
inventory of assets of failed banks, has burdened its already limited capacity to manage timely
liquidation and disposal at least cost.
The Project will also assist with a diagnosis of the financial sector structure and consider
changes in public policies and instruments to reduce the financial sector's complexity and to
foster a growing and profitable private banking system. Finally, the Project will allow the
Central Bank to continue to rapidly expand its training programs and improve its management
systems in a few key areas outside banking supervision.
2. Project components
(See Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
To achieve its development objectives and to maintain flexibility, the Project has been designed
with a "process" character, defining the broad direction of project expenditures but without
detailing each project component for the entire implementation period of three years.
However, for the First implementation year, project components have been defined in detail
amounting to about US$6 million, or 27% of estimated project costs (see Attachment 1 of
Annex 2). For years Two and Three, detailed project components will be agreed during the
annual reviews in mid- 1998 and mid- 1999 respectively.
In banking supervision, emphasis will be given to the introduction of market-based tools such
as more public disclosure of banking information and increased collaboration with external
2



Project Appraisal Document                        Project Title: Central Bank Modernization Technical Aasistnce Loan
Country: Brazil
auditors.   The scope and timning  of supervision  strategies (on-site/off-site, off-shore
inspections, consolidated supervision of financial groups, public banks) are expected to be
prioritized according to risk rather than calendar or procedural considerations. Also, the ladder
of enforcement tools will be reviewed as well as the decisions/procedures to apply those tools.
Key project expenditures will include on-the-job training, exchange of qualified personnel, joint
ventures with the best international supervisory agencies, specialized training courses, the
hiring of selected experts to jump-start new approaches, the acquisition of information
technology equipment, quality assurance mechanisms and continuing evaluations of the
effectiveness of banking supervision.
As to asset liquidations, project expenditures will include the legal and financial feasibility
studies to establish an appropriate framework which may include forming one or more entities
separate from the Central Bank. Crucial will be the identification of all legal hurdles to
effective asset recovery and the development of the corrective legal instruments. Another key
issue will be the design of an institutional framework to attract private sector management and
investment.
Component                           Catesorv         Indicative    % of
Cost       Total
(US$M)
(i) Upgrade Banking Supervision:                Institution Building   14.0           57
- training
- improvement of information
- development of best practices, particularly in
enforcement
- test quality assurance systems
(ii) Enhance Asset Liquidation and              Institution Building    1.0             4
Disposition:
- establish legal infrastructure
- establish business/financial plans
(iii) Financial Sector Review and other selected  Institution Building  1.0             4
research
(iv) Training Central Bank-wide                 Institution Building    3.0            12
(v) Other                                       Institution Building    1.0             4
(vi) Project Management and other               Project                 4.6            19
modernization initiatives                       Management
Total          24.6           100
3



Project Appraisal Document                   Project Title: Central Bank Modernization Technical Assistance Loan
Country: Brazil
3. Benefits:
The Project can be expected to facilitate initial progress in the Central Bank's effort to enhance
its credibility and effectiveness primarily in its banking supervision function. Sustained results
will hinge on follow-on actions being carried forward after Project completion, perhaps over a
period of as many as five additional years. In a broader sense, heightened Central Bank
credibility and effectiveness would boost the performance of the banking system, promote
financial market confidence in Brazil and improve access to international financial markets
which in turn may allow reductions in funding costs. Thus, Brazil's banking system will
eventually be more successful in mobilizing resources for renewed and major productive
lending at more affordable lending rates. Longer term, lower fiscal costs would result from
improved banking supervision as more banking failures would be anticipated/prevented, thus
reducing the need for fiscal resources. Further, fiscal costs would also be reduced by applying
best international practices to the management of distressed banking assets, which should yield
an increase in disposition proceeds.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period:  Three years, with the objective of disbursing about 70 percent
of the Bank loan during the first two years. This is to take advantage of the Central Bank's
current sense of urgency, and is not an ambitious target given the size of the institution (6,000
staff) and the nature of the proposed reforms. For procurement and disbursement procedures,
see Annex 4.
Executing agencies: The Central Bank of Brazil would be the executing agency for all
Project components . In respect of the feasibility studies for asset disposition, the Central
Bank will be expected to work cooperatively with that Government Ministry (most likely the
Ministry of Finance) which is expected to take over this responsibility from the Central Bank.
Project coordination: The Central Bank has set up a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)
headed by a manager with a rank of Head of Department. This Unit has been staffed with
appropriate accounting, procurement and administrative personnel. The PCU is supported by
a Central Bank coordinating committee which draws on participants from all departments
benefiting from this Project.
Project oversight : The Project has been prepared in close consultation with the top
management of the Central Bank and other Central Bank board members. It is expected that
this framework of oversight will continue.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The design of the
appropriate accounting and internal control systems for the Project is being finalized, and will
be further confirmed by the external auditors. The accounting system would also cover all
transactions of a procurement agent, the contracting of which is in the final stages. The
Project Account's external audit would be made available to the Bank no later than six months
after the end of each financial year.
4



Project Appraisal Document                   Project Title: Central Bank Modernization Technical Aistance Lon
Colmtrg: Brazil
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Implementation progress and impact will be
reviewed on a continuous basis by the Project Coordinating Unit of the Central Bank. To
allow for changes in the work program in light of changing circumstances, the Bank will be
vetting terms of reference for studies, consulting assignments and specific project components
on at least a semi-annual basis. While more frequent supervision contacts may be useful, video
conferencin will also be used to reduce costs on both sides.
BLOCK 2: PROJECT RATIONALE
5. CAS objective supported by    CAS discussion: The Board discussed the CAS on June
the project                     12, 1997 (Report No. 16582).
As part of the private sector development strategy, the Bank Group will concentrate selectively
on capital market development and on strengthening the banking system. Capital market
development will be addressed by IFC, while the Bank will focus on strengthening baning
supervision and asset liquidation mechanisms, as well as the restructuring/privatization of
selected state banks.
5



Project Appraisal Docwnent                   Project Title: Central Bank Modemization Technical Assistancc Loan
Country: Brazil
6. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The diagnosis of main sector issues is primarily based on the Bank's long-standing financial
sector work which culminated in a Green Cover report of July 30, 1996. The conclusions of
that confidential report were discussed with the authorities in August 1996.
The main current issues are: i) stability of the banking system, now at an advanced stage of
restructuring to continue to adjust to macroeconomic stability and marked by major bank
failures and restructurings since 1994; and ii) a Central Bank which, while having acted with
skill in containing the banking crisis, has been suffering from a loss of credibility.
Stability of the Banking System
The stimulus to structural change is a dramatic shift of bank revenues as a consequence of the
sharp fall of inflation following the introduction of the Real Plan. Whereas in 1994, banks
earned 47 percent of their revenues by reinvesting their non-interest earning deposits in high-
yielding financial instruments, this percentage had dropped to 2 percent by the fourth quarter
of 1995. Numerous private banks, burdened by high-cost structures, non-performing loans and
few earnings alternatives, could not adjust and failed. Among the private banks, the major
failures included Banco Economico and Banco Nacional. The restructured assets and liabilities
of both of these institutions were merged into other banks. In 1996, Bamerindus, the fifth
largest bank in the country, also encountered problems and was sold in early 1997 to a major
international bank. Among the major public banks, the state banks in both Rio de Janeiro and
Sao Paulo were subjected to Central Bank intervention, and restructuring actions are at an
advanced stage. The state bank of Rio has since been privatized (July 1997), while the state
bank of Sao Paulo will likely be placed under private sector management for about one year
and then privatized. Banco do Brasil, the country's largest bank which also has suffered from
structural deficiencies, has been recapitalized (about US$8 billion) and is now engaged in a
major restructuring effort.
The Credibility and Effectiveness of the Central Bank
To support adjustments in the banking system and assist in the major bank failures, the Central
Bank instituted in 1995 a program of incentives to allow the restructuring of banks (PROER -
Programa de Estimulo a Restructuracao e ao Fortalecimento do Sistema Financeiro Nacional)
and created a private deposit insurance scheme. Restructuring incentives included special lines
of credit, regulatory forbearance and fiscal benefits. What caused a drop in the credibility of
the Central Bank was its seeming unpreparedness to resolve the major bank failures, and the
discovery that the huge bank losses were the result of massive fraud and mismanagement
which might have been corrected years earlier. The Central Bank's capacity again came under
scrutiny in early 1997, when 15 broker-dealers were closed because of fraudulent placements
of state and municipal bonds. All this reinforced the authorities' and the public's view that the
Central Bank needed to be strengthened and to refocus its mission. It is now recognized that
Brazil's financial system is overly complex (with some 2,000 financial institutions of all types
and 230 private and public commercial banks) and too unwieldy to supervise. The search for
and implementation of new approaches to banking supervision, especially enforcement, is
gaining broad public support.
6



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Central Bank Moderization Technical Assistance Loan
Couny: Brazil
Government Strategy
Deep concern about a failing banking system threatening macroeconomic stabilization caused
the Government and the Central Bank not only to implement special programs and actions to
stabilize the banking system, but also to dedicate major resources to stabilizing the system. The
federal financing assistance for restructuring of private banks as well as the injection for Banco
do Brasil amount to some US$40 billion, or about 6 percent of the country's GDP. Further,
the Government is fully supportive of the Central Bank's institutional renewal and its proposed
cooperation with the Bank.
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Extensive research on the causes of banking crises indicates that weak banking supervision and
regulations are one of the frequent and central ingredients, next to macro-economic factors,
bank management incompetence and fraud, of banking systems in difficulty. Experience also
indicates that government authorities are at the height of their motivation to improve banking
supervision after the faDlout of a banking crisis has just been felt, particularly its fiscal cost. For
instance, the high standard of Chilean banking supervision today is credited to the banking
crisis of the early 1980s. Brazil has just battled serious banking difficulties of its own and is
now at a motivational highpoint. Thus this Project is well timed. The other two major
components, the financial sector study and asset liquidations, also reflect the authorities'
eagerness for corrective actions. If this Loan proves successful, the Bank may be requested to
assist in other financial sector reforms in the future.
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Ever since the introduction of the Real Plan, the Bank has offered far-reaching support for the
financial system, including adjustment loans addressing, for instance, major public bank
restructuring actions. The Government chose, however, to direct the Bank's assistance
towards the privatization (or closure) of state banks in some key states. Bank support for state
bank restructuring is included in several State Reform Loans (e.g. Rio de Janeiro and Mato
Grosso) which have been recently approved by the Bank's Board. The federal authorities
have so far preferred to conduct wider reforms on their own, believing that a Bank presence in
a sector - so sensitive to abrupt and sudden swings in market confidence - could harbor
additional risks and unknowns.
On asset liquidation and disposition, the Project includes feasibility studies but not more. While
authorities are clearly motivated to make progress on this issue, governmental actions have so
far been slow (the appointment of a high-level executive to take responsibility for this issue is
still outstanding) and political sensitivities will likely determine the speed at which the search
for an appropriate framework and creation of any new entities will proceed. Therefore, any
institutional support for the actual functioning of any new system is unlikely to be tackled
under this Project.
7



Proct Apraiual Documt                          Pnoiect Title: Cetral Bank Modenization Teohnical Auistance Loan
CmWy: Bnzil
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
Past financial sector lending included development banking loans and financial intermediation
loans in various sectors. This would be the first loan addressing broad financial sector issues.
10. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The principal lesson is to proceed only with this TA operation provided it is demand-driven.
TA loans are only successful when their goals are clearly shared by the borrowers, which is
now the case of the Central Bank of Brazil.
Other lessons applied include:
* limiting scope of work to a few defined areas (human resources, information &
information technology);
* developing TORs for key project components as part of loan preparation;
* focusing on core Central Bank operations - Bank Supervision - and not trying to
influence all aspects of the institution's mandate;
* having a clear need for proposed technical assistance agenda (high staff turn-over and
retirements increase need for training; changes in macroeconomic environment and banking
industry structure require new supervisory tools; recent bank failures and costs of bail-outs for
government have created a sense of urgency in the Central Bank to respond to critics and
foresee further bank closures, etc.).
11. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
All functional areas of the Central Bank which would be involved in this Project, including the
departments for enforcement and supervision of banks, research, asset liquidation and training,
have shown keen interest and have energetically participated in project preparation. These
departments have developed detailed project outlines for the activities which they plan to fund
through the Loan. Interest in banking supervision issues is clearly deepening, as evidenced by
the increasing participation of Brazilian representatives in the formulation of internationally
agreed core principles. In terms of financial commitments, the Central Bank has agreed to pay
for the full costs of project administration, including staffing, procurement agent fees,
communications and related expenses, such as travel. In addition, the Central Bank has already
allocated US$2.6 mnillion to project-related modernization efforts. This results in a costsharing
of 81% which is satisfactory. Further, there is a strong undercurrent of private sector support
for the proposed initiative. Particularly, prime Brazilian banks feel that better bank supervision
in Brazil will help them to achieve higher ratings and lower funding costs in international
financial markets.
12. Value added of Bank support:
In line with its emerging role as mandated by the Group of Ten Countries, the Bank will draw
on its world-wide experience and help in identifying international best practices in carrying out
regular diagnostics, in designing institutional development programs and in applying tested
8



Project Appraisal Document                     Project Title: Centrl Bank Modemization Technil Assistance Lon
Coumty: Brazil
supervision and asset disposition practices. Supported by an intense supervision process (with
frequent visits by senior Bank staff and high-level consultants), the Bank is also expected to
add speed to the reform process, at a time when special vigilance is required considering the
rapid changes in the financial system, and to provide rigor and discipline to the timely
implementation of the proposed actions under the Project. The cost of supervising this Project
are expected to be a multiple of regular technical assistance loans.
BLOCK 3: SUMMARY PROJECT ASSESSMENTS
13. Economic/Financial Assessment:
The technical assistance character of this operation makes a quantitative economic and financial
analysis impossible. However, if successfully carried out, this Project will enhance the
credibility and effectiveness of the Central Bank.  Greater credibility will help restore
confidence and will support its future policies and actions more forcefully. Also, an improved
Central Bank effectiveness will contribute to the lowering of any future emergency financing to
resolve banking issues.
14. Technical Assessment:
The technical merits of the broad project components have been reviewed by high-level
consultants and Bank staff and are considered to be sound. The essential ingredients of
institutional renewal and professionalization, include training, better quality information,
application of modem information technology equipment and intensified learning from the best
international sources available. Technical assessments will continue throughout implementation.
15. Institutional Assessment:
a. Executing agencies: While the Central Bank's credibility has suffered, it is still among
the better public institutions in Brazil. Its senior executives appear competent and motivated to
modernize approaches and practices. The aggressive recruitment drive which is necessary to
fill the void created by retirements and turnover related to changes in the compensation
scheme, would be reinforced by the training component of this project.
b. Project management: A competent project coordinator has already been nominated at
the level of Head of Department. Staffing of the coordinating unit is at an advanced stage.
16. Social Assessment:
There are no social issues.
17. Environmental Assessment:   Environmental Category [ ]   A   [ ]  B   [X]   C
There are no environmental issues.
9



Prect Appaisal Document                        Project Tide: Central Bank Modemization Technical Aaijonce Loun
Counhy: Brazil
18. Participatory Approach:
There are no participatory approach issues.
19. Sustainability:
All project expenditures will continue to be designed in such a manner that their outputs can be
productively applied. For instance, staff trained abroad would be required to pass on such
training upon their return. Careful and intense project monitoring will be a vital element in the
maximization of sustainability.
20. Critical Risks
Project outputs to development objectives
Risk                        Risk    Risk Minimization Measure
Ratine
*  Loss of the Central Bank's commitment to the  Low     Virtually continuous contact,
project would be the major risk.  This is             supported by detailed semi-
considered low during the next three years,           annual consultations.
given the current sense of urgency to
modernize. However, once public pressure
subsides, it is possible that energetic project
management may decrease.
*  Lack of political will to proceed with the  High      Regular Bank reminders that
establishment/operation  of  a  new  asset            extensive delays will lower the
disposition entity.                                   proceeds of asset recoveries.
*  Failure to mainstream  within the banking  Medium   Intense Bank supervision.
supervision function, the benefits of  the
Project components.
*  Overall project risk rating.                Medium
21. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There are no controversial aspects.
10



Pgw*ct ATisalD t                           Pmdojct rdTi CutrW Bank X_dmzWtn Tacknac Amaimu LAm
Ccm*wr Bffa
BLOCK 4: MAIN LOAN CoNDmoNs
22.
- The Project Coordinating Unit would be managed by at least a Head of Departnent, or
equivalent. It would be fully staffed thirty days after loan effectiveness;
- External audits would be submitted within six months after the end of the financial year,
- Project expenditures and expenditure-specific performance indicators would be reviewed
in consultation with the Bank during the months of June and December of each year. Annual
Implementation Plans would be submitted by May 31 of each year,
- The financial sector study would be completed by September 30, 1998;
- A mid-term review would be carried out 18 months after loan signature to also gauge the
progress in achieving the objectives of the Project.
- Retroactive financing of up to 10 percent of the loan amount is recommended to allow for
Bank financing of modernization expenditures which have been incurred since December 16,
1996, or since the Project has been identified.
BLOCK 5: COMPLLNCE WrrH BANK POLICIES
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
v~t'>A   /kA-
ask Manager                                     Co6try  anagement Unit Director
Stefan Alber                                            Gobind T. Nankani
11



AkNNEXEES



Annex 1
Brazil
Central Bank Modernization Technical Assistance Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative          Summary' of Key          Monitoring and      Critical Assumptions
Summary         Performance Indicators        Supervision            and Risks
CAS Obiective
Strengthen banking  For banking supervision and  Banking supervision and  Critical assumption is
supervision,      asset liquidations see     asset resolution will be   that anticipation and
support asset     indicators below. For the  followed with this TA  prevention of bank
liquidations, and    restructurng of public  loan (see below).      failures and the
pronote           banks, significant reduction                      reduction of a public
restructuring of    by CY 99 of public banks in                     bank presence will
public banks.     terms of percentage of total                      lower the quasi-fiscal
banking system assets                             deficit.
(including those specific
banks covered under Rio,
Minas and Mato Grosso
State Reform/ Privatization
Loans).
Proiect
DeveloDment
Obiectives
Complement the    (1) Increased market       Maximum use of market  Major Assumptions:
Central Bank's    confidence in the banking  indicators and rating-  Maintenance of
long-term         system as measured by:     agency reports.        macroeconomic and
modernization     (1.1) decreasing incidence of  Use of external    political stability;
effort by         bank failures;             consultants to evaluate    Absence of major
supporfing a first-  (1.2) improvements in bank   progress on indicators    events destabilizing
phase action      ratings assigned by        not easily measured.   financial markets (e.g.
programn,         private rating agencies;                          major bank failures,
particularly in the   (1.3) access of banks to                      bank panics, stock
strengthening of    capital market finance                          market crashes);
bankdng           (cost, maturity, etc.);                           Maintenance of
supervision.      (1.4) positive qualitative                        Central Bank's
evaluation performed by an                       strong motivation in
outside consultant.                              favor of
modernization
actions.
In addition, each project component will be measured by indicators as well as the improvement of
bank supervision overall. See Attachments 1 and 2 of Annex 2.



ANNEX I
Narrative          Summary" of Key          Monitoring and      Critical Assumptions
Summary         Performance Indicators        Supervision            and Risks
Proiect           (2) Increased effectiveness of Annual reviews of  Major risks are:
Development       banking supervision.       banking supervisory    * delays in
Objectives                                   function (to be completed   implementation of
(continued)       (2.1) Increase the number of  by December 1998, 1999   Central Bank
bank supervisory personnel   and 2000).            actions and Bank
and improve their training                         project;
and professional                                  * Project components
qualifications                                     less effective than
- meet targets regarding                           anticipated.
training in on-site inspection;
- hire outside practitioners
(foreign or from private
sector) to strengthen
supervision.
(2.2) Develop a risk-
management supervision
approach, codified in
procedural manuals and
reflected in training and
information systems
- complete evaluation of a
minimum number of banks
using risk-management
approach;
- reduce incidence of multi-
level downgrading under
internal problem bank rating;
- reduce incidence of non-
compliance by banks with
laws/regulations.
(2.3) Institute new public
disclosure requirements and
audit reforms
- take enforcement actions
against auditors who did not
perform their duties;
- Increase number of banks
publishing consolidated
accounts.
2



ANNEX 1
Narrative          Summary of Key           Monitoring and      Critical Assumptions
Summary         Performance Indicators        Supervision            and Risks
Proiect Outputs
Improved Asset    - Appointment of senior    Bank supervision       Existence of clear
Liquidation and   executive;                 missions at least every    political will by the
Asset Disposition.  - Creation of task force;  six months. Otherwise,   Ministry of Finance
- Creation of legal and   virtually continuous   to take over the
financial infrastructure for   communication.    Central Bank's
the establishment of an                           current liquidation
appropriate framework and                        responsibilities.
any entities outside Central
Bank;
Fostering of      Contract high-level        Bank monitoring to     Main risk is loss of
consensus within   consultant(s);            cause such research    interest by Central
the Central Bank    - Completion of research    paper to be completed by  Bank management in
and Ministry of    paper(s) to visualize future    September 30, 1998.  preparing a vision to
Finance about     market developments;                              develop the private
financial sector  - Completion of seminar to                        banldng system.
changes to allow    debate above research paper;
growth of the     - Publication of findings of
private banking   seminar;
system.           - Biannual updates.
Improve banking    - Adopt risk-management   Bank supervision       Maintenance of high-
supervision.      supervision approach       missions supported by    quality Project
- Complete training goals    experts specialized in  Coordinating Unit and
year-by year;             training, information  continued support of
- Modernize information;    technology and best  Central Bank
technology systems and data  international practices.    management and
bases;                    Progress will be       especially of Director
- Simplify information flow   monitored at least yearly  of Supervision.
between Central Bank and   in the context of      Budgetary problems
the banking system;       implementation plans.    in funding effective
- Procure information                            Project Coordinating
technology equipment;                            Unit are considered
- Complete other high-                           unlikely.
priority actions
(enforcement);
- Continue evaluating
strategic banking supervision
areas.
3.



ANNEX 1
Narrative          Summary of Key           Monitoring and      Critical Assumptions
Summary         Performance Indicators        Supervision            and Risks
Professionalize   - Inproved managerial      Bank supervision       Commitment to
Central Bank staff  practices;              supported by specialized  trainiDg by Central
in areas other than   - Improved management of   consultants.       Bank.
banking           foreign reserves;
supervision.      - improved foreign                                Major risk is that
borrowing practices.                             training does not
achieve its objectives
because other human
resource policies
(career paths,
salaries) foster high
tumnover or hinder
transmission of
knowledge.
Project           Maintain continuity and    Virtually continuous   Appointment of
Coordination.     high-quality project       Bank contact.          unqualified or poorly
management.                                       motivated
management and loss
of purpose.
4



Annex 2
Brazil
Central Bank Modernization Technical Assistance Project
Detailed Project Description
Introduction
1.    The Project has been designed to assist with a first modernization phase of the
Central Bank of Brazil, with the primary focus on improving bank supervision. Other
project components address urgent initiatives in areas such as asset liquidations and
disposition, a comprehensive review of the reform needs of financial sector and other
selected financial sector research, and basic, specialized and continuing training in areas
other than banking supervision. Project components have been defined in terms of broad
and indicative categories which have been examined for soundness and impact. Specific
project definitions and performance indicators for the First implementation-year have been
agreed and are shown in Attachment 1. The annual implementation plans for the Second
and Third implementation-year will be agreed in June 1998 and June 1999 respectively.
Progress in implementing project components and in achieving the objective of better bank
supervision will be monitored on the basis of at least six monthly reviews. For a guide to
evaluate progress in improving bank supervision overall, see Attachment 2. This flexible
project design approach was selected to take account of a major lesson of past technical
assistance loans; namely to avoid a detailed, multi-year, task-specific implementation
program which can quickly lose touch with the dynamics and speed of change.
2.    The criteria for the selection of tasks within the broad project components would
be that their rationale is clearly consistent with the objectives of the broad project
categories, their cost reflect least-cost solutions, and are of a nature that the ultimate
product can effectively be used. For example, if legal changes are being sought, the
ultimate product would have to be draft laws which then can be submitted to Congress. If
specialized training is being proposed, provisions will be made that the trained personnel
effectively pass on such training to a wider professional group within the Central Bank. If
studies and seminars are being proposed, provisions would be made that these efforts
would promote major financial sector decisions. Consultation with the Bank is expected to
be on a continuous basis, using to the maximum extent possible, modem communication
technology such as the internet and video conferencing.



ANNEX 2
Detailed Description
A. Banking Supervision
3.    The historic focus of bank supervision has been, as in many other countries, on
compliance with laws and regulations. As a result of the recent bank failures, senior
Central Bank management has realized that banking supervision must become more
forward-looking and preventive. According to private sector observers, new approaches
to bank supervision have already begun, and a few of the best banks have been hosting
scores of supervisors for training in modern risk management models and changes in
internal controls. New approaches are also required in the area of enforcement. Currently,
there is no culture of applying a full range of enforcement actions, such as powers to
remove management or to apply monetary penalties, that are necessary to avoid banks
slipping into troubled conditions that become irreversible. Bank supervisors have practiced
only two extreme measures: largely ineffectual informal memoranda and the threat of
bank liquidation. Neither measure exerts an effective deterrent on bank managers. Other
key weaknesses in banking supervision include massive and abrupt losses of senior bank
inspectors and senior managers, due to changes in the Central Bank compensation scheme
(change-over to a civil service scheme); outdated training techniques; poor monitoring of
banks because of an information flow which is so overwhelming that it does not lend
itself to ready analysis (over 70 financial performance indicators are being reported by
banks); uneven quality of accounting and auditing standards, a disorderly rule-making
process; and institutional weaknesses such as poor internal communications and
organizational layering which discourage bank supervisors from pressing for corrective
actions. Virtually all of the foregoing weaknesses will be addressed by the following
broad Project components:
i) Enhanced Training in Supervisory Tools
4.    This is at the heart of any change in the direction in bank supervision, and will
complement the Central Bank's own basic training (see also section C of this Annex).
Together with the recruitment of new junior as well as senior staff and modernized career
paths, to permit staff retention, effective training will make the difference in the success of
improving bank supervision. The focus of the training will range from principles of modern
bank supervision and strategies (on-site, off-shore, consolidated supervision of financial
groups, public banks) to advanced/specialized and continuing training in risk-management
models, auditing of banks' information technology systems, and new financial products
such as derivatives. Training is anticipated to be transmitted via the hiring of experts to
jump-start improved practices, internal seminars, cooperative arrangements with banks,
and, most importantly, extended studies abroad and twinning arrangements with reputable
bank supervision agencies in other countries.
2



ANNEX 2
ii) Data Base and Systems Upgrading
5.    The Central Bank has had systems in place for more than 20 years that manage a
considerable amount of information. Understandably, these systems have become outdated
because of advances in information technology and because data have not been kept
current. The information systems to be modernized include principally the Central Bank's
central information database SISBACEN which includes the financial institution reference
system (CADINF), the legal reference system (CAPEF) and a series of other databases.
Key objectives of modernization will include harmonizing various networks, changing the
system-architecture to allow the generation of reports which facilitate managerial
decision-making, and allow the sharing of such information across all systems. At present,
information is often highly compartmentalized, yielding divergent and conflicting
information which sharply lowers its credibility. New data bases are being considered
which would permit better measurement of credit risks and market risks. Concerning
credit risks, as banks move back to the business of credit underwriting, it again becomes
important to know the aggregate borrowings of companies and individuals within the
banking system. The Central Bank sees its role as adding the composite risk
classifications for each borrower. More reviews will be required to confirm the benefits of
a public sector role. Concerning market risks, the proposal is to establish the capability to
analyze and model major shifts in financial markets such the banks' move away from
earning revenues in trading of public securities to credit operations and other new financial
products. Also, there is a need for an improved analytical capacity to measure international
capital flows.
iii) Acquisition of Information Technology Equipment
6.    Laptop computers have become the standard tool of bank supervision.
Requirements for data storage, communication with the Central Bank's information
systems and analysis have dramatically increased. Laptops and associated software are
being increasingly used in commercial banks to model and assess risk management issues.
It is proposed to increase the number of bank inspectors over the next three years to 700
and to equip all with laptops of appropriatedly designed standards.
iv) Other Modernization Initiatives
7.    During Project preparation, a variety of other initiatives were identified which are
considered to have a high payoff. First, there is the proposal to establish a Quality
Assurance Center and/or ombudsman to assist in the continuous improvement of
supervisory practices and procedures and to foster the development of best practices.
Second, starting from ongoing reviews by banking supervision staff and external
consultants, there is agreement to engage in a continuous evaluation of the effectiveness of
the banking supervision function. For a guide to annual evaluations, see Attachment 2.
Further, there are proposals to foster a closer cooperation with external auditors
(developing a joint cooperation protocol), to study particularly non-judicial enforcement
actions given the delays in legal enforcement, and the development of more effective
outreach initiatives to close the expectation gap among major decision-makers (Congress,
banks and the public).
3



ANNEX 2
8.    Attachment 3 illustrates the complementarity of the initiatives of Central Bank and
the Bank under the Project. Initially, the Project focus will be on strengthening human
resources, information technology and enforcement tools. Once the Central Bank has
concluded its internal reviews of current mission/objectives and managerial and
organization structures, the Bank's technical assistance project is expected to assist in the
further refinement and upgrading of the overall issues of mission/objectives and
institutional structure through continuous evaluation in the form of highly targeted
diagnostic reviews.
B. Other Central Bank Functions
9.    Central Bank management is strongly in favor of being relieved of its bank
liquidation and asset disposition functions. These tasks have become particularly
burdensome over the past two years. Major bank failures have added significantly to the
Central Bank's inventory of liquidations. It is proposed that the Project assist in the
creation of the legal infrastructure for the establishment of an appropriate framework
which may include the establishment of one or more entities to take over the Central
Bank's inventories of failed banks. There is also consensus to devote more resources to
select high-quality research to develop a vision of the financial sector, including selected
issues such as constraints to small business lending. (see Attachment 3 for agreed draft
terms of reference). Finally, a minor Project allocation is proposed to allow Central Bank
management to learn from other international experiences in the area of state bank
restructuring.
C. Strengthening of Training throughout the Central Bank
10.   The objective is to enhance the basic institutional and operational capacity
throughout the Central Bank. Major emphasis will be given to improving the Central
Bank's capacity to manage its foreign reserves, to improving borrowing strategies abroad,
and to enhancing managerial and human resources skills applying, inter alia, best
international practices.
D. Project Coordination
11.   The Project will be managed by a Coordinator appointed by the Central Bank
board. The level of the Coordinator has been established as Head of Department, or
equivalent. The Coordinator will be supported by suitably qualified staff, particularly in
the area of procurement and accounting and auditing. External auditors will be
contracted as per the 1996 Brazil/Bank Audit Protocol. External auditors will be
reviewing and confirming the accounting and internal controls of the Project Coordination
Unit. Annual external audits shall be submitted to the Bank within six months as of the end
of the financial year. UTNDP is being contracted as procurement agent to allow for a timely
procurement process. All project coordination costs, including salaries, costs of the
procurement agent and the external audit, communications and travel, will be borne by the
Central Bank.
4



October 23, 1997                                                                                                   ANNEX2
Attachment I
CENTRAL BANK MODERNIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
AGREED FIRST YEAR WORK PROGRAM : Total Cost of US$6,025,000
(December 1, 1997 - November 30, 1998)
Projet Component     CB Person    Cost   Financing  CB Date of Prcuremt  IBRD Prior  Procuremt.   Timing    Performance Indicators
Responsibk  f (S,000)           Approval  Procedures   Review      Manager   SMrf/End       (for thefirstyer)
L Asset Management & Resolution
........................ . ....... .................... . ... ............... ...... .... .......... ..... ...... ............... ..... .. r---.-.... ......... ....... _.._._ ....
I.A Legal studies      C. Arraes      135    IBRD        12/97      QCBS        Yes       LUNDP    3/98- 7/98  Timely completion;
Legal guidelines for a
satisfactory asset
resolution mechanism;
Draft legal
instruments created.
I.B Studies for private   C. Arraes   100    IBRD        12/97      QCBS         Yes       UNDP         8/98-    Timely completion;
sector participation                                                                                    12/98    Draft business plan
for private/public
venture; Identifyr
incentives for private
sector partners.
I.C Learning trips     C. Arraes       40    IBRD        12/97      Other        No         PCU        12/97-   Timely completion;
/Seminar                                                                                                4/98     Report of positive
lessons leamed;
Participation of high-
level Ministry of
Finance officials.
I.D Consultant to      C. Arraes       70    IBRD        12/97      QCBS         Yes       UNDP         6/98-    Timely hiring; Draft
prepare asset                                                                                           12/98    of institutional
resolution framework                                                                                             blueprint which
includes:
I



October 23, 1997                                                                                                                           AANNEX2
Attachment I
Project Component        CB Person      Cost    Financing   CB Date of  Procurest  LORD Prior  Procuremnt                rning        Performance Indcators
Responsible  (S1,000)                  Approval   Procedures    Review           Manager       Staut/lfnd       (for thefistyear)
-management/organi-
zation structure;
-procedures;
-financing program;
-personnel
requirements;
-responsibilities,
rights, role of
institution.
- identify potential
private sector
partners
II. Financial Sector        C. Arraes         300      IBRD          12/97        QCBS           Yes          UNDP         3/98- 9/98   Timely completion;
Vision Study                                                                                                                             Final report
distributed;
Dissemination
seminar being planned
with date set; Outside
comments requested.
m. Banking Supervision
............................................... .............  .............. ..............  ............   ................... ......    ...... .... ................    ..............................  ..   .   ........._....      ...      ..................      ..   .            ...........
M.A Risk managemt.              R             370   IBRD             12/97    Other &             No          UNDP            3/98-   Risk-management
modelling                    Fatorelli                                           Shopping                                     11/98      methodology and
I     I                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Procedural manuals
under development.
2



October 23, 1997                                                                                             AAWEX 2
Attachment 1
Project Component    CB Person    Cost   Financing  CB Date of Procuremt JBRD Prior  Procuremt.   Timing    Performance Indicators
Responsible  ($1,000)         Approval  Procedures   Review    Manager   Start/End     (for thefrst year)
L.B Bond-trading         R.          40   IBRD        12/97     Other       No        UNDP        3/98-    Complementary
monitoring             Fatorelh|                                                                  11/98    equipment installed.
mI.C Development of      R.         270   IBRD        12/97     Other       No        UNDP        3/98-    Training of staff in
skills for audit of   Fatorelli                                                                   11/98    electronic systern
electronic systems                                                                                         audits completed;
Procedural manuals
under development;
Electronic system
audits performed on
limited number of
institutions on a trial
basis.
m.D. Database         T. Dutra      300   IBRD        12/97      Other      No        UNDP        3/98    System reengineering
Replacement                                                                                       12/98    completed. New
(CADINF)                                                                                                   system under
development.
M.E. Database         T. Dutra      250   IBRD        12/97      Other      No        UNDP        3/98-    System reengineering
Replacement (CAPEF)                                                                               12/98    completed. New
system under
development.
3



October 23, 1997                                                                                              ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
Project Component   CB Person    Cost   Financing  CB Date of Procurenm  IBRD Prior  Procuremt    Timing    Performance Indicators
Responsibk  (S1,000)           Approval  Procedures   Review    Manager   Start/End     (for thefrst year)
III.F. Training of    G. Bonani    500   IBRD         12/97      Other       No        UNDP    3/98-9/98  Staff training in
banking supervision                                                                                         progress; Review of
staff                                                                                                      training programs
under way;
Evaluations of
training activities by
staff, managers &
external consultant
when appropriate.
IH.G. Risk            J. Katsumi     40   IBRD        12/97      Other       No        UNDP    3/98-9/98  Staff trained;
management                                                                                                  Procedural manual in
accounting                                                                                                  development;
Exchanges with
foreign regulators
completed.
Ill.H. Derivatives       L.          30   IBRD         12/97     Other       No        UNDP        12/97    Training completed in
Training              Benevides                                                                    6/98    advanced financial
instruments; Review
of norms/procedures
for trading operations
under development;
Policy changes
presented to CB
management.
4



October 23, 1997                                                                                                                                                         ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
Project Component             CB Person    Cost    Financing   CB Date of  Procuremt  IBRD Prior  Procuremt                                        Tiinug          Performance Indicators
Responsibl           (Sl,OOO)                   Approval    Procedures            Review          Manager           Start/End           (for thefirstyear)
1.I. Coop. Protoc.                   Sergio             150   IBRD                  12/97           Other              No            UNDP    4/98-9/98  Protocol finalized and
with auditors                        Darcy                                                                                                                            distributed widely to
supervisors in CB and
banking sector
executives.
IH.J. Communication    C. Mauch                          50   IBRD                  12/97           Other              No            UNDP    3/98-9/98  Communication
Strategy                                                                                                                                                              activities conmmenced.
I.K. IT Equipment
for:
............................................................  .............................. ...................... ...............................................................................................................................................................................
(i). Electronic systems   R. Ozu                       120   IBRD                  12/97            ICB              Yes            UNDP    3/98-9/98  Equipment received
auditing                                                                                                                                                               and in operation.
~~~~~~. . ..............................    .......................... ...... ........    . . ............................ .............................. ................ ..............................  .............................  .....
(ii). Notebook                     R. Ozu            1,500   IBRD                  12/97             ICB             Yes             UNDP    3/98-9/98  Equipment received
computers for banking                                                                                                                                                  and in operation;
supervision                                                                                                                                                           Equipment integrated
into supervision
functions.
(iii). Software for                R. Ozu              500   IBRD                  12/97   ICB/NCB                    Yes            UNDP    3/98-9/98  Software received
notebook computers                                                                                                                                                     and in operation; All
necessary
modifications
completed.
S



October 23, 1997                                                                                                                                  ANNEX 2
Attachment I
Project Component         CB Person       Cost    Financing    CB Date of  Procuremt | IBRD Prior   Procuremt                  Timing       Performance Indicators
Responsible  ($1,000)                    ApprovalI                     Review                   III
Procedures                    Manager        Start/End        (for thefirstyear)
IV. General C.B. Functions
..............................................................   .............. .................   .............. .......  .............................   .............................. ...... ........................ ...... ...... ..................  ............. ......... ....... ............ ..................................
IV.A. State Bank              J. Magro          100      1BRD           12/97         Other           Yes          UNDP         3/98-9/98   Travel completed;
Research                                                                                                                                       Report on
applicability of
lessons learned;
Policy proposals
presented to CB
management.
IV.B. Asset                       R.            300      IBRD           12/97         QCBS/           No           UNDP         4/98-9/98   Training and research
management                   Fernandez                                                Other                                                    completed;
Implementation
begun.
IV.C. English language   G. Bonani              250      IBRD           12/97         Other           No           UNDP            4/98-       Training completed;
training                                                                                                                           10/98       Proficiency tests
passed.
IV.D. Human                  G. Bonani            30   IBRD             12/97         Other           No           UNDP            4/98-   Report on
Resources Policies                                                                                                                 10/98       applicability of
lessons learned;
Policy proposed to
CB management.
IV.E. Training Aids          G. Bonani          320       IBRD          12/97       ICB/NCB           Yes          UNDP          1/98-9/98   Equipment received
and functioning;
Equipment used in
training activities.
6



October 23, 1997                                                                                              ANNEXC 2
Attachment I
Projed Component    CB Person    Cost   Financing  CB Date of Procurent  IBRD Pror  Procuremt    Tining    Performance Indicators
Responsible  (51,000)          Approval  Procedures   Review    Manager    Start/End    (for thefirst year)
IV.F Attend Seminar    C. Arraes     20   IBRD        12/97      Other       No        UNDP        1/98    Report on
on Credit Information                                                                                       applicability of
lessons learned for
Brazil.
IV.G Project Launch    C. Arraes     20   Central     12/97      Other       No         PCU        11/97    Project launch
Seminar                                    Bank                                                             seminar completed.
V. Procurement Agent  C. Arraes     200   Central     12/97      Other       No         PCU        11/97-   Agreement effective;
Bank                                                    9/98    Procurement
proceeding
satisfactorily during
first year.
VI. External Auditor     Luis        20   Central     12/97      Other       No         PCU      1/98-6/98  Contract effective;
Pereira             Bank                                                            Audit for 1997
completed on time &
satisfactory to IBRD.
7



ANNEX 2
Attachment 2
A Guide to Annual Evaluations of Banking Supervision
Preface
The management of the Central Bank has initiated a number of steps and programs
aimed at improving the supervision of banks, correct identified deficiencies and restore
public confidence in the regulatory system. In doing this, improvement programs will be
developed for implementation over the next three years or so. Integral to the design of
such programs is the identification of indicators of performance which can be used in
evaluations of progress in the achievement of the desired improvements within the time
periods contemplated.
It is assumed that the management will be looking to very widespread changes in
the operations of banking supervision carried out by the Central Bank. It can further be
assumed that quality evaluation reviews will be carried out at the end of 1998, 1999 and
2000. In order to assure the requisite independence and expertise, it is suggested that
they should be conducted with the assistance of an outside consultant.
Performance indicators fall into two general categories:
1. Objective, quantifiable measures that focus largely on process.
These measurements can be taken on a current basis as each
year passes;
2. Judgment-based, qualitative measures that focus largely on results. It
may be some time, perhaps years, before it can be determined that
the quality of the work done by supervisory staff has significantly
improved with visible impact on the banking system.
Program Improvement Areas
The programs will likely be focused in five main areas:
1. Human resources development, including hiring new people, training
programs at various levels, job descriptions, staff assignments,
compensation arrangements and the use of consultants.
2. Changing the focus of supervision from checking adherence to rules
and regulations to assessments of the major risk areas and the banks'
capacity to manage them. Essential to this is the clarification of the
criteria to use in evaluating risk management practices and in the
publication of standards of safe and sound business and financial
practices. Essential also is the development of a bank quality
(such as CAMEL) ranking system for use by the CB.
1



ANNEX 2
Attachment 2
3. Expanding and improving the use of enforcement powers with banks
seen to present safety and soundness problems. A ladder of regulatory
compliance identifying various kinds of interventions depending on
particular circumstances should be developed and made public.
This sets up standards against which the use of enforcement powers
can be evaluated.
4. Development of information strategies and plans to expand the usage of
computers at all levels, to improve the handling of data taken in and,
most importantly, expand the uses of information for supervisory
purposes. The objective is to bring the Central Bank's information
systems up to international standards.
5. Improvements in the quality of audited financial statements issued to
the public. This involves strengthening both the application of good
accounting to bank operations and the independence and quality of the
financial statement audit work. Both the Central Bank and the
financial markets should be able to use these statements with confidence.
6. Monitoring market feedback on trends in the quality of bank supervision.
The CB should develop and document its performance improvement strategies and
plans in a way which identifies the program components, their priorities and estimated
implementation dates. An important function of this documentation is to provide
visibility to the senior management commitments to improvement to restore
confidence in banking supervision and enhance its role in strengthening the banking system
of the country.
Built into this document should be a mission and mandate statement which
places the challenge of dealing with problem banks in the context of the primary duty of
the supervisor to maintain public confidence in the health and integrity of the banking
system.
Performance Benchmarks
General
Year One
1. Has the Central Bank developed a documented improvement strategy as described
above.? Has this strategy been made public?
2. Does this strategy include programs dealing with all five areas set out above?
2



ANNEX 2
Attachment 2
3. Have improvement programs in each of the areas been initiated?
4. Is the management of the CB still comnnitted to the need for real improvement and
the strategy and program?
5. Have extemal consultants or agencies been engaged to assist in the design
and implementation of the strategy?
Years two and three
1. Have amendments been made to the improvement strategy document to reflect
experience gained in the first year? This presumes that the CB management
does its own systematic review of its strategy and related planning and measures
progress each year.
What changes in priorities have been made?
2. Is the work on any part of the strategy falling behind? What plans are there to catch up?
3. Based on interviews with bankers, the Brazilian Bankers Association (BBA) and others
is there a better and more realistic public understanding of the mission and
mandate of banking supervision?
4. If consultants are being employed, do they believe that the CB is making progress in
all areas of work? Do they believe that progress is uneven, or that some tasks are,
in effect, stalled?
Human resource development
Year one
1. Compared to the start of the improvement program, how many people are employed
in banking supervision?
- new people hired?
- promotions and reassignments?
- retirements and resignations?
- head office bank financial analysts?
- examiners at all locations?
- people involved in supervision of various institutions
- private sector banks?
- state banks?
- federal banks
- affiliates of private sector banks?
- co-operative banks?
- other institutions?
3



ANNEX 2
Attachment 2
- training personnel?
- lawyers and economists?
- finance professionals?
- policy, rulings and interpretations?
- specialists, particularly in systems and risk management areas (credit, market,
derivatives, foreign exchange, etc.)?
- full time?
- part time?
What are the staff numbers in various categories (particularly examniners) related
to the number of institutions being supervised?
Repeat this in years two and three.
2. Have formal training strategies and programs been developed (and existing programs
improved) in
the following areas?
- entry level?
- examiners with 2, 5 and 10 years' experience?
- financial analysts with 2, 5 and 10 years' experience?
- loan examinations?
- bank accounting practices?
- bank internal controls?
- market risk controls, including derivatives?
- bank internal audit programs?
- using a systematic rating system (such as CAMEL) to assess financial condition
and identify problems that should be dealt with?
- early warning systems?
- computers and information systems?
- human resource management, including performance evaluations?
- enhancements of on-site learning experience?
- bank auditing standards?
- implementation of new guidelines and rules issued by the CB?
3. How many have attended each of the programs set out above?
4. Evaluate the performance of those hired during the year. How many are not performing
satisfactorily?
5. Have knowledge objectives and related training requirements been identified for each
staff member?
6. Is the balancing of human resources appropriate to the banking risks that have to be
dealt with?
4



ANNEX 2
Attachment 2
7. What use has been made of outside instructors in these training programs?
- universities and other education institutions?
- bankers?
- systems specialists7
- market specialists?
- foreign bank examiners?
- retired bank credit officers?
8. How many people have been sent to other countries (e.g. US Federal Reserve) for
training?
9. What, if any, changes have been made in compensation policies and levels?
10. Do all professional staff receive a performance evaluation each year?
Years two and three
1. Repeat of (1), (3), (5), (6) and (7) above.
2. What changes have been made to these training programs?
- have any new programs been introduced during the year?
3 In the judgment of CB senior management, what improvements in people
performance have been achieved with this training?
4. What is the evaluation of the instructors of the effectiveness of these courses?
5. Have people in the supervised banks seen improvements in staff performance?
ChanRin2 the focus of sunervision
Year one
1. Has the CB prepared and issued documented standards of sound and safe risk
management practices in the following areas?
- capital management?
- credit risk?
- interest rate risk?
- foreign exchange risk?
- securities portfolio management?
- market risk?
- liquidity risk?
- real estate appraisals?
- internal controls and internal audit?
- related party transactions?
5



ANNEX 2
Attachment 2
Have such standards been developed with input from bankers?
(I have previously sent to the CB the Standards of Sound Business and Financial
Practices published by the Canada Deposit Insurance Corporation to consider
as a model).
2. Has the CB a loan quality classification system for the use of examiners?
- satisfactory
- specially mentioned, less than satisfactory, but still performing
- doubtful, non performing
- loss
3. Has the CB reviewed Brazilian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and the
accounting and asset valuation rules already issued by it?
- Have any new accounting rules or guidelines been issued by the CB?
- what differences are there between Brazilian bank accounting rules and practices
and those in place in the US and Canada?
- Has the CB initiated steps, including consultations with the BBA, banks and the
accounting profession to improve bank accounting?
4. Have any changes been made to the regulatory minimum capital requirements for
banks?
- what levels of capital are held by the banks?
- are there any banks with capital less than 8% of risk-adjusted assets (BIS level)?
- is the required level of capital the same for all classes and sizes of banks?
- do the rules address the problem caused by a bank with a financially weak
controlling shareholder? Are higher capital levels mandated if the capital
strength of the holding company is weak?
5. Has the CB developed a documented risk dassification system for banks following
a model such as CAMEL?
- has it prepared guides for examiners and analysts to help them identify early
warning signs of trouble?
- has the CB documented a classification ranking such as the following?
(The A, B, C, D, E ,F ratings set out here are illustrative; there are other
models that can be used effectively.)
- A. No solvency problem, a normally profitable, well-managed and
well-capitalized bank.
- B. Some evidence of problems indicating some deterioration and less
than good condition, but as yet not a serious threat to solvency.
- C. Deteriorating condition, indicating that unless the situation is
corrected, a solvency problem is likely.
6



ANNEX 2
Attachment 2
- D. Seriously deteriorated situation with bank capital below prescribed
minimum regulatory levels, but still ostensibly solvent.
- E. Bank with negative net worth, in niminent danger of failing
- F. The bank can no longer pay its debts as they fall due and must be
liquidated.
6. Have the examiners' manuals been redone to incorporate the above systems as
standards against which the banks' management of risk and financial condition
can be measured?
- are such manuals (or equivalent documentation) in use in bank examinations?
7. Has the banking industry (the banks, the BBB) been informed as to the standards,
guidelines and classification systems described above?
Years two and three
1. Is the CB continuing to develop and improve its documentation of the kinds of
standards, rules and guidelines described above?
2. How visible and well-understood by banks are these new risk-focused supervisory
approaches?
- have they been well received?
- do the bankers interviewed have any suggestions for further improvement?
3. Have all examiners received and use revised manuals?
- what do they think of them? Are they useful?
4. Using a risk classification system such as that outlined above, does CB management
have lists of those banks in classifications B, C, D, and E?
- have any banks classed as C not been previously classed as B?
- have any banks classed as D not been previously classed as C (or even B)?
Does each bank classified as a B or below know that it has been so identified
by the CB?
Have any bank failures or near-failures come as a surprise to the CB?
Have examiners' evaluations of credit exposures for banks about to fail been
overly optimistic?
5. Do the examiners' reports on a bank following the inspection reflect an appraisal of
performance and condition using a CAMEL or similar risk and problem
identification format?
- do they clearly identify corrective actions required?
7



ANNEX 2
Attachment 2
- what are the time delays between the completion of an examination and the
preparation of the report?
- how soon after the report has been prepared has it been delivered to and
discussed with bank management and board of directors?
6. In the opinion of the examiners, are banks generally complying with documented
standards of sound business and financial practices?
- have the exceptions been identified and communicated to senior CB personnel?
7. Statistical records should be kept of the numbers and identities of banks examined
and analyzed on this new approach and the results. Such records should be in
formats that permit CB management to identify progress over time. If the system
is working well, the seriousness of safety and soundness problems identified
should diminish. They should also provide evidence as to the effectiveness of
early warning signs and the avoidance of surprises.
8. By the end of two or three years, CB management and the BBA should be able to
identify significant improvements in bank risk management practices and in the
overall financial quality of banks.
- based on interviews, it should be possible to see whether the credibility of the
supervisory process has improved and the standing of the CB enhanced.
Enforcement
Year One
1. Has the CB developed a listing of its regulatory interventions and actions, ranked in
order of severity related to a classification system of banks presenting problems
(such as the A to F classification set out earlier as an illustration)
- has this been published so that banks and the financial markets can see it?
- B banks - examination letter recommendations and requirements for change
with a timetable for bank actions in response. The bank is required to
confirm undertakings to take corrective actions within a specified time-
frame.
- C banks - as above, but now requiring a formal undertaking signed by the
board of directors and a business plan acceptable to the CB. It is possible
that directions of compliance (cease and desist orders) will be issued
if the bank is not cooperating. One of these could be an order to cease
making any dividend or other payments to shareholders. Another might be
to prohibit such a bank from paying interest rates on deposits higher
than those paid by its competitors.
- D banks - as above, but the CB will require the injection of more capital and
the adoption of a business and capital plan that could include downsizing
and selling off parts of the business. Alternatively, the CB might require
that the bank be sold or merged. Directions of compliance will be issued.
8



ANNEX 2
Attachment 2
The CB might require a change in management. It will require a formal
rehabilitation plan.
- E banks - at this stage, it is likely that new owners must come in or a formal
curator or rehabilitator appointed to restructure the bank. The CB should
have the power to take control even if the bank is continuing to meet its
obligations as they fall due.
- F banks - the CB or another government agency will take control of the bank
and place it in liquidation.
Making this transparent is one of the best ways of improving the market's
confidence in the regulatory process (unless it is seen to fail in any case where it
appears the CB has been caught off guard). It is not contemplated that the names of
any banks where regulatory actions are taken will be made public, and the CB is
bound by its confidentiality rules with respect to particular banks.
There are a number of ways where actions taken become public. For example:
- it will not be possible to keep secret the fact that the CB has required
a change of management;
- the audited annual financial statements may disclose formal commitments
made to the CB and any enforceable orders issued by the CB;
- taking control of the assets of a failing bank is a public event.
Publication of such a listing usually makes it easier to take necessary actions in
particular situations.
The annual evaluation should verify the ability of the CB to develop enforcement
processes and disciplines along the lines set out above, and whether it is
following them.
2. In addition to the actions identified above, the CB should make it clear that it has the
power to take actions to hold officers, directors, auditors and owners accountable
in the event of a failure costing the taxpayer money, and that it will do so if
circumstances warrant.
3. The CB should document its standards in the granting of banking licences and in
approving transfers of ownership or control. This should include the criteria to
be used in determining who is a "fit and proper" person to own a bank.
- this should be made public.
4. The CB should maintain internal review procedures to ensure that the rulings and
interpretations made with a variety of situations with a variety of banks
are consistent. The evaluator should try to identify instances of inconsistent
rulings and interpretations issued during the year by the CB.
9



ANNEX 2
Attachment 2
Years two and three
1. The CB should have a quality assessment process encompassing a case by case review
of the supervisory handling of banks identified as B to F in the second and third
years of the program. Depending on the number of institutions involved, this
might be done on a sampling basis. A postmortem focusing on what the
supervisors did should be done in the case of all bank failures
Such a review will be qualitative in nature.
One indicator of the quality of supervision and the effectiveness of
interventions is the percentage recoveries of assets, and amounts of losses and costs
related to the management and liquidation of failed banks. Since one of the
purposes of a sound supervisory regime is the containment of such losses, one
should expect to see improvement in this area over a period of time. (It is admitted
that asset recoveries are affected by market conditions over which the supervisor
has no control.)
2. A quality evaluation reviewer could do the following:
- identify any failing banks not identified previously by the CB and where actions
taken were late or too weak or misdirected;
- review actions taken with respect to various classified banks looking for any
obvious inconsistencies;
- determine if, in particular situations, powers available to the CB were not used.
- identify any situations involving banks owned by conglomerates where the
GB's powers were inadequate to deal with the problem?
3. A review should be made of all new banking licences and ownership transfers to
determine if the quality criteria have been followed in all cases.
4. A sampling of other rulings and interpretations should be made to see if any conflict
with any of the standards implicit in the other improvements being made in the
overall program, and that there are no significant inconsistencies in them.
Information systems
Year one
1. The first, and perhaps most important step in the development of IT strategies is the
need for senior management to define its goals and information requirements.
In other words, before technical work is started, the required and desirable
information outputs and the uses of such outputs need to be identified and well
documented.
10



ANNEX 2
Attachment 2
- what information do we need? One must distinguish between what information
is truly needed and what would be useful to have.
- why do we need it?
- how often do we need it?
- who will use it?
- what will be done with it?
- how long will it take to get this information?
- how much will it cost to develop the systems?
- how will the quality of banking supervision be improved as a result?
It is recognized that the banking industry in Brazil is very advanced in terms of the
its uses of advanced information technology (IT) and it is important to the
credibility of the CB that it too is capable of using advanced IT effectively,
and that this be visible.
2. Has an information technology (IT) plan been developed based on identified needs and
management requirements with a timetable for implementation.
- does the plan cover the acquisition of new laptops by staff,
- does it include training in their use?
- does it include other hardware?
- does it identify all the important data inputs into the system, their sources
and frequency?
- does it identify how new systems will meet the required information outputs?
- does the plan involve users in the decisions to be made?
- does it build effectively on IT systems already in place? ("Supersystem")
- have actions taken under the plan been taken within the specified timetable?
3. How does this plan compare with systems in use by banking supervisors in other
countries?
- are any gaps or deficiencies apparent when this comparison is made?
4. How is IT being used in practice?
- in analyzing information returns from the banks?
- in identifying non-standard information or indicators of trouble?
- in examinations?
- in the communications between analysts and examiners?
- in preparing examnination reports, in identifying items requiring follow-up,
and in ensuring that findings are in fact being followed up?
5. The CB should develop the capacity to monitor on a systemwide basis trends
that can adversely impact the banking system. These can cover the following:
- loan exposures by industry, geographically, to particular borrowers or
groups, by size classification, etc.;
- exposures to real estate - commercial and residential;
I1



ANNEX 2
Attachment 2
- levels of non-performing loans;
- levels of loans to related parties;
- similar information for long term investments;
- exposures to interest rate, foreign exchange and related risks;
- bank capital trends by class and size of bank;
- liquidity information;
- interest rates paid on deposits;
- profitability indicators - spreads, fee income, loan losses, operating costs,
taxes, net earnings, dividends, cost of capital, etc.
Without substantial investments in IT, this aggregate form of analysis will
not be possible. A quality review could assess the relevance of this information
and the ways it is used.
Years two and three
1. Reviews will be necessary to see whether this IT development work is proceeding on
schedule and within budget. (Most IT developments run late and over budget).
2. Specific bank examination programs should be reviewed to identify the uses made of
laptops and the communications with analysts and come to judgments about
their effectiveness. These reviews should include interviews with examiners
and with the banks.
3. There should be an assessment of the uses made of the masses of information collected
each month ("Supersystem");
- does it flag problems promptly and in ways that something can be done quickly?
- does it contain too much data to be used effectively?
- are findings communicated promptly to examiners, and is this information put
to use quickly?
- is it useful in identifying trends on a timely basis?
- have statistics of financial performance for the banking system as a whole
been prepared in order to give CB management a picture of major
trends?
4. Has the CB used information produced by its systems to prepare system analyses of
key performance and safety indicators for the banking system as a whole - or for
particular segments of the system? A review should be made of the uses of such
information and the actions, if any, taken as a result.
12



ANNEX 2
Attachment 2
Public financial information
Year one
1. The CB should develop a program to improve the ability of the market to require
increasing levels of safety and soundness:
- better and more credible audited financial statements of banks and companies
controlling banks;
- improved auditing of these statements;
- more information for the securities markets;
- quarterly financial information;
- more information for rating agencies;
In an earlier section I referred to programs to improve financial accounting rules
and practices for banks. In addition to the strengthening of the underlying bank
accounting rules, the CB should do what it can to improve the quality of
financial disclosures, particularly with respect to:
- related party transactions;
- market values of security positions;
- non-performing loans and loan losses;
- loan exposures to particular industry and geographic segments
(e.g. real estate);
- derivatives, including the credit risk exposures.
The program should ensure that the accounting principles applied to the
published financial statements are consistent with those used in the
preparation of financial information filed with the CB by the banks.
2. A review should be made of the progress of such a program in the first year.
- the reviewer should identify the level of financial reporting, the underlying
accounting and disclosures and make comparisons with international
standards;
- interviews should be conducted with leading auditors, financial analysts and with
rating agencies to confirm progress made, significant continuing problems
and gaps and the most critical problems to be dealt with;
- changes in banking operations and their impact on bank accounting
should be made to see if there are any gaps and areas where more
work is required.
3. A review should be made of selected published bank financial statements to identify
deficiencies.
4. Do the banks publish interim results on a quarterly basis?
13



ANNEX 2
Attachment 2
5. A review should be made of the various ways that the CB interacts with outside bank
auditors, and an assessment made as to:
- their effectiveness in identifying problems early;
- inconsistencies in accounting bank to bank;
- the capacity of auditors to evaluate loans (the impression is that they just
accept the application of the CB rules);
- the reporting of evidence of non-compliance with CB rules and guidelines;
- the understanding or lack thereof of the role of the auditors in ensuring
bank safety;
- potential use of auditors by the CB to make special examinations.
6. A review should be made of the financial transparency of conglomerates with bank
members, and consideration of what, if anything, the CB can do to improve
the situation using its present powers.
Years two and three
1. A review should be made of published bank financial statements to see if there have
been significant improvement.
2. Interviews could be held with rating agencies and financial analysts to obtain views
about the adequacy of published financial information to enable them to come to
conclusions about the strength of individual banks in the system.
3. Examination files for a selected group of banks could be reviewed to assess:
- judgments as to improvements in the quality of the work done by auditors;
- whether auditors' formal and informal communications with the CB have
brought to light problems that might otherwise have been missed or
not discovered until later;
- whether auditors' management letters have identified weaknesses in internal
controls;
- the ability of bank examiners to use the information contained in bank public
financial statements.
Market feedback
It will take some years before the effects of improved supervision are identified
in the financial markets. The most important indicators include the following:
1. A decreasing incidence of bank failures and visible near-failures resolved
through mergers, and a lowering of the public costs related to banking
problems.
It is recognized that the most important factor leading to failures is the
condition of markets of underlying assets, particularly real estate. Thus,
14



ANNEX 2
Attachment 2
reductions (or increases) in the incidence of bank failures are not
completely tied to the changing quality of bank supervision.
What is important is that the costs of dealing with failure are, and are
seen to be, reasonable in the circumstances, and that they are confined to
the
failed banks themselves and have not contaminated others.
2. Positive feedback about the performance of bank supervisors from people they
deal with or who are familiar with their work: bankers, auditors, BBA,
financial analysts, rating agencies. It should be possible to interview
such people to whom improvements reflected in performance is visible.
This should yield useful information related to hiring and training
programs, the adoption of risk focused supervision, the more effective use
of enforcement powers and more effective use of IT etc. It is important to
gain this feedback each year, and an independent consultant is likely the
best person to do this.
3. The costs of banking regulation, and the related costs of meeting regulatory
information requirements should be accepted by the banks as reasonable.
This discipline works best when the costs of banking supervision are
charged back to the industry instead of to the taxpayers. (In this regard,
it is the experience of regulators in North America that the ability to
charge supervisory operating costs to the industry assists rather than
impedes obtaining the resources needed to do a good job.)
4. The BBA should be persuaded to publish annually aggregated financial
statistics, by banks classified by size, of assets, non-performing loans,
interest margins, loan losses, operating costs, earnings and capital levels. If
necessary, the CB itself could publish such information to provide a profile
of financial strength of the system and significant trends. The CB could not,
of course, publish the identities of banks presenting problems or even
aggregate statistics related to them.
Over time one would expect to see improving trends in these areas.
5. There should be no significant bank failures which appear to have come as a
surprise to the authorities. Regulators are generally forgiven if it is
apparent that they were forewamed and took appropriate actions even
if they did not succeed in avoiding the failure.
6. There should be no failures or other significant bank-related problems
resulting from fraud (or at least, from fraud undetected by the CB). The
market must have confidence that bank resources cannot be used for
fraudulent purposes and that the system has integrity.
15



ANNEX 2
Attachment 2
This is one of the reasons why many bank supervisors now are setting
out guidelines designed to assist banks in the control of money laundering.
7. There should be evidence of a number of situations where failure has been
averted as a result of supervisory intervention. This information, of course,
is not public (although there could be reasonable accurate public
speculation), and must be gained through discussions with CB personnel.
The files of a number of banks rated C, D or E which did not fail could be
selected and made the subject of an internal quality assurance review.
8. The real test is the ability of the banking system to emerge substantially intact
from a period of financial stress or crisis. The ability to handle serious
stress reflects directly on the financial strength of the banks and their risk
management systems. Strong banks weather storms; weakly managed
banks do not.
16



ANNEX 2
Attachment 3
CENTRAL BANK OF BRAZIL - BANEING SUPERVISION MODERNIZATION PROGRAM
COM?LEMENTARITY OF PRESENT AND PROPOSED ACTIONS
Strate  c Improvement Areas
Time-        Mission /            Organization /         Human Resources           Information /         Supervision Tools
Line         Objectives            Management                                       Information
Technologyv          _
Central   World      Central    World Bank   Central       World       Central    World      Central       World Bank
Bank      Bank       Bank                     Bank        Bank         Bank       Bank       Bank
Present   + On-                + Re-                    + Policy                 + Acqui-              + Enhance
going                view of                  review of                sition of             enforcement
intenal              report of                -recruit-                300                   powers
review               external                 ment                     notebook              (MP 1470)
mngmt.                  -career                  com-
consul                   paths                   puters                 +
tant                     -com-                                          Upgrading
(Boucinhas)              pensation                                      off & on-site
inspection
+ Develop
mnanuals
derivatives
-treasury
Year I    + Ac-    + Con-    + Ac-         + Con-       +Recruit   + Basic/   + Deve-   + Up-                        + Upgrade
tions to   tinuing    tions to be  tinuing    ment        specialized  lop        grading                  risk mgmt.
be        evalua-    defined     evaluation               training in  strategic   key                     programs
defined   tion                                            risk        informa-   databases
+ Forma-                 manage-    tion                                  + Foster
tion of                  ment        techno-    + Sim-                    cooperation
Quality                              logy plan   plify /                  with foreign
Assurance                + Ex-                   rationa-                 supervisors
Group                    changes                 lize
with                   infonna-                 + Establish
foreign                tion flow                cooperative
supervisors            between                  protocol with
Central                 auditors
Bank and
banks                    + Review of
non-judicial
+ Acqui                 enforcement
sition of                actions
addi-
tional
notebook
com-
I_puters
Year 2    + Ac-    + Con-    + Ac-         + Con-       +Recruit   + Con-                   + Con-                   + Outreach
tions to   tinuing    tions to be  tinuing    ment        tinue                   tinue                    initiatives
be        evalua-    defined     evaluation               training                actions                   -Congress
defraed   tion                                                                    from                      -press
+ Monito-                                        year 1                    -financial
ring                                                                        sector
performance                                                                -public
of Quality
Assurance
Group
Year 3              + Con-                 + Con-                   + Con-
tinuing               tinuing                   tinue
evalua-                evaluation               training
tion



ANNEX 2
Attachment 4
Aereed Terms of Reference for a
Strateeic Vision for the Banking and Financial Industry in Brazil
Rationale: This project component would elaborate a strategic vision for the
strengthening of the privately-owned banking system in BraziL The vision which is
developed should be consistent with changes occuring throughout thefinancial sector,
since banks are increasingly part offinancial conglomerates and non-bank financial
institutions are competing with banks in a variety of areas. The work would take into
account policies already adopted by the Brazilian authorities to further this goal and
reduce the dominance ofpublicly-owned banks, which now control approximately 50%
of system assets.
Obiective: To provide recommendations for changes in instruments and public
policies, so as to foster a sound banking system. In order to identify the public policy
issues, the project should begin with an evaluation of the enabling environment for
financial services, with a focus on the "infrastrucutre" needed for well-functioning credit
markets, such as access to accurate information on potential borrowers. The study should
then address how both the public and private sector can contribute to a stronger banking
sector, including the following topics: (1) incentives for sound bank management, both
from market forces and public policies and instruments; (2) policies which promote
competition, including developing a level regulatory playing field for the financial services
industry (bank and non-bank institutions) and the role of foreign capital and banks; and (3)
access to financial services for sectors of the population which are currently underserved
such as small business and rural and low-income communities. The study should provide
insights as to the adequacy of the current regulatory framework for banking and financial
services and the division of responsibilities between different Government agencies, given
the growth of financial conglomerates in recent years. In addition, the study should
identify other public policy issues, such as tax policies and legal reforms, which affect the
functioning of banks and especially, credit markets.
Issues to be covered: The study should broadly outline the desirable characteristics and
general nature of a progressive banking system, which would be appropriate for Brazil,
attainable within the five to ten-year time frame and within the context of a concerted
international strategy to promote financial stability. This vision of a future banking
industry should include - but not be limited to - the types of institutions, available financial
products, their prices and costs, the market structure and role of foreign capital and
foreign institutions. The assumptions and baseline measurements used in creating this
vision should be clearly noted. As appropriate, reference should be made to other financial
markets, with particular emphasis on emerging market economies, which have undergone
a reorganization of their banking and financial sectors, to place in context the projections
provided for Brazil. The study would then identify those public policies which are
necessary to provide the framework for this new banking marketplace. A more detailed list
of items to be included in the study is provided on the next page.
1



ANNEX 2
Attac}unent 4
The enablinz environment & credit culture
Development of a credit culture
-availability of reliable information on potential borrowers (credit bureau data)
-protections on access to data
Suggesting improvements in legal protections for credit contracts
-development of national registries for property
-legal framework for taking possession of collateral
Promotinf sound bank mana-aement
Incentives for prudent bank management
-professionalization of bank management, incentives for bank managers &
directors
-incentives for consumers to demand prudent management
Measures to deal with problem banks (public and private)
-state bank restructuring/closure or privatization
-asset resolution for bad assets
Controls on connected lending
Autonomy of bank supervisors
Sensitivity of private banking sector to monetary policy, macroeconomic policy
Promotin2 competition
Creation of a level regulatory playing field
-reduced opportunities for regulatory arbitrage
-issues related to universal banking, the link between banks and capital markets
Suggesting a strategy for increased foreign participation in the sector, taking into account
issues of reciprocity
-defining the investment regime for foreign investment in banking
-impact of regional integration (Mercosul)
-impact of increasing openness on competition in banking services
Simplified, transparent, non-stifling regulatory environment for credit markets
Access to financial services
Suggesting strategies for improved access to financial services for marginalized segments
of the population
-rural communities
-microfinance initiatives for low-income communities
-finance for small and medium-size enterprises
Methodologv
The consultant should present a work plan which clearly presents the methodology to be
used. Interviews with key market participants and an analysis of financial sector data
should be included in these plans.  In addition, the consultant should possess a
sophisticated understanding of international trends in banking and finance which can be
applied to this project, as well as have experience in banking supervision.
2



ANNEX 2
Attachment 4
Products/Results: The consultant should produce a preliminary report half-way into the
project to allow for discussion and modification of the work plan as necessary. At the
closure of the project, the consultant should provide a detailed written report and
corresponding electronic file, documenting the findings and policy prescriptions. The
report should provide full references and key assumptions on which conclusions are based.
The sequencing of changes and their timing over the five-year horizon should be clear in
the presentation, as well as the timing of appropriate supervisory and public policy
responses. Comments on the consultant's findings will be solicited from other financial
sector experts. The consultant should be prepared to discuss the report in a public seminar
or conference within six months of the conclusion of the project. If the review process
indicates that the study was successful, this effort would likely be repeated biannually.
3



Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                                                         Local 1 Foreign j  Total
-------      -$ million----------
I.  Asset Resolution/Disposal                                                                                  1.0               1.0
............................................................................................................................................................
II.  Financial Sector Vision/Other Selected Research                                                            1.0               1.0
............................................................................................................................................................
HI. Improvement of Banking Supervision                                                                         14.0             14.0
(total of subcomponents listed below)
3.0              3.0
i)   Training
ii) Information technology equipment                                                                       5.5              5.5
iii) Upgrading of data bases                                                                              2.0               2.0
iv) Rationalize information flow between Central Bank                                                     0.5                0.5
and banks they supervise
v) Review accounting standards and develop                                                                 0.3               0.3
cooperation protocol with external auditors
vi) Develop permanent quality assurance process                                                             0.5               0.5
vii) Continued evaluation of supervision strategies                                  ___                    0.8               0.8
viii) Develop outreach activities                                                                           0.2               0.2
ix) Review of non-judicial enforcement actions                                                              0.2               0.2
x)   Other activities                                                                                        1.0              1.0
............................ i~ ..................................................................................................................
IV. State Bank Restructuring                                                                                  0.25              0.25
.............................................................................................................................................................
VI. Training other than Bank Supervision/Other                                                                3.00              3.00
V.      Other Activities                                                                                     0.75              0.75
...........................................................................................................................................................
VII. Project Management and other modernization                                                4.6                                4.6
initiatives
Total Proiect Cost                                                                             4.6             20.0             24.6



ANNEX 4
Annex 4
Brazil: Central Bank Modernization Technical Assistance Project
Procurement, Disbursement, and Accounting/Auditing Arrangements
Procurement
1.    Consultant's services would be procured according to the provisions of
the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" (January 1997) and of goods according to the provisions of the
"Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans" (January 1995, revised
January and August 1996). A specialist in procurement would be hired by the
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to expedite project implementation. The
Borrower is also planning to administer part of the project under the auspices of
the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to facilitate procurement
of larger and more complex goods and services contracts. The administrative
expenses for the PCU, including UNDP fees, would be fully paid by the
Borrower. Table A presents the project costs (excluding project administration)
by procurement arrangements and Table B provides the thresholds for
procurement methods and prior review, both of which are discussed below in
the specific context of goods and consultant services.
2.    Procurement of Goods: Goods, primarily computer hardware and
software, would be purchased using International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures when the sum of the contract exceeds US$350,000. For contracts
valued between US$100,000 and US$350,000, National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) procedures would be used based upon standard bidding documents
acceptable to the Bank. Goods purchases worth less than US$100,000 per order
would be purchased on the basis of shopping (national or international as
indicated by the item) from at least three eligible suppliers.
3.    Procurement of Consultant Services: Letters of Invitation, contracts,
short-lists, selection procedures, terms of reference and the technical evaluation
for consulting firms hired under the project will be subject to prior Bank review
for contracts greater than or equal to US$200,000. Contracts for consulting
firms valued between US$100,000 and US$200,000 require prior review as
described above, with the exception of the technical evalution. Prior review of
bidding documents is also required for consulting contracts made with
individuals for amounts greater or equal to US$50,000. For contracts which fall
below these thresholds, ex-post review will occur on a sample basis. Exemption
from prior review does not apply to consultant contracts below the thresholds in
cases of single source selection of firms.



ANNEX 4
4.    Prior Review: The project implementation  plan  identifies key
procurement actions in the first year of the project. Semi-annual operating plans
would indicate key procurement actions to be taken in the year described. The
Bank would review all goods contracts using ICB with a value equal or greater
than US$350,000; consultant firm contracts valued equal or greater than
US$100,000; individual consultant contracts equal or greater than US$50,000;
and consultant contracts not exempted from prior review as described in the text
on procurement of consultant services.
5.    Post Review: All procurement documentation, including that related to
contracts not subject to prior review would be kept by the Borrower for ex-post
review by the Bank according to Bank Guidelines.
Disbursement
6.   Allocation of loan proceeds: The proposed Bank loan would be
disbursed over a period of three years. The project is expected to be completed
by June 30, 2000, and the closing date is December 31, 2000. The allocation of
loan proceeds by project component is shown in Table C. Since this project is
conceived as the first phase of a multi-phase modernization program at the
Central Bank in which the Bank would be involved, a relatively compact
disbursement schedule has been devised. Most project expenditures -
approximately 80% of the total - are programmed for the first two years of
implementation.
7.    Use of Statements of Expenditures: Disbursements would be based on
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) for: (a) all goods contracts valued below
US$350,000; and (b) consultant services valued below US$100,000 for firms
and US$50,000 for individuals and (c) training expenditures. Documentation
supporting SOEs would be retained by the PCU and made available for
examination by Bank staff as requested. All other disbursement requests would
be accompanied by full documentation.
8.    Procurement Agent: The Borrower is considering to contract the United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP) based in Brasilia for procurement of
larger and more complex goods and services contracts made through the project.
The estimated value of goods and services to be procured through the UNDP is
US$14 million, or approximately two-thirds of the total loan proceeds. The
procurement agent would make payments directly to consultants and suppliers.
Detailed supporting documentation for expenditures will be kept by the
procurement agent and submitted by the Borrower to the Bank. Full
documentation for all contracts requiring Bank's prior review will be submitted.
2



ANNEX 4
9.    Special Account: A Special Account will be established to cover
expenditures paid directly by the Borrower, with an authorized allocation of
US$2.0 million. The authorized allocation would be sufficient for
approximately four months of financeable expenditures. The Special Account
would be managed by the PCU which would be responsible for preparing
disbursement requests. These requests would be submitted monthly or when the
Special Account has been drawn down by a third of the initial deposit,
whichever occurs first.
10.   Retroactive Financing: At negotiations, the need for retroactive
financing of up to US$2 million (10% of the Loan amount) was reviewed and
agreed for eligible expenditures incurred since December 16, 1996 (but not
earlier than 12 months before loan signing). Retroactive financing is
recommended to allow for Bank financing of modernization expenditures which
have been incurred since the Project was identified.
Accounting and Auditing
11.   The Project Coordination Unit in the Central Bank would maintain the
accounts for the project and would be accountable for funds transferred to the
various departments involved in project execution. These accounts would be
maintained in accordance with sound accounting practices, acceptable to the
Bank, and should be organized through an MIS system able to provide ready
access to project financial data, including funds committed and disbursed by
project component.
12.   Accounts, including  the Special Account and  related  fmancial
information (including supporting documentation for the SOEs), would be
audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, in
accordance with Bank auditing guidelines. Certified copies of the audited
consolidated project accounts and audited Special Account (including a separate
opinion on the use of SOEs) would be submitted to the Bank not later than six
months after the close of the fiscal year.
3



ANNEX 4
Table A
Project Costs' by Procurement Arrangements (US$ thousands)
Procurement Method                       Total
Category                                            2                      Cost
ICB       NCB       QCBS        2Single    Other
Source
Consulting Services
Individual                               1,000         500                 1,500
Firms                                   7,500          500                 8,000
Sub Total                                      8,500       1,000                9,500
Goods                   4,850       400                                2503    5,500
Training fees,                                                        5,000      5,000
Workshops and
Seminars
TOTAL                    4,850      400        8,500       1,000      5,250    20,000
NOTE: The Borrower is negotiating with UNDP for the procurement of most goods
and consultant services contracts.
I Table does not include costs of project administration related to the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) or
-UNDP fees, since these expenses will be fully covered by the Borrower. Project administration
costs are estimated at US$2 million over the life of the project. All other project-related expenses
will be funded through the loan, excluding taxes.
2The maximum value for any single source consultant contract is US$200,000.
3National or International Shopping Procedures.
4



ANNEX 4
Table B
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review (thousands, US$)
Category            Contract Value   Procurement Method    Contracts Subject
(Thresholds)                              to Prior Review by
Bank
Consulting Services               < 50         Selection according to           None
Consultant Guidelines
Individuals                 2 50          Selection according to            All
Consultant Guidelines
...................... .......................................... ............................ ...........  ............ ................................................... .. ............................................
Firms                   2 100 and <       Selection according to   All (except technical
200          Consultant Guidelines         evaluation)
2 200                                     All (including
technical evaluation)
Goods                            < 100              National or                 None
International Shopping
* 100 and <               NCB                     None
350
2 350                 ICB                      All
Table C
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount of the Loan       % of Expenditures to be financed
Category             Allocated (Expressed
in US Dollars)
(1) Consultant Serices               9,500,000                         100%
(2) Training                         5,000,000                         100%
(3) Goods                            5,500,000        100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory-cost) and
80% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally.
TOTAL                               20,000,000
5



Annex 5
Brazil: Central Bank Modernization Technical Assistance Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                Planned             Actual
218,000                     218,000           278,000
B. Project Schedule                       Planned            Current
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project         6 months          10 months
First Bank mission (identification)      12/16/1996         12/16/1996
Appraisal mission departure              02/24/1997         02/24/1997
Negotiations                             05/05/1997         07/18/1997
Planned Date of Effectiveness            09/30/1997         03/31/1998
Prepared by: Central Bank of Brazil
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
1. Stefan Alber
2. David Scott
3. Margaret Miller
4. Laura Ard
5. Robert Clarke (Cons.)
6. D. Cooke (Cons.)
7. A. Berggren (Cons.)
8. M. Mackenzie (Cons.)



Annex 6
Brazil: Central Bank Modernization Technical Assistance Project
Documents in the Project File
Arthur Andersen, Bank of England, "Findings and Recommendations of the
Review of Supervision and Surveillance", July 1996.
Atlantic Rating, "Brazil - Banking System Report, October 1996.
Banco Central do Brasil, PROER "Program of Incentives to the Restructuring and
Stren,-thening of the National Financial System", February 1996.
Banco Central do Brasil, "Carta Consulta", December 19, 1996.
Bank Watch, "Eamings Update - Brazilian Banks 1995 Results", April 2, 1996.
Clarke, Robert L., Mission Report to the World Bank, March 21, 1997.
Group of Thirty, "Defining the Roles of Accountants. Bankers and Regulators in
the United States", 1994.
IBCA Country Report, "The Brazilian Banking IndustrylPrudential Regulations",
March 1995.
RBCA Selected Analyses, "Private Banks", 1995/1996.
MBCA, "Selected Analyses of Government/State Banks", 1994-1996.
Key Financial Sector Laws.
Miscellaneous Working Papers, 1996/1997
"Past Bank Failures", Selected Analyses, 1995/1996.
United States General Accounting Office, " Bank Oversight Structure: US and Foreign
Experience may offer Lessons for Modernizing US Structure", November 1996.



MOP Schedule D
Ganmated: October22, 1997
Status of Bank Group Operations in Brazil
EBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions               and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                   disbursements a/
Project ID     Credit    Year                Borrower                      Purpose
No.                                                                            IBRD       IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 193
Active Loans
BR-PE-35728   IBRD42320    1998   STATE OF BAHIA                   BAHIA WTR RESOURCES            51.00       0.00            0.00        51.00       0.00      0.00
BR-PE-39197   IBRD42110    1998   STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO          RJ ST.PRIV.                   250.00       0.00            0.00       250.00    250.00       0.00
BR-PE-34578   IBRD41650    1997   RIO GRANDE DO SUL                RGS HWY MGT                    70.00       0.00            0.00        70.00      70.00      0.00
BR-PE-38896   IBRD41200    1997   STATE OF RGN                     R.POVERTY(RGN)                 24.00       0.00            0.00        24.00      24.00      0.00
BR-PE-39196   IBRD41390   1997   STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SU         RGS ST.REFORM                 125.00       0.00            0.00        75.00      75.00      0.00
BR-PE-42566   IBRD41220    1997   STATE OF PERNAMBUCO              R.POVERTY(PE)                  39.00       0.00            0.00        39.00      39.00      0.00
BR-PE-43868   IBRD41480    1997   STATE OF RGS                     RGS LAND MGT/POVERTY          100.00       0.00            0.00       100.00    100.00       0.00
BR-PE-43871   IBRD41210   1997   STATE OF PIAUI                     (PIAUI)R.POVERTY              30.00       0.00            0.00         30.00     30.00      0.00
BR-PE-43873   IBRD41690    1997   FED.REP.OF BRAZIL                AG TECH DEV.                   60.00       0.00            0.00         60.00     60.00      0.00
BR-PE-46052   IBRD41900    1997                                    CEARA WTR PILOT                 9.60       0.00            0.00          9.60      0.00      0.00
BR-PE-48870   IBRD41890   1997   THE STATE OF MATO GROSSO          MT STATE PRIV.                 45.00       0.00            0.00         45.00     45.00      0.00
BR-PE-6475    IBRD41470    1997   FED. REP. OF BRAZIL              LAND REM PILOT                 90.00       0.00            0.00         90.00     90.00      0.00
BR-PE-6532    IBRD41880    1997   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT               FED HWY DECENTR               300.00       0.00            0.00        300.00    300.00      0.00
BR-PE-6562    IBRD41400    1997   STATE OF BAHIA                   BAHIA MUN.DV                  100.00       0.00            0.00         94.98     94.98      0.00
BR-PE-37828   IBRD40600    1996   STATE OF PARANA                   (PR) R. POVERTY              175.00       0.00            0.00        175.00    175.00      0.00
BR-PE-40028   IBRD40460    1996   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR        RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURG          350.00       0.00            0.00        167.69    167.69       0.00
BR-PE-6512    IBRD39240    1996   CVRD                              ENV/CONS(CVRD)                50.00       0.00            0.00         35.94     35.94       0.00
BR-PE-6554    IBRD40470    1996   FED. REP. OF BRAZIL              HLTH SCTR REFORM              300.00       0.00            0.00        264.75    264.75       0.00
BR-PE-35717   IBRD39170    1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                    RURAL POV. (BAHIA)           105.00       0.00            0.00         71.51     71.51       0.00
BR-PE-38882   IBRD39150    1995   FED REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL            RECIFE M.TSP                 102.00       0.00            0.00         98.72     98.72       0.00
BR-PE-38884   IBRD39180    1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                    RURAL POV. - CEARA            70.00       0.00            0.00         58.44     58.44       0.00
BR-PE-38885   IBRD39190    1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                    RURAL POV.-SERGIPE            36.00        0.00           0.00         24.93     24.93       0.00
BR-PE-6436    IBRD37890    1995   STATE OF CEARA       ZIL          CEARA UR.DV/WATER CO         140.00        0.00           0.00        117.26    117.26       0.00
Generated by the Operations Infomation System (OIS)                                                                                                                         Page 1



MOP Sciedule D
GeneaAed: October 22, 1997
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                 and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                       disbursements a/
Project ID     Credit      Year               Borrower                       Purpose
No.                                                                              IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd
BR-PE-6564    IBRD39160    1995   FED REPUBLIC/BRAZIL                BELO H M.TSP                    99.00        0.00            0.00         83.47      83.47       0.00
BR-PE-6452    IBRD36630    1994   MINISTRY OF EDUCATION              NE BASIC EDUC III              206.60        0.00            0.00         99.52      99.52       0.00
BR-PE-6522    IBRD37670    1994   ST.OF ESPIRITO SANTO                ESP.SANTO WATER               154.00        0.00            0.00         98.40      98.40       0.00
BR-PE-6524    IBRD36390    1994   ST.OF MINAS GERAIS                 MINAS MNC.DEVELOPMT            150.00        0.00            5.00         46.49      51.49       0.00
BR-PE-6543    IBRD37330    1994   GOVERNMENT                         M. GERAIS BASIC EDUC           150.00        0.00            0.00         84.90      84.90       0.00
BR-PE-6546    IBRD36590    1994   GOVERNMENT                         AIDS CONTROL                   160.00        0.00            0.00         24.54      24.54       0.00
BR-PE-6555    IBR037130    1994   STATE GOVTS                         STE HWY MGT II                  54.00       0.00           18.00         22.42    206.42       48.48
BR-PE-6555    IBRD37150    1994   STATE GOVTS                        STE HWY MGT II                   79.00       0.00           18.00         21.63    180.63       48.48
BR-PE-6555    IBRD37140    1994   STATE GOVTS                         STE HWY MGT II                  87.00       0.00            0.00          4.43    137.43       48.48
BR-PE-6558    IBRD37660    1994   REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL                  PARANA BASIC EDUC               96.00       0.00             0.00        51.76      51.76       0.00
BR-PE-6378    IBRD35470    1993   STATE GOVERNMENTS                   STATE HWY MGMT                  50.00       0.00             0.00         7.61      45.61      17.54
BR-PE-6378    IBRD35480    1993   STATE GOVERNMENTS                   STATE HWY MGMT                  38.00       0.00           18.00          9.95      77.95      17.54
BR-PE-6427    IBRD36040    1993   MIN. OF EDUCATION   N               NE BASIC EDUC II              212.00        0.00             0.00        66.35      66.35       0.00
BR-PE-6540    IBRD35540    1993   MINAS GERAIS ST.                   WTR Q/PLN(MINAS GERA            145.00       0.00             5.00        46.03      51.03      46.02
BR-PE-6541    IBRD35030    1993   S.PAULO/PARANA STS.                 WTR Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)             9.00       0.00             0.00          6.38    242.38       0.00
BR-PE-6541    IBRD35050    1993   S.PAULO/PARANA STS.                WTR Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)            117.00       0.00             0.00         56.98    184.98       0.00
BR-PE-6541    IBRD35040    1993   S.PAULO/PARANA STS.                WTR Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)            119.00       0.00             0.00         43.71    169.71       0.00
BR-PE-6547    IBRD36330    1993   FED.REP.OF BRAZIL                  METRO TRANSP. RIO               128.50       0.00             0.00         47.83     47.83       0.00
BR-PE-6368    IBRD34420    1992   GOVERNMENT                         WATER SECTOR MODERNI           250.00        0.00             0.00         81.42     81.42       0.00
BR-PE-6379    IBRD34570    1992   GOB                    BRAZI       METRO TRANSP.SPAULO             126.00       0.00             0.00          7.55      7.55       0.00
BR-PE-6505    IBRD34920    1992   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL                MATO GROSSO NAT RES            205.00       0.00             0.00         96.03     96.03       0.00
BR-PE-6364    IBRD33750    1991   STATE OF SAO PAULO                  INNOV BASIC ED                 245.00       0.00             0.00         62.13     62.13       0.00
BR-PE-6492    IBRD33760    1991   PETROBRAS              BRAZI        HYDROCARBN TRNSP/PRO           260.00       0.00             0.00         17.42     17.42       0.00
BR-PE-6403    IBRD31350    1990   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR           NE BASIC HLTH SRV II           267.00       0.00            50.00         15.77     65.77      15.76
BR-PE-6442    IBR028831    1990   ELETROBRAS                          ITAPARICA                      100.00       0.00             0.00          1.83     33.83       1.86
BR-PE-6446    IBRD31730    1990   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR           NAT ENVIRONMT                  117.00       0.00             0.00         29.61     29.61       0.00
BR-PE-6453    IBRD31700    1990   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR           NE IRRIG I                     210.00       0.00            69.00         50.79    119.79      50.81
BR-PE-6370    IBRD30130    1989   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR           NE IRRI JAIBA                   71.00       0.00             0.00          6.81       6.81      0.00
BR-PE-6414    IBRD30430    1989   COMGAS, SAO PAULO                   NTRL GAS DIST                   94.00       0.00             0.00          9.19       9.19      0.00
BR-PE-6360    IBRD29500    1988   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL                IRR SUB-SECTOR                 195.00       0.00            26.00           .46     26.46         .44
Genfeted by the Ope on  nformaion System (OIS)                                                                                                                                     Page 2



MOP Schedule D
Generated: October 22, 1997
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                     disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit      Year               Borrower                       Purpose
No.                                                                             IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd
BR-PE-6431    IBRD28100    1987   FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF BRAZI         SKILLS FORMATION               74.50        0.00           58.90           .35     59.25        .36
Total                                                                                           6,890.20        0.00         267.90      3,454.58  4,711.88    295.77
Active Loans        Closed Loans           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              3,167.69          14,987.93           18,155.62
of which has been repaid:                338.94          11,870.43          12,209.37
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              6,283.36           3,192.86            9,476.22
Amount sold                                      0.00              45.83               45.83
Of which repaid             :                 0.00              45.83              45.83
Total Undisbursed              :             3,454.58              75.38            3,529.96
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter
based system will be used (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and
Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Gaeated b y te Operadios Infannion Sydem (OIS)                                                                                                                                 Page3



MOP Schedule D
Brazil
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Sep-97
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                     Disbursed
IFC                           IFC
FY Approval           Company         Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic  Loan  Equity  Quas   Partic
1973/78/83           CODEMIN                0.00    4.34    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.34    0.00    0.00
1975/96              Oxiteno NE            30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1980187              Ipiranga               0.00    6.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.32    0.00    0.00
1980/88              OPP                    .93    1.64    0.00    .40    .93    1.64    0.00    .40
1980192              DENPASA                 .29    1.00    .12    0.00    .29    .96    .05    0.00
1981                 Brasilpar              0.00    .04    0.00    0.00    0.00    .04    0.00    0.00
1982/84/86           PISA                   0.00    3.90    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.90    0.00    0.00
1982/86              Cimento Caue           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1983                 SOCOCO                 0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00
1987/92196           MBR                   12.67    0.00   10.00   14.83   12.67    0.00   10.00   14.83
1987/96              Perdigao              35.00   10.00    0.00   20.00   35.00   10.00    0.00   20.00
1987/96197           Duratex               22.00    0.00    0.00   78.00   22.00    0.00    0.00   78.00
1987/97              SP Alpargatas         26.60    0.00    5.00    .40   22.30    0.00    5.00    .40
1989                 COPENE                 4.55    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.55    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                 ELUMA                  1.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    4.00    0.00
1989                 Politeno Linear        3.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.10    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990                 ENGEPOL                1.53    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.53    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990                 Ripasa                 7.14    5.00    0.00    0.00    7.14    5.00    0.00    0.00
1990/91/92           Bahia Sul             18.57   20.97    0.00   10.00   18.57   20.97    0.00   10.00
1991                 Bradesco-AL           26.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                 Bradesco-Bahia         6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                 Bradesco-Eucatex       7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                 Bradesco-Petrofl       7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                 Bradesco-Romi          2.78    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.78    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                 Rhodia-Ster           11.43    5.95    0.00    0.00   11.43    5.95    0.00    0.00
1992                 Brazil Inv. Fund       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992                 CRP-Caderi             0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    .75    0.00    0.00
1992/93              TRIKM                  0.00   12.86    0.00    0.00    0.00   12.86    0.00    0.00
1993                 BACELL                13.00   10.70    0.00   28.80   13.00   10.70    0.00   28.80
1993                 Coteminas              0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00
1993                 CEBRACTEX              2.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                 Macedo Alimentos      19.25    0.00    0.00    0.00   19.25    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                 Votorantim            16.86    0.00    0.00    1.43   16.86    0.00    0.00    1.43
1993/96              CEVAL                 58.57   10.00   10.00  131.43   58.57   10.00   10.00  131.43
1994                 GAVEA                 10.63    0.00    5.50    0.00   10.63    0.00    5.50    0.00
1994                 GP Capital             0.00   18.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   17.60    0.00    0.00
1994                 Para Pigmentos        30.00    9.00    0.00   35.00   25.50    8.14    0.00   29.75
1994                 Portobelo             17.00    5.00    0.00    0.00   14.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1994/95/97           Sadia                 54.00   10.00   10.00  212.44   54.00   10.00   10.00  212.44
1994/96              CHAPECO               25.00    0.00    0.00    5.00   25.00    0.00    0.00    5.00
1994/96              S.A.I.C.C.             0.00    7.85    6.87    0.00    0.00    7.70    6.87    0.00
1995                 Bradesco-Hering        7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                 Brahma - BRA          35.00    0.00    0.00   98.40   35.00    0.00    0.00   98.40
1995                 Cambuhy/MC            24.38    0.00    0.00    0.00   24.38    0.00    0.00    0.00
Generated by the Opeations Informaton System (OIS) on October 22, 1997



MOP Schedule D
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval            Company         Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic   Lan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1995                 Lojas Americana        28.00    0.00    5.00   20.00   28.00    0.00    5.00   20.00
1995                 LATASA - Brazil        18.33    0.00    0.00    4.00   18.33    0.00    0.00    4.00
1995                 Politeno Ind.          19.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   19.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                 Rhodiaco/PTA           27.50    0.00    0.00   27.00   27.50    0.00    0.00   27.00
1995/96              Globocabo              35.00   18.06    0.00  118.00   35.00   18.06    0.00  118.00
1996                 Banco Bradesco         40.00    0.00    0.00   60.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                 Banco Liberal          10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                 Mallory                 8.00    3.96    0.00    0.00    8.00    3.96    0.00    0.00
1996                 TIGRE                  25.00    0.00    5.00   23.50   25.00    0.00    5.00   23.50
1996/97              Lightel                25.00   18.17    0.00    0.00   25.00   18.17    0.00    0.00
1997                 Copesl                 40.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                 Rodovia                35.00    0.00    0.00   79.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                 Samarco                18.00    0.00    0.00   16.00   10.59    0.00    0.00    9.41
1997                 Sucorrico              15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                 Wentex                 15.00   10.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                 897.04  199.26   63.99  1,004.  711.80  186.06   63.92  832.79
13
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan  Eigiu   Ouasi  Partic
1996                 AGUAS LIMEIRA          17.00    1.00    0.00   23.00
1998                 BANCO ICATU            30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                 BOIRPRECO              25.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1998                 BSC                    14.00    0.00    0.00    7.50
1997                 COPESUL BLINC.          0.00    0.00    0.00   45.00
1997                 CTl3C                  35.00    0.00    0.00  150.00
1996                 GLOBOCABO II            0.00    0.00    0.00   38.00
1997                 GUILMAN-AMORIM    30.00    0.00    0.00   90.00
1997                 IPIRANGA EXPANS.    35.00    0.00    5.00  150.00
1997                 IPIRANGARI              0.00    .32    0.00    0.00
1997                 NOVA DUTRA              0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
BLINC
1996                 OXITENO/ETHYLO          0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1997                 SP ALPARGATAS II        0.00    0.00    0.00   30.00
1997                 UNIBANCO LIVESTO    50.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                 VARGA                  20.00    0.00    3.00   15.00
Total Pending Commitment:        256.00    6.32   13.00  558.50
Generated by the Opeations Information System (OIS) on October 22, 1997



ANNEX 8
Brazil at a glance                                                            8/28197
POEl a       _ SOA                                                             =plbfc  emenrllmon
Bsszl  ~ Crib.IftCfl1~ Development diamond*
1976 1996 (LtS~  1986  1995o   1996            Life expectancy
Agriutur e                                   12.6                                                        11.5 14.4 14.4tL  lo- . Z1
Privlateiosmton                              66.      65.8      14.9     657      1
t.atjor~~~~~~~~~~~~~orae~~~~~~~~~ ~GNP                                                       Gross
General yevemm esfintat consumpaieationarava &ble,sioacapta                                                   enroilment
Imprts o gopatods (aandpervices11.5                    7.1       746      7.9
Manufacturiny.....                       2.6 .t              .         .     2     
Services                        2.9      Z8        5.3      3.3  _8,6,
Privabconsumal*)(ption e44Access to safe water
Genralgovmmetucnsumpt)o                                1.2072408 -.
Gcmss doesaticinestmen                       -2. ofppaf          9.4      0.      -20
llImports(of goodsaUnd serie                 -4.0      0.9      168       5.1xotsI rr
Gros1ntioalrod5 14.1    4-Brazil
-   Upper-m1ddeu-Incore gmfup
GaTtwdiamondst shoiv four ky indicatornintthe coutry (In bol) compared .... its nc paverage. ffdata are misiny,vthesdamondtment
be                       Opcomple.nnesoecno
Grossnationahsavings/G~~~~~~~~~  21.1                                Uppr8m3d 11*  ltrou
~~ntatesfpsymenta~~~~DI~          1 7r     98.3     1 is    199        SaiGrotts  o  upI n    nvestment
Talaof GDP)24                                         4.4       2.        8
Agriculture48485                     12.1    484 1.     t14.    148?4 5
Industry                           408 .2.    45.3     36.      464       5__
Manfactueringt                              3.34    337    2.8  1.        0Uprm*l-noegoJ
Importsof goods and services                 I 5 1.5  7A.1        . 
1975-   1985-    '1995    1996
(a% og GDP) lg-th                                                                 Growth rates of exortsu and Invsmenrts(
Agriculture                                  12.1    11.5       14.4     314.     10-
Industry                                     40.2    45.3       36.5     236.
Manufacturing                              30.3    33.7       23.8                0
Services                                     47.7    43.        49.1    49.2
Private consumption                         36.5    65.8        64.9    65.7      -0
General govemment consumption                10.6     9.9       15.9     1.8.1                       93    9
Imports of goods and services                11.0     7.1       76.6      79               -    Exprt  -0--G port
Irs  aindustr  duct3.0    -1.1                                   42.      2.3
Manuf11W actauring hiey   mts Fgrsi  2.6s ar .5                 2.1er thrlahseseiid
Pbvae iconsmpltio                            .        ..1.               . 



Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1985      1996    1996
Domestic prices                                                                  Inflation
(% change)                                                                      a,ooo
Consumer prices                             25.0   226.9       67.0    15.5
Implicit GDP deflator                       33.9   231.7      74.9    11.1    2,000
Govemment finance                                                               1                              x
(% of GDP)                                                                         0 -
Current revenue                               ..      ..       31.5    32.4              91   92   93   94   95   96
Primary surplus/defict                        ..      ..       0.4    -0.1               -     GDP def. --CPI
Operational surplus/deficit                   ..       ..      -4.8    -3.9
TRADE
1875    1985      1908    1996
(millions US$)                                                                   Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                           ..  25,638    46,508   47,746     60.0D0
Coffee                                       ..   2,607     1,970    2,059
Otherfood                                   ..   2,545      3,896    4,666
Manufactures                                ..  13,356    25,568   26,247      40,000 
Total imports (cii)                           ..  13,153    49,663   53,286           rF1
Food                                         .3,535    6,044                   20,000
Fuel and energy                             6. ,176         4,649    5,752
Capital goods e.   2,480    19,688   19,804                                    2L
Export price index (1987=t100)                ..      97       128      126            90  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import price index (1987=100)                         79       124      125                  0 Exports    0 Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                     ..    123        103      101   I
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1985      1996    1996
(millions US$)                                                                  Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services              9,418   27,713    47,960   49,558    1
Imports of goods and services             14,323   16,928    54,306   59,355
Resource balance                          -4,905   10,785    46,346   -9,797 |               Fl,
Net income                                -2,106  -11,213   -15,419  -17,402   |   1          92 9 3    1    95  96
Net current transfers                       -10       16     3,973    2,899      1
Current account balance,                                                       -2
before official capital transfers       -7,021     -412   -17,792  -24,300
Financing items (net)                      5,956    1,826    30,779   32,935
Changes in net reserves                    1,065   -1,414   -12,987   -8,638    -4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mlii. US$)        4,166   11,613    51,469   59,663
Conversion rate (tocalVUSS)              3.OE-12  2.3E-09       0.9     1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    1985      1995    1996
(mtilions US$)                                                                  Composition of total debt, 1995 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      27,329  103.601   159,130  178,131                     A    c
IBRD                                     1,045    5,274     6,038    5,876             G     68142|
IDA                                         0        0         0        0              G 34        142 D
30494            3327
Total debt service                         4,320   11,470    22,328       *                                   E
IBRD                                       98      796      1,868    1,638                                 19451
IDA                                         0        0         0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Ofricial grants                             9       34        64
Official creditors                       1,059     935    -1,378
Private creditors                        4,213     149      9,827
Foreign direct investment                1,302    1,348     4,859
Portfolio equity                            0        0      4,411      ..                        F
World Bank program
Commitments                               538    1,525       404      858      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             249      765       838    1,500      a - IDA    D - Other mutlaterat  F - Private
Principal repayments                       26      406      1,377    1,222     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                 224      359      -539      278   1                           _
interest payments                          72      391       491      416
Net transfers                             152      -32    -1,031    -138
Development Economics                                                                                           8/28/97






IMAGING
Report No.:         16367   BR
Type:     PAD



