Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4245-BR
Project Agreement
(Central Bank Modernization Technical Assistance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO CENTRAL DO BRASIL
Dated January 29, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4245-BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 29, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANCO CENTRAL DO BRASIL 
(the Central Bank).
WHEREAS (A)  by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank 
has agreed to make a loan to the Borrower in the amount of twenty million 
dollars ($20,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that the Central Bank agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan 
Agreement will be made available by the Borrower to the Central Bank 
through annual budgetary allocations; and
WHEREAS the Central Bank, in consideration of the Bank's entering 
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and 
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings 
Page  2
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Central Bank declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with appropriate administrative, financial and banking practices, and the 
Annual Plans, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Central Bank shall: (a) not later than thirty 
days after the Effective Date, complete the staffing of the PCU in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) maintain, until the completion 
of the Project, the PCU with responsibilities, structure and functions 
satisfactory to the Bank, and managed by a person who shall have at least 
a rank as provided in the Central Bank’s Board Decision No. 13/97, of 
January 15, 1997.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Central 
Bank shall, not later than September 30, 1998, complete the study 
referred to in Part B (b) of the Project.
Section 2.05. The Central Bank shall, not later than May 31 of each 
year during Project execution, furnish to the Bank, a plan, satisfactory 
to the Bank (the Annual Plan), for the carrying out of Project activities 
in the next succeeding twelve-month period, including an estimate of the 
expenditures to be incurred in such period, and specific performance 
indicators for the monitoring of such activities.
Section 2.06. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 
of the General Conditions, the Central Bank shall, except with respect to 
matters subject to the Brazilian banking secrecy legal provisions: (a) in 
the months of June and December of each year during Project execution, 
hold reviews of the progress of the Project with the Bank, such progress 
to be measured on the basis of the indicators referred to in Section 2.05 
of this Agreement; and (b) in the eighteenth month after the date of this 
Agreement, hold with the Bank an in-depth review of the progress in the 
carrying out of the Project and in the achievement of the Central Bank’s 
banking supervision modernization objective, and thereafter take all such 
action which shall have been agreed upon by the Bank and the Central Bank 
during such review as necessary for the efficient execution of the 
Project or the achievement of such objective, such action to be taken in 
the manner and within the timetable agreed upon during such review.
Section 2.07. The Central Bank shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Central Bank and the Bank, a plan designed for the 
continued achievement of the Project objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Central Bank on said plan.
Section 2.08. The Central Bank shall carry out the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, and maintenance, respectively) in respect 
of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Page  3
Section 3.01. (a) The Central Bank shall maintain records and 
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices its operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project.
(b)
The Central Bank shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as 
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of 
the Central Bank hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan 
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank 
shall promptly notify the Central Bank thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue 
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension 
under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be 
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties 
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or 
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Central Bank:
Banco Central do Brasil
Page  4
SBS - Quadra 3 - Bloco B 
Edifício Sede
70074-900 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
With copies to:
Ministério do Planejamento e Orçamento
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5º andar
70040-906, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on 
behalf of the Central Bank, may be taken or executed by the President of 
the Central Bank or such other person or persons as the President of the 
Central Bank shall designate in writing, and the Central Bank shall 
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively 
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Brasília, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of 
the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO CENTRAL DO BRASIL
By /s/ Gustavo Henrique de Barroso Franco
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to the procurement of goods in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
Page  5
(a)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.
(b)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, 
but not exceeding an amount equivalent to $400,000 in the aggregate, may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods 
under this Part C.1, bidding documents in a standardized form for the 
Project shall be used.
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement 
of goods to be undertaken pursuant to this Part C.1:
(a)
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been 
determined to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on 
price and, whenever appropriate, to also take into account factors 
similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, 
provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on 
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such 
quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;
(b)
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall 
be advertised for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide 
circulation in Brazil;
(c)
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for 
joint-ventures (
consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be 
approved in advance by the Bank in each case;
(d)
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of 
acceptance of bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; 
and
(e)
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, 
issue any change order under a contract which would increase or decrease 
by more than 15% the quantity of goods (and related services) without any 
change in the unit prices or other terms and conditions of sale.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
but not exceeding an amount equivalent to $250,000 in the aggregate, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or 
national shopping procedures, at the option of the Central Bank, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall 
have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1.
Page  6
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply to each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $350,000 or more.
3.
Post Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of 
this Part D.
Part E:
Other
For purposes of the Guidelines, the term custom duties and other 
import taxes includes the Borrower’s Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of 
the Merchant Marine (Adicional ao Frete para a Renovação da Marinha 
Mercante), established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree-Law No. 1142 of 
December 30, 1970, as amended on December 31, 1987, or any other tax, 
levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, may 
substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" 
published by the Bank in January 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality-and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Single-Source Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  
Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance 
with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
Page  7
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said 
approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply to each contract not governed by 
paragraph 2 of this Part D. 
