Docuent of
The World Bank
FOR OmCAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13120
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3127-IVC)
JULY 1, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)a/
CFAF 312       =  US$1.OOb/
AVERAGE ANNUAL EXCHANGE RATES
YEAR           CFAF  USS
1989                 319            1.00
1990                 308            1.00
1991                 260            1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                  African Development Bank
ASAL                  Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
BCEAO                Banque Central. des Etats d'Afrique do l'Ouest
BNDA                 Banque Nationale pour le DEveloppement Agricobl
CAA                   Caine Autonome d'Amortiuement
CCCE                 Caise Cental. de Coop6ration Economique (France)
CIDT                  Compagnie Ivoirienne pour le D6veloppemeat des Textils
CSSPPA (CAISTAB)   Caisw de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix des Produitr Agricoles
CREP                 Caine Rurale d'Epargne et de Pre&
DCGTx                Direction et Controle dea Grands Travaux
EFF                  External Financing Facility
GVC                  Groupement & Vocation Cooperative
ICESR                 Interministerial Committee for Economic Stabilization and Recovery
KfW                   Kreditandalt fur Weideraufbau (Germany)
LSMS                  Living Standards Measurement Survey
OECF                  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
OED                   Operations Evaluation Department (of the World Bank)
PALMINDUSrRIE         Soci&6 Palrindustrie
PCR                  Project Completion Report
PIP                   Public Investment Program
PPAR                 Project Perfornance Audit Report
ME                   Pemiis Temporairm d'Exploitation
REER                 Real Effective Exchange Rate
SAL                  Structural Adjustment Loan
SDA                  Social Dimensions of Adjustment
SECAL                Sectoral Adjustment Loan
SODEFOR              Socidt6 pour le D6veloppement des Productions Forestires
SODESUCRE            Soci6t6 pour le D6veloppement de la Canne a Sucre, l'Industrialiaation et la Commercialization du
Sucre
SONARECI             Soci6t6 Nationale de R6couvrement do CMe d'lvoire
UMOA                 Union Mon6taire Ouest-Africaine
FISCAL YEARS
Govemment:           January I to December 31
CIDT, BNDA, CSSPA: October I to September 30
a      M Tex scIxdnp  for the CFAF Franc it fixed at a dtio of 50:1 with the Fucb Fnnc, wbich i free flkltg cumrrecy.
h/     Tli  is the cxchng. late prcailing at Negotitions       June 2, 1989.



FOR OFFICIALUSE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
OffPo of Direato.rGatwa
Operations Evakutbon
July 1, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
Subject:      Project Completion Report on C6te d'Ivoire -
A2ricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln. 3127-IVC)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Cote d'Ivoire Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loan (Ln. 3127-IVC).   The Borrower did not complete Part II.
The PCR presents a candid and satisfactory assessment of project results.
Most major loan objectives were achieved. Prices for food crops have been brought
closer to international parity prices. Lumbering follows better conservation practices.
Reform of the cotton parastatal increased its efficiency and reduced the government's role
in production. Domestic paddy pricing, processing and marketing have been liberalized. All
covenants were fulfilled with one exception:  the bankrupt agricultural credit bank was
liquidated rather than reformed. On the negative side, although the government decreed
export-subsidies for non-traditional agricultural exports to offset the impact of the overvalued
CFA franc, in fact the subsidies were not paid unless donors financed them. This was an
unsatisfactory but hardly unexpected outcome given the extreme macroeconomic contraction
that the Cote d'Ivoire suffered during ASAL implementation (1989-91).
The unusual delegation of supervision to the Bank's regional mission in Abidjan had
good results. Supervision was very intensive in that the task manager and other resident-
mission staff held weekly meetings with Borrower officials. The PCR stresses that because
of this 'close collaboration between resident mission staff and the government" loan objectives
and the roles of the implementing agencies became better understood over the life of the
operation. This learning process was particularly important since the loan's conditionality was
negotiated in haste and was vague on major points. The PCR concludes that the process was
also one reason why political commitment to reform increased markedly during ASAL
implementation.
The project outcome is rated satisfactory. The loan substantially advanced the
liberalization  of the agricultural economy.  Sustainability  is uncertain.  Institutional
development is rated as modest.
An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3127-IVC)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ................................................... i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  ...........                              ............................   ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE    ................  1
1.       Project Identity   .....................................   1
2.       Background    ...........                   ............................   1
3.       Project Objectives and Description   .........................  3
4.       Project Design and Organization    ..........................  4
5.       Project Implementation   ................................   6
6.       Project Results ......................................   9
7.       Project Sustainability    ................................   10
8.       Bank's Performance   .................................   11
9.       Borrower's Performance    ..............................   12
10.      Project Relationship   .................................   12
11.      Consulting Services   .................................   13
12.      Project Documentation and Data    .........................   13
13.      Conclusions and Lessons ...............................   14
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                           ....... 17
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ............................   18
1.       Related Bank Loans and Credits  ..........................   18
2.       Project Timetable  ...................................    18
3.       Loan Disbursements   .................................   21
4.       Project Implementation   ...............................   21
5.       Project Costs and Financing .............................   21
6.       Project Results .....................................   22
7.       Status of Covenant  ..................................   22
8.       Use of Bank Resources   ...............................   23
ANNEX: CONDITIONS OF TRANCHE RELEASE
AND  ASSOCIATED  ACTIONS    ............................   24
This document has a restricted distibuton and may be used by redpients only in the perfonnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3127-IVC
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Program in Cote d'Ivoire, for which Loan 3127-IVC in the arnount of US$150 million was approved
on October 24, 1989. The Loan Agreement became effective on October 25, 1989, date at which the
first tranche was released. The second and third tranches were released in June 29, 1990 and June
27, 1991 respectively. The Loan closed on June 30, 1991. The last disbursement took place on
October 10, 1991.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Abidjan-based Agriculture Section of the
Agriculture Operations Division of the Occidental and Central Africa Department. The Borrower was
requested to submit a PCR. Official submission of such a document was not made. However, the
Government, through its Agency for Direction and Control of Large Operations (DCGTx), prepared
an independent evaluation report 1/.
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia, on the Loan Agreement, supervision reports,
correspondences between the Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda and the DCGTx
evaluation report.
JL/ 'Rapport d'Achevement du Programme d'Ajustement Sectoriel Ag;cole (PASA), Banque Mondiale, PrMt 3127-IVC', Augp
1.92.






COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3127-IVC
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.      The Cote d'Ivoire Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) over-arching goal was
similar to that of most adjustment loans: namely the implementation of measures that would increase
the competitiveness of agriculture and stimulate the production and marketing of tradable goods, thus
increasing sectoral growth rates and raising rural incomes. This was to be accomplished by pricing
reforms, market liberalization, and institutional strengthening and restructuring. The ASAL had
seven specific objectives (for conditions of tranche release, see Annex A). These were to: 1) improve
the domestic terms of trade in favor of agriculture; 2) shift incentives in favor of crops with high
comparative advantage (coffee and export diversification crops), away from crops that have declining
economic benefits to CMte d'Ivoire such as cocoa; 3) decrease costs in the agro-industrial sector to
restore its competitiveness on domestic and external markets; 4) reduce public sector involvement in
directly productive activities and increase the efficiency of parastatals providing basic support services
to farmers; 5) reorient public expenditures toward high priority activities in rural areas; 6) improve
rural financial intermediation and farmers' access to savings and credit facilities; and 7) improve the
management of the country's natural resources, in particular by promoting the protection and
sustainable exploitation of natural forests.
Implementation Experience
2.       The ASAL was prepared during the period 1988 to June 1989. The appraisal took place in
February 1988 and negotiations in July 1989. On October 24, 1989, the Board approved a loan of
US$ 150 million equivalent in support of the proposed reform program to be disbursed in three equal
tranches of US$ 50 million. Although there was an eight month delay between the planned and actual
timing of the third tranche release (a scheduled release in November 1990 versus an actual release in
June 1991), the RCI implemented nearly all the reforms included in the program.
3.       There were three critical variances between planned and actual implementation. First,
because of the extremely poor financial health of the national agricultural credit bank (BNDA),
rehabilitation called for under the ASAL was not possible, and the RCI was forced to liquidate the
BNDA. Second, an import tariff cum export subsidy scheme was to be implemented under the
ASAL. However, the export subsidies were paid only from time to time, and only when external
funds were made available for specific commodities. Third, little progress was made in reforming the
transparency of Caisse de Perequation for rice and wheat operations.



Results
4.       A number of positive results of the ASAL can be cited, including:
*    Producers of important cash crops (cotton, coprah, oil palm, rubber, sugar) were made
more competitive through introduction of the reduced value-added tax;
*    Some of the bias against the agricultural sector was reduced and livestock producers were
better protected against dumping of frozen meat surpluses by the EC;
*    A number of domestic market liberalization measures were taken which ailowed for
improved transmission of price signals based on market forces (cotton, coffee, cocoa, oil
palm);
*    Economic rent-seeking was reduced in a number of areas (coffee dehulling, coffee/cocoa
exporting, rice milling, wood logging and processing), increasing the viability of legitimate
enterprises and eliminating those enterprises founded solely to collect rents;
*    Forest resources became better protected against over-exploitation as forest users were
made to pay fees that more closely reflected the scarcity value of resources; and
e    Some progress was made in rationalizing the public investment process.
5.       Perhaps the most important positive result of ASAL implementation is one that cannot be
quantified: namely a change in the attitudes of decision-makers and technicians working in agriculture
regarding the appropriate role of the state in the sector. This represents a turn away from dirigisme
and towards a more free market orientation.
6.       However, sectoral growth rates did not increase, as progress made under the ASAL was
overshadowed by two factors beyond the control of ASAL implementation: precipitous declines in
world prices of coffee and cocoa; and failure of the RCI to implement measures that would halt real
effective exchange rate appreciation and thus increase overall economic competitiveness.
Sustainlabilf
7.       With adjustment operations, sustainability relates primarily to whether policy measures
initiated are likely to be maintained over time. There is reason to believe that new stakeholder groups
have formed that will actively resist a return to the illiberal past, and that their voices are strong.
Examples of reforms around which constituencies have formed include: liberalization of coffee
processing which has proven popular to farmers and those investing in small-scale dehullers;
imposition of anti-dumping tariff measures against low quality EC beef (viande CAPA) which have
brought benefits to pastoralists and savannah zone farmers, while having little or no negative impact
on consumers; and reform of the forestry sector, including raising stumpage fees, and submitting
logging and export quota permits to an auction system (versus administrative quotas) has allowed
more open access to forest resources at closer to market prices than before.
8.       There continues to be strong resistance to liberalization in several areas. These include rice
importing, wheat importing and milling. The Caisstab and the Caisse de PNrOquat1on still have a long
way to go in order to increase the transparency of their operations. The largest failure at
sustainability concerns agricultural credit. One of the major objectives of the ASAL was to improve



- iv -
the access to credit and the efficiency of its delivery. With the demise of the BNDA, this has not
happened.
Findings and Lessons Learned
9.             Overall performance under the ASAL was far better than could have possibly
been envisaged prior to implementation. Political commitment to reform increased markedly during
the ASAL period due to a change in government and close collaboration between Resident Mission
staff and the government. In addition, Ivorian capacity (especially in line ministries) to carry out
studies and engage in policy dialogue as active participants also improved. For a number of
important reforms implemented under the ASAL, it can be stated with reasonable confidence that the
"ownership problem" no longer exists.
10.            On the negative side, the question of fundamental versus marginal change remains
unresolved. The real exchange rate appreciated during the ASAL period rather than depreciating as
required to restore competitiveness. Although more flexibility was introduced into price setting for
coffee, cocoa, and cotton, pricing decisions are still heavily influenced by politics. Little
improvement has occurred in increasing the transparency of CSSPPA and Caisse de Perequation
operations. Finally, although beyond the control of the ASAL, fiscal implications of the plunge in
international coffee and cocoa prices have dwarfed any cost savings that were made by reducing
subsidies or streamlining parastatal activities.
i1.           In some areas, the vagueness of conditionality worked against program success,
while in others it "bought time" until the political situation changed suficiently so that successful
policy dialogue could occur. Conditionality was most vague when it came to CSSPPA and Caisse de
Perequation operations, formulation of the Public Investment Program, and in implementing the
import tariff cum export subsidy scheme. It was in these areas that the least progress was made. Yet
insisting on greater specificity in the coffee and cocoa sectors or concrete proof of payment of export
subsidies during negotiations would probably have resulted in the ASAL never being implemented. In
other areas, such as cotton, initial conditionality was also vague, but reforms were significant.
12.           While acknowledging this, one should not conclude that vagueness is desirable.
Negotiations should serve as a forum for achieving a reasonably clear consensus between the Bank
and Borrowers on concrete reforms to be implemented. That said, before this "ideal' situation can be
achieved, the Bank needs to come to grips with a number of larger issues that tend to undermine
consensus building: the pressure to meet lending targets within short deadlines; burdensome review
procedures for loan approval; and high-level pressure to continue lending to certain countries for
political reasons.
13.           The presence of strong field staff at the Resident Mission was critical to
initiation of a constructive dialogue process. Once the impasse between the Bank and the Borrower
(in the foim of the DCGTx) was resolved, collaboration improved markedly. Critical to this was the
presence of a strong Resident Mission Bank staff.
14.           The developmental impacts of policy change should be monitored more dosely
in the future. While many of the ASAL reforms should theoretically lead to increased competition,
efficiency, and equity, hypotheses still need to be verified empirically. This is especially true in cases
where there is reason to believe that markets are less than fully competitive or access to market
information is limited. Information gaps related to impact are greatest at the farm level and at the
interface between farmers and first handlers of produce. Greater use can be made of rapid appraisals



- v -
and beneficiary assessments in combination with quantitative survey instruments to assess impact in a
regular and timely fashion.
15.            Broad participation of all parties concerned is necessary for policy reform
programs to succeed in the first place and be sustainable in the long-run. During program
design, the DCGTx was forced on the Bank as the sole negotiator of ASAL conditionality. This
hampered reform efforts as the DCGTx was not philosophically disposed to market liberalization, and
effectively shut out line ministries from negotiations. With the DCGTx being transferred to the Prime
Minister's office and now serving purely in an advisory fashion, and the Prime Minister's office and
the Minister of Finance as the main interlocutors on policy issues, a better institutional structure is in
place to pursue future policy dialogue. More fundamentally, consensus in ministries, the private
sector, and among farmers has grown to maintain a number of policies that "level the playing field"
and make it harder for political cronyism to take hold again.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3127-IVC)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Table I
Basic Information
Project Name          Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
Loan Number           3127-IVC
Loan Amount           USS 150 million equivalent, disbursed in three equal tranches of
US$ 50 million
Terms                 20 years including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate
Dates of Disbursement  October 1989, June 1990, June 1991
RVP Unit              Africa
Country               C6te d'Ivoire
Sector                Agriculture
2. Backgrpund
2.01          During its first 15 years of independence, CMte d'Ivoire's economic performance
was outstanding. During the period extending to the mid 1970s, annual GDP growth averaged 7.7
percent, without major internal or external macroeconomic imbalances.2 During the second half of
the 1970s, however, the economy experienced a succession of external shocks, including a coffee and
cocoa boom from 1975 to 1977, a rapid deterioration in the market for these commodities from 1977
to 1979 and a sharp increase in import prices in 1979. At the same time, macroeconomic and
sectoral policies pursued by the Government progressively deteriorated. Following the rapid increase
in the revenues of the Agricultural Stabilization Fund (CSSPPA or CAISTAB), generated by the
boom in coffee and cocoa prices in the 1975-77 period, the Government embarked on an
overambitious public investment program mainly directed toward large projects with low economic
returns. When stabilization revenues started to dwindle after 1978, the Government relied heavily on
foreign borrowing and money supply expansion to finance its investment program, leading to a rapid
I IBRD, 'Ivory Coast - The Challenge of Success,' 1978.



- 2 -
acceleration of domestic inflation. The result, with a fixed exchange rate vis-a-vis the French Franc,
was an appreciation of the real exchange rate and an intensification of competition from imports
which was met by increased tariff and non-tariff import restrictions. This, in turn, induced a growing
anti-export bias, which further aggravated the discrimination against export agriculture and industry.
By 1980, economic growth had ground to a halt and Cote d'Ivoire had exhausted its external reserves.
2.02           In 1981, the Government launched a Structural Adjustment Program to restore
macroeconomic equilibria and lay the basis for the resumption of stable growth. The focus of the
program was on internal demand adjustment and the initiation of structural reforms to restore growth.
Public investment was reduced from an average of 15 percent of GDP between 1976 and 1982 to 6
percent of GDP in 1986-88 largely by reducing low priority investments. In addition, the parastatal
sector was substantially restructured3 and a broad range of fiscal measures implemented to increase
revenue. Monetary policy was tightened. Measures were also taken to improve the most obvious
distortions in the system of economic incentives and a tariff-cum export subsidy scheme was
introduced in 1986 to compensate for the real exchange rate overvaluation. Adjustment policies
significantly increased resource shifts to tradables through rising agricultural producer prices
(although these remained administratively determined) while public sector wages were declining in
real terms. The program was supported by three SALs from the Bank in 1981, 1983 and 1986 and
by an EFF and two stand-by agreements from the IMF in 1981, 1984 and 1986.
2.03           With regard to the agricultural sector, the three SALs concentrated their efforts in
the areas of pricing and taxation policy, and parastatal reform. In pricing policy, the general thrust
was towards raising cocoa and (especially) coffee prices to correct for historic discrimination against
agriculture. This had a favorable supply response until 1986, when prices of these two commodities
fell on world markets and it was not possible to further raise producer prices. Export subsidies were
also granted to non-traditional exports, but this reform was not implemented in a consistent manner.
Institutional reforms involved increasing efficiency and accountability of a number of the major crop
and forestry parastatals. The SALs financed audits of these agencies and a number of reforms were
instituted as a result.
2.04           Partly due to the SALs and partly due to favorable international prices for coffee and
cocoa, macroeconomic equilibria were temporarily restored in 1985/86. However, these favorable
developments masked only temporarily the economy's continuing structural weaknesses: high debt
service obligations, a heavy dependence on the price of a few primary commodities, high public
sector spending and an appreciating real exchange rate. As a result, macroeconomic improvements
were short-lived and the economic situation quickly deteriorated in 1987 and 1988.' The steady
decline in the world market prices of agricultural products (in particular of cocoa, Cote d'Ivoire's
main export commodity), combined with expansionary fiscal policies, were the main causes of
continuing economic difficulties. As world prices fell below domestic support prices, the CSSPPA
started incurring substantial losses for the first time in its history. The budgetary situation, in
equilibrium in 1985 and 1986, moved to a deficit of 6.0 percent and 13.5 percent of GDP in 1987
and 1988 respectively. These deficits were financed by the accumulation of domestic and foreign
arrears, which led to a serious liquidity crisis and the loss of private sector confidence. As a result,
private investment fell to 7 percent of GDP, and GDP declined by 2.7 percent in 1987 and 3.7
3 However, agricultural sector parastatal reforms were largely cosmetic.
4A more detailed account of CBte d'Ivoire's experience with adjustment is contained in: Demery, Lionel,
'Fettered Adjustment: The Case of Cote d'Ivoire in the 1980s,' March, 1993.



- 3 -
percent in 1988. It was in this climate that the Bank and the Borrower decided to mount sectoral
adjustment operations In agriculture, energy, and water/sanitation.
3. Objectives and Description
3.01           The general goal of the reforms supported by the Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Loan (ASAL) was to achieve a sustained rate of sectoral growth of about 4 percent per annum in the
medium-term while reducing urban-rural and regional income disparities. The ASAL, like the two
other Bank-supported SECALs in the energy and water supply sectors, were part and parcel of a
government program to stabilize the economy during 1989 and 1990, and thereafter, to embark upon
a program aimed at restoring competitiveness. The stabilization efforts were also supported by the
IMF and other donors.
3.02           The ASAL had seven specific objectives.5 These were to:
*    Improve the domestic terms of trade in favor of agriculture;
*    Shift incentives in favor of crops with high comparative advantage (coffee and export
diversification crops), away from crops that have declining economic benefits to
Cote d'Ivoire such as cocoa;
*    Decrease costs in the agro-industrial sector to restore its competitiveness on domestic
and external markets;
*    Reduce public sector involvement in directly productive activities and increase the
efficiency of parastatals providing basic support services to farmers;
*    Reorient public expenditures toward high priority activities in rural areas;
*    Improve rural financial intermediation and farmers' access to savings and credit
facilities; and
*    Improve the management of the country's natural resources, in particular by
promoting the protection and sustainable exploitation of natural forests.
3.03           The ASAL was prepared during the period 1988 to June 1989. The appraisal took
place in February 1988 and negotiations in July 1989. On October 24, 1989, the Board approved a
loan of USS 150 million equivalent in support of the proposed reform program. The program was
prepared in close collaboration with several other donors, including the French CCCE, the German
KfW (which co-financed the program through a loan of DM 30 million), the Japanese OECF (which
co-financed with 700 million yen), and the African Development Bank which designed its own
operation.
5IBRD, 'Report and Recommendation of the President of the International Bank for Reconsbtuction and
Development to the Executive Directors on a Proposed Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan in an Amout
Equivalent to US$150.0 Million to the Republic of Cote d'Ivoire,' Report No. P 4799-RCI, September 15,
1989, (page i).



-4 -
3.04           There were seven conditions of Board presentation. These included the existence of
a satisfactory macroeconomic program and a public finance plan, presentation of an acceptable Letter
of Agricultural Policy, alignment of producer prices to world prices for coffee, cocoa, and cotton,
and presentation of a letter related to restructuring the BNDA. Conditions for releasing ASAL
tranches are presented in Annex A. Upon implementation of mutually agreed-upon measures, the
ASAL was to be disbursed in three tranches of an equal amount (US$50.0 million each) over a period
of about 12 months: the first tranche at effectiveness in November 1989; the second tranche around
April 1990 and the third tranche around October 1990.
4. Design and Organization
4.01           The ASAL's over-arching conceptual foundation was similar to that of most
adjustment loans, be they macro-oriented or sector-specific: namely the implementation of measures
that would increase the competitiveness of agriculture and stimulate the production and marketing of
tradable goods (versus non-tradables). This was to be accomplished by pricing reforms, market
liberalization, and institutional strengthening and restructuring. Although it was tightly integrated into
the general macroeconomic adjustment program, the most important flaw of the ASAL was at the
macro policy level: the overall macroeconomic program was inadequate to depreciate the real
exchange rate, which in fact appreciated substantially as a result of international exchange rate
movements and real depreciation by competing countries. While measures were taken to try to get
around this issue (an import tariff cum export subsidy scheme), they were administratively awkward,
financially-infeasible, and ultimately failed.6
4.02           The ASAL's conceptual foundations were poorly understood by most RCI officials
with whom program preparation and negotiations were undertaken. There was also considerable
doubt early in the program about how fully Borrower officials were committed to these concepts.
Few officials understood the tariff cum export subsidy scheme, and fewer still were in favor of
implementing it. The Ministry of Finance saw the tariff side of it as a way of increasing revenues,
and given low levels of public receipts, did not allocate sufficient budgetary resources to pay the
export subsidy. Others, unconvinced that REER appreciation was a problem, saw no need for a
general protection of domestic value added. When export subsidies were paid, it was mostly through
external funds (CCCE, EC) and to help specific parastatals experiencing financial difficulties.
4.03           With a long tradition of dirigisme in agricultural policies, the perception that some
things were "too important to be left to the market" remained widespread at all levels of government.
Aspects of this notion of dirigisme included the idea that it was the role of the state and its parastatals
to ensure "fair" prices to farmers and protect them from exploitation by "evil middlemen." The
political costs of lowering key producers prices (especially cocoa and coffee) in response to world
price developments were also perceived to be very high, and as such, were resisted until it became
irrevocably clear that maintaining high prices were no longer financially possible for the RCI. Much
of this reflected the world view of the Head of State, a firm believer in fixed prices for consumers
and producers and a strong opponent to reliance on world markets as a means to assure CMte d'Ivoire
the stable level of resources it needed to develop economically.
' As part of the ASAL, the RCI introduced the 20 percent export subsidy to correct the policy imbalance
that existed after the three SALs: industry had received a 40 percent rato of effective protection while
agriculture had received none, increasing the bias against the agricultural sector.



-5-
4.04           The scope of agricultural and natural resource policy issues dealt with was quite
broad. These covered pricing, taxation, financial intermediation, the role of the state in public
investment and intervention via parastatals, and market liberalization in the full range of major
commodities marketed in Cote d'Ivoire. In addition, measures to improve the quality of the
agriculture and forestry portfolio in the Public Investment Program (PIP) were included. With the
exception of conditions for Board presentation and BNDA reforms, conditionality was rather vague.7
This occurred for two reasons. First, for a long time, the ASAL was mostly a Bank effort sitting on
the "back-burner" until adequate conditions were met. When the Bank decided to go ahead (mainly
for resource transfer purposes), negotiations had to go quickly, and specific details in each reform
area could not be worked out because of a lack of agreement with the Borrower and lack of time.
Conditionality was left vague in the hope that details could be eventually worked out. It is obvious
that the Bank and the Government (in the form of the Direction et ContrOle des Grands TRavaux -
DCGTx) had different interpretations of a number of the conditionalities and of measures necessary to
satisfy them.
4.05           There were two schools of thought in the Bank prior to initiation of the ASAL. On
the one hand, there was a belief in some quarters that, because of unsatisfactory performance on
previous SALs, the Bank was ill-advised to embark on sectoral operations as any sectoral reforms
would be hampered by an inappropriate macro framework. Others argued that the institutional
changes mandated under the ASAL were necessary. Although carrying out sectoral reforms in the
context of an improved macro environment was the ideal, many of the sectoral reforms could only be
carried out successfully with the hope that macro changes would occur in the medium term.
4.06           Program design and initial implementation suffered from poor Borrower inter-agency
coordination. Upon instructions of the Head of State, the program was exclusively negotiated and
managed by DCGTx: direct consultations between the Bank and technical ministries had to be
informal. Communications did not effectively pass to Borrower agencies that had program
implementation responsibilities (ministries and parastatals), and this caused some friction and delay.
In addition, the tendency towards dirigisme was exacerbated by DCGTx's leadership as this
organization had a strong central planning bias and faithfully reflected the President's philosophy.
Other cadres in the technical ministries and the Ministry of Finance were more favorable to
liberalization. In fact, little concrete action on remaining conditionality was taken (except for BNDA
reform efforts) after the first tranche was released. It essentially took a change in government in
early 1990 to develop momentum for serious negotiations.
4.07           This situation improved in March 1990 when oversight was passed to the
Interministerial Committee for Economic Stabilization and Recovery (ICESR), headed by the
Governor of the regional central bank (BCEAO).' ASAL objectives, strategies, and the roles of the
various implementing agencies became better understood over the life of the operation as weekly
meetings were held between Bank Resident Mission staff and Borrower officials at the decision-
7 Levels of 'vagueness' is itself a vague concept. Relative to other adjustment operations supported by the
Bank, the vagueness of ASAL conditionality may have been about average. It is beyond the scope of this
document to come to closure on the larger issue of how flexible conditionality should be as a general rule.
Identification of general rules are probably not feasible, but will continue to be decided pragmatically, on a
country-by-country basis.
7 DCGTx lost considerable power at this time. While the Bank and other donors consistently voiced
opposition to the preeminence of the DCGTx, internal Ivorian political developments were primarily responsible
for the decision to diminish DCGTx' authority.



- 6 -
making and technical levels. Analyzing issues and necessary reforms, and renegotiating specifics in
1990 and 1991, when political conditions were more conducive to change, resulted in achieving more
than was realistically foreseen at the beginning of the ASAL.
4.08           In retrospect, this may have been a more effective way of achieving reform (and a
Borrower sense of ownership) than a front-loading of strict and specific conditionality. That said,
there was an obvious risk that weak conditionality would have led to satisfaction of the absolute
minimum set of conditions. Moreover, the issue of proceeding on sectoral operations in the absence
of solid performance on the macroeconomic front (particularly with regard to the exchange rate) is
still a major concern.
5. ImRIementation'
5.01           Although there was an eight month delay between the planned and actual timing of
the third tranche release (a scheduled release in November 1990 versus an actual release in June
1991), the RCI implemented nearly all the reforms included in the program.
5.02           There were three critical variances between planned and actual implementation. The
first variance related to BNDA conditionality. The loan document called for specific measures to be
taken to restructure and privatize BNDA. However, by the time of second tranche release, the
BNDA was in such poor financial health that the rehabilitation program was no longer possible and
no alternative was readily available short of liquidation. As a result, the Bank waived second tranche
release conditionality pertaining to the BNDA. By the time of third tranche release, an interim
administrator had been appointed with the specific mission of preparing for the liquidation of BNDA
(which occurred in October 1991). This was accepted as meeting the ASAL's conditionality for a
drastic "restructuring" of BNDA.
5.03           The second variance was a violation of the spirit of conditionality, if not the letter.
Second tranche conditionality required that effective protection of 20 percent be extended to a number
of agricultural commodities. The condition was fulfilled: a decree was adopted harmonizing the tariff
and extending export premia to a long list of agricultural commodities. However, export subsidies
were subsequently paid only from time to time, and only when external funds were made available for
specific commodities. Because conditions required for second tranche disbursement should be
effectively implemented prior to disbursement of subsequent tranches, one could make the argument
that the third tranche disbursement should have been held up, or at least, the issue should have been
brought to the attention of the Board. Yet no such action was taken prior to third tranche
disbursement.
5.04           The third variance concerned the Caisse de Perequation and its rice and wheat
operations. Among the reforms called for were: importation of low grade rice through international
competitive bidding; and the launching of a detailed operational audit of the Caisse de Per6quation,
and the subsequent adoption of a program of measures to streamline and improve the transparency of
Caisse's operations, improve its efficiency and reduce its operating costs. Progress in increasing the
transparency of the Caisse de Perequation's operating procedures was disappointing. First,
entrenched political interests in rice and wheat importing proved too powerful to overcome. Second,
the operational audit was of poor quality and the initial draft was rejected by both the Government
and the Bank. Third, Caisse de Perequation conditionality for third tranche release reform was vague
A more detailed discussion of program implementation is presented in Annex B.



(essentially waiting for the audit recommendations), and this combined with an inadequate audit report
and strong political resistance made it hard to push for major changes beyond what had already been
accomplished as a result of the second tranche release.
5.05           Among other things, the audit was supposed to examine whether a stabilization
system was desirable and for what purposes (economic efficiency, social equity, etc.). If desirable,
what mechanisms were needed to make the Caisse's domestic marketing and import operations and
procedures more cost-effective and transparent? This implied a reexamination of the price-setting
system (a bareme similar to that of coffee, cocoa, and cotton). No fundamental changes in the
bar8me system were ever agreed to or instituted. Although the Government agreed to establish a
competitive bidding procedure for awarding rice import contracts, as of late 1992, no bid invitations
had yet been issued.'°
5.06           With regard to wheat, no progress was made in removing the existing import
monopoly. Political pressure from the wheat monopoly was so great that review of Caisse de
Perequation wheat operations were exempted from the terms of reference of the operational audit.
However, the contract with the private monopoly importer was renegotiated and substantial savings
achieved.
5.07           It would have been difficult to avoid the first variance as years of mismanagement
had rendered the BNDA gravely ill. The BNDA suffered from the same set of problems that have
plagued large-scale agricultural sector credit programs throughout Sub-Saharan Africa.
5.08           The second variance could only have been avoided by drafting conditionality that
made tranche disbursement conditional upon actual release of subsidy payments, or by insisting that
the export subsidy scheme actually be implemented prior to third tranche release. There is a strong
possibility that the Borrower would have been unable to meet these terms because of the financial
burden it would have imposed. As such, the biggest question is the workability of the scheme itself,
and whether it should ever have been included as conditionality.
5.09           Three sets of risks were identified in the loan document: 1) social and political
pressures to slow down or stall reforms; 2) unpredictable developments in the external environment
(particularly the world price of the country's main export crops); and 3) the level and speed of the
private sector response to incentives.
5.10           Regarding the first risk, as stated above, lack of political commitment was partially
responsible for the delays experienced in disbursement. However, with the appointment of the
BCEAO Governor to head the ICESR and then his appointment as Prime Minister in December 1990,
political commitment to structural reform reached levels not anticipated at the onset of the ASAL. In
essence, heightened political commitment occurred for two reasons: 1) the leadership of the Prime
Minister who was convinced of the need for internal adjustment; and 2) continued deterioration of
public finance forced the RCI to move on conditions that they really did not want to simply because
they needed the money.
"o At the time of third tranche release, the Government claimed that sufficient forward orders had been
made so that no imports would be required until at least the end of 1992. Among Bank staff, however, there is
a suspicion that the Caisse de Prequation, just prior to official agreement on competitive bidding, rushed to
award contracts in anticipation of the policy change.



- 8 -
5.11             Unfortunately, the second risk related to export crop prices became a reality. Cocoa
and coffee prices continued their downward spiral during the life of the ASAL - reaching levels far
below those projected at the time of loan approval. For example, ASAL benefit stream calculations
were based on 1990 world prices for cocoa and robusta coffee of $1,750/MT and $2,340/MT,
respectively. Actual 1990 prices were far lower -- $1,270/MT for cocoa and $1,070/MT for
robusta." They are now both below $900/MT. Such price developments rendered it virtually
impossible to achieve the stated ASAL medium-term objective of four percent growth for the sector.
Table II
An additional risk not           Evolution of Poverty by Socio-Economic Group in Cote d'Ivoire,
mentioned in the loan                                         1985 to 1988
document was that lowering
producer prices for cocoa                        ==
and coffee would exacerbate                                                Percent    Decomposition
1985    1988  Change    1985    1988
rural poverty. Various SDA                =                  19851988   Change====1988
studies based on Living            Export Crop Farmers       36.6%    54.8%    49.7%    14.5%    17.7%
Standards Measurement              Food Crop Farmers         43.4%   59.0%   35.9%    63.6%    52.4%
Survey (LSMS) data have            Public Sector              4.9%   21.3%   334.7%     1.7%     6.2%
Private Formal Sector      7.1%   15.1%  112.7%    2.4%    3.0%
concluded that poverty             InformaL Sector           26.2%    54.2%   106.9%    1.5%    1.6%
deepened in Cote d'Ivoire          SeLf-Enployed             26.2%   46.2%   76.3%    12.8%   14.8%
from 1985 to 1988 for all          Inactive                  18.3%   31.9%    74.3%    3.3%      3.5%
Uneffptoyed                4.1X   38.3%  834.1%    0.2%    9.0%
socio-economic groups              Cote d'lvoire             30.0%   45.9%   53.0%  100.0%  100.0%
(Table 2), with the largest
incidence among export and
food crop farmers. In 1985,                Note: Poverty Line defined as constant 1985 per
capita household expenditure of 128,600 CFA/yr (i.e
export crop farmers                        1985 expenditure tevel for the lowest 30 percent of
accounted for 14.5 percent                 the population).
of Cote d'Ivoire's poor and                Source: Grootaert, Chrlstiaan, "The EvoLution of
food crop farmers were 63.6                Welfare and Poverty Under Structural Change and
percent of the poor. While                 Economic Recession in C6te d'Ivoire, 1985-88," World
Bank Policy Research Working Paper No. 1078,
the incidence of poverty did               January, 1993 (page 34).
not grow as rapidly for these
two groups as for other
socio-economic groups during these three years, the percentages of export crop farm households
categorized as poor grew by nearly half, and comprised 17.7 percent of the poor by 1988. With a
halving of producer prices for coffee and cocoa (as stipulated as a condition of Board presentation), it
is almost certain that the plight of export crop households only became worse during the ASAL.'2
Cocoa and coffee were important sources of revenue for the poor. According to the LSMS data, in
1988, cocoa and coffee represented 31.9 and 17.6 percent of revenues of the very poor, and 47.7 and
" The source for projected 1990 prices is: Chausse, J.P., "C6te d'Ivoire Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Loan: Opportunities and Issues in the Cocoa and Coffee Sectors," World Bank, 1988 (page 37 for robusta, page
36 for cocoa). The source for actual prices is: IBRD, 'Market Outlook for Major Primary Commodities,
Volume II: Agricultural Products, Fertilizers, and Tropical Timber," International Trade Division of the
International Economics Department, Washington, October 1992 (page 8 for robusta, page 36 for cocoa).
12 Unfortunately, data to quantify this are unavailable after 1988.



- 9 -
20.8 percent of revenues of the mid-poor (Grootaert, page 77).'3 That said, it would be
inappropriate to blame producer price reductions on the ASAL. These would have happened in the
absence of the ASAL because the CSSPPA could not possibly have sustained the revenue losses that
would have resulted from maintaining producer prices at 1988 levels.
6. Results
6.01           A number of positive results of the reform program can be cited, including:
*    Producers of important cash crops (cotton, coprah, oil palm, rubber, sugar) were
made more competitive through introduction of the reduced value-added tax;
*    Some of the bias against the agricultural sector was reduced and livestock producers
were better protected against dumping of frozen meat surpluses by the EC;
*    A number of domestic market liberalization measures were taken which allowed for
improved transmission of price signals based on market forces (cotton, coffee,
cocoa, oil palm);
*    Economic rent-seeking was reduced in a number of areas (coffee dehulling,
coffee/cocoa exporting, rice milling, wood logging and processing), increasing the
viability of legitimate enterprises and eliminating those enterprises founded solely to
collect rents;
*    Forest resources became better protected against over-exploitation as forest users
were made to pay fees that more closely reflected the scarcity value of resources;
and
*    Some progress was made in rationalizing the public investment process.
6.02           Perhaps the most important positive result of ASAL implementation is one that
cannot be quantified: namely a change in the attitudes of decision-makers and technicians working in
agriculture regarding the appropriate role of the state in the sector. This represents a turn away from
dirigisme and towards a more free market orientation. In a number of areas, personnel in line
ministries have seen the benefits of liberalization. In addition, constituencies for maintaining liberal
measures have developed, increasing the potential sustainabiity of some of the policy measures.
These new stakeholder groups will be discussed further in the section below.
6.03           With regard to the speed of private sector response to the incentives created under
the ASAL, there is little data that exists to allow one to make a definitive statement regarding the
nature and extent of farm-level response to the altered set of incentives that resulted from market
liberalization. For many crops, national agricultural statistics are only available through 1989. The
fact that little attention was paid to monitoring ASAL impact at the design stage will be discussed in
section 12 below.
'3 Grootaert defined the 'very poor' as those with a real 1985 per capita household expenditure level of
75,000 CFA/yr (the bottom decile), and the "mid-poor" as those with real expenditure levels between 128,600
CFA/yr and 75,000 CFA/yr (the second and third lowest deciles).



- 10 -
6.04           One can, however, cite at least two instances of a clear private sector response at the
processing level. Wood processing companies increased investment as a direct result of being freed
from the uncertainties inherent in the export quota and licensing systems for gaining cutting rights to
forest lands (Permis Temporaire d'Exploitation - PTE). A number of "fictitious" companies that had
been created solely to take advantage of lucrative export quotas and resale of PTEs closed down. In
addition, there was a remarkable increase in artisanal coffee dehulling activity, once the monopoly
power of large industrial processors was removed.
6.05           The ASAL had significant positive effects on the environment. First, reforms were
implemented to rationalize user cost and licensing policies for gaining access to forest resources. This
has resulted in users paying closer to the market value of forest resources and considerable revenue
gains for the RCI that are being plowed back into natural resource management. In addition, due to
periodic PIP reviews mandated under the ASAL, an AfDB-financed Soja Project with a low rate of
return was scaled back significantly in 1991, preventing further destruction of woodlands that had
begun in 1989. Yet this can only be categorized as a partial victory as the project should never have
been initiated in the first place.
6.06           However, it should be mentioned that because poverty almost certainly increased in
rural Cote d'Ivoire during the ASAL period as a result of falling world prices for major commodities,
this may have accelerated environmental degradation. While the ASAL cannot be blamed for these
developments, increased poverty often leads to poorer natural resource management as people living
from hand to mouth find it difficult to invest in land-saving cultivation technologies. There is little
evidence that intensification has taken place; when prices were favorable, most observers agree that
the most common response was expanding area planted. It could be that falling world prices
temporarily halted extensification, but this can hardly be trumpeted as a lasting and positive trend.
7. Sustainability
7.01           With adjustment operations, sustainability relates primarily to whether policy
measures initiated are likely to be maintained over time. It is essentially a political question
concerning whether groups have arisen with a stake in maintaining market liberalization measures,
and whether their voices are stronger than those of other interest groups who would prefer returning
to policies that allowed them to enjoy economic rents reduced or eliminated by reform.
7.02           There is reason to believe that new stakeholder groups have formed that will actively
resist a return to the illiberal past, and that their voices are strong. Coffee processing is an example.
Prior to the ASAL, dehulling was controlled by large industrial concerns who had government-
sponsored monopoly power. Despite the lower costs of small artisanal dehullers (an estimated 12
CFA/kg versus 30 CFA/kg for industrial dehullers), only a tiny percentage of coffee passed through
small processors. When this was liberalized, artisanal response was rapid. For the 1991/92 coffee
campaign, 55 percent of the coffee crop was processed at the village level, either manually or with
the small-scale technology. As a result, firms representing two-thirds of industrial dehulling capacity
closed. This had obvious benefits for coffee producers (not to mention those now earning a living in
small-scale processing). Returning to the quota system would be extremely unpopular among
farmers, and politically unfeasible.
7.03           Another area where new stakeholder groups have arisen is livestock. Under the
ASAL, anti-dumping measures against low quality EC beef (viande CAPA) were imposed. This met
resistance from well-positioned importers. Consumers also benefited from cheap meat prices.
Ivorian producers were concentrated in the savannah zone, and also included pastoralists who brought



- It -
in cattle on the hoof from neighboring Sahelian countries. They had little or no political voice in
Ivorian political fora. However, with the establishment of the anti-dumping policy, there is evidence
that Ivorian savannah farmers have responded with increased livestock production. It is viewed as
beneficial to the productivity of savannah cotton-based farming systems. Cotton producers (and
CIDT) have become stakeholders for maintaining these measures. However, whether they can
continue to prevail over well-heeled importers is perhaps less apparent than in the case of coffee
dehulling.
7.04           In forestry, increasing stumpage fees, reforming the logging system, and liberalizing
the export quota system was strongly resisted by logging and wood processing concerns and those
who derived economic rents from them. The PTE licensing system for logging was rife with
corruption as phony logging concerns would resell PTEs at a large profit to legitimate companies.
Those with access to PTEs were well-placed politically. Now that initial resistance to forestry sector
reform has been overcome, it is not likely that there will be a return to the old system. At the
technical level, the Government is committed to maintaining these reforms. Moreover, the popular
press has published many articles critical of the "theft of the forest" by political "barons." The press
would quickly jump on attempts to revert to patronage."4
7.05           There continues to be strong resistance to liberalization in several areas. These
include rice importing, wheat importing and milling. The Caisstab and the Caisse de Plrequation still
have a long way to go in order to increase the transparency of their operations. The largest failure at
sustainability concerns agricultural credit. One of the major objectives of the ASAL was to improve
the access to credit and the efficiency of its delivery. With the demise of the BNDA, this has not
happened.
8. Bank Performance
8.01           Several issues arise with respect to Bank performance on ASAL design and
implementation.
*    Initiating the ASAL without evidence of political commitment on the part of the
Borrower at the onset. One can seriously question the wisdom of going through
with the ASAL in the first place, given poor performance on SALs up to 1988, and
in view of the lack of clear political will to carry out reforms at the time of
preparation, appraisal, and negotiations. While conditions for Board presentation
were specific, most of the conditionalities for the second and third tranches were
vague.
*    When implementation began, there was little movement until early 1990, with the
appointment of a new Prime Minister. Although this was good for the fortunes of
the ASAL, it occurred "by accident." Without this change of Government, the
probability of second and third chance release would have been very slim, and the
Bank would have had little to show for the $50 million already disbursed from the
first tranche.
'4 As is true elsewhere in Sub-Saharan Africa, there has been rapid development of the independent press
in CMte d'Ivoire. In all cases where a privileged few can be demonstrated to benefit at the expense of a much
larger share of the population, the presence of a vocal press makes it more difficult to return to past practices.



- 12 -
*    The timeliness of the Bank in organizing financial audits was poor. In principle,
audits are required prior to each tranche release to assure that proper accounting
systems are in place and that previous releases have conformed to acceptable
accounting standards. However, there was no audit prior to release of either the
second or third tranches. Audits were only carried out after the release of funds. A
larger issue requiring reflection concerns the type of audit that is needed for quick-
disbursing assistance. At present, audit requirements for quick-disbursing assistance
and investment operations are identical. The types of detailed audits for project
assistance appear to make little sense for operations that, on the controller side, are
little more than wire transfers. Auditors should be provided with-specific guidelines
on the scope of financial audits for SALs/SECALs.
*    The Bank as facilitator versus instigator. On the positive side, a number of
studies were commissioned under the ASAL whereby the Borrower was responsible
for implementation and the Bank served more as an observer and commentator. By
taking more of a "back seat' role, this probably increased the Ivorian sense of
ownership of study recommendations, providing a stronger incentive to carry them
out than if these had been "Bank studies."
*    Field staff presence. As mentioned above, another positive aspect of implementation
involved the presence of permanent field staff at the Resident Mission. With the
appointment of a new Prime Minister, frequent and regular dialogue was initiated
between the Bank and all those implicated by the reforms to build consensus. This
served to solidify working relations, dialogue, and the sense of Ivorian ownership
much more than would have been possible with only occasional supervisory
missions.
9. Borrower Performance
9.01           The most important determinant of Borrower performance - political commitment -
has already been addressed. Performance was generally poor during design and early
implementation, when DCGTx was the Bank's primary interlocutor on the ASAL, and it markedly
improved when the new government was appointed in early 1990.
9.02           As mentioned in section 8 above, the Borrower effectively took the lead on studies.
Elaboration of scopes of work, awarding contracts, and closely following study progress were all
done in a timely and thorough manner. The Borrower also set up a monitoring committee (Comit de
Suivi) of ASAL implementation which was very active in monitoring progress and prepared a large
number of technical studies (through DCGTx and the line ministries) on specific aspects of the
program and its impacts.
10. Relationships With Other Parties
10.01          A number of relevant issues here have already been touched upon. ASAL design
and early implementation were hampered by inter-agency rivalries between DCGTx, line ministries,
and parastatals. As such, implementing agencies had little understanding of what was expected of
them under the ASAL. This compounded their opposition to reforms which already threatened the
status quo. The situation improved once implementation responsibility passed to the appropriate
ministries and internalization increased. In parallel, the relationship between the Bank and Ivorian
_-  - - - -     - -



- 13 -
counterparts increased markedly from a rather confrontational attitude through first tranche release to
a much more constructive dialogue on objectives and implementation strategies.
10.02         The reform program supported by the ASAL was co-financed by Germany (KfW)
and the Japanese Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF). The African Development Bank
carried out a separate operation. The Bank took the lead on technical issues while the co-financiers
were mainly observers. Only the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE),
which was not a co-financier, took an active substantive role in the program, especially at the design
stage and on the BNDA issue during implementation.
10.03         Contact between Bank staff and various non-governmental parties implicated by the
sectoral reforms was frequent. Meetings and correspondence were frequent with parastatal officials,
trade associations, cooperative representatives, and private sector CEOs. The presence of a field-
based task manager made this possible.
11. Consulting Services
11.01          Consulting services were limited to two major studies contracted by the RCI. The
purpose of the APROMA study was to recommend ways to improve the operations of the Caisstab
and increase transparency in its procedures. APROMA's work was favorably received by both the
Bank and the Borrower, primarily because the APROMA consultants interacted effectively with
working groups at the Caisstab, assisting them to come up with their own solutions to perceived
problems. The RCI did not, however, accept the idea of selling regularly on world markets,
preferring instead to continue 'playing" the market, despite compelling evidence that this is a poor
strategy in the long-run. The Borrower is still of the belief that, as the largest exporter in the world
cocoa market, it should attempt to influence prices by taking an active role in the market. Nor did
they make major inroads in increasing the transparency of Caisstab export authorization operations
due to successful resistance by vested interests.
11.02          The second major study concerned Caisse de Plrequation operations. The scope of
work involved identifying ways to improve management and bidding procedures, determining whether
price stabilization was necessary, and if so, the most cost-effective ways to implement stabilization
operations. The draft study was rejected by the RCI for lacking substance and not providing clear
and well thought-out recommendations. The Bank was of the same opinion as the Government.
12. Documentation and Data
12.01         Two issues are relevant here. The first has already been discussed and will only be
mentioned:
*    Vagueness of policy conditionality. In retrospect, this had both positive and
negative consequences. However, the positive consequences were largely due to
luck in the form of a change of Government that was far more conducive to market
reform measures. The negative consequences resulted from the Borrower being able
to avoid implementation of significant reforms in a number of areas, without being
sanctioned in the form of delayed tranche disbursements.
*    Absence of an impact monitoring plan. Although Bank staff monitored adherence
to conditionality very closely, no real effort was made to systematically monitor the
developmental impact of ASAL measures on farm-level decision-making, market



- 14 -
efficiency and productivity, and poverty reduction. While it is true that impact often
does not become evident until several years after an operation has taken place,
creative use of beneficiary assessments, rapid appraisals, and modest quantitative
surveys of farmer and marketing agent decision-making in light of liberalization,
could have been useful in providing feedback on potential impact and the
effectiveness of reforms.
12.02          In a sense, impact monitoring was a casualty of the DCGTx imbroglio. On
numerous occasions, the DCGTx requested assistance from the Bank in setting up its own policy
monitoring unit, but such requests were always refused because the Bank had no desire to further
solidify DCGTx' grasp on the policy-making apparatus. As a result, impact monitoring largely fell
through the cracks.
12.03          At this point in time, it should be mentioned that the C6te d'Ivoire is in the unique
position of having an excellent baseline in the form of the 1985-1988 LSMS database, and some
limited scope surveys should be done to see how farm incomes and poverty incidence may have
changed as a result of the ASAL and other major developments in the agricultural sector. Because
the DCGTx problem no longer exists, special efforts should be made to increase impact monitoring.
capacity within the appropriate ministries.
13. Conclusions and Lessons Learned
13.01          Overall performance under the ASAL was far better than could possibly have
envisaged prior to implementation. RCI performance on the three SALs was mediocre at best.
Major factors for the disappointing record of adjustment efforts prior to the ASAL included: lack of
political commitment, achievement of only marginal reforms while major structural problems (such as
real exchange rate appreciation) went unaddressed; poor performance in increasing Ivorian capacity to
undertake policy analysis and planning activities; and the overshadowing of reform measures by world
price movements for coffee and cocoa.
13.02          All of these were potential problems faced by the ASAL. However, political
commitment to reform increased markedly during the ASAL period (but for reasons that ASAL
designers could not have fully anticipated), and Ivorian capacity (especially in line ministries) to carry
out studies and engage in policy dialogue as active participants (as opposed to passive recipients of
Bank analysis) also improved. For a number of important reforms implemented under the ASAL, it
can be stated with reasonable confidence that the "ownership problem" no longer exists.
13.03          On the negative side, the question of fundamental versus marginal change remains
unresolved. The real exchange rate appreciated during the ASAL period rather than depreciating as
required to restore competitiveness. Although more flexibility was introduced into price setting for
coffee, cocoa, and cotton, pricing decisions are still heavily influenced by politics. Little
improvement has occurred in increasing the transparency of CSSPPA and Caisse de Per6quation
operations. Finally, although beyond the control of the ASAL, fiscal implications of the plunge in
international coffee and cocoa prices have dwarfed any cost savings that were made by reducing
subsidies or streamlining parastatal activities.
13.04          In some areas, the vagueness of conditionality worked against program success,
while in others it "bought time" until the political situation changed sufficiently so that successful
policy dialogue could occur. Conditionality was most vague when it came to CSSPPA and Caisse de
Perequation operations, formulation of the Public Investment Program, and in implementing the



- 15 -
import tariff cum export subsidy scheme. It was in these areas that the least progress was made. Yet
insisting on greater specificity in the coffee and cocoa sectors or concrete proof of payment of export
subsidies during negotiations would probably have resulted in the ASAL never being implemented. In
other areas, such as cotton, initial conditionality was also vague, but reforms were significant.
13.05         While acknowledging this, one should not leap to the conclusion that vagueness is
desirable. Negotiations should serve as a forum for achieving a reasonably clear consensus between
the Bank and Borrowers on concrete reforms to be implemented. That said, before this "ideal'
situation can be achieved, the Bank needs to come to grips with a number of larger issues that
everybody acknowledges undermines consensus building: the pressure to meet lending targets within
short deadlines and time-consuming review procedures for loan approval.
13.06         Any future sectoral policy-based lending operations should probably narrow their
focus, placing highest priority on pursuing fundamental reformns of the CSSPPA and Caisse de
Perequation. The Bank should also continue working to rationalize the PIP process, working with the
Borrower to take a hard look at priorities in light of projected resource availability and recurrent cost
implications.
13.07         The presence of strong field staff at the Resident Mission was critical to
initiation of a constructive dialogue process. Once the impasse between the Bank and the Borrower
(in the form of the DCGTx) was resolved, collaboration improved markedly. Critical to this was the
presence of a strong resident Bank staff. Meetings at the technical and decision-making levels were
held frequently, and by the end of the program, it is fair to say that RCI ownership and
internalization of the reform program had been enhanced significantly. Whether this could have been
achieved solely through supervision missions from headquarters is open to question.
13.08         The developmental impacts of policy change should be monitored more closely
in the future. While many of the ASAL reforms should theoretically lead to increased competition,
efficiency, and equity, hypotheses still need to be verified empirically. This is especially true in cases
where there is reason to believe that markets are less than fully competitive or market information is
not equally available to all parties in a given sub-sector. Information gaps related to impact are
greatest at the farm level and at the interface between farmers and first handlers of produce. Greater
use can be made of rapid appraisals and beneficiary assessments in combination with quantitative
survey instruments to assess impact in a regular and timely fashion.
13.09         Broad partidpation of all parties concerned Is necessary for policy reform
programs to succeed in the first place and be sustainable in the long-run. During program
design, the DCGTx was forced on the Bank as the sole negotiator of ASAL conditionality. This
hampered reform efforts as the DCGTx was not philosophically disposed to market liberalization, and
effectively shut out line ministries from negotiations. With the DCGTx being transferred to the Prime
Minister's office and now serving purely in an advisory fashion, and the Prime Minister's office as
the main interlocutor on policy issues, an appropriate institutional structure is in place to pursue
future policy dialogue. More fundamentally, consensus in ministries, the private sector, and among
farmers has grown to maintain a number of policies that "level the playing field' and make it harder
for political cronyism to take hold again.
13.10          A number of questions remain unanswered. While it is readily apparent that a
SECAL has greater chance of success if implemented within a favorable macroeconomic framework,
it is difficult to say in hindsight that this particular SECAL should not have been implemented. When
a policy reform program is clearly a failure or an unmitigated success, it is always easy to decide



- 16 -
whether an opation sbould have proceeded or not with the benefit of hindsight. The Cote d'Ivoire
ASAL does not fall Into either of thus extremes: performance was mixed. If political will had not
developed, initilly in the pmon of the Prime Minister, then the ASAL would probably have been an
unambiguous failure. It did develop, transforming a probable failure into a partial success that
achieved al of Its conditionality with only a few months of delay and facilitated formation of
stebolder groups for a number of key reforms.
13.11         Nevertheless, taken as a whole, the ASAL and macroeconomic reform programs
were Inadequate to restore competitiveness and production incentives; and, as a result, the agricultural
sector continued to conrct and there was little progress in diversifying exports.



- 17 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Although the Borrower did not submit a formal PCR, it did prepare an independent
evaluation report through its Agency for Direction and Control of Large Operations (DCGTx)'5.
This report, however, was never released officially as representing the views of the Borrower.
"'Rapport d'Achevement du Programme d'Ajustement Sectoriel Agricole (PASA), Banque Mondiale, Pr6t
3127-IVC*, August 1992.



- 18 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
There was no Bank Loan and/or IDA credit related to the present sector adjustment Loan.
2. Projc Timeabl
Date               Date                            Date
lIe                    PLanned            Revised                          Act
(IPB)
- Identification                                                              1986
- Initiating Meoo (EPS)  07/15/86   12/86; 02/04/87; 09/25/86             09/16/87
- Appraisal Mission    10/15/86     11/86: 02/20/87; 10/87                02/22/88
- Yellow Cover         11/30/86     01/87; 04/20/87; 12/18/87             04/12/88
- Negotiations         02/12/87     03/87; 06/15/87; 01/88                06/22/89
- Board ApprovaL       04/28/87     06/87: 07/29/87; 02/88                 10/24/89
- Effectiveness                                                            10/25/89
- First Tranche (Eff.)  03/88       07/88; 11/89                           10/31/89
- Second Tranche       03/89        01/89; 04/90                          06/29/90
- Third Tranche        03/90        01/90; 11/90                          06/27/91
- Ln. Closing          12/90                                              06/30/91
The ASAL was prepared by the Agricultural Section (AF1AA) of the Abidjan Resident
Mission in collaboration with HQ and Government, between April 1986 and February 1988. It was
appraised in February 1988 as a continuing support for Government's medium-term program of
reforms in the agricultural sector within the framework of its ongoing Structural Adjustment Program.
The main objective of the agricultural adjustment program was to achieve in the medium-term in the
sector a sustained rate of growth of about 4% p.a. while reducing urban-rural and regional income
disparities. The Operation was cofinanced by AfDB ($150.0 m), the Government of Japan (OECF -
$50.0 m) and CCCE ($20.0 m).
PregNegotiatjj held in May and October 1988 in RCI were suspended pending resolution
of major issues in pricing policy reforms. Final Negotiations were held in Washington June 22-July
11, 1989. The Bank was represented by Jean-Paul Chausse (Task Manager, AF1AA), Kevin Cleaver
(Chief, AFlAG), Jean-Frangois Dupuy and Maria Van Beek (LEGAF), Yves Guillou (LOAAF). The
Ivorian delegation was led by Mr. Antoine Cesareo (DCGTx). The delegation included Messrs.
Lancina Dosso (DIP); Serey-Eiffel, Rochier, Charre and Dorey (DCGTx); Sonh (CAA); and Simonel
Oawyer, Klein & Co.).
The principal issues discussed at negotiations were four conditions of effectiveness: (1)
CAISTAB deficit for CY89 be reduced by 10% and its CY90 deficit be totally eliminated through (a)
a reduction by 25% of cocoa bareme, and (b) a reduction of coffee domestic and international
marketing costs; (2) introduction, as from the start of 1989/90 season, of a price differential in
incentives in favor of coffee projection through a combination of quality premium and targeted
subsidies instead of through a producer price differential; (3) a program of reforms in the cotton
sector to (a) transfer the responsibility for cotton marketing from CAISTAB to CIDT, (b) extend the
tariff-cum-export subsidy mechanism, (c) pay to seed-cotton producers the border parity price or a
safety-net minimum producer price, and (d) establishment of a promotion and stabilization fund
managed by sub-sector operators; and (4) approval of BNDA's financial restructuring plan and its
medium-term institutional rehabilitation program, ensuring that measures are taken to protect



- 19 -
medium-term institutional rehabilitation program, ensuring that measures are taken to protect
depositors and BNDA's financial viability. Given the Government's undertakings in these areas, most
of the above measures were eliminated or moved forward as conditions of Board presentation.
Board Presentation. Other than the filling of the public finance gap through the end
of 1990 (also a condition of each tranche release), the conditions set for the presentation of the ASAL
to the Board had been met by August 7, 1989, specifically the submission to the Bank of: (1)
Government's Letter of Agricultural Policy (with contents as agreed with the Bank at negotiations);
(2) a letter announcing that the 1989/90 cocoa and coffee producer prices were set at CFAF 250/kg
(down from 400/kg); (3) a letter announcing that a quality price premium of CFAF 33/kg had been
introduced as of the start of 1989/90 season for coffee of the required quality standards; (4) a letter
announcing that: (a) the producer price differential between the two qualities of seed-cotton had been
increased from CFAF 15/kg to CFAF 30/kg; (b) 30% of the cotton insecticide subsidy had been
eliminated as of the start of 1989/90 season; (c) that further cost reduction measures were being
taken to eliminate the CSSPA's cotton deficit during the 1989/90 season; and (5) a letter announcing
that the first phase of BNDA's financial restructuring had been launched and completed before March
31, 1990, and that measures satisfactory to the Bank had been approved to clarify BNDA's
relationship with Government, protect its depositors and ensure its future financial viability.
Board ADDroval and Siening and Effectiveness (First Tranche Release): The
operation was presented to the Board and approved on October 24, 1989. The Loan was signed on
October 25, 1989 and declared effective the following day. The first tranche was released on October
31, 1989.
Second Tranche Release. By June 1990, Government had met and initiated all but
one of the ten specific conditions for second tranche release, namely, the financial and institutional
restructuring of BNDA. The audit of BNDA's activities finished in early 1990 revealed that BNDA's
situation had deteriorated as a result of heavy arrears, high operating costs and poor management and
that its long-term financial viability would be achieved only with massive immediate cash injections
(CFAF 50.0 billion) or permanent operating subsidies from the State. As rehabilitation of BNDA in
the form originally contemplated in the ASAL program was no longer feasible, a waiver was obtained
from the Board and the second tranche was released on June 29, 1990. Implementation of the
detailed restructuring plan including the medium-term institutional development program for credit
institution was made a condition of third tranche release for the ASAL.
Third Tranche Release, scheduled for December 1990, was delayed until June 1991
due to complex and political issues involved with the preparation and implementation of the agreed
reforms: (a) the extension of VAT to cotton and rubber, (b) restructuring BNDA, (c) reforms of
coffee/cocoa marketing board, (d) pricing policies reform in/and development strategy for oil palm
sector; (e) to streamline Caisse de Perequation's operations, in particular, its rice and wheat
operations; (f) reforms of forestry fiscal policies; (g) reforms in the pricing and marketing policies in
the cotton sector; and (h) approval of a satisfactory medium-term public investment program in the
rural sector.
A detailed time schedule showing planned, revised and actual elapsed times from date
of Executive Project Summary through actual closing date may be a useful descriptive instrument.



- 20 -
Actuat Days
Planned              Revised               Final                Elaosed       Base
Initiating Memo (EPS)    07/15/86       12/86; 02/87; 09/25/86      09/16/87
to Mission in Field                                                 02/22/88              159           600
Appraisal Mission         10/15/86      11/86; 02/87; 10/87          02/22/88
in Field to Return                                                                                        28
Return of Appr. Mission
to Yellow Cover          11/30/86       01/87; 04/87; 12/18/87       04/12/88              50             94
Yellow Cover to Distri-                                              04/12/88
bution of Doc to LC                                                  04/25/88               13            42
Docs. to LC to                                 04/25/88
Start Negotiations       02/12/87       03/87; 06/87; 01/88          06/22/89             423             28
Start Negotiations to                                                06/22/89
BD Presentation          04/28/87       06/87; 07/87; 02/88          10/24/89              124             35
Sub-TotaL (IM to BD)                                                                    769             869
BD Presentation                                                      10/24/89
to Signature                                                         10/25/89                1
Signature to                                                         10/25/89
First Tranche Release    03/88          11/89                        10/31/89               6
Second Tranche Release   03/89          04/90                        06/29/90             247             180
Third Tranche Release    03/90          11/90                        06/28/91             363             180
Closing                   12/90         11/90                        06/27/91                3             36
Total tIEPS to Closing)                                                                 1,383         1,265
3=N33         3333.
ACTUAL DAYS       CUMULATIVE
DATES         ELAPSED        NO. OF DAYS
INITIATING BRIEF              16-Sep-87
APPRAISAL DEPARTURE            22-Feb-88           159
APPR MISSION RETURN            21-Mar-88                             159
YELLOU COVER                   12-Apr-88            50               209
DOCUIIENTS TO LC               25-Apr-88            13               222
START NEGOTIATIONS             22-Jun-89           423              645
FINAL AGREEMENT                                                     645
BOARD PRESENTATION            24-Oct-89            124               769
EFFECTIVENESS                 24-Oct-89              0               769
SIGNATURE                     25-Oct-89              1               770
SECOND TRANCHE                29-Jun-90            247              1017
THIRD TRANCHE                 27-Jun-91            363              1380
CLOSING                       30-Jun-91              3              1383
Implementation of the agricultural adjustment program slipped compared to the initial
schedule. Changes in July 1986 and January 1987 were due to delays in agreeing with Government
on project scope, selecting consultants and slippage in SAL m's effectiveness. Appraisal (originally
planned for October 1986) was delayed until February 1988 because Government was slow in
initiating a proper steering committee and in producing an issues paper, but also probably due to
internal differences on the roles of ministers (Finance and Agriculture). The major problem was the
collapse of the IMF stabilization prograrn in early 1990 and the continued absence of overall macro-
economic adjustment program. Detailed agricultural measures regarding BNDA reform of
agricultural parastatals, tax/subsidy reform and completion of an agricultural expenditure program by
Government were stopped. In the period April-June 1990, rapid progress was made in meeting the



- 21 -
"text" of the Loan conditionality. Appropriate Letters, Decrees, studies and audits were undertaken
and received by the Bank to permit second tranche release. There was a six months' lag in the
disbursement of the third tranche due to complex and political issues involved with the preparation
and implementation of the agreed reforms. Actual implementation of recommendations or agreed
upon reforms proved difficult, requiring arbitrage at the highest level on very sensitive economic and
social issues.
3. Loan Disbursements
The ASAL was disbursed in three tranches of equal amount (US$50.0) each over a period
of 18 months (instead of 12 months originally anticipated). Given the quick disbursement nature of
the Loan, no disbursement profile was provided.
Disbursements (USS miLLion)
BANK           APPRAISAL        ACTUAL      ACTUAL AS        ACTUAL AS
FY             ESTIMATE       DISBURSED     X OF EST.      X OF LN AMT
NOV-89               50.0           0.0             0                 0
APR-90              100.0          50.1            50                33
NOV-90              150.0         100.0            67               67
JUN-91              150.0         150.0           100               100
Effective Date: 10/24/89
Last Disbursement: 10/10/91 (Apptication No. 26)
Original Closing Date: 12/31/90.
Actual Closing Date: 06/30/91.
4. Project Implementation
Not applicable
5. Proiect Costs and Financing
The ASAL served to provide fungible budgetary support to Government.
Program financing was as follows:
Source                                    Amount
WorLd Bank
Bank Loan 3127-IVC                        US$150 million
Co-financing institutions
KfW                                       DM  30 million
Japan                                     USS 50 million equivalent
African Dvpt. Bank (AfDS)l                US$150 million equivalent
France2                                   USS 20 million equivalent
1 AfDB implemented a parallel program with slightly different content.



- 22 -
RCI AGRICULTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
CLU. ESTIMATED & ACTUAL D01SUURS."EN
150.0 _
140.0 -
130.0-
120.0 -
110.0 
'~100.0 
90. 0/
-   0.0 
70.0 -
50.0
40.0
30.0
20.0
10.0
0.0                         I  
NOV-99              APR-90               -0                   91
0  EatlImted   +  ActU I
_ France contributed with a perallal Loan to the Goverrment from the Caisee Centrale de Coop4ration
Econoique (CCCE) aimed at supporting the restructuring of the Natiofnl Agricultural Credit Bank (BNDA).
6. Project Resul
Given the nature of the operation, direct benefits, as measured by physical achievements
associated to expenditures financed as part of the program, could not be assessed in quantitative
terms. As a result, no Economic (ERR) or Financial (IRR) Rates of Return have been computed.
7. Status of Covenants
The Loan agreement contained a set of covenants specified as conditions precedent to the
release of each of the three tranches. 'The list of these conditions is in the Ann=z attached to the
report. All these conditions were eventually fulfilled, except two conditions linked to the
restructuring of BNDA. These conditions were waived as it was not possible to pursue the
rehabilitation program as envisaged. The Government proposed instead a more radical restructuring
program corresponding to the spirit and intent of the conditionality which eventually involved
liquidating of BNDA.



- 23 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff IJnu
Stage
of Project Cycle             Ptanned       Reisc Fomments
- Through Appraisal          111.0         109.5          117.8
-AppraisaL through            81.0          53.0           27.5
Board Approval
- Board Approval
through Effectiveness       10.0           9.0            0.0         effective following day
- Supervision                 45 0AL0
TOTAL                 247.0         216.5          185 .6
33333         33333          33333
B. Mission
Nui*er     Days                        Performnce
Stage of                               of         in      Specialization       Rating
Proi2et CYCte         M2onth/Year    Persons   flel       Represented at      Statu    b/            TyOe  of Proble
Through Appraisal   Aug 1986                                                     N/A        To review Goverrment's proposed
coffee rehabilitation progrm
Nov 1986                                                    N/A        Identify the main elements of
BNDA's rehabilitation progrm.
Appraisal through   May 2-6,                    05       ECN, ECN                N/A        Pre-Negotiations were suspeded
Board Approval       1988                                Chausse                            on 05/06/88 pending resolutions
(Negs)                                                   Gharne                             of mjor Issues In pricing policy
reform.
Oct 1988                           ECN,                     N/A        Pre-Negotiation mission aain
Chausse                            resulted in the aence of
Gharna                             agreement.
Jun 22-Jul         5       18      ECN, DC,                 N/A        Negotiations
11, 1989                           Chausse,
Cleaver, Dupuy,
GuilLou,
Van BSek
Oct 9-10,          1       02      Kaps                     N/A        Donor confremce In Parts to
1989                                                                   mobilize financial support for
the economic and financIal
progrm.
Board Approval
through
Effectiveness
Supervision          Mar 5-8,           2       06       ECNK  ADC               N/A        ALl disbursement conditions for
1990                               Chausse                             the third tranche release had not
Cleaver                            yet ben fulfilled.
Supervision          Dec 07, 1990        1               ECN                      2         Only the condition pertaining to
Chausse                            the reform  of the forestry
fiscal policies hed ben mt.
Supervision          Mar 3-7,            1      05       ECN                      1         Only shortcoming was project
1991                               Chaussa                             mnagmnt performance.  PCR
requested.
I/ Key to Specialization: AGR a Agriculturist, ECN- Economist, FA * Financial Analyst, SFA * Senior Financial Analyst
k/ Key to Status: 1 * Project free or minor problem; 2 * Moderate problms; 3 a Major problem; N/A * Not AppLicable



COTE D'IVOIRE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTnlT LOA
COMPLETION REPORT
CONDMONS OF TRANCHE RELEASE AND ASSOCIATED ACTIONS
First Tranche Conditions of Board Presentation (Scheduled Release: October 1989, Actual Release: October 1989)
Satisfactory overall public finance plan through the end of 1990.  Special condition of effectiveness, met prior to Board presentation.
Satisfactory macro-economic program. Continued satisfactory macro-  Met prior to Board presentation.
economic program is a condition for Bank support for agricultural
adjustment.
Presentation of the Letter of Agricultural Policy.                 Met prior to Board presentation.
Presentation of the Letter announcing that the 1989/90 cocoa and coffee  Met prior to Board presentation.
producer prices-are set at CFAF 250/kg.
Presentation of the Letter announcing that a quality price premium of  Met prior to Board presentation.
CFAF 33/kg has been introduced as of the start of the 1989/90 season for
coffee of the required quality standards.
Presentation of the Letter announcing that the producer price differential    Met prior to Board presentation.
between the two qualities of seed-cotton has been increased (from CFAF
15/kg to CFAF 30/kg); part (30%) of the cotton insecticide subsidy has
been eliminated as of the start of the 1989/90 season; and further cost
reduction measures are being taken to eliminate CSSPPA's cotton deficit
during the 1989/90 season.
Presentation of the Letter announcing that the first phase of BNDA's  Met prior to Board presentation.
financial restructuring has been launched and will be completed before
March 31, 1990 and measures satisfactory to the Bank have been
approved to clarify BNDA's relationship with the State, protect its
depositors and ensure its future financial viability.              ____
Second Tranche (Scheduled Release: April 1990, Actual Release: June 1990)



Tranche and Specific Meaures                                       Commwits
Satisfactory implementation of the adjustment program outlined in Govermment's Letter of Agricultural Policy, and in particular:
The value-added tax (super low rate) has been extended to sugar, coconut,  Met. Satisfactory measures taken to extend the VAT to coconuts, coprah
copra and derived products.                                        and derivatives as well as sugar.
A medium-term public investment program for the rural sector       Met. Government's project ranking criteria, analysis and the overall
(agriculture and social services) and the 1990 public expenditure program    public investment program reviewed and found satisfactory. Projects
for said sector have been prepared within the overall context of the public  retained are those necessary for the implementation of the investment
expenditure program.                                              component of Govermment's Agricultural Policy Letter.
BNDA's rmedium-term financial restnrturing plan has been prepared, the   Waiver of this condition requested and granted. Because of severe
first phase as approved by the Borrower in June 1987 is completed and  financial stress, it was not possible to pursue the rehabilitation program as
specific measures for the protection of clients' deposits have been taken,    envisaged. Govemnment proposed a more radical restructuring program
conditions for a separate management by BNDA of its own resources and   that corresponded to the spirit and intent of the conditionality.
operations undertaken on the Borrower's account have been adopted, and   Implementation of the detailed restrcturing plan including the medium-
a medium-term institutional development program has been prepared  term institutional development program for the credit institution remained
(commercial policies, network management, human resources, internal  a condition of third tranche release for the ASAL.
system and procedures).
A detailed study on coffee and cocoa marketing to reduce marketing  Met. Govermment launched a comprehensive review of the present
costs, increase the efficiency of CSSPPA and ensure a more efficient  cocoa/coffee pricing and marketing system. This review was carried out
distribution of responsibilities among operators has been initiated.  by a team of senior officials from the Caisse de Stabilisation (Caisstab)
and its supervisory ministries, with external assistance in strategic areas
(taxation, futures markets, processing).
The effective protection granted to agricultural and agro-industrial  Met. The Government extended subsidies to all agricultural exports,
products has been harmonizd to 20 % (except for cotton and derived  except coffee, cocoa, cotton and pineapples. The tariff structure for
products, cocoa, coffee, logs, pineapple, and bananas for the French  imports of agricultural products was harmonized at a level to provide an
market).                                                          effective protection of about 20%.
LA



XTrancheand Specific Measures0;:00;0000 iti:if S comments
The accounting for the activities caruied out by PALM INDUSTRE on its   Me. The parastatal enterprise which manages the palm oil sector
own account and those carried out by PALMINDUSTRIE on the         (Palnindustrie) had its own operations separated from those operations
Borrower's account has been completely separated, and a support price  undertaken on behalf of the State (i.e., extension and social services to
professional fund has been established and its operational and management  smallholders). In addition, Govemment established a Smallholder Price
procedures have been definod so as to ensure the financial equilibrium of   Support Fund to dampen the impact of short-term fluctuations of palm oil
the rural sector.                                                 prices on international markets. Palmindustrie will now pay to
smaUholders the border parity price for their fresh fruit bunches and no
A study on PALMINDUSTRIE's medium-term development plan           longer be required to financially support the floor price fixed by
including, inter alia, measures to increase its productivity, diversification    Government. This floor price will be supported by the newly created
of its activities, an adequate financing of its activities and its debt  Price Support Fund, which will be funded through a levy on producers
rescheduling, has been initiated.                                 and, if necessary, through budgetary allocations. This floor price has
been reduced from CFAF 19/kg to CFAF 14/kg to bring it in line with
world prices for oil palm products. The statutes and operating procedures
of the Fund as well as the institutional arrangements between
Palmindustrie, the State and smallholders have been reviewed by the
Bank and found satisfactory. These reforms pave the way for a possible
privatization of Palmindustrie.
Government launched the detailed preparation of Palmindustrie's (palm
oil parastatal) medium-term development plan under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank. Conclusions and recommendations of the study
were to be available by October 1990.
The preparation of an agreement between the Borrower and CIDT, setting   Met. Govemrnent launched the detailed preparation of CIDT's (cotton
targets for productivity gains, management arrangements and the   parastatal) medium-term development plan under terms of reference
financing of CIDT's activities, has been initiated.               satisfactory to the Bank. Conclusions and recommendations of the study
were to be available by October 1990.
The preparation of an agreement between the Borrower and CIDT, setting
targets for productivity gains, management arrangements and the
l________________________________________                          financing of CIDT's activities, has been initiated.
02



Tranch6 and Seii   esr.Crnut
A program of measures has been prepared to liberalize domestic    Me. Rice: Government has liberalized the pricing and marketing of
marketing of rce and meat in te framework of an adequate effective  paddy and nce produced domestically. The necessary legal and
protection for domestic production, and to improve the efficiency of  regulatory reforms have been approved to: (a) free domestically-produced
CGPPPGC's operations.                                            rice prices; (b) eliminate protected/exclusive paddy collection areas; and
(c) authorize private small-scale rice mills. In addition, Government
decided to introduce major reforms in the management by the concerned
parastatal (Caisse de P6r6quation), as of October 31, 1990.
Me. Iivestock: Goverment has adopted nmAsures to protect domestic
livestock producers against imports of competing products (beef in
particular) imported at dumping prices). A satisfactory mechanism has
been established to impose countervailing duties on dumped imports, to
bring prices of such imports in line with non-subsidized world prices...
Government has launched, with Bank assistance the preparation of a
medium-term development program for the livestock sector.
A program of administative and fiscal measures in the forest exploitation   Me. Govemment has taken the following measwes:
sector and the logging industry has been approved. Said program shall  0 Forestry area taxes and stumpage fees have been increased by about
include, inter ali, a substantial increase in the fee for delivery and  33% as of January 1, 1990 and export taxes for logs, sawnwood and
renewal of forest exploitation permits (PTE), stumpage fees, and export    veneer have been increased to allow for the efficient recovery of an  l
duties (TIG), and the elimination of the present system of quotas on the  adequate share of the value of standing timber;
export of logs.                                                   *lhe log and sawn wood export quota system has been modified to
require the sales of these quotas, based on estimated allowable annual cut
by species, through public auctions.
Third Trnche (Scheduled Release: November 1990, Actual Release: June 991 )
Satisfactoy implementation of the adjustment program outlined in Government's Letter of Agricultural Policy, and in particular:
The value added tax (super low rate) has been extended to cotton and  .  The VAT has been extended to cotton and derived products, latex,
derived products, latex, and mbber nd derived products.          rubber, and derived products.
BNDA has entered into a partnership agreemet or a managemut       Despite efforts at fiuancial etnctung, BNDA was liquidated m
contract with a qualified institution, and its financial resrwcting and  September 1991.
medium-term institutionl development pbns are being implemented.
LA



:hache -nd Specik MeIsTTre                          Io mmnts
The conclusions of the detailed study on coffee and cocoa        Met. Conclusions of the detialed study on coffee and cocoa marketing
marketing.. have been prepared and a program of appropriate nmsures  have been prepared and a program of appropriate measures has been
has been initiated.                                              initiated.
PALMINDUSTRIE's medium-term development program has been         Met. Palmindustrie's medium-term development program has been
initiated, and the tariff surcharge on crude oil palm imports and its  initiated, and the tariff surcharge on crude oil and its derivatives have
derivatives has been reduced to a maximum of 40%.                been reduced to a maximum of 40%.
An agreement (contrat-plan) has been signed between the Borrower and  Met. An agreement has been signed between the Borrower and CIDT,
CIDT.                                                            and reforms are being implemented.
The program for the rice and meat sectors...is being implemented,  Met. The program for the rice and meat sectors is being implemented,
including the measures to improve the efficiency of CGPPPGC.     including some of the measures to improve the efficiency of Caisse de
P6requation's operations.
The program for forestry exploitation and the logging industry ... is being    Met. The prgram for forestry exploitation and the logging industry is
implemented.                                                     being implemented.
Sources:      For original conditionality and conditions of first tranche release: IBRD, 'Report and Recommendation of the President of
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to the Executive Directors on a Proposed Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loan in an Amount Equivalent to US$150.0 Million to the Republic of Cote D'Ivoire,' Report No. P 4799-RCI,
September 15, 1989.
For conditions related to second and third tranche release: IBRD, 'Loan Agreement (Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan)
Between Rebublic of Cote D'lvoire and Intemnational Bank for Reconstrcion nd Development,' October 25, 1989.
For compliance with second tranche conditionality: IBRD, 'Cote D'Ivoire - Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln.
IVC-3127) Second Tranche Release (Waiver of Condition),' Memorandum from the President to the Executive Board, June
20, 1990.
For compliance with third tranche conditionality: IBRD, 'Cote D'lvoire - Agricultural Sector Adjustmnt LoAn (Lai. 3137-
IVC) Thid Trsnche Release,- Memorandum from the Senior Vivo President, Operations, June 14, 1991.
II
a



I






MALI                 Q.1K
-    .    ~~~~~~~~,x.,>  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ w-\ ~~~~~BURKINA                                     FASO
ON MkIET, GR(UNONU       'N 'S
AOPOGIAM mAIZE YA.M$ RICF
GUINEA- 
I  I                                                 I             'N           VA/A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S, MAIZE,
-  GROUNOiNU1S5 RICE
'14900!                                                                                                                                                          A
V                                                        NI.,0
)  N'"  -              I                      J141                                                                         r~~~~~~~n~f   OCA,7  L
XI ~   ~    ~     0A.4A                                                                                          COf..
CASS~~~VA COCOA                    RICt~~               I         $4..A{ AVAOPOHSN.I
1    , jI.  9                                                         COA~PEICCOAAl:.A
L I B E R II AMAC
Pitt SIAIZC                    COCCOCA, OI PANAcOil! AC1YA$
*  ~~~~~~~~~AOCIVA                                                       51 C                   >,       AlIQift         -
LIBERIA                   1                                                     .   5'                     U~~~~~~~~~ HEA-SJIC  CEA
PRET D'AJUSTEMENT DU SECTEUR                        W AG FCL                           C  A              980  1984
1IFIR1111 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ I   AIM 1M400111 14CR
R.IIIIA ~ ~  ~     ~                       , I )LFII 91                             '      fOS
I -   BISHIRE S -A                  5--                                               PAIAAI          '       41                   5
_A11 III,IRIMCOCOA 1;17                               ,,                                I--  
H-                 I      II.- IT[NIC, M
11. IllOTEDIVOIRE -DITRIBUTIONOF GDP-IN   GRICULTUR
ARICULRFTURLSETRADUTEN   OA                                                           EARIIN  UPB  AS XSCTU   GRCL
ILAVA141 1S R1 AND11491I9 I'll
II ,AI,ANI 11,IRIMN1 -111111        Ir NlE9
SAR 50091/AN SAVANNA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11R



