Document of
The World Bank                                COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2 7 59-CO
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
THIRD SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
March 31, 1980
This document has s restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officil dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Average Calendar 1978                 Average Calendar 1979
Currency Unit     Peso - Col$              Col$
US$1          =   Col$ 39.3                 Col$ 42.6
Col$1         =   US$0.025                 US$0.023
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ACOPI     -  Asociacion Colombiana Popular de Industriales
i     ~      (Colombian Association of Small Manufacturers)
BR        -  Banco de la Republica (Colombia's Central Bank)
CAJA      -  Caja de Credito Agrario Industrial y Minero
(Agricultural, Industrial and Mining Bank)
CFP       -  Corporacion Financiera Popular
DANE      -  Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadistica
(National Department of Statistics)
DFC       -  Development Finance Company
FFI       -  Fondo Financiero Industrial (Industrial Financing Fund)
FICITEC   -  Fundacion para el Fomento de la Investigacion Cientifica y
Tecnologica (Foundation for the Development of Scientific
and Technological Research)
FIP       -  Fondo de Investigaciones Privadas (Private Investment Fund)
IFI       -  Instituto de Fomento Industrial
(Industrial Development Institute)
IIT       -  Instituto de Investigaciones Tecnologicas
(Institute of Technological Research)
KfW       -  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
PROEXPO   -  Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones (Export Promotion Fund)
SENA      -  Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje
(National Vocational Training Organization)
SMI       -  Small- and Medium-Scale Industry
SSI       -  Small-Scale Industry
UNDP      -  United Nations Development Programme
UNIDO     -  United Nations Industrial Development Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric  System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






COLOMBIA
THIRD SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Banco de la Republica (BR)
Guarantor:            The Republic of Colombia
Beneficiary:          Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP)
Amount:               US$32 million equivalent
Terms:                17 years, including 4 years of grace, at an interest
rate of 8.25% per annum.
Project
Description:        The project would consist in the provision of (a) term
financing to about 1,500 medium- and small-scale indus-
trial enterprises to carry out necessary investments
required for expansion, renovation or relocation of
their installed productive capacity; and (b) technical
assistance to CFP and its clients. In view of the un-
satisfied needs of smaller firms, at least 58% of the
proceeds of the loan would be channeled to industrial
enterprises with total assets below US$300,000 equiv-
alent.
Estimated Cost:
Local   Foreign   Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Construction and Installation         5.9       4.5     10.4
Imported Machinery (CIF)               -        2.0      2.0
Imported Machinery Acquired
Locally                               7.5      12.5     20.0
Locally Manufactured Machinery        5.0       4.0      9.0
Working Capital                      32.0       9.0     41.0
Technical Assistance                  0.6         -      0.6
Total                                51.0      32.0     83.0



- ii -
Financing Plan:                                        Local   Foreign   Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Bank                                   -        32.0      32.0
CFP                                  8.0          -        8.0
Other Financial Intermediaries    19.0            -       19.0
Sub-borrower's own Funds            24.0          -       24.0
Total                               51.0        32.0      83.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                FY81     FY82      FY83
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Annual        13.0      14.5      4.5
Cumulative   13.0      27.5      32.0
Relending
Terms:          (a)  US$31.4 million equivalent for fixed asset and working
capital financing:
(i)  BR to CFP:  repayable at such times as shall be
required by BR to service the proposed Bank
loan, at 21.25% p.a, on sub-projects located in
Bogota, Medellin and Cali and at 20.75% p.a. on
sub-projects located elsewhere.(*)
(ii) CFP to its clients: repayable within 4-10 years
(for fixed assets), or 3-5 years (for working
capital), including 1-3 years of grace in both
cases, at 26% p.a.(*)
(b) US$0.6 million equivalent for technical assistance:
(i) BR to CFP: repayable as in (a)(i) above, at 12%
p.a.
(ii) CFP to its clients: repayable within 4-10 years,
including 1-3 years of grace, at 15% p.a.
Procurement:      As usual under DFC-type projects, there would be no inter-
national competitive bidding. Most capital goods and materials
would be purchased "off-the-shelf" from domestic distributors.
Construction of industrial buildings would be by domestic
firms.
*   Rates subject to review (see paragraph 44).



- 1ii1 -
Consultants:        Colombian consultants would principally be utilized for
technical assistance to CFP and its clients.
Rate of Return:    Based on the experience with the first and second
projects, the financial rates of return on the invest-
ment projects to be financed by the proposed loan are
expected to average between 15% and 20%. The economic
rate of return would be higher since the project would
generate substantial additional employment.
Appraisal Report:  No. 2626b-CO, dated March 20, 1980






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A THIRD SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Banco de la Republica with the guarantee of the Republic of Colombia
for the equivalent of US$32.0 million to help finance a third small-scale
industry project. The loan would have a fixed term of 17 years, including
4 years of grace, with interest at 8.25% per annum. The peso proceeds of the
loan would be re-lent by the Banco de la Republica to the Corporacion Financiera
Popular (CFP) as follows: US$31.4 million equivalent for fixed asset and work-
ing capital financing at 20.5% or 21.25% 1/ per annum, depending on the location
of the ultimate beneficiary; and US$0.6 mTllion for technical assistance
financing, at 12% per annum. CFP's onlending rates to beneficiary firms would
be 26% 1/ and 15% per annum, for fixed asset/working capital and for technical
assistance subloans, respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 2/
2.        An economic report on Colombia (2535-CO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in June 1979. A small updating mission visited Colombia
in mid-December and this section on the economy reflects its major findings.
Country data sheets are provided in Annex I.
Background
3.        Colombia has made substantial progress over the past two decades in
the transition from a predominantly rural and agricultural economy scattered
among several isolated, but largely self-contained, regions to a more inte-
grated, urban industrial economy. The productive base of the economy has been
widened and diversified, and a modern sector relying heavily on imported
inputs has developed. The country's external sector has been strengthened by
the rapid growth of non-traditional exports. Fluctuations in domestic economic
conditions resulting from unpredictable shifts in world coffee prices, while
still considerable, have become more manageable.
4.        Following several years of erratic economic growth and high unemploy-
ment, the Colombian authorities introduced in 1967 a dramatic change in devel-
opment policy, shifting emphasis from a protectionist policy of import substi-
tution to measures designed to expand and diversify exports. With only minor
1/   Rates subject to review (see paragraph 44).
2/   This section is unchanged from that included in the President's Report
for the Fifth Telecommunications Project (Report No. P-2683-CO, of
March 10, 1980).



-2-
modifications, this export promotion strategy remained in effect until the
mid-1970s. These policies were successful in expanding non-coffee exports,
thereby alleviating the foreign exhcange constraint to growth and making
possible a higher level of investment. As a consequence, real GDP growth
accelerated to an average 6.5% p.a. between 1968 and 1974, well above the
historic average, and non-coffee merchandise exports rose nearly threefold.
5.        Despite these advances, the economy showed signs of deteriorating
by late 1974. This was largely the result of slower growth in the industrial
economies, an inelastic tax system and imported inflation which led to a
weakening of the public finances and balance of payments and an acceleration
in domestic inflation. In addition, the country was faced with a pending loss
of self-sufficiency in petroleum, its primary energy source. These develop-
ments prompted the authorities to introduce a stabilization program, accom-
panied by basic reforms of the fiscal, monetary and trade systems aimed at
restoring the basis for accelerated long-term growth. Concurrently, petroleum
pricing policy was modified to improve incentives for oil exploration and
development and policies were initiated to reduce the subsidy on local consump-
tion of petroleum products. These reforms were successful in improving the
public finances and reducing inflation in 1975, but initially caused economic
growth to slow (from 6.0% in 1974 to 3.8% in 1975) as the economy adjusted to
the changing domestic and international circumstances.
Recent Economic Developments
6.        During the three years 1976-78 the Colombian economy was subject to
severe inflationary pressures which caused the Government to focus economic
policy on short term stabilization rather than on long term development issues.
The origin of these pressures was the exceptionally high world coffee price
prevailing during this period which caused Colombia's export earnings from
coffee to increase to US$1.8 billion and US$2.1 billion in 1977 and 1978,
respectively (from an average US$725 million in 1974-75), producing an unpre-
cedented rise in incomes and internal demand. The supply of consumer goods,
particularly of basic foodstuffs which was adversely affected by drought
conditions in most of the country, lagged behind the growth in demand and
inflation accelerated to the unprecedented rate of 44% in the twelve months
ending June 1977, from 26% the preceding year. The authorities responded
rapidly by introducing a broad range of fiscal, monetary and trade policies
designed to gain control over the explosive increase in prices. As a conse-
quence of these measures and of a favorable second semester harvest, inflation
declined sharply throughout most of the following 18 months, with the annual
inflation rate leveling off at 29% in 1977 and falling to 18% in 1978.
7.        Because of the lack of dynamism in world markets and modest increases
in domestic investment, the Colombian economy expanded only moderately in 1976
and 1977, with real GDP growing by 4.6% and 4.8%, respectively, in those two
years. In 1978, however, real GDP rose by an estimated 8.5% in response to
continued strong growth in aggregate demand, supported by expanded private
investment financed increasingly through a rapidly growing extra bank market
and by favorable agricultural conditions. Since growth was concentrated in
the relatively labor intensive sectors of the economy--personal services,



-3-
trade, transport and communications, and small-scale manufacturing and agri-
culture--unemployment declined sharply during this period. In 1978, unemploy-
ment in the four major cities averaged about 8% of the labor force, compared
with an average of about 12% a few years earlier. Both the balance of payments
and the public finances generated large current surpluses in the 1976-78
period. Largely as a result of increased coffee export receipts, Colombia's
net official international reserves had risen from US$573 million at the end
of 1975 to US$2.5 billion by the end of 1978, equivalent to about nine months
imports of goods and non-factor services. This increase in reserves occurred
despite nearly 12% p.a. real growth in imports and slow growth in manufactured
exports. Curbs on public investment and higher revenues from the coffee tax
and from earnings on international reserves made possible unprecedented
overall surpluses in the public finances.
8.        Despite continuation of the stabilization policies in effect since
early 1977, inflationary pressures increased somewhat in 1979. A mild frost
in Brazil's coffee areas caused world coffee prices to rise early in the
year, resulting in an acceleration in reserve accumulation and in aggregate
demand growth. Widening interest rate differentials favoring Colombia and
real appreciation of the peso, generated short-term capital inflows, which,
together with delays in import payments, led to further reserve increases.
Receipts from illegal exports provided an additional source of funds for the
already overly liquid economy. In all, net official reserves rose by approxi-
mately US$1.6 billion for the year, reaching the equivalent of 11 months
imports at year end.  About mid-year the authorities issued a new series of
short term securities carrying highly competitive interest rates in an effort
to absorb some of the excess liquidity existing in the formal and informal
credit markets.  This issue, which represents a significant break with past
open market operations that were not interest-competitive and forced onto
financial institution portfolios, was successful in attracting funds equivalent
to 5.4% -of the monetary base by year end, helping to reduce money supply growth
(M2) in the formal market from 30% in 1978 to 24% in 1979. Nevertheless, large
wage increases and higher energy costs, together with rapid growth in domestic
demand, pushed inflation up to 30% for the year. Economic growth was strong
again in 1979, with real GDP rising by an estimated 5.5%, and unemployment
remained low. Inflation has slowed thus far in 1980 (on an annual basis the
increase in the cost of living was 27.3% through February), and the Government
is committed to reducing further the rate of inflation in coming months.
Distribution and Welfare
9.        The steady gains in per capita income, together with rapid rural/
urban migration and expanded employment opportunities for women over the past
quarter century caused a dramatic drop in the crude birth rate. The achieve-
ment of lower birth rates was facilitated by expanded family planning programs.
Consequently, Colombia's population growth rate declined sharply, from over
3% in the late 1950s, to about 2.8% in the early 1970s and to an estimated
2.1% at present. Although 66% of the population lives in urban centers,
there are now 22 cities with populations exceeding 100,000 persons. Some of
the major cities have serious transportation, housing and urban congestion
problems, however, and large numbers of persons live under poor conditions.



- 4 -
10.       Available evidence suggests that the welfare of all income groups
in Colombia has increased significantly since the 1950s and that the propor-
tion of the population living in absolute poverty has declined. These gains
were in part a consequence of reasonably good economic growth and of efforts
to raise welfare through investment in health, education, low income housing,
water and sewerage, and other social services. Existing data on income dis-
tribution trends present a less clear picture. It is probable that some
improvement occurred in income distribution between 1950 and the mid-1960s
as a result of a strong shift of the labor force from rural areas to higher
productivity jobs in urban industry and services and of relative wage gains
for urban unskilled workers. Accelerated inflation through the early and mid-
1970s caused real wages to increase less rapidly than returns to non-labor
factors of production. While the trends in income distribution during
this period are unclear, it seems unlikely that any significant improvement
occurred. Since 1977, however, rural wages have risen in real terms and
unemployment has declined notably, supporting the presumption of some
distributional improvement.
Development Strategy of the Current Administration
11.       The development strategy of the present Government is essentially
unchanged from that of the previous administration, with the most significant
variation being a greater emphasis on expanding economic and social infrastruc-
ture. The key elements of this strategy are the promotion of non-coffee
exports and investment, supported by measures to increase allocative and
productive efficiency. Factor (particularly capital) and product markets are
to be freed from unnecessary controls in order to increase efficiency and
lower costs, and tariff and non-tariff barriers to imports are to be reduced
to provide greater competition to domestic industry. These steps, along with
periodic exchange rate adjustments as required by relative cost differences,
tax rebates and favorable access to credit, are expected to provide the
stimulus for rapid growth in non-coffee exports and in private investment.
Public investment is to be accelerated, with particular stress on improving
and extending the transportation network and on resolving the country's rapidly
growing energy problem. Investments in transportation are expected to lower
freight costs substantially and those in telecommunications to facilitate
economic activity as well as to minimize the unnecessary use of transport;
both are aimed at integrating regional growth centers into a national market.
Complementary measures to encourage industry to locate outside the four major
metropolitan areas have been introduced.
12.       Raising investment and productivity in agriculture and industry are
important objectives of the Government's plans to expand growth and employment.
Substantial increases in credit are being provided to agriculture. Extension
programs are to be expanded to cover larger numbers of small and medium scale
farms and widened to include farm management and broader dissemination of crop
research. Innovative programs such as the integrated rural development (DRI)
and nutrition (PAN) projects financed by the Bank are expected to receive
continued high priority. Low income rural areas are to be helped through
rural electrification, health and education programs and through an expanded
feeder roads program. Industry, which is experiencing high capacity utiliza-
tion ratios because of lagging investment in recent years, is expected to



benefit from improved functioning of domestic capital markets, as controls
are eliminated from these markets, and from increased incentives for exports
as the real effective exchange rate recovers to pre-1976 levels. This, plus
increased competition from imports as tariff and non-tariff barriers are
lowered, should provide the stimulus for greater industrial investment and
bring about more rapid technological change.
13.       Projections of Colombia's energy balance indicate a rapidly growing
deficit which is expected to reach significant proportions in the mid-1980s
in the absence of an aggressive energy development program. High priority is
being given to the development of additional energy resources in order to
avoid the constraint on growth that large scale shortages of energy would
entail. The strategy adopted is designed to reduce the country's dependence
on petroleum as an energy source by developing substitutes. Major projects
are being executed and others prepared to expand hydroelectric power genera-
tion, and incentives are being given to private foreign companies for accel-
erated exploration and development of the country's petroleum, coal and
natural gas potential. Exports of coal and natural gas are expected to offset
a large portion of the petroleum imports projected for the mid to late 1980s.
Higher energy prices are expected to slow the growth in energy demand.  While
the total investment cost of future energy development is still being deter-
mined, preliminary estimates indicate that the required investment could run
as high as US$8.0 billion in 1979 prices over the next decade. Even under the
most optimistic assumptions regarding development of energy resources, however,
Colombia will continue to rely heavily on energy imports until the mid-1980s
when exports of coal and natural gas begin to reduce the nation's net energy
deficit.
14.       With Colombia's long term growth prospects enhanced by the increased
availability of foreign exchange and with inflation expected to moderate, the
authorities are beginning to focus policies on a number of issues that need to
be addressed if the country is to achieve its full growth potential and poverty
is to be alleviated at a more rapid pace. These issues include the reduced
competitiveness of Colombian goods in external markets brought about in recent
years by the relatively high domestic inflation uncompensated by foreign
exchange adjustments, and the slow modernization and lowered efficiency of
domestic industry resulting from low investment levels and limited foreign
competition. Public investment has not increased significantly in the past
few years and domestic resource mobilization is still insufficient, particu-
larly in comparison to the expansion required in public investment. While
income distribution and welfare trends appear favorable, substantial efforts
will have to be made to reduce the widespread poverty still existing in the
country.
15.       Economic policy is presently in a period of transition as the
authorities attempt to combine stabilization and growth measures so as to arrest
inflation while still permitting the economy to expand. Some advances have
already been made in dismantling the existing stabilization program and in bring-
ing about conditions favorable to increased investment and growth. For example,
the 100% marginal reserve requirement imposed on commercial banks has been
rescinded and the Government has taken a more active role in the capital market
through open market operations. The transition process, however, has been



- 6 -
moving slowly in certain respects and the Government recognizes the importance
of acting quickly in finding appropriate solutions to these potential constraints
to growth. Exchange rate adjustments are expected once again to become a tool
of development, rather than a component of stabilization policy, and further
measures to stimulate private investment and encourage technological change are
proposed. As inflationary pressures continue to recede, controls on interest
rates and credit, which have already been relaxed somewhat, are expected to be
further reduced as are tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade. Such measures,
once fully effective, could be expected to produce a sizeable jump in private
investment and in economic efficiency. Delays in carrying out economic and
social infrastructure investments could adversely affect growth of the pro-
ductive sectors and reduce economic welfare. Thus public investment is to be
accelerated at the maximum consistent with continued progress toward economic
stability. The Government is particularly concerned with the slow growth of
energy sector investment (with the exception of investment in hydropower).
Although some progress has been achieved as capital outlays by foreign oil
companies have risen as a result of more profitable wellhead prices and the
growth in demand for petroleum products has been slowed by higher retail prices,
the Government intends to advance development of the country's other energy
resources, i.e., coal and natural gas.
16.       Since in the absence of corrective measures both the current account
of the balance of payments and public sector savings are expected to weaken
over the next few years, mobilization of domestic resources to support the
strong expansion required in public investment is likely to be a critical
issue in carrying out the Government's strategy. The authorities are already
moving ahead on this issue, having taken measures to improve tax administration
and enforcement and to generate resources through large real increases in
charges for public services. Additional tax measures will probably be needed,
however. Capital market improvements, including realistic interest rates on
savings deposits, are expected to stimulate private savings. These efforts are
being complemented by measures to encourage the production of basic foodstuffs--
which weigh heavily in the consumer market basket--as a means of reducing infla-
tionary pressures and moderating inflationary expectations, which should have a
further favorable effect on savings.
17.       Given the country's strong resource base and with continued sound
economic management, Colombia is expected to achieve annual real GDP growth
averaging about 6% during the 1980-85 period. However, because of the expected
decline in coffee prices and with accelerating oil imports and the high import
content of future investment, the current account of the balance of payments
is expected to be in deficit throughout the early to mid-1980s. Colombia is
expected, therefore, to centinue to be a large net importer of capital for
some time to come. Even assuming that the Colombian authorities permit a
drawdown of international reserves to the equivalent of three months' imports
in the years immediately ahead, gross external capital requirements are
projected at US$10 billion between 1980 and 1985, or an annual average of
about US$1.7 billion. An increasing proportion of this capital inflow is
expected to be provided by foreign commercial and financial sources.



18.       Colombia's public external debt repayable in foreign currency amc  .ed
to an estimated US$4.4 billion at the end of 1978, equivalent to about 18% of
GDP, of which US$2.8 billion was disbursed and outstanding. The Bank/IDA share
of tbis external debt was 26.5% in 1978.  Because of the expected decline in
commitments from bilateral sources and corresponding recent acceleration in Bank
lending, this slinre is expected to exceed 30% in the early 1980s, before falling
to about 27% by  985.  Although the public debt service ratio fell in recent years
as export growth accelerated, this ratio is expected to increase from 10% in 1978
to about 15% in 1985. The World Bank's share in public debt service is expected
to rise to 26% in 1985 from 24% in 1978. Balance of payments prospects beyond
the early 1980s will depend heavily on the timely development of domestic energy
sources and on progress made in executing several natural resource-based export-
oriented projects currently under preparation. Given the expected continuation
of sound economic and financial management and timely execution of the country's
energy program, Colombia is considered creditworthy for the required external
borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
19.       The proposed loan, the 86th to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$2,432.6 million (net of cancella-
tions). Of this amount the Bank held, as of December 31, 1979, US$1,803.9
million; IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in 1961. Disburse-
ments have been completed on 49 loans and the IDA credit. During 1972-77
disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent per year, then declined
slightly to US$74 million in 1978 but increased sharply to US$135 million
in 1979. The improved performance of social sector institutions in the
execution of Bank-financed projects, the gradual containment of inflationary
pressures which should allow relaxation of fiscal restraint and the recent
Bank leniding for infrastructure projects, all point to higher levels of
disbursements in the future. IFC has made investments and underwriting com-
mitments of US$53.9 million in 24 enterprises and, as of December 31, 1979,
it held US$16.7 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,
the IDA credit and IFC investments as of December 31, 1979. The Annex also
contains summaries on the execution of the 34 ongoing projects.
20.       In response to the priority objectives established by successive
Governments (self-sustained economic growth, increased employment and improved
income distribution), since 1966, Bank lending to Colombia has become increas-
ingly diversified and has been concentrated on production-oriented programs
and activities which emphasized social as well as economic benefits.
All three loans for education have been made during this period, and so have
twelve of the fourteen loans for industry, eleven of the thirteen agricultural
loans, one loan for a nutrition project, two loans for urban development
projects and all nine loans for water supply and sewerage. During the same
period, fifteen loans were made in the power and transport sectors, while
before 1966, twenty-two out of a total of twenty-five loans were made to
these sectors.
21.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY79 consisted of two loans each for
water supply/sewerage and power, and one each for urban development, aviation
development and agricultural credit, totalling US$311.5 million equivalent.



- 8 -
In addition to the loan proposed in this report, the FY80 program includes
already approved loans for a nickel project, telecommunications and power
distribution, as well as proposed loans for vocational training, power genera-
tion and distribution, further industrial credit, and secondary oil recovery
and exploration. Work is also under way on projects for land settlement,
agro-industries, railways, ports, feeder and rural roads, further mining
development, power (including village electrification), irrigation, agricul-
tural credit, water supply and sewerage, urban development and environ-
mental improvement, for possible consideration by the Executive Directors
during the next two years.
22.       The proposed Bank lending conforms closely with the Government's
development strategy which is attuned to the requirements of the era that
began with the 1973 price rise of internationally traded petroleum. To help
Colombia develop domestic sources of energy, a sizeable part of the proposed
lending would be for hydropower. The Bank intends to assist the development
of coal mines and petroleum, which hold potential in helping Colombia meet
part of its energy requirements and in diversifying exports. Bank involvement
in the energy sector would help mobilize additional external financing as some
of the projects would require co-financing. Other future loans would finance
agriculture and industry (including agro-industry) to assist the Government in
its efforts to raise overall productivity, income and employment, and to
strengthen and diversify exports. Closely related to these objectives would
be the proposed Bank lending for transport infrastructure. In this context,
the Bank is assisting the Government in preparing a rural and feeder roads
project to integrate the more backward areas of the country into the modern
economy. Other loans under preparation for ports and railroads are aimed at
helping Colombia handle larger volumes of non-traditional exports and the
imported inputs on which the modern sector of its economy relies for expansion.
Lending for telecommunications would assist the Government in its efforts to
integrate cities and towns into the national economy and reduce the congestion
in existing networks. Finally, a relatively large number of loans are
being prepared in support of the Government's efforts to help the lowest 50%
of the Colombian population. Lending for urban development and slum improve-
ment, rural electrification, agricultural credit, land settlement, water
supply and sewerage, irrigation and environmental improvement projects is
principally designed to improve the standard of living of the poor.
23.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex I.
While IBRD, IDB, and other bilateral sources provided about 75% of total
external financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased
since then to approximately 50% for the 1975-77 period and it is expected that
during the period 1979-83 this share will decline further to about 38% of
external capital requirements. Like the Bank, IDB has given increased emphasis
to social projects and has financed projects in low cost housing, urban and
rural development, agrarian reform, uniiversity education, water supply, rural
electrification and land erosion control. In the future, it proposes to
assist Colombia to develop sources of domestic energy and to expand the
activity of the productive sectors to help generate increased employment.
USAID has supported programs in education, urban development and small farm
development, but is phasing out its aid program in Colombia over the next
few years with about US$10 million remaining to be disbursed on previous
loans. The Governments of Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany and the
Netherlands have also provided concessional financing for social and regional
integration projects.



- 9 -
PART III: THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY
Growth, Structure and Employment
24.       Manufacturing industry, which contributes about 20% of Colombia's
GDP, is a leading growth sector. Between 1967 and 1977 manufacturing output
grew by an average annual rate of 7%, a level unmatched since the 1950's
and, after a slowdown in the 1974-77 period reflecting lower growth in the
developed economies and domestic anti-inflationary programs, it rebounded to
8.5% in 1978. Even with the unprecedented increases in coffee prices, exports
of manufactured goods rose to about 14% of total merchandise exports in 1977
from only 6% a decade earlier, and contributed strongly to the sector's growth.
This export expansion was characterized by a remarkable diversification in
the range of goods exported and in trade partners. Exports to Latin America,
and particularly to Andean Pact countries, have increased very rapidly.
25.       The five largest branches of Colombian industry are textiles,
beverages, food products, chemicals and non-metallic minerals, which together
account for more than 60% of value-added in manufacturing. The most rapid
growth has taken place in textiles, with production doubling within five years.
Intermediate goods output, in items such as paper, oil products, non-metallic
minerals (particularly cement) and basic metals, have also grown rapidly.
Colombia has achieved a substantial degree of import independence, with imports
accounting for only about 20% of domestic consumption of manufactured products.
26.       Rapid population growth and rural migration have resulted in con-
tinuing high unemployment in urban areas (about 66% of Colombia's population
is urban). The recent rapid industrial growth has made an important contri-
bution towards alleviating this problem, helping to lower urban unemployment
in the four largest metropolitan areas from an average 12% in the early 1970s
to about 8% in 1978. Employment in manufacturing has grown between 4% and 5%
annually since 1968, faster than the average annual rate of 3.5% characteristic
of the 1953-63 period and 1.6% for the period 1963-68. This growth was
largely the result of rapidly growing employment in non-durable consumer goods
industries, particularly in the export sector. Compared to many other Latin
American countries, industrial wages in Colombia are fairly low. While recently
some of this comparative advantage may have been lost as a result of improve-
ments in real wages, which had deteriorated until 1978, Colombian industry has
remained competitive in the Latin American region where it sells the bulk of
its exports.
Small- and Medium-Scale Industry
27.       Small- and medium-scale industry (SMI), defined as manufacturing
firms with 5 to 99 workers 1/ represents about 92% of all manufacturing units,
1/   As yet, there is no generally accepted definition of small- or medium-
scale industry in Colombia. For sectoral analysis purposes, the defini-
tion adopted by DANE has been used above. The small- and medium-scale
industry (SMI) selected as the target group for Bank lending in this
project have been defined as enterprises with total assets not exceeding
US$650,000 equivalent.



- 10 -
employs 42% of the labor force in factory manufacturing, is responsible for
25% of manufacturing value-added and accounts for an estimated 25% of net
industrial investment. Although widely distributed among all industrial
subsectors, small- and medium-scale industry is particularly important in the
production of non-durable consumer goods and, to a lesser extent, in the
manufacturing of intermediate goods for large-scale enterprises. Foodstuffs
(15%), apparel and footwear (16%), wood and wood furniture (7%), metal products
(11%), printing (6%), non-electrical equipment (3%), textiles (4%), and
transportation equipment (7%) accounted for almost three-fourths of small- and
medium-scale industrial establishments in 1975 and the first four of these
sub-sectors provided about 50% of SMI employment.
28.       Colombia's mountainous terrain and widely distributed population
have encouraged the development of independent local and regional markets.
The small size of these markets and the high cost of internal transport
provide SMI with a competitive advantage vis-a-vis the more centrally located
firms in industries not requiring large scale production. Over three-fourths
of SMI firms are located outside the Bogota area. As stated, SMI is also an
important supplier of intermediate inputs to large industry. In this comple-
mentary role, SMI has tended to specialize and, therefore, has been successful
in withstanding competition from the large industrial enterprises.
29.       From available statistics, firms classified as SMI appear to have
had moderate economic performance during the 1970s, with employment rising
between 1970 and 1975 at an average annual rate of 3.2%, while firms classified
as larger enterprises recorded employment growing at 7.5%. However, these
figures are misleading as firms can change their statistical classification
through expansion or contraction. A sample study by DANE indicates that the
growth of SMI firms over time, in some cases leading to their classification
in later years as "large" industry, played a major role in the growth of total
industrial employment between 1970 and 1975. Since average labor productivity
in SMI has been low, 40-50% below that of large industry, increases in output
have been brought about by additional employment.
30.       Several factors limit the growth of small- and medium-scale industry,
chiefly insufficient credit and inadequate technical assistance. Other
problems include the inherent difficulties common to small- and medium-scale
industry in most developing countries, such as deficient management skills,
inadequate technology, obsolete machinery, crowded workshops, shortage of
qualified technicians, lack of quality control, inadequate raw material
supply and low capacity utilization in some branches. Also, Government
policies toward small- and medium-scale industry have not always been clearly
defined or well coordinated. However, the 1975-1978 Development Plan and the
present Government (see paragraphs 11 and 12 of this Report) amply recognize
the importance of SMI through improvements in urban infrastructure and in the
allocation of credit. The proposed project would assist the Government
in its efforts to increase the availability of credit and technical assistance
to small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises.



- 11 -
Industrial Credit
31.       Colombia's relatively well diversified financial system includes
twenty-six comnercial banks (three of which are Government owned), thirty-LV
private investment banks ("Financieras"), one public industrial development
bank (IFI), one LJrtgage bank, several savings and loan associations and
mutual funds, and stock exchanges in Bogota and Medellin. The credit alloca-
tion has traditionally favored agriculture, housing and the public sector,
with the result that private industry and commerce have had to pay substan-
tially higher interest rates than other sectors and have faced frequent
shortages of credit for both short- and long-term purposes.  Larger firms have
been able to expand through internal cash generation and by making use of
institutional sources of medium- and long-term credit and funds provided by
the extra-banking market. Private institutional credit is supplemented by
several specialized rediscount facilities. The most important of these for
industry are: (i) the Private Investment Fund (FIP), established within the
Banco de la Republica (BR) in 1963 with cooperation from the Bank, which has
attracted external financing mainly from the United States, the Netherlands,
and the Inter-American Development Bank; (ii) the Fondo Financiero Industrial
(FFI), also at BR, which makes loans to small-scale industry (SSI); and
(iii) the Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones (PROEXPO), which provides
primarily export credit. Also, the state-owned Agricultural, Industrial and
Mining Bank (CAJA) provides limited credit to the lower spectrum of SSI.
Defective accounting and the lack of a solid asset base to offer as collateral
make it difficult for SMI to have access to credit available from commercial
sources. As a result, SMI has had to rely heavily on the extra-bank market
and thus has found it even more difficult and expensive to undertake necessary
borrowings than is the case for large-scale industry.
32.       The cost of industrial credit varies greatly according to source.
Maximur nominal interest rates are established by the monetary authorities but
financial intermediaries, through additional charges and collection of interest
in advance, increase the effective cost of borrowing by 2-6 percentage points.
At present, effective interest rates of short-term commercial bank lending
range from 35% to 40% per annum. On medium- to long-term loans, CAJA is
offering the lowest nominal rates to SSI at 16%-20% per annum but on a rela-
tively small lending volume, followed by FFI's and CFP's rates ranging from
23% to 29% and IFI's at 26% per annum. DFCs now charge from 25% to 29% per
annum for long-term funds in local currency and up to 40% per annum for
short-term working capital loans.
33.       During 1973-78 the consolidated outstanding portfolio of the finan-
cial system grew at an average of 4.1% per annum in real terms, somewhat below
the average 5.5% GDP growth rate over the same period. This limited growth,
however, has been subject to short-term fluctuations as a result of Govern-
ment policies designed to arrest inflation (see paragraphs 6 and 15 of this
Report). On the other hand, industrial credit expanded at only 1.8% per
annum in real terms, over the same period. SMI's share of total industrial
credit has fluctuated from a high of 13.2% in 1970 to a low of 9.8% in 1973,
after which it increased steadily to reach 11.5% in 1978. Even this share --
modest when compared with SMI's 25% share of both industrial investment and
output -- has been difficult to come by, under pressure from recurrent credit



- 12 -
restrictioins.  In cosnnection with the second Bank loan for small-scale indus-
try, the Government increased FFI's resources and made a special contribu-
tion to CFP's equity and total resources. The flow of these additional
resources, however, was uneven and this prevented both CFP and its clients
from planning their expansion with reasonable certainty. The Government
and the Bank have reached agreement during negotiations on increases of at
least Col$150 million per annum in the domestic resources to be made available
to CFP during 1980-82. one third of this amount would be in the form of
equity, with at least Col$75 million to be paid-in by December 31, 1981. The
balance would be provided oIn terms compatible with CFP lending terms to SSI.
These contributions, which would be equivalent to about 25% of the proposed
Bank loan, would be in addition to resources utilized by CFP during 1979
(see Section 2.02, draft Guarantee Agreement).
Teclnical Assistance
34.       There are several institutions rendering technical assistance
to smaller industrial firms, but their programs focus on general managerial
and vocational training and provide little specialized consulting. By far
the most important and comprehensive programs are offered by the Servicia
Nacional de Aprendizaje (SENA), a Government institution charged with improving
skills of workers and managerial competence of entrepreneurs. The Fundacion
para el Fomento de la Investigacion Cientifica y Tecnologica (FICITEC), a
semi-private non-profit consulting institution, is providing commendable
managerial, marketing, planning and production assistance to solve specific
problems of individual firms, but the volume of its assistance (about 25
companies a year) is small. CFP also provides technical assistance to small-
and medium-scale industry. Since mid-1975, CFP's technical assistance has
improved significantly with the assistance of USAID, UNIDO and the Bank. In
general, however, technical assistance programs for small- and medium-scale
industry are implemented randomly, with little coordination and are not
tailored to the specific problems of each firm; therefore, they have limited
impact. Private consultants' services, which are readily available in Colombia
appear better suited to solve specific problems but are generally perceived by
SSI management as too costly and, consequently, are seldom used. Most SSI
firms, however, are confronted with fairly basic production, accounting and
marketing problems and can still benefit from basic technical assistance
programs designed to overcome the most commonly prevalent problems in the
subsector. These programs can be best organized by official institutions and
delivered at a more affordable cost to SSI than private consultants' services.
The indispensable requirement, though, is that official programs be based on
actual day-to-day problems faced by SSI. The matter has been discussed
during negotiations and, as a result, agreement has been reached on a state-
ment of CFP's technical assistance strategy, to be implemented through annual
technical assistance plans, which would, inter alia emphasize cooperation at
the regional level between CFP and SENA. These plans would be prepared by CFP
and reviewed annually by the Bank (See Section 2.07, draft Project Agreement).



- 13 -
Experience Under the First Two Bank Loans
35.       The first Bank loan for an SSI project, in Colombia and in Latin
America, was made for the equivalent of US$5.5 million (Loan No. 1071-CO,
January 1975). The second loan in Colombia was for US$15 million equivalent
(Loan No. 1451-CO, June 1977). Both loans were made to Banco de la Republica
(BR), with the guarantee of the Republic of Colombia, and their proceeds
were re-lent by BR to CFP. A Project Performance Audit Report (No. 2645)
on the first loan was distributed to the Executive Directors on September 6,
1979. The Report observed that the economic benefits expected from the
investments financed under the loan had been fully realized and CFP's organi-
zation had been substantially streamlined. It commended the Bank for concen-
trating on the lower range of SMI, noting particularly the favorable employment
impact of such investments. It recommended upgrading the quality and coverage
of technical assistance to SSI. This point has been addressed under the
aforementioned second loan and complementary measures would be taken as part
of the proposed project (paragraphs 34 and 41 of this Report).
36.       Upon completion of the second project (around June 1980), about
850 industrial enterprises will have received financial assistance from the
Bank. The ultimate beneficiaries conform closely to the intended target group;
two-thirds had total assets of less than US$85,000 equivalent and employed
fewer than 25 workers. The average subproject cost was US$55,000, of which,
on average, the Bank funds financed 39%. It is estimated that about 5,000
direct jobs will have been created by the investment financed with the
two bank loans, with an average investment of about US$9,000 (in 1976 terms)
per job, which is reasonable in light of Colombia's urban conditions.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       The project was appraised during April/May 1979.  Negotiations were
held in Washington during January/February, 1980, with representatives
of the Ministry of Finance, BR and CFP. The Staff Appraisal Report (No.
2626b-CO, of March 20, 1980) is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.
38.       The proposed project aims at assisting CFP to expand its credit
and technical assistance to small- and medium-scale enterprise (SMI) in order
to support the Government's objective of increasing employment and promoting
more balanced regional growth. 1/ The project would provide financing to some
1,500 SMI enterprises to carry out productive investments. It is estimated
that the project would create some 6,000 to 7,500 new direct jobs with another
2,000 jobs created indirectly through forward and backward linkages. About
70% of the sub-loans would be made outside the three large industrial centers
(Bogota, Medellin and Cali), thus fostering new economic activity in several
regions. The project would also have an important role in institution building
as it would continue the work of strengthening CFP started under the first two
loans.
1/   See footnote 1/ to paragraph 27 of this Report.



- 14 -
Project Description, Cost and Financing
39.       The proposed Bank loan would support investments by small- and
medium-scale enterprises costing, on average, US$55,000 equivalent and
requiring, in the aggregate, investments of approximately US$82.4 million
equivalent over the next two-and-a-half to three years. Based on the results
achieved under the first two loans, the foreign exchange cost is estimated at
US$32 million or 39% of total project costs. The proposed Bank loan of
US$32 million would cover all the foreign exchange cost. CFP would contribute
US$3.5 million equivalent from new share capital increases and an additional
US$4.5 million equivalent borrowed locally, or a total of about 9.6% of total
costs. Of the remainder, financial intermediaries would provide about US$19
million equivalent (23%) and ultimate beneficiaries US$24 million equivalent
(29%).
40.       The proposed Bank loan would be divided into two components.  The
first one, for fixed assets and working capital financing, would amount to
US$31.4 million equivalent. This amount would be allocated as follows:
(a) US$13.2 million equivalent to firms with total assets
not exceeding US$650,000 equivalent;
(b) US$13.2 million equivalent to firms with total assets
not exceeding US$300,000 equivalent; and
(c) US$5.0 million equivalent to firms with total assets of
less than US$100,000, located outside the areas of influence
of Bogota, Medellin and Cali.
Thus, 58% of this component would be allocated to the smaller firms and the
remainder would be available to medium size firms which are generally not
served through the Bank loans to private DFCs. Up to US$2 million of the
amounts respectively allocated to categories (a) and (b) above, would be
available to finance permanent working capital needs arising from the proposed
investment, but not in excess of 30% of the corresponding subloan, whereas in
category (c), up to 100% of each subloan would be eligible to finance permanent
working capital needs (Section 3.02(a)(ii), (iii) and (iv), draft Loan Agreement
and paragraph A.2(iv) of the Schedule to the draft Project Agreement). In
recognition of the particular problems confronting SSI in this respect, up to
28% of the proposed loan would be available to finance working capital. Given
the large number of subloans envisaged (about 1,500) the Bank loan would not
be repaid in conformity with the aggregate amortization of the individual
subloans but in equal instalments over a fixed 17-year term, including four
years of grace.
41.       The second loan component, equivalent to US$0.6 million, would be
available to finance technical assistance to SSI (US$0.5 million equivalent)
and to CFP (US$0.1 million equivalent). The Bank's experience with its
second SSI project indicates that these amounts would be adequate to meet the
internal needs of CFP and of about 10% of its borrowers which are expected to
undertake financial, managerial or production improvements in their businesses.
However, should circumstances demonstrate otherwise, the amounts allocated for
investment lending and for technical assistance could be redistributed as
agreed between the Bank and BR (see Section 3.02(a)(i), draft Loan Agreement).



- 15 -
Technical assistance to CFP would concentrate on (a) further computerization
(started as part of the second project) of information services, and (b) insti-
tutional upgrading, particularly as regards technical assistance to CFP's
clients (see paragraph 34 of this Report). Any contract to be entered into
by CFP for this purpose and to be financed out of the proposed loan would be
subject to Bank approval (Section 2.03(b), draft Loan Agreement).
Relending Terms and Conditions
42.       As borrower, BR would assume the foreign exchange risk on the
proposed Bank loan and would re-lend its peso equivalent to CFP for the same
period as the Bank loan, pursuant to a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory
to the Bank. CFP would pay to BR (a) 21.25% per annum on funds lent to SMIs
located in the areas of influence of Bogota, Medellin and Cali, and (b) 20.75%
per anum on funds lent to SMIs located elsewhere in Colombia. The resulting
larger spread to CFP is intended to encourage increased financial assistance
to industries located outside the main metropolitan areas. Whenever interest
rates of sub-loans are revised (see paragraph 44 below), the rates on the
subsidiary loan to CFP would be revised accordingly to assure CFP spreads of,
respectively, 4.75 and 5.25 percentage points. Funds for technical assistance
would be lent to CFP at 12% per annum.
43.       CFP's subloans to SMI for both investment and technical assistance
would be made for terms ranging from four to ten years, including one to three
years grace, except that subloans made exclusively to finance permanent working
capital (see paragraph 40 of this Report) would be for three to five years,
including one to three years grace. The limit for investment sub-loans not
requiring the Bank's prior approval would be US$100,000 equivalent, as it
was under the second loan and it is estimated that this would permit Bank
prior review of about 15% of the lending component. For technical assistance
sub-loans, the corresponding free-limit would be US$20,000. Adequate assurances
on the lending terms described in the last two paragraphs have been obtained
(see Schedule to the draft Project Agreement).
44.       Loans for fixed assets and working capital would carry a nominal
interest rate of 26% per annum. (The effective interest rate would be between
2 and 5 percentage points higher since interest is collected quarterly in
advance.) During 1979 prices were on average 24.8% above those of 1978 (29.8%
from December 1978 to December 1979). Inflation is expected to fall gradually
during the commitment period of the proposed Bank loan and, therefore, the
nominal rate of interest on funds committed during this period is expected to
be substantially positive in real terms. Nevertheless, as such estimates are
inevitably conjectural, agreement has been reached to maintain the nominal
interest rate on this type of subloan under review throughout the commitment
period of the loan.  This review would be undertaken twice a year by BR, in
consultation with the Government. BR has advised the Bank that it intends to
maintain the interest rate positive in real terms (see paragraph 58 of this
Report). Should the Bank have objections to any rate thus fixed, the Govern-
ment, the Bank and BR would review the matter jointly and, should they fail to
reach agreement on the interest rate level within the next 60 days, the Bank
would be entitled to stop approving or authorizing investment projects submitted
by CFP until such agreement is reached. This is a modified version of the



- 16 -
system agreed in connection with the Bank's seventh DFC project (Loan 1598-CO,
June 1978) and places greater responsibility for relending terms on the
Colombian authorities while retaining sufficient safeguards for the Bank.
Adequate assurances have been obtained in this case (see Section 3.03, draft
Loan Agreement). On the other hand, all technical assistance subloans would be
made at a nominal interest rate of 15% per annum.
Project Execution and Organization
45.       CFP would be responsible for the appraisal and supervision of
subloans, and for providing or making arrangements for technical assistance
when required by its borrowers. Banco Popular, a Government-owned commercial
bank, founded CFP in 1967. As of December 31, 1978, CFP's paid-in capital
totalled Col$478 million. Banco Popular and its subsidiary Corporacion de
Ferias y Exposiciones, which is responsible for commercial exhibitions and
conventions, held 35%; the Government (through the Ministry of Development and
its agency, PROEXPO, which is responsible for export promotion and financing)
64%; the Institute of Industrial Development (IFI) and the private sector
held the remainder.
46.       CFP's Board is headed by the Minister of Development ex oficio and
includes six other members and seven alternates from the Government, the
industrial community, and national technical assistance and export-import
institutions. The Board actively guides CFP's policies and operations. The
Board-appointed Loan Commmittee is empowered to: (i) approve operations
between Col$600,000 and Col$5 million; and (ii) make recommendations to the
Board on all larger requests. Also, in response to the Government's decentral-
ization policies and to cope more efficiently with the increasing business
volume, CFP established in 1976 Regional Advisory Boards for each of its
branch offices to: (i) review and approve credit applications between a
minimum of Col$350,000 and a maximum of Col$l million depending on each
location; and (ii) orient the activities of regional offices and provide
operational assistance to them.
47.       CFP's operations are governed by its Statutes and its Statement of
Operating Policies. During negotiations, it was agreed that CFP's Statement
of Operating Policies and Procedures would not be modified if in the Bank's
judgement such modification adversely affected CFP's operations (Section
5.01(e), draft Loan Agreement). As regards the financing of industrial
buildings, agreement has been reached on an amendment to the Statement, to be
enacted as a condition of loan effectiveness, providing that CFP financing
should be used only in the construction of productive facilities, outside the
area of influence of Bogota, Medellin and Cali (Section 6.01(e) draft Loan
Agreement).
48.       CFP's branch network grew from nine to fourteen during 1975; further
increases in the number of regional offices are not contemplated. CFP's staff
is relatively inexperienced but most department managers have served at least
three years with CFP and, on the whole, the staff possess the basic knowledge
a-d skills necessary to carry out their tasks. Professional staff grew from
6. in 1974 to 129 at the end of 1977 and has remained at that level since.
the past, management and staff turnover has been a problem for CFP, with



- 17 -
considerable detriment to the continuity of a number of CFP's programs,
particularly technical assistance. However, the new management which took
over CFP with the change of government in August 1978 has decreased turnover
by raising salaries and promoting from within.
49.       During 1974-78 CFP's assets, financial expenses and gross income
grew at an annual rate of about 40% in nominal terms (or about 13% per annum
in real terms). At the time the second loan was made, CFP undertook to reduce
its administrative costs from 7.8% of average total assets to 5.8% by 1981.
This objective was reached in 1978 but it had a cost in terms of CFP's ability
to discharge its development role, particularly regarding technical assistance.
As operations and assets grow, CFP should be able to achieve greater economies
of scale on administrative costs and fulfill its functions without a relative
increase in operating expense. However, in order to assist CFP to meet the
start-up costs of its expanded technical assistance operations (see paragraph
34 of this Report) and a somewhat lower than expected growth of portfolio in
1980, agreement has been reached with CFP on maintaining administrative costs
at not more than 7.5% of average total assets in 1980, 6.9% in 1981 and 6% in
1982 and onwards (Section 3.07(b), draft Project Agreement).
50.       One of the consequences of high staff turnover has been a relative
decline in the quality of subproject appraisal where generally more emphasis
has been placed on the existing enterprise than on the incremental effects
of the proposed investments. UNIDO's technical assistance (see paragraph
34 of this Report) includes a review of CFP's credit regulations and proce-
dures with the objective of (i) requiring a judgement from the credit analysts
on the proposed investments, (ii) improving the financial and market analysis,
and (iii) streamlining the appraisal process. Approval by CFP's Board of
Directors of revisions to CFP's credit regulations and procedures, satisfactory
to the Bank, would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01(d), draft
Loan Agreement). The quality and scope of supervision has been mainly a
reflection of CFP's management concern over portfolio quality and arrears (see
paragraph 52 of this Report). Informal supervision works acceptably well in
small cities, but an improved, more systematic effort is needed in the larger
urban centers where personal knowledge of numerous clients is clearly imprac-
tical.
Financial Performance
51.       CFP's local resources have originated mainly from PROEXPO, Banco
Popular and FFI. External resources have come from USAID, KfW, IDB, and the
Bank. CFP equity has grown from Col$67 million to Col$517 million during
1972-78, or an increase of almost eight times in seven years (about 13% per
annum in real terms), achieved, in part at least, as a result of agreements
reached with the Bank in connection with the previous two loans.  Agreements
reached in connection with the proposed third loan (see paragraph 33 of this
Report) would add another Col$450 million in new domestic resources during
1980-82. However, despite the agreed equity component (Col$150 million) of
such contributions, CFP's debt/equity ratio is expected to grow from 2.6:1 in
1978 to the 5.5:1 limit agreed with the Bank in connection with the second
loan. Increased lending during 1980-82 would be financed primarily from
external sources (Bank, 60%), while increases in net worth would contribute



- 18 -
only 9%. The resulting debt service burden and the relatively narrow profit
margins usually associated with SSI lending make it advisable to establish
the debt/equity ratio limit at 6:1 and assurances have been obtained to that
effect (Section 3.04, draft Project Agreement).
52.       Despite short-term fluctuations in resource availability, CFP's
portfolio has grown rather steadily at about 40% per annum (or about 13% per
annum in real terms) since 1974. This appears in line with the growth of
CFP's equity (see paragraph 51 of this Report) and considerably better than
the financial system as a whole (see paragraph 33 of this report). CFP pro-
jections indicate a 5% annual portfolio growth in real terms over 1978-82,
which appears somewhat conservative in the face of projected GDP growth of
about 6% per annum during the same period. Arrears, which in the past were a
reason for concern to the Bank, represented, at end 1978, 10.5% of the port-
folio, while provision for bad debts stood at 3.5% of total portfolio or 31%
of the portfolio in arrears. These figures are considered acceptable for a
lender to SSI.  CFP's gross   income has also risen at about 40% per annum in
nominal terms (or about 13% per annum in real terms) during 1974-78. Profits
after taxes rose from 0.8% to 2.0% of average equity between 1976 and 1978.
Net profits after taxes are projected at 7% of average equity for 1979.
Thereafter, however, income growth is expected to be balanced out by growth in
administrative and financial expenses and result in projected net profits
after taxes of about 5% to 6% of average equity during the period 1980-82.
Procurement and Disbursement
53.       As is customary in this type of project, procurement of goods and
services would not be subject to competitive bidding. Except for some direct
imports, sub-borrowers would obtain most of the capital goods "off-the-shelf"
from Colombian suppliers or local distributors of foreign suppliers. Competi-
tion appears sufficient to ensure reasonable prices. Colombian suppliers of
the type of equipment to be financed out of the proposed loan do not enjoy
high levels of effective protection from imports. The local construction
industry is also efficient and competitive. Practically all consultant
services are expected to be provided by Colombian firms. Agreement has been
reached that CFP's subloan documents will include adequate rights for CFP to
ensure that goods and services financed out of the proposed loan will be
procured at reasonable prices, taking into account such relevant factors as
time of delivery, efficiency and reliability of goods, availability of mainte-
nance services and spare parts and the quality and competence of those render-
ing services. (Paragraph A.2(viii), Schedule to the draft Project Agreement).
54.       The Bank loan would be disbursed against (a) 100% of the foreign
expenditures on directly imported goods, or (b) up to 100% of the amounts
(i) spent by CFP in consultants services to CFP or (ii) disbursed by CFP under
subloans for investment projects or for technical assistance, but not in
excess of 90% of the cost of specific goods and services required for any
investment project. In the case of finished industrial buildings, Bank
financing would be limited to facilities in the Rionegro industrial park,
a venture 85% of which is presently owned by CFP, and the maximum disbursement
would be 70% of the reasonable purchase price of facilities at said park.
The above arrangements are intended to ensure that, without detriment to CFP's



- 19 -
operational flexibility, in all cases domestic funds are also avai .able to
finance the investment project in question. Adequate assurances have been
obtained in respect of these matters (Section 2.02(a), draft Loan Agreement).
55.       Due to the large number of subloans, CFP would continue to submit
proposals below he free limit (US$100,000 equivalent) on a monthly basis and
those above the free limit on an ad-hoc basis. In order to streamline the
procedures followed in the first two loans, CFP's requests for disbursements
would be sent directly to the Bank, with copies to BR; loan disbursements,
though, would be made to BR, as borrower of the proposed loan. Disbursements
for the direct acquisition of imported goods would be made against the usual
purchase and shipping documents submitted to the Bank; all other disbursements
would be made against CFP's certified statements of expenditure and supporting
evidence would be retained by CFP for inspection by Bank supervision missions.
Adequate assurances have been obtained in these respects (Sections 2.02 and
2.03, draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.02, draft Subsidiary Loan Agreement).
Disbursements are expected to be completed within FY83, substantially as
estimated in page ii of the Loan and Project Summary of this Report.
Benefits and Risks
56.       The economic and social benefits resulting from the project would
be substantial. Based on the results of the first two projects, it is estimated
that the project would help foster 6,000-7,500 direct employment opportunities,
with another 2,000 created indirectly through forward and backward linkages.
The average investment cost per job created as a result of the project is
expected to be around US$11,000 (in 1976 prices), roughly comparable in real
terms to the investment cost per job under the second project. This figure is
about half of the estimated marginal investment cost per job for the Colombian
industrial sector as a whole. Most significantly, the project would provide
credit to a group that has been generally denied access to term financing,
help develop local management capacity and contribute to the broadening of
business ownership in Colombia, while creating new employment and income
opportunities for workers on the lower levels of the income distribution scale.
Given the expected wide geographical distribution of subloan recipients, the
project would also support the Government's policies to achieve a more balanced
regional development and decentralize economic growth. As borne out by the
results achieved under the first two loans, the financial rates of return on
the investment projects to be financed by the proposed loan are expected to
average between 15% and 20%. The economic rate of return would be higher
since the project would generate substantial additional employment, as noted
above.
57.       The project is technically feasible and does not represent any
unusual risk. One uncertainty is whether the project may be implemented
in the time proposed should CFP be unable to mobilize the required local
currency resources as anticipated. However, given the assurances obtained
from the Government that adequate additional funds will be obtained in a
timely fashion (see paragraph 33 of this Report), it is expected that the
project will be carried out within the intended period.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Banco de la Republica,
the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Corporacion Financiera
Popular, the draft Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Banco de la Republica and
Corporacion Financiera Popular, the statements of the Borrower concerning its
interest rate policy, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft resolution
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
59.       Special conditions for the proposed loan are listed in Section III
of Annex III. A special condition of effectiveness would be that BR and CFP
have entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (Section 6.01(b), draft Loan
Agreement).
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 31, 1980



- 21 -
ANNEX I
COLOMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                Page  1 of  5
LANDDALEA(THOUSABDIA. KM.)REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED Ay.ERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. 1XM.)               C0LOHJI- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL          1138.9                                                SAME        SAME    NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL    225.6                               MOST RECENT    GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b     REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)               240.0       380.0    870.0          1124.4    1097.7       1942.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    491.0      606.0    685.0           943.1      730.7      1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    15.8       21.3      24.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL) 48.2      59.8      65.5           59.3       49.0        51.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    38.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      55.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED               2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      14.0       19.0      22.0           23.5       44.6        28.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    71.0       93.0    109.0            80.5      140.7       100.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       46.0        46.8      38.0           40.9       41.3        35.4
15-64 YRS.        -              51.0        50.5      59.0           54.4       55.3        56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.0        2.7       3.0            3.9        3.5         5.1
POPULATION GROWTR RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            3.1         3.0       2.1            2.4        2.4         1.7
URBAN                             6.01      5.2       3.9            3.7        4.5         3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.0       36.0      30.0           32.8       31.1        27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    14.0       11.0       6.0            8.5        9.2         9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.2         3.2       1.8            2.4        2.2         1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     ..       115.4    263.8
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..      48.6            17.7      34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        97.0        99.0    107.0            99.4      104.4       102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  94.0       92.0      94.0 /k        107.0     105.3       120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        50.0        51.0      45.5 7k        60.4       64.4        80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      28.0       29.0      36.8 /1        28.3       23.5        31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    17.0       13.0       9.0            6.7        8.6         5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   53.0       58.5      62.0           63.6       60.2        65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..         ..      98.0/          76.1       46.7        45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..       63.0      64.0           63.4       60.8        69.4
URBAN                              ..         ..      73.0           79.5       75.7        85.1
RURAL                             ..          ..      46.0           38.6       40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..       47.0      48.0           58.8       46.0        70.1
URBAN                              ..       75.0      73.0           77.8       46.0        88.3
RURAL                              ..        8.0      13.0           24.5       22.5        33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        2400.0      2170.0   1820.0          1841.9    2262.4       1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON   3740.0      2040.0        ..          933.7    1195.4        765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           580.0      510.0    530.0           563.4      453.4       197.6
URBAN                              ..         ..    320.0           279.4      253.1       260.2
RURAL                              ..         ..   9670.0          1140.9    2732.4       1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..        23.0      25.0           25.7       22.1        17.3
NOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..        6.0       5.7/J          5.0        5.3         4.7
URBAN                              ..         ..       5.5J;          4.8        5.2         4.4
RURAL                             ..          ..       5.9J           5.3        5.4         5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..         ..       1.8/d          1.3        1.9         1.1
URBAN                              ..         ..       1.6            1.3        1.6         1.2
RURAL                             ..          ..       2.4             1.5       2.5         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                           47.0/f        ..      58.1/          54.3       50.0        66.0
URBAN                           83.07         .-      87.5T          80.1       71.7        85.1
RURAL                            8.07         ..      13.2           14.2       17.3



- 22 -
ANNEX I
COLOMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                     Page  2  of  5
COLOMBIA                   REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED Ay1RAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /a
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  77.0        100.0      106.0             07.3       102.5        101.7
MALE                  77.0         98.0      103.0            109.1       103.6        110.0
FEMALE                77.0        102.0      109.0            107.4        97.1         92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  12.0         23.0       35.0             40.5        33.5         51.2
MALE                  13.0         23.0       35.0             40.4        38.4         56.4
FEMALE                11.0         22.0       35.0             39.0        30.7         43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  31.0/h         21.0       17.0            1.5         11.5         18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             38.0         38.0       30.0             37.1        35.8         27.1
SECONDARY                           11.0         17.0       19.0             17.9        22.9         25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         63.0         73.0       81.0             77.4        64.0         86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENCER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION        -                  7.0         11.0       16.5             29.1        13.5         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         139.0        105.0      119.0            172.1       122.7       225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPLLATION                          11.0         38.0       51.0             67.9        38.3        102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   56.0                    69.0             76.1        40.0         78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..        6.8              4.2         3.7          3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       5100.0/f    6200.0    6700.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    18.9         24.6       24.6             21.5        25.0         24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               51.4         37.9       31.0             30.2        43.5         28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.2         21.0      23.0              23.8        21.5         30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.6         29.7       29.7             30.9        33.5         33.8
MALE                                  49.8         44.9       44.7             47.3        48.0         51.3
FEMALE                                11.6         14.6       14.6             13.3        16.8         16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.7/f       1.7        1.6              1.5         1.4          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   41.2/f i    31.9/i          ..             23.7        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  67 7/f i    60.17i          ..             58.7        52.1         57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.17Tf         3.5/i       ..              2.9         3.9          3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.87           10.1/i     ..              9.9        12.6         11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     214.D             265.6       270.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      197.0            185.1       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      267.0            396.3       282.5        550.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      122.0            308.1       248.9        403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       34.0             35.2        20.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..             46.6        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c Latin America & Caribbean: /d Internediata middle Income (t551-1135 per capita, 1976);
T7  UPrer Middle Income (S1136-2500 per capita, 1976); /f 1964; Lj 1951-64; /h Includes
techer-training at the third level; /i Economically active populstion; /1 1973. /k National
data, not strictly comparable with previoua years. Recent JAO data show 102.0, 52.0 and 26.0,
respectively for these three measures.-
Moet Recent Estimace of GCM per capita is for 1978.
Bayised October 1979



-2s-,
ANNEX 1
DEFIMOKS O  SOCTL  MICTORSPage    3   o~ 
Notes:  Although the data are dram   fros  -ouce  gene.rally joidged the mat sithoebtative sad reliable, it should alas he Mated that they may son be intea--
tionaL-Ly  -oapsobie beoua  of the Lace of standardloed defbaitions  od concepts used by dIfferent coutries in coi1ectig the data, the oats  r,antees
usflto b-orbe orders of agoltode, tadioate treads, and oharteib-ecetain major differences tet-seec ost-ss.
Th  1-jotad cr000 ..erIgec toe each inui-ator are pspslation-oegbted geomtric seabs, .esludlug the extreme olues of the indicator and tie soot populated
oootr;In  ac  grup.Dietolack of data, group a-eragee of all iadioators for Capital Sueplux Oil  bport-e  and of ondioato- of Access to Water and tEcreta
Disposa, Zouing, Prom   Distributio  and Poverty foe other coutry grouPs are pspulanion-oeghted geomtrIc men   ithcUt emolssn  of the e-tr-s  vausad
the mot copulated ocuntry.  Shor  the  ovrage  fcutre                s  theinictosepnd  on-avilabilit  obf data end Is sot uniform. caution mut he exerised
in r-lnto  aveages of cne oclotn  tanther   These avrgs  r    astSy usfil as anProobsati... ofh..oed   nle                                -bsoopaiogtevaesoon
indicator at a time smes  the country and -eferen   groups.
LAnD ARPA  ~thouand uqk.h. IAcces  to PrtaDsosl(peet  of popslattus) - total,  -I-ia, en                                                                                Iua 
Total - Toctal surface are  cop, _ig land araad islano eaters.                             Nme   fcoi   ttal,, uIrban,and  ua) oe-vd bty e-cret   i                  la
Agiclurl-   ot recet cooote of sg uiorlarea usd tesporarily                       pe-etages of these r-onetice coplation.  Ducret  disos   a   oid
orperanently for crps, psut-rec  rarit and kitchen gardens or tthcoetisadipsl, ihor sitbout treatmen   of' humoturet
lieall.n.                                                                               and sate-eater by eater-hos  system   or the use of pi, priobes endsola
UlIP PER CAPITA  (10$) - GNP Per capita estiae  at current maket prics                      uuanu   e   byian-Psolatioc ulcided by uub-r of pracoiooog pbpios-os
onlcuTlated by sane co-v.si.. hethod an World Bank Anlna 11976-7, bais).
196C, 1970, and 1978 d.t.~~~~~~~~                                  Popultbon per  ursIng Perasa - Pcpuitios divide1d byl nuber of practicIng male
ENEiht CONSUMiPTION PER CAPITA - Ansua1 cosuPtion of -cine-iul  -nrae                        and femle graduase nurse, practical  -u-e, and  --otantnus.
(ocal  nd iigite,  etrolem, naural gs andbydro-  nuclar and~     Poplato  one oun,pital had -tsal. urban, and rural -  opulatton  ~total, urban,
thera   eecriIt) isigrsm   of coal equi-aleat Per capita; 1960                              n   ual   ibedb hi  repectice nuber-of hospital beds aemiable i
19711  and 119% data.                                                                     publb  and pri-ane genral and spesaLised hontpital and rehabilitt-o  centers
Hospitals are esnbji~h_t.n pe_anetly staffed by an leas  on  physs-iab.
PDPIjIATION AND VITAL STAfTiISTIS                                                            Entablibah.ets providing prisipmlly custsdhi.  car  are s ot isoluded. aRa1l
Tlcool Psou 'tict, rio-dem     avIiio-) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, std                   hospitals, hb..ecer, include health and medical oet-  noct permnetly utaffed
1:177 data.                                                                             by a physician (hut by a medic.al anis tant, turs,  ldsfe, eto.) shih offer
Urba  Thoulstoo  peroet of total) - Patio of urban, t  total pupuiatio;               is-_patient anooadatlxa and Provide a  iietted range of medical faciloose.
iffe-eot defi-tini- of urban area  asy affect coparability of dtna                    Adminoboss Per 4oaptal Bed - Total number of uasob-ina to or u;s-tsrg-o Iron
,5a  ootrien t,911), i97t, and 1975 data.                                            boapitals divided by the nuber of beds.
yoZlo o   n  er210_OO  - furrentpopulation Pnje-nicas are based o            HOUSINGI
1201 total. puntlos by beande  and theIr  artality and fetiitoy                     Average Sloe of H-hnrbid (persns Per- h         huebld) - tonal,  rban, end rura  -
rates.  rojecton parmetersfur nortlinty eaten  -npriae nf three               A sousebld cons ists uf a grcup cf iolodl  nh  share lio-oqurtr  and
hero  nuing Isfe e-petanoy an birth  --orasig suhb cutry a                       their main meals.  A hoarder or iceger any or ay not ho  -ncluod on tie
per ooit           1-ncmeise   and fe-mle If.f  espeotano  utablinig at               houshold for otatixticul purposes.
P5yeses   The para-etov  toe feroIIt  rte also hace thre  level                  Aveae=     uoc   f coon per  nan- totl            -ia,adrra       vraesne
ai-iislg de-li- is fertilipy  -ocoding to income len   and past                       of persoopr room  in all ura,ad rura  vocurie  c on-r.tbnatiseh o
famil  nIi.oin  pe-f- - iE. mo   c-ntry is then asigned on  of these                  I- rcpet-ioy.   _nlog   cIude non-pe rmanet struture  and  -noopi- pa-tc.
oiOcminations of =ortklsty ano fernlllnp trends for projeotion                 Atce_  t   etroty  percet of d-ellings( - total, orbs so  rra  -                    -
purpose.                                                                               -entionnl d-ellbgo  with el-trn-ity In living qurer-s-            eostg 
Itutot-y copultion-  an o  tatio-ry population ther  is so grouth                       total, urban, and rural  dwe11Ings respe-n-ce.
olic tie birth rate is oqual to the death rate, and also the age
ztruon rev...io-v-nstst. Thosahievd only after fertility rates                 tiSfATTIN
eoC joe to the    I re -cnot irve  of unit -et reprodutin rate, she-               Adjusted EnroILnet Patios
e_h g-n-rtixofumee repaces itself e-atly.  The stationary popu-                       Primary noncol - total ruead female -Oross to~I, male an  !eexle coroll
mo  isslo  uso -tto-td 00 tho hacks of the projected characterIstics                    .ent u;fall agsat the Priary levl     peroetagen of re-peti-e pr-sary
of tIe population In the pea  2000, and ohs rate of decline of fertility                 schcol-sge ppultoicon; torsalp  includes children  -cd 6-11 y-ar  hot
-te to  elcnetlvl                                                                        ad junted for oofferet I-ngths of pr-anry education; for o               -rvli  th
Yevsascaryouitio... lin ratd- The pear  he- statosary pupalatis                      universal educatIon es..et        .ay     ..ed 100 peret oooz     smi   pp-
cu .cn  oe  reahed.                                                                 ar  hle  csbo  toe offi-al school age.
Pvuit  - lnity                                                                      loxdr   ool-ttl   aeand femal  - Conptndatio:o tab
ko.s   a    -  id-yea  popultion Per squar  iilosster (iDe hbetares) of               education require  at leat four year  of appro-ed pr-oy ooriis
total ares                                                                              provides general  -nctoonal , s- tesher training Intuto.    rpup,io
0er 00. 0.nnclu    imad - tputro as above fnr agriculturl land                            usually of 12 to 17 pears of age; correpondene...         io   r  g-,ertly
only.ecued
P.pujtloi g   Jrtaeorsn}-ChIldren (0-14 ycara(, ocrisig-age                               Voainle..letloreto                         eodar)-   Vocational ici  tinuoon   oroluo
.1-nyas,and rtie inpero and ser) as percentages of nod-year                         -hical, Indusril,o  othepog                 hi se   Pe-ai  independentlyoro
conculatuo.; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                   department  of   -d-noay isatitotionn.
fou nto  GroEthhate (percnt - oaL nulcrnnrtso7oalsd                                     ui-echrrtopo                y  and sesondary - Total studnnto ranolid it
fea  po pulations for 1910-Ad, Oo70, tnd i9D-fpiee  an oecondary  ecs  ioedbcurooftaesinti   0m
P.culat:ocdGMt  hate 'percet) - obie   - dnnual groth rates of urbe                          bponding hev-l..
P. ulntos I fo   90-c,'90-d sond 1170-5                                                 Adult Iltoacy rate (percent) -.L litert  adoito    ien   eoo   rt)a
trodebhethhate   er ohusand  - sooa   Icebirh, e  huado  00-                     a p-orvtsge of total adult population aged 15peranovr
yea ?pnplntioa; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.
Crude lesth  ete ) pe  thousand) - Ansual doaths Per thuu-and of nil-yea              CONSUoMPTION
population; 19, 1970, and 1977 dana.                                                  Pasege ECr  'Per ;thunan  popolatoov) -  asoe   atoorn   st-rnr
lao, produc iohate - bsa--o ounhe of daughters a -oa   ill sersa Ing les  than eight peron; eonloden ambulance, hease  and -uinary
onhrsonlrprodu-ti-e p--d if ohe e-p-rie--e  p-reot  ge-                          vehicles
ope-fic fertil_ity eaten; os-alip fiv-pear averages ending in i961,                   Radio Rccover  (per thounand opoott    - AII  yp-e of  --e-or  for mdli
190I   n   95                                                                           broad-osn  ongnrlpbi            -e hounad of popvilstion;  -i, oVe  unioo-d
Pan1Y Pine=i  -Acoeptors hAnu1 (nicuounds) - Annual cnber if                               reeier  -outroe  end in pea s-sa   reg-ot-t-n of frnuo   ceto  i   r
o-cptoes of birth-o-ntr1 se-ce  under aep-e  of ostlona1 fenily                         pffet~ vista fov  -rent perar  say  to  be oo-p-rble sinc  c.t.ncoore
planning trcgre.                                                                        abolished licnsng.
FVi Iy V1inoe        dor  (ecnt of married  "oMs  - Pe--etago of maried                 rPe eivr   per thcunanocosltit   TV rcIvers- fur hr-ud-t  t..ve-rrn
cone  of child-terin  agb.l yae   t  one birth-control de-i-o                            pubic pe-huadp-o-in   cloe   niesd  trvscr   .0 7ttrio
to all  --rrod women iesne  ge group.                                                   and In yea    h..e r-gistrati-s  f T,et  tan ieffesot.
POOP AND itffhDTtOis  ~ ~ ~   ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       .Iessospe C-iruation (pse thoossod us-lat-o) - Sh-u  thr  orgcioloo
Ivdec f  food a7Roductioo pee Inpita i196-~7l=i0) - Inde- of Per ccinato '_daily genral nteret n-opoce:r', defoned axoper,odionl publIcilct
enol  rdoctionof all food ooemdltiei. Pr-outineo -lodes oed and                     if it nopenroiot lat~  for- i timeo-neen.-d-                             t
fe dan.0o  osles..ar Yea  hb-.-   omod4tie- cover pr,cary goods                     iemvitualp. ttenec  cer. Cti-n oc -cc   nod0   he:nnofi
e..-ga  Ian  intead of engar) ohch ieedI bl  an d cost nit ostr lots                 sold durong- thy yea,  -nlu-log udi--oo   no drico        --oco a  nod co,ic~
eI.g. coifee ad tea ar  eu-loded).  Aggregate Prd-tsoaofes-hcu-may 
In haned on  atosi nerg  producr price -eighta.
Per -npiu ou.1pply of onriv   percet of  r-iemai     Computed from                  LABOR fiPIt
.cergy equscl-st of oct fooo  -sppl-e  n-inble be country per canon                Total Laior Force  'thunands) - Eoo.om.onily acto- yepe,-n.  -oludig treed
pe  lay.  At_ilnile cpplibr  ocohe         -oet'o produotlo   imports len             foros- ad one-ployd but c-1ldiog hooseo-s, stoo.eots,  tc  irfo i
topsrt~, and change  00 uticA.  Set'  uPpc  onc i.de anlea  feed, sesus,              onc    -onootri-  er       -c oparbi-e
-~                   uantotles used o  od provnsog  ad losso   iti bution. R"ieqbr-                     Femal   -roent) - Fe-1i  uioZr fo,rce  pirsentago  of total Isio.r f-r-
-eonsue- d. etoe-td bly FAl --oc  onPhY-1.oigial o-eo  for no(lPriutr    .e...ut) - labor foCe in f-rmag, foretry, bunting and
o  itiiy ndhealth  "oonodc....g bcooesnoa  te-pe-tur-, body -eighto,                 fiunoogo   percetge of total iabor force
ag  nd sooor uin   4   ountr,ad als    10 p--oot fcr                              Induntry 'percet) - Labor forc  in mining, ocsrcio,enfaotorng cod
t500  at hou-eboi  leo-l.                                                            e1ocoricsty, oner and gas a  percetags of tobal inor foce
Per apii '. iPply ofpoto    ra vr day) - Prnteie zon5_b of per-riial Ht  prot)   total   ae enu feae -Vatioipntion o
onpon000suplyoffco  pr Oy.bla  oPply of focd is desite n-nnoo   ae   r   optdo   oa,   ae   n   csrbo   ov   op
shvePquierm-to for all coutries esnbliuheo by 01DA pr-oide foe a                   -entge- of total, male end femle populaio  of nlagsrpe                   ly
ainisan  llonnos  f hI grams of total protein Per day as 20 gram  of             1960, 1970, end 1975 data.  These are Ilidi partooorstisn  rates refILeog
anml n  pul- prtotin, of caih 10 gram  shosld he animal pentean.                  age-se  otrotur  of the population, end long tim  trend.  A fee estimtes
mine standards tin loe  tho ohone of 75 grams of tntal protein   d                    are from national sorces
Pgrmof -enind  roteJssoan  veag  for the oxrld, propose d by PAO               Economi Depedenc.y Patio  -   att,i of Ppopuatio  sneer It end 65 sod ovr to
00 the flied Word food furosy.                                  te  lsbc  fcroe i  age groupof161yas
Per -nitor-vori  -OPiD foanml1 end poise - Prot.i. supply of food
lrroved frm  nia a    anoI puesIngrm  pr  sp                                             DDISRBT IOXDN      In..'t1Inch   dkd)-..- byiht
.0  gegrop  -I  ets,  o  bilrc h 0 thuig.     gop  for  ntdvl                       pecn,frihestt5   ecnt   cr    20 peroen t, an  pooret u0 percent
oPlig -ountis  data derived from life taiblen                                           of hn...eholde.
lIfe toootns nn nth B 1b Y--eo  - Averag  nunie  of year  of life                        .latomtd dAbolote Poe.pI, Incom  levl 1$ Per -noto) - ura-          sorua-
reann    olrto; ib.171   os 1977.  it.Absolute pooerty Incme  eve  lo thaig.  onon  irce  beiv-  h-sh a  -onma
blnfot Mtoloty, Ont    te thousad) - A-n.I tdeathso  aantn underon                        nut-ritionly s-qu-to uit plno ..nential ton-loon  -eq--eeou.   o
year of age pee  h-uoad 11i0 births.                                                    sffordanle
Av_e-to SfIr Waero-e-et of pt              c)-total urban, nod rual -                   EOtorated Penie         rtY !Incm   L-ol 01$ per can Ion~ - u-tan end rurlI
ipinber  f people tonl, urbansod rual tt  reasona.ble acorns to                      ura reaiecen    noe  ee   soetr   f a'verg  Pee vapin
onVIfe sat-e suppl  ~i-nlode-o-tcd ouf-n  saer  c- untreted hot                         personal inton  of the country. Urban leve  Is deebos  from  the ro-a  lovei
vi-ot-moted eater o-   -u that f-o  prct-oteo bor-tie, springs,                         oith adjustment foe highor cot of livig is  rebanaes
auan n- see      uoicfotl  or, standpoot beaned cct mar tinhrrau   Per-t`i                                ofpupuintio   urban aurrl   t   v    bouepo
noco0  hat los . P  voal uen   re-nbeaos   cld imly
thtthe  -osn  oro         -tr  of the hto..ebsld do nont lac  to ipenx aEtoossi  and lu-;al Data Pcoo
di,_.iusc t-ni tan  Part of tbs Pay on fetching the fenly' s cate  seeds                                                  t.... iPoalysin  -n  Pr-j etioo   hapartmet
August 1.979






ANNEX 1
70090020 9V710004N3DATA                                   Xaor 4 nE N
A-,.1                 E______             -d __-____  cn)nrd           AcenneAnua  Nnn-   Rates                    A  Percen  af AN?
1967-69                                                                                       91A-9- 1973-   1980-
Averge       1977        1976       1977       1979       1979       1969        1993             7N          79       85           1979        1979       7497~
SANIOSAL A0077I7NTS                                                        107b Prints and  abz        Nat
Area  DIn...tin P-nd-n                        9,661      14,567    15,736    15,971    17,329    1d,2A2    19,3701    25,933                     6.3         8     6.0          100.9      19U.(I    199.9
GaIns Fran Tro  of Trade (+                    -751       -99                      692    4_ 24           93        264       -A34-                                              14.6         N.2        1.7
Ar-as  -etafni -o                             8,979      13,866    15,236    10,669        17,713     19,365    19,115    25,999                  9.4      7.93    5.9           95.2      909.5        96.3
lapser 13,01. 5717                7~~~~~~~~~~,641i  2,047  2,1A2     2,419      2,973~  3,191          3,0711     5,612               7.3    11.7       9.9           191.1      1 7.7.     19.3
lannr.  (trF     31    Ir    asio            -1.491      j229   Z7 3a22           ~        ~ -        9.09.33 ,.4314  3,464  4SA498.                      9.6      5.4           136         1.1v       17.2
Rtsaar.  laGp                                    72        -759       -469       -699        -499       -139        -93         516                -        -       -            -1.7       -9.7         2.9
Carsoptiaa Enpr-dlle-                         7,329      13,909     99,579    12,560    13,371    13,954    74,527    19,035                     6.3      6.4      5.6           74.9       76.3        73.4
Envasterts loper.7) rocra(Tori. ma-ka)   1,661     2,719      3,177      3,477       3,-33      6,376      4,535      6.979               11.7    72.1       9.9          99.6       23.0        26.9
Dat,earlr OSniada                ~~~~~~       ~~~~~1,599  2,965  3,E17  3.129   4,392      4-1          %11       9,176               1.1    70.9       7.1J          27.3       26.1       24.9
Nanlanel Sanlnga                 ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~1,509  2,926  3 ,39 9  3,711 4226      4,23.;     4,796       5,817              '7 1    19.        1.3          19.4        23.3       22.4
-opna  Gosda                            299         983        601         67 7     1,773      1,171      2 ,L3      4,393               19.4    33.0    151              7.9        n4.6,      44.5
Ittee,edlate Geds lEan1. ParIs)               256         699        733        772        9211     1,1223      1,441      17,715             21.4    19.       11.9          42.7        39.        21.
PorNa                         3          13    - ~~~~         ~~~~       ~~~~       ~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~129  194  73  699  729  7,56  12.7   132.4    19,7    1.1       1m.3       16.9
Cea-apti-n Gseds                            _61           216        216        335         292        377        636        936              16.3    10.1    13.9             193         9.3        8.1
Tsnal Merhandise Trparr  (elF)               676        1,425      1, 74 7    2,1219     3,717       3 .9 73    4,924      9,662              LE..    29.2    13.4            999.6      199.7      109.7
Major Staafert-rrd lasda                       91         329        391        382         446        113        775      1,269              35.9    17.4    19.2             19.9       14.2        21.6
976cr Eapacra                    ~~~~       ~~~~~~ ~~~~555  1,393  1.974  7,411  2,63~2  3,316      3:,961"    6.973              16.3    277.      11.6           911        638         79.
91 w61n6:h  (17c)7347)   C    64)  91,2927   4 17699   ' 7,04)4     2,637)  32,44    3,26                                                     117.   363,752                 6 64.53      ' 69.9)    37.  4)
(F.!8. 7)   56)   4                            989   0) 35  131)  (__134;                 236)  (292)   ( 67)                   1-35.63   2 4,69   14.2)        (   .73        5.4)   (6.83
renal  Fcahsle   aprt                        698        1719       2,255      2,796      3,299      4,331       4.536      8,367              167      26.U    23.9           197.9      199.0      709.0
OrI   ndr21.2                                      75.9      129,21      141.6      191.3      147.2      144.7      186.6
SaPert Prn-  Iedt-                             34.9        92.6      108.2       162.3      116.6      142.9      156.6      23311
Fe.-  of Trade loden                           62.3        22,1      799.2      129.1       119.7      103.0       911,4      79.2
VALUE ADDED BY SrCTOR (Feller Cota)                             Asr-I ear-a  1976 -IPrice   .dn lEnh..,o Rare                              A-e-ar  An-s   Gr-rth RaEs             As O-renr  f-NTal-
Agri-llor                                  2,953        4,145      4:,224     4,337      4,723       4,956      1,104      4,737               2.1      4.6      5.3           39.6       29.3        36.1
0a,dosrry                                  2,427        3,833      3,93       6,997      4,434      4,669       4,918      6,761               6.7      9.1      6.4           28,5       27.6       28.7
274cr                                     .S_2A4!     .AaA5)       59,,45     6,347      6.865       7,791     7l7)9    10249                 5.9      7,0      9.7           41,1       43.1       43.7
Teta1                                      9,599      13,536      14,107     13,769     16,719    16,916    17,931        2 3,9 96             5.1      9 .7     6.9         199.9       179,2      136.3
Oncr-t Ilreipta                              113        0,502      1,679      2,9531     2,549      3,335       4,302    13,729               20.3    22.1    23.0             13.3       10.9        12.4
Cnr-at Urpadllarra                           292          792        791        931      109        1,552    .2126         6,3                76.1    21,9    24.9              4.8        5.1        5.9
Bnd1rrsry loologs                ~~~~ ~ ~~~~             ~~1-1  8OL,  319  1,119  1,439  1,7813     2,176      6,891              26,2    22.2    26.9              3,5        5.          6.5
Otls - abltlrasans                           434          197         37        -8           9         -           25        670                -0  .1                                      -         96
Pnlbli. Nrnt-   eTennemn                      612         911      1,133      0,123      1,436       1,975      2.587    15,367                6.6    21.1    32,9              6.3'       6.4        9,8
SIIELECTE  INDICATORS9                          1965-79     1975-79   1989-85
A__rag  1001 (fle-d en least Fia-d
Ia, Israr  1aR9d Ore Ya)                  4.25         3.62       3.72
Iswsrr Elsatlelry                               7,28        2.92        1.33
M-rgl..I Dnel    aigtRt                         0.26        9.32        9.29
Marginal Nationl Sa-lrga Rare                   9.14        8.32        02.4
E.TAIL ONPUBLIC SETOR L          At N- ofT -a,t         Ac  , af T.ard
LABOR8 FORCE 8N2 0757UT PFR   RK01(0                                   TaIt    brfnt                                                                            141 8L  20111  904189  NVES9T75                Attos               E. rirtrd
Ts rlillians                  4. at Tatal           -rac  Rarr                                                   GRAN39  A4D_FTNAINGI9                      .177017
1964            133           1964            187         1984-73                                                  Natlal Slerae                                    28.9                 26,5
Agriaulrsr                                       108811
Alritl1ne                                2.427            2.057          47.3           30.2         -1,9                                                    I_d,,r  rod rnl.5                                                     2.
Ed-rrr                                  0.58             1.212          10,7           17.8          2.7                                                    catr                                              42                   9
Strolre                                  1. 749           3.542         34.             92.0          9.2                                                   Trrpr   o   aasialn                                451.
Tara                                     9,134            6.02          108.2          190,8          3.2                                                   aer16. 5                                                               134
Tetal Reprodi meet                 199~~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~.1  181.8
Vain.s Addd                                                                                                      T.rtekt  (176Ere-aanli--agtlein
In US Roller                        S  fArrarIeeth late                                                              1INAN8C2N
1964           1973               1964            1979             1964-73
P,1brlerri       oir.                            69.5                 73.4
AgLIt-lar                              993           1,31                86.4           88.4               5.9                                               E.t t-.I Sonrnt                                  11.2                 18.0
Indssrrs'                  ~~~~~~         ~~~~~~1.837  2,532  135,2           948.6              3.7                                               26cr                                             18.9                   9.
.tF...c                              1.730          1.546              127.3             O.7             -1.2                                                Ter1 Fjna-tlo                                  199.                  19.
Total                                1.339          1,727              190,89          128.9              2.9                                                                                                                      0.
Pabrsary 1, 1980






_ _ O  0000 0Z IGO       1      U 0      O0S                                                                                                
>0 00' >0 1N    0  N N         lN 0 >                                                                                                                                     -<  N  0 m>>  
O                                                                                                                   OO   O      0 0    4h 0v            N o c                   log04      g-g  g> 0e 9t   g                              
o ---    101        -        m - '0 .-.IS 
I   i   _   _   <  o  O  N  _ _ > 4 ~~~~~~~~~ _ | | 0000    ONN                                                                         00r@RQ>R~rlowoNo  
.....00N      -  -   0  N  ON    000          0                                                                       H   0        >  >o            o      ~>         o
X .t _^e__-S110 8   COb        0 _Ng  N  000Q  0 0                                                           o0 00 E4 1s
=  >    |S 6    -   N 4                                                        vN oI e 0-  0  _                           R                   R        Z        R       .<0 >_v  
F ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ 0000    a                            ONN 0000    NON.l          0    0s N5  001     0  Oo   00   HtI
0                                                                                              0       . N                                                                    . _000.
X~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ VN    N  NM                                                  0       0     0000000<|        1- ~ ^ I                     t-                      ..R.7R b         -  _  -  N N   N   
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O                                                            08   0         0    t  | IDGL4 0 0   4 
00       .010  --~<I 0         '--o ,0a   4''                                     >00 -
00~~~~~~~ I. 0                          t              I8t,l      Wl        



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 11
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1979)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                            Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose          Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
49 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                      784.5      23.5 _/   --
680     1970  Colombia                          Roads             32.0                1.5
738     1971  Empresas Municipales de
Palmira                        Water Supply       2.0                 .2
741     1971  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota       Water Supply      88.0               3.5
849     1972  Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria             Irrigation         2.2                .8
860     1972  Instituto de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply       9.1                2.6
874     1973  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                56.0               4.1
903     1973  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   60.0                  .1
920     1973  Colombia                          Education         21.2              10.4
926     1973  Ferrocarriles Nacionales          Railways          25.0                 .3
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply      27.0              14.4
1073    1975  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones             Communications   15.0                  .9
1118    1975  Colombia                          Rural Settlement 19.5                9.3
1163    1975  Colombia                         Agriculture        21.0              15.3
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   80.0               14.8
1352    1977  Colombia                          Rural Dev.        52.0              40.7
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica             Agricultural Cr. 64.0               29.7
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de               Communications   60.0               58.6
Telecomunicaciones
1451    1977  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   15.0                7.9
1471    1977  Colombia                          Highways          90.0              82.8
1487    1978  Colombia                          Nutrition         25.0              23.2
1523    1978  Empresas Municipales de Cali   Water Supply         13.8              13.4          r
1558    1978  Colombia                          Urban Develop-
ment            24.8              24.4
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power               126.0             113.4
1583    1978  Colombia                          Power             50.0              39.2



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
A. STAT'EMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1979) (Continued)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial            Industrial
y Comercial de Cartagena         Export          15.0              14.3
598    1978  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.  100.0               81.4
1624    1979  Colombia                         Airports           61.0              61.0
1628    1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                      Power             84.0              73.6
1694 /2 1979  Colombia                         Urban Develop-
ment            13.5              13.5
1697 /2 1979  Empresa de Acueducto
y Alcantarillado
de Bogota                     Water Supply       30.0              30.0
1725 /2 1979  Interconexion
Electrica, S.A.                Power             72.0              72.0
1726 /2 1979  Instituto Nacional de
Fomento Municipal             Water Supply       31.0              31.0
1737 /2 1979  Instituto Colombiano
de la Reforma Agraria         Agriculture Cr.  20.0                20.0
1762 /2 1979  Cerro Matoso, S.A.               Mining-Nickel    80.0                80.0
TOTAL                                           2,269.6      23.5
Of which has been repaid                          442.9       2.0
Total now outstanding                           1,826.7      21.5
Amount sold                         50.5
Of which has been repaid            27.7           22.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA                  1,803.9      21.5
Total undisbursed                                                   988.3
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
/2   Not yet effective.



28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1979)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                     Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.            Fiber-board      0.50       -       0.50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                       Food products   1.99   0.08         2.07
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.          Metal cans        0.70       -       0.70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                     Home furniture  0.08   0.09          0.17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.          Electrical
equipment      0.50       -       0.50
1962       Corporacion Financiera              Development
Colombiana                         financing         -   2.02        2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera             Development          -   2.04        2.04
Nacional                           financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de             Textiles          1.98   0.15        2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de           Development
Caldas                             financing         -   0.81        0.81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.            Steel forging       -   1.27        1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de             Warehousing       1.00       -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Ganadera                 Livestock         1.00   0.58        1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.             Textiles          5.00   2.60        7.60
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de          Tourism              -   0.01        0.01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del          Development         -   0.45        0.45
Norte                              financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del         Development          -   0.43        0.43
Valle                              financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de            Tourism           0.23   0.11        0.34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                  Tourism           0.80   0.25        1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de          Housing              -   0.46        0.46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.              Cement            1.50       -       1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.          Cement            3.60       -       3.60
1976       Las Brisas                         Mining            6.00       -       6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.            Utilities        13.00   2.00       15.00
1977       Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                                 Construction
Material       2.43   0.30        2.73
Total Gross Commitments                            40.31  13.65       53.96
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                             28.96   8.26       37.22
Total commitments now held by IFC                  11.35   5.39       16.74
Total undisbursed                                    -        ___



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
1.   Ln No. 680 Highways VI; US$32 million, June 4, 1970.
Effective date: March 29, 1971
Closing date:    original - November 30, 1974
current  - November 30, 1980
The project is nearing completion; the paving program, which is the
largest component of the project, has experienced considerable cost increases
and delays. The disbursement percentages for the relevant categories of the
loan have been adjusted to spread remaining loan funds over the paving works
implementation period. Project completion is now expected for end-1980. As
of December 31, 1979, US$30.5 million (95% of the total) had been disbursed.
2.   Ln No. 738 Palmira Water Supply and Sewerage; US$2 million, May  28, 1971.
Effective date: December 29, 1971
Closing Date:    original - March 1, 1975
current - June 30, 1980
The original project works were completed at lower cost than originally
estimated. The savings of about US$348,000 are being used to finance supple-
mentary sewerage works which were already identified during project appraisal.
Work on the project additions is well advanced and funds should be fully dis-
bursed by the loan closing date. As of December 31, 1979, about 90% of the
loan amount was disbursed.
3.   Ln No. 741 Water Supply (Bogota II); US$88 million, May 28, 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1978
current - December 31, 1980
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily and the Borrower
continues to perform well. Completion of the Chuza-Ventana tunnel section,
which was delayed by a methane explosion, is expected to be completed by
mid-1982; all other project elements will be completed by the end of 1980.
Disbursements up to December 31, 1979, amounted to about 96% of the loan
amount.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
4.   Ln No. 849 Second Atlantico Development; US$5 million, June 30, 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    original - March 31, 1978
current - December 31, 1979
The project is the second phase of a scheme to develop about 17,000
ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production. At the request
of the Government, US$2.8 million of the loan of US$5.0 million was cancelled
in February 1977. Settlement of farmers within the project areas is behind
schedule and the provision of technical assistance/farm credit needs improve-
ment. Because heavy rainfall in May and again in November resulted in flooding
which destroyed crops in the project area, a study is to be carried out to
determine possible deficiencies in design and a least cost solution for
correcting them. The closing date would be extended once consultants are
employed to carry out the study. The results are expected to be ready for
Bank review in mid-1980.
5.   Ln No. 860 Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$9.1
million, October 10, 1972.
Effective date: March 7, 1973
Closing Date:    original - September 30, 1976
current - September 30, 1980
As of December 31, 1979, about 71% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Management problems affected the initiation of the project, but execution
has since improved. Delay in receiving budgetary funds as a result of the
Government's economic stabilization measures also slowed down project execution;
however during 1979, execution has improved. INSFOPAL has prepared a new
implementation program for each city and works are now expected to be completed
by December 1980.  The closing date will be extended in due time.
6.   Ln No. 874 Guatape II Hydroelectric Power Project; US$56 million,
January 12, 1973.
Effective date: March 13, 1973
Closing Date:    original - December 31, 1978
current - June 30, 1980
The project is virtually completed; the only remaining item is some
procurement of distribution equipment. After considerable delay in resettling
the people of El Penol and Guatape, filling of the Santa Rita reservoir was
carried out in May 1978, three years behind schedule. The revised project
cost is substantially above appraisal estimate, mainly occasioned by higher
cost of the civil works. As of December 31, 1979, US$51.9 million or 93% of
the loan amount had been disbursed.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
7.   Ln No. 903 D velopment Finance Companies V; US$60 million, June 11, 1973.
Effective date: November 9, 1973
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1979
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are expected to be
completed within the next few months. As of December 31, 1979, only US$0.1
million remained undisbursed.
8. Ln No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 19, 1973.
Effective date: January 9, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1981
Project execution had been suspended in mid-1975 pending redefinition
of sector priorities by the Government. It resumed in 1977 but suffered
continuous delays. In June 1978, the Government submitted a proposal to
reduce the scope of the project and to cancel a large portion of the loan.
However, the new administration, which came to office in August 1978, retracted
the proposal and decided to proceed with the project as originally conceived.
Since reactivating the project, the Borrower has made progress in planning,
construction, educational programming and personnel training, and project
execution is proceeding normally.
9.   Ln. No. 926 Sixth Railway Project:  US$25 million, August 8, 1973.
Effective date: December 6, 1973
Closing date:  original - June 30, 1976
current - August 31, 1980
Because of severely constrained locomotive availability, freight
traffic in 1979 decreased by 5%, compared to the previous year. The Government
has provided substantial funds to assist CNR in obtaining necessary equipment
and spare parts to improve motive availability. Thus, performance is expected
to improve over the next few months. Together with the Bank, the Government
is studying further corrective measures aimed at enabling the railway to
fulfill its important role in facilitating continued economic growth in
Colombia, including provision of necessary services for the planned exploita-
tion of coal for export. As of December 31, 1979 only about US$300,000 of the
loan amount remained undisbursed.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
10. Ln No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$27
million, January 16, 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    June 30, 1980
There were substantial delays in making the eight subloans effective.
The last subloan (Barranquilla) was made effective on September 9, 1976. In
spite of the fiscal restraint imposed by the Government's economic stabiliza-
tion measures, project implementation is progressing satisfactorily in most
cities. Works are expected to be completed by December 1980. Sub-borrowers
have not been implementing tariff adjustments as agreed, therefore, INSFOPAL
is proceeding to take corrective measures. As of December 31, 1979, US$12.6
million or 47% of the loan had been disbursed.
11. Ln No. 1073 Telecommunications III; US$15 million, January 16, 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    Original - December 31, 1978
Current - June 30, 1980
Contracts for all Bank-financed goods have been awarded, and work
is proceeding satisfactorily. Though many of the project works have been
commissioned and are earning revenue, project completion is not expected until
June 1981 because of earlier delays in procurement and building construction.
As of December 31, 1979, only US$900,000 million or 6% of the loan remained
undisbursed.
12. Ln No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million, June 2, 1975.
Effective date: April 1, 1976
Closing Date:    October 31, 1979
The loan became effective on April 1, 1976, after a six-month delay.
Project execution has proceeded rapidly and some of the lost time regained.
Road and bridge construction is well ahead of schedule (79 km have been
completed). School construction and the provision of sufficient credit are
lagging though corrective measures are being slowly taken. As of December 31,
1979, US$9.3 million or 48% of the loan remained undisbursed. Upon receipt
of a Government request, the closing date would be extended for two years in
order to allow sufficient time to complete the project.
13. Ln No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 million,
September 12, 1975.
Effective Date:   March 30, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1981
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision
delayed the initiation of the project. Implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily, but still behind schedule. As of December 31, 1979,
US$5.7 million of the loan amount had been disbursed.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
14. Ln No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 million,
March 31, 1976.
Effective Date:   September 1, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1980
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and virtually all loan
funds are committed. As of December 31, 1979, about 82% of the loan had been
disbursed.
15. Ln No, 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 7, 1977.
Effective Date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982              -
The project is now in its fourth year of implementation and proceed-
ing satisfactorily in spite of its complexity. The project's components of
credit, technical assistance and training are advancing very well, while
institutional coordination continues to be effective. The forestry and water
supply components have suffered some delays. Administrative procedures, such
as procurement and disbursement, continue to present some difficulties, but
they are much less serious than initially. Control and monitoring of project
execution is comprehensive, and a methodology for evaluating the project's
impact has been prepared. As of December 31, 1979, US$11.3 million, or 22% of
the loan had been disbursed.
16. Ln No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million, February 4,
1977.
Effective Date:   September 6, 1977
Closing Date:     December 31, 1981.
The funds assigned to medium and large farmers are now fully committed.
Subloans made to small farmers have recently picked up and this portion of the
loan is expected to be fully committed by 1981. Concern over possible diversion
and substitution of subloan funds led the Borrower to increase substantially
its end-use supervision. About 73% of loan funds for credit to agroindustries
have been committed for 82 subprojects. As of December 31, 1979, US$34.3
million, or 54% of the loan had been disbursed.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
17. Ln. No. 1450 Telecommunications IV; US$60 million, July 7, 1977.
Effective Date: October 3, 1977.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982.
The project has been delayed as a result of several personnel
changes in the Borrower. Current activities are concentrated on the procure-
ment of project goods, the planning of cable networks, trunk exchange expansion,
and design of buildings to house equipment. The Borrower is studying possible
ways to make up some of the time lost. As of December 31, 1979, US$58.6, or
98% of the loan, remained undisbursed.
18. Ln. No. 1451 Second Small-Scale Industry Project; US$15 million,
September 27, 1977.
Effective Date: February 14, 1978.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1980.
After initial delays in loan effectiveness mainly due to management
changeover, project implementation is proceeding well and loan funds should be
fully committed by June 30, 1980. As of December 31, 1979, US$7.1 million had
been disbursed.
19. Ln. No. 1471 Highways VII; US$90 million, July 5, 1977.
-  Effective Date:  November 28, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The Project comprises three main programs: rehabilitation, main-
tenance, and vehicle weight control. After initial delays, the project is now
developing satisfactorily.  Stabilization and drainage works are progressing
well; contracts for 14 of the 32 construction lots have been signed and works
have colnmenced. The maintenance program began in January 1980, and consultants
to assist MOPT in executing the program have been retained. The vehicle
weight control program has experienced a 12-month delay but progress is now
satisfactory. As of December 31, 1979, about US$7.2 million had been disbursed.
20. Ln. No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
November 10, 1977.
Effective Date: March 9, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Significant progress has been achieved in the major components of
health, nutrition education and water supply. Initial delays occurred in two
subsidiary components--home food production and food quality control--but
activities are now underway. Project management and coordination have been
sound, flexible and effective. Evaluation systems are operating effectively.



- 35 -
ANNEX i.
Page 10 of 11
21.       Ln. No. 1523 Second Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$13.8
million, June 20, 1978.
Effective Date: January 31, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Progress in design and tendering is slow and project implementation
is delayed. EMCALI's weak financial position remains the most critical issue
in the implementation of the project. EMCALI has agreed to take corrective
measures to restore the entity's financial viability and to improve management
and administrative procedures. The Bank is following up project execution
closely.
22.       Ln. No. 1558 Urban Development Project; US$24.8 million, July
21, 1978.
Effective Date: December 1, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
The 1978 change of Government led to corresponding staff turnover
in the executing agency and to slow project start; overall progress is now
running about 18 months behind schedule. Project implementation plans in
eight of the 23 cities are substantially completed and it is expected that
implementation plans in the next ten project zones will be completed before
the end of this year. The first disbursement application has been received
and two more are forthcoming. The new Directora General of SIP intends to
accele'rate project implementation and will establish a working unit in SIP
for monitoring and operational evaluation of the project.
23.       Ln. No. 1582 San Carlos I Hydro Power Project; US$126 million,
July 14, 1978.
Effective Date: April 5, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1984
Project works are proceeding on schedule.
24.       Ln. No. 1583 500 kV Interconnection Project; US$50 million, July 14,
1978.
Effective Date: October 17, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Project works have recently been initiated. The Bank-financed
component (transmission line) is proceeding on schedule, at lower-than-
anticipated cost. However, project completion is likely to be delayed by
about one year as a result of the re-issuance of bids for the KfW-financed
component (substations).



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
25.       Ln. No. 1593 Cartagena Industrial Export Processing Zone; US$15
million, August 1, 1978.
Effective Date: January 30, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1983
After an initial delay due to procurement problems, project implemen-
tation is now running smoothly. A number of contracts have been signed, and
work is proceedirng without delay.
26.       Ln. No. 1598 Seventh Development Finance Companies Project;
US$100 million, July 27, 1978.
Effective Date: November 28, 1978
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
By the end of December 1979, about US$60.6 million had been committed
and an additional US$18.5 million, which has been approved by BR for subloans,
is presently being processed.
27.       Ln. No. 1624 Airports Project; US$61 million, December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: July 24, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984
Project implementation is proceeding well.
28.       Ln. No. 1628 Mesitas Hydroelectric Power Project; US$84 million,
April 9, 1979.
Effective Date: August 21, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
Project works are well under way, although at higher-than-anticipated
cost.
29.       Ln. No. 1694 Second (Cartagena) Urban Development; US$13.5 million,
August 31, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.
30.       Ln. No. 1697 Third Bogota Water Supply; US$30 million, November 30, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.
31.       Ln. No. 1725 San Carlos II Hydro Power; US$72 million, November 30, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.
32.       Ln. No. 1726 Third Water and Sewerage; US$31 million, November 30, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.
33.       Ln. No. 1737 Third Agricultural Credit; US$20 million, November 30, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.
34.       Ln. No. 1762-CO Cerro Matoso Nickel; US$80 million, December 20, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
THIRD ShALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:    12 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:    Corporacion Financiera
Popular (CFP)
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:   October 1978
(d)  First mission to review project:  January 1979
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:   April 23, 1979
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:         March 10, 1980
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:    June 30, 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  Total additional resources amounting to Col$450 mil-
lion shall be made available to CFP during 1980-82, of
which one-third shall be in equity, with at least Col$75
million paid-in by December 31, 1981 (paragraph 33);
(b)  CFP's annual plans for technical assistance to its
clients shall be annually reviewed by the Bank
(paragraph 34);
(c)  Contracts to provide technical assistance to CFP to
be financed out of the proposed loan shall be subject
to Bank approval (paragraph 41);
(d)  Relending terms shall be as specified in para-
graphs 42 to 44;
(e)  If, in the Bank's opinion, an amendment to CFP's
Statement of Operating Policies could adversely
affect CFP's operations, the Bank would be entitled
to exercise its remedies (paragraph 47);



- 38 -
ANNEX Ill
Page 2 of 2
(f) CFP's administrative costs would be reduced
f:om 7.5% of average total assets in 1980 to 6%
in 1982 and onwards (paragraph 49);
(g) CFP's debt to equity ratio would not exceed 6:1
(paragraph 51); and
(h) CFP would ensure reasonable procurement practices
(paragraph 53).
2.        Special conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a)  Banco de la Republica and CFP would enter into a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank (paragraphs 42
and 59);
(b) Revisions to CFP's credit regulations and procedures, satis-
factory to the Bank, shall have been approved by CFP's Board
of Directors (paragraph 50); and
(c) CFP shall have approved lending policies, satisfactory to
the Bank, for the financing of industrial buildings
(paragraph 47).



_____  IBRD-3638R I
A   r L A /V T              F A N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUTH AmE8IC
ATLANN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B
Op                                                              IV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TOW - 0,089 BAC,,0 lfliwB09 ,
mWen.    SU:RE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ndr,,etA GCPOflCL I
/  .,~~~~                    NORTEV                        E N        E    Z    U E       L A
SANINDEAWAHDAREUC
~~V..        -        TIBBB)-q
kj                               0UI~~~~~~~A OOIA
( A,n,e. ~ ~   ~    SA N     A NDER                     R-AU C 
C H 0 -C-' 0 ~  ~                  '  0iIooeri
/,~~~~lYAAJ    ..
RISAR4L64~ CAtDAS  1
1~~~~~~~~~4)~~LNDNMR
so1 TA'   1
oulikio                                                   V  I C H A DA,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
C A U C A                                                            "'~~
01~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
2"     COLOMBIA                                                                                                                       co
-Elevations above 1400 bOlers
-DepB9I,emBn, InI8eBdeBCI 8 COnnisaCfix bounrdaries
Moir. rivers                                                                            
-  -   trlOntOlIoIbOIBondarVes
7 "  KILOIB ET F RS                                                                       .4



