lP                       Document of
FILE Copy                       The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY            [i      .
Lb ~-frepi   . WCP-.4124-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
-TO INDIA
FOR THE
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
August 23, 1977
This document has a-restricted distribution and may be used by.recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of August 12, 1977)
Rs 1.00                Paise 100
US$ 1.00               Rs 8.70
Rs 1.00        =       US$0.1149
Rs I million   =       US$114,900
(Since September 24, 1977 the Rupee has been officially valued
relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these currencies are
now floating, the US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to
change.  Conversions in the Appraisal Report were made at
US$1 to Rs 9.00.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARDC  = Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
GOI   = Government of India
GOO   = Government of Orissa
MIP   = Medium Irrigation Project
CAD   = Command Area Development
CWC   = Central Water Commission (GOI)
AC    = Appraisal Committee (in C.WC)
I&PD  = Irrigation and Power Department kOO)
CADA  = Command Area Development Authority
LDB   = Land Development Bank
CB    = Commercial Bank
O&M   = Operation and Maintenance
HYV   = High Yielding Variety



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:            State of Orissa for medium-scale irrigation projects
and land consolidation; Agricultural Refinance and
Development Corporation (ARDC) for refinancing on-
farm development loans made to farmers by commercial
and land development banks.
Amount:                   US$58 million.
Terms:                    Standard.
Relending Terms:          (a)  India to Orissa:  As part of Central Assist-
ance for development projects on terms and
conditions applicable at the time;
(b) India to the Agricultural Refinance and
Development Corporation (ARDC): At interest
rate of not less than 7.25% per annum
(with 0.25% per annum rebate for prompt
repayment) for refinancing loans, with up
to 15 years maturity;
(c) ARDC to commercial and land development banks:
Annual interest of not less than 7.5% with
maturities according to maturities of loans
to be refinanced;
(d) Commercial and land development banks to
farmers: Repayable at not less than 10.5%
annual interest over a maximum period of
15 years including a grace period of 2 years
on repayment of principal.
Project Description:      The purpose of the Project is to utilize the
numerous small rivers located throughout the
State for providing irrigation to about 66,000
ha of land throughout the State of Orissa, where
large scale irrigation or groundwater development
is not possible. The Project would also improve
water use efficiency at the farm level in existing
major irrigation systems.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
The Project consists of:
(a)  over the next five years, construction of
about 15 medium-scale irrigation projects
(MIPs) (MIPs are irrigation projects that
encompass cultivable command areas covering
between 2,000 and 12,000 ha);
(b)  command area development (CAD), over a four year
period, in three existing major irrigation
projects located in Orissa (Mahanadi Delta,
Hirakud, Salandi), consisting of:
(i)  land consolidation covering about
200,000 ha;
(ii)  on-farm works, including construction of
field channels, drains, and structures
covering a consolidated area of about
57,000 ha.
The Project would increase food production and
thereby improve farmer income, provide additional
employment opportunities, and contribute to savings
of foreign exchange. Under the Medium Irrigation
Component, the incomes of about 30,000 farm house-
holds (mostly at or below the subsistence minimum)
would increase by about 180%. The risks under the
proposed project are those normally associated with
irrigation projects in India. The use of standard-
ized yield and input projections in the analysis
of MIPs and the procedures for preparation, appraisal
and progress review of MIPs introduce additional
risks.
Estimated Cost:                                              (US$ million)
Local Foreign Total
Medium Irrigation Projects     65.3    15.8    81.1
Command Area Development:
(a)  Land Consolidation         6.7     __      6.7
(b)  On-Farm Works             4.1      --      4.1
Cost (including phy-
sical contingencies
and administration)      76.1    15.8    91.9
Price Contingencies            19.9     4.2    24.1
Total Project Cost        96.0    20.0   116.0



Financing Plan:                                              (US$ million)
Local Foreign Total
IDA                          38.0    20.0     58.0
Local Financing:
GOO                        55.2     --      55.2
ARDC and Banks              2.4     --       2.4
Farmers                     0.4     --       0.4
Total                      96.0    20.0    116.0
Estimated Disbursements:
FY78    FY79     FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83     FY84
Annual:          1.0     5.0    10.5     17.5    13.0     9.0     2.0
Cumulative:      1.0     6.0    16.5    34.0     47.0    56.0    58.0
Rate of Return:     Average economic rate of return of 18% for medium
irrigation projects component and 34% for command area
development with overall economic rate of return of 20%.
Appraisal Report:   No. 1558a-IN, dated August 25, 1977.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMIENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA FOR THE ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$58 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance the implementation of the Government
of Orissa's investment program for medium-scale irrigation projects over the
next five years, and command area development, including land consolida-
tion and on-farm works, throughout Orissa. The proceeds of the credit--
except for part of on-farm works (US$2.4 million)--would be channelled
to the Government of Orissa in accordance with the Government of India's
(GOI's) standard terms and arrangements for the financing of State devel-
opment projects. For on-farm works, GOI would relend US$2.4 million of
the credit to the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
for up to 15 years at not less than 7.25% annual interest. ARDC would in
turn on-lend the funds to participating commercial and land development banks
in Orissa at annual interest of not less than 7.5%. These banks would relend
the funds to farmers with maximum repayment periods of 15 years, including 2
years of grace, at not less than 10.5% annual interest.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(1529-IN dated April 25, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 3, 1977. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size and diversity; the country is divided into more than 20 States with
a population of some 630 million speaking over 60 languages. Since Independ-
ence the trend in growth of GNP has been about 3.5% per annum, or a little
over 1% per annum in per capita terms, while over the five years 1971/72 -
1975/76 it fell to as low as 2.5% per annum, in spite of the record harvest
of 1975/76. This unsatisfactory performance is in part the result of the
low availability of investable resources: while India's domestic savings
effort compares well with other countries at the same average income levels,
the rate has very rarely exceeded 17% of GNP; similarly, the net transfer of
resources from abroad has never been above 3% of GNP, and fell to as little as
0.8% between 1969/70 and 1973/74. The investment rate puts India in the lower
third of all developing countries. More significant perhaps is the fact that
in spite of a marked rise in the investment rate from about 10% in the early
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially identical to Parts I
and II of the President's Report for the Maharashtra Irrigation Project
(Report No. P-2036-IN, dated June 30, 1977).



- 2 -
1950's to about 18% over the past fifteen years, the trend in GNP growth has
remained about the same. This indicates a marked decline in the efficiency of
capital use, as a result of increasing capacity underutilization, long project
gestation, and increased emphasis on relatively capital intensive projects and
sectors.
4.        Since Independence the growth of the socio-economic infrastructure
(transport, education, health services, etc.) has been impressive, but has
often been achieved at high cost and has yielded results of variable quality.
Many industrial and agricultural investment schemes have been highly successful,
but others have taken excessively long to be completed and have operated well
below full capacity. In some regions of the country, growth and structural
change have been rapid and compare favorably with developments in many other
parts of the world; in other regions there has been stagnation, and in some,
decline. Although national income has increased in most years, there has
been no rise in the living standards of the vast mass of rural and urban poor,
conservatively estimated at 200 million people with per capita incomes of US$70
per annum.
5.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change.    Agriculture
remains the dominant sector, with its share of national product declining
only gradually from about 50% to 42% over the last twenty years. The share
of manufacturing industry has increased only slowly and, since the late 1960s,
has remained approximately constant at about 16%. There has, however, been
a shift in the composition of manufacturing production, with consumer, inter-
mediate, and capital goods now contributing about one third each, compared
with an overwhelming preponderance of consumer goods 25 years ago.
Recent Trends
6.        In March, 1977, a party other than Congress formed a Government for
the first time since Independence. The state of the economy was not a promi-
nent election issue; in fact the economy was generally stronger than at any
time in the last six years. Although the growth of GDP in 1976/77 is not
expected to have exceeded 2%, this was on top of the very good growth of 8.8%
in 1975/76. Agricultural production is expected to have fallen by about 3%,
but only because of the return to a more normal harvest of 110-114 million
tons of foodgrains after the record 121 million tons of the previous year.
Industrial growth was around 10% in 1976/77, which is significantly above the
rates achieved in the late 1960's and early 1970's. Exports continued their
bright performance, rising by 25% in nominal terms. The overall resource
position, with record foreign exchange and foodgrain reserves, is exception-
ally strong, and gives the Government considerable room for maneuver.
7.        In agriculture the bumper crop of 1975/76 was largely due to
remarkably good weather conditions; the good crop in 1976/77 - a foodgrain
harvest in the region of 110 million tons would be the second largest on
record - was produced under generally normal weather. A conspicuous change
was the increase in fertilizer use, which rose by more than 20% over 1975/76,



- 3 -
following marked declines in fertilizer prices. Industrial production bene-
fited from fewer labor disputes, fuller utilization of installed capacity
in both private and public sectors, a more liberal import policy, relatively
good power availability, and increased demand because of higher consumer
incomes, expanded exports and higher public expenditures. However, whole-
sale prices which had fallen 14% from September 1974 through March 1976,
rose 11% from the end of March to December 1976. This upsurge may be a new
inflationary trend or merely a correction of the previous sharp decline in the
relative prices of a range of agricultural commodities.
8.        The balance of payments situation has improved dramatically since
the 1973-1975 period. In 1975/76 the trade deficit was $1,530 million, which
was more than covered by US$1,560 million in net aid, US$205 million in net
purchases of currency from the IMF, and US$559 million in net miscellaneous
capital and invisibles (mostly private remittances); indeed, this large
aggregate net resource inflow led to a US$794 million increase in foreign
exchange reserves, to a level of almost US$2.2 billion. In 1976/77, the
balance of payments continued to improve, with exports provisionally, esti-
mated to have increased by US$1,135 million against an imports increase of
only US$15 million, so that the trade balance deficit is now estimated at a
mere US$380 million. The sharply decreased trade deficit, along with a
further increase in the net inflow of miscellaneous capital and invisibles
from abroad of US$470 million, more than offset the fall of US$350 million
in net aid and the US$365 million repurchases of currency from the IMF, and
allowed a US$1.5 billion addition to reserves, which reached a level of
US$3.7 billion at the end of March 1977.
Development Prospects
9.        The favorable economic situation gives the Government the opportun-
ity to address the longer-term constraints on growth. The basic task is to
raise the overall rate of growth from its historic range of 3% to 4%. In the
long run this will require raising more resources for investment. But it
will also be important to achieve significantly better utilization of avail-
able resources, partly through an immediate boost to industrial demand.
10.       In agriculture, the basic problem remains that, despite the record
foodgrain crop in 1975/76 and the good crop in 1976/77, the long-term growth
rate of foodgrain production has been unacceptably low, at about 2.5% per
annum over the last seventeen years, and only 2% in the last ten. This has
meant that only in good years has there been any margin of production to
cater to per capita growth in food consumption, and in normal years it has
been necessary to import food.. There is considerable scope for stepping up
growth both by increasing the use of inputs and by raising the productivity
of existing capacity. Three promising developments in regard to the first
are the sharply higher outlays on irrigation in the Fifth Plan Period along
with a renewed determination to complete projects expeditiously; the indica-
tions that private investment, in tubewells is picking up again after a slow-
down in the early 1970's; and the recent recovery of fertilizer demand. With



regard to more productive use of existing capacity, there is increased aware-
ness in the Government that the benefits of irrigation projects can be much
increased not only through command area development but also through more
efficient design and operation of major surface irrigation infrastructure.
Also, hopes have been generated for increasing productivity on both irrigated
and rainfed farms through a reorganized and improved extension and research
system, which has been recently introduced in several States in northern and
eastern India.
11.       A strong effort to raise agricultural growth is essential, not only
to meet food requirements, but also because of the pervasive influence of
agriculture on the levels of activity in other sectors of the economy. This
effort must also be so structured as to increase the incomes of small and
marginal farmers, in order to increase production since they operate 25% of
the cultivated land and account for somewhat more than 25% of production,
and for welfare reasons, since they make up about 70% of rural population
and constitute the majority of those living below the poverty level.
12.       The industrial sector is poised for growth, as serious constraints
on the supply side have been removed by the improved situation, particularly
with respect to coal and imported raw materials and components; the power
supply situation is once more somewhat worrisome (paragraph 13 below).
There has been a progressive liberalization of controls and the 1976/77
Central Budget announced a reduction of some taxes on private industry. In
many cases management of public enterprises has improved, as is reflected
in their markedly higher production and profitability as a group. In the
medium term it is the demand for industrial output that will determine indus-
trial growth. In certain industries, export demand will provide a strong
pull on production; this is true, for example, for iron and steel, certain
chemicals, some electrical equipment, processed agricultural products, and
vehicles. But the impact of increased exports on overall industrial demand
will grow only slowly given the current low share of exports in sales. If
the higher growth and productivity in agriculture discussed earlier were to
materialize, it would provide a significant stimulus to industry. It is
difficult to specify the linkages explicitly; but because of the large share
that agriculture holds in GNP, the coefficients do not have to be large for
agricultural growth and the concomitant growth in demand for industrially
produced inputs and mass consumption goods to boost overall industrial demand
significantly. A higher public deficit and increased public investments are
the instruments most directly under Government control, and also those that
can increase demand for industrial products most immediately. The interim
budget of the new Governnment moves strongly in this direction with a 240%
increase in the planned budget deficit over 1976/77.
13.       The general improvement in the supply of energy augurs well for
India's ability to meet the needs of a more rapidly growing economy. Organ-
izational and transportation problems in the coal industry have largely been
overcome, production is sufficient to meet demand, stocks are comfortable,
and the industry has good prospects for meeting both domestic and export
demand. However, the supply of electricity continues to be a concern, since
the power situation is not uniformly good. Power shortages affect a number



- 5 -
of the more industrialized states, particularly Maharashtra in the west and
Tamil Nadu in the south, and as a result, there is a continued constraint on
the expansion of industry. This is despite a number of favorable factors:
greatly improved capacity utilization in thermal power stations; more effi-
cient exchange of power between states; accelerated implementation of power
projects; and somewhat improved availability of finance for power investment.
The underlying reason for the weak power supply position is that capacity
shortages continue despite the improved investment program. In the short-term,
the situation may improve somewhat if, as is hoped, reservoir replenishment is
better than average during the last stages of the monsoon. The prospects for
the oil and gas sector have been further improved by major new finds of oil
and gas near the large offshore Bombay High field. Crude oil from Bombay High
was brought to shore for the first time in May 1976; production reached an
annual rate of 2 million tons by March 1977, and will rise to a level of 12-13
million tons by 1984/85. Although India will continue to import crude at or
somewhat above the current level, much of the foreign exchange burden of
rapidly rising imports will be avoided by the development of these resources.
Prospects are also bright for further discoveries offshore, given the current
high level of exploration activity.
14.       Underlying all other development issues is that of population.    Al-
though India's population growth rate of a little over 2% is not high in com-
parison with most LDCs, the size of the absolute increment - 13 million
annually - is daunting. It appears, however, that population growth may have
passed its peak in the 1960's, and it is expected to continue to slow down,
both because the birth rate will continue to decline and because the death
rate will not fall as steeply as in the past. With a sustained family planning
effort, it should be possible to lower the population growth rate to 1.1% per
annum by the end of the century. Our "best guess" projection of India's
population by 2000 is 880 million. Many of the benefits of family planning
policy will only be felt beyond the turn of the century, but the decline in
fertility will bring about an early change in the age structure of the popu-
lation. The school age group will grow more slowly or not at all after 1981
thereby reducing the pressures on the primary and secondary education system.
The labor force, however, will continue to grow at a fast rate until the end
of the century.
15.       India's balance of payments position should be comfortable for the
next few years. The combination of past global inflation and increased ex-
ports have reduced the proportion of export earnings needed for debt service
from 30% in 1970/71 to 16% in 1976/77. The ratio is not likely to rise above
this level in the next few years. Given continuing favorable policies, the
volume of exports should continue to grow by 7% to 10% annually in the near
future; and import needs for fertilizer, POL and foodgrains will continue to
require a diminishing proportion of available foreign exchange. The large
inflow of private remittances shows no immediate signs of declining and should
continue to bolster the foreign exchange position in the medium term. Imports,



- 6 -
including a variety of capital goods, have already been liberalized signifi-
cantly. Increased public investment and a revival of the domestic economy is
likely to generate substantial additional import demand. However, this should
be quite manageable, given the currently comfortable foreign exchange position,
bright export prospects, and continuation of the current real level of net aid.
The present situation presents an opportunity to raise the level of investment
and, consequently, reach a more satisfactory level of long term growth.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
16.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 51 loans and 90 development
credits to India totalling US$1,912 million and US$4,591 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$820 million has been
repaid, and US$1,552 million was still undisbursed as of June 30, 1977.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of June 30,
1977, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totalling US$58.4
million, of which US$13.0 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$30.9 million, US$24.4 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of June 30, 1977, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
18.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
19.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities.    The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers.



Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Leading in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
20.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic re-
ports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. Thanks in large
part to the response of the aid community, India has successfully adjusted
to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need for readily
usable foreign exchange assistance, to augment domestic resources, assure
effective utilization of existing capacity, stimulate investment and acceler-
ate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for
projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of local
expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of the
capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import component of
projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas as agriculture,
education, and family planning. For the Bank Group to be able to make an
appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in these sectors, it is
important to cover a proportion of local expenditures.
21.       It is clear from the review of the Indian economy that as much as
possible of India's external capital requirements should be provided on con-
cessionary terms. Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to
India has been, and should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the
amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small
in relation to India's needs for external support, and some Bank lending
to India, for which the country is creditworthy, is appropriate. As of
June 30, 1977, outstanding loans to India totaled US$1,119 million, of which
US$483 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding
of US$636 million.
22.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 58%, 24% and 29%,
respectively, in 1975/76. On March 31, 1976, India's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was US$13.1 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was 25%. The Bank Group's share is expected to remain around this level in
the future. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the
form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In
1975/76, about 15% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION IN INDIA
General
23.       Agriculture is the   most important sector in India; it engages 70%
of the labor force, has recently contributed about 42% of national product



- 8 -
and accounts for a major share of exports. Consequently, investments in
agriculture have been given priority by GOI and the State Governments, espe-
cially since the mid-1960s, and deserve continued emphasis in the future.
24.       Since independence, the overall growth rate of agricultural produc-
tion has averaged about 3% per annum. This low overall rate of growth in the
agricultural sector obscures considerable variations over shorter periods of
time, between crops, and between regions. The overall rate has been very much
affected by the serious droughts in 1965 and 1966 and again in 1972 and 1974.
At the same time, the success of high yielding varieties of wheat led to in-
creases in wheat production of about 20% p.a. between 1967 and 1971. Other
foodgrain crops, notably rice, have not enjoyed anything like the same success,
as the introduction of high yielding varieties has encountered difficulties
arising from local climatic and ecological conditions. The effects of the
green revolution, which primarily affected wheat, have been concentrated in
northwestern India, largely on account of the availability of irrigation in
that area.
25.       Despite the progress made in many aspects of food production,
India's agriculture remains heavily dependent upon the weather. A major
factor in reducing this dependence will be the rehabilitation and expansion
of irrigation and the more effective use of existing investment in irriga-
tion facilities. The Government is also placing emphasis on the improved
supply of inputs such as seeds and fertilizer, agricultural credit, and
extension services.
Irrigation
26.       Over the first half of the twentieth century, the area under irri-
gation in India increased by only about 1% p.a. to reach slightly more than
20 million hectares in 1950/51, or about one-seventh of India's cultivated
land. About half of the irrigated area was served by major and medium
irrigation works.
27.       Irrigation has received increased attention since independence, and
substantial resources were devoted to it throughout the four Five-Year Plans.
The area covered by major and medium surface systems and by groundwater devel-
opment more than doubled to 19.6 million hectares and 16.0 million hectares,
respectively, compared with an estimated ultimate potential for irrigation
of 57 million hectares from major and medium surface schemes and 35 million
hectares from groundwater utilization. During the same period, minor surface
irrigation expanded more modestly from 6.4 million ha to 7.5 million ha, com-
pared with an estimated potential of 15 million ha. While the increase in
area brought under the command of new irrigation projects has been impressive,
the increase in area actually irrigated has been more modest than the figures
imply - particularly in the case of major and medium irrigation schemes. At
the same time, in areas actually receiving water, irrigation efficiencies
remain low.



- 9 -
28.       The Second Irrigation Commission of 1972 and the National Commis-
sion on Agriculture, which reported in 1976, found that the under-utilization
of irrigation potential was attributable to the lack of integrated develop-
ment in the irrigation areas, insufficient farmer training and extension ser-
vice, and lack of administrative coordination. It has been estimated that
the majority of recently completed irrigation projects require additional
investments of up to US$600 per ha before they can become fully productive.
Accordingly, for the Fifth Plan period (1974-79) various measures have been
designed to improve utilization, and a Command Area Development Department
has been set up in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture to coordinate work
on a list of high priority projects.
29.       In view of the emergence of farm technologies dependent on effec-
tive water control - and given India's already substantial investment in
major irrigation - the economic return on investment that improves water de-
livery or else facilitates better use of the water provided can be very high.
Consequently, rehabilitation and modernization of irrigation infrastructure
as well as command area development have been given high priority under the
Fifth Plan proposals, and a relatively large proportion of public sector
investment in irrigation has been allocated for these purposes. Plan
allocations have been supplemented by the resources of agricultural and
commercial banks participating in financing command area development pro-
grams through farm credit. In addition, major institutional changes have
been proposed affecting the coordination of services in command areas and
the administration of credit.
30.       While emphasizing the need to improve water utilization through
command area development, the Government is at the same time pursuing the
objective of increasing the area under irrigation, in particular where only
incremental investments are required. Thus, completion of on-going irri-
gation developments is given equally high priority as command area devel-
opment.
Agriculture and Irrigation in Orissa
31.       Agriculture is dominant in Orissa's economy, contributing about
60% of total domestic product.   About 80% of the population of about 26 mil-
lion depends directly or indirectly on agriculture, and about 75% of the work
force is engaged in it. The land area covers some 15.6 million ha represent-
ing 5% of India's total. The cultivated area is 6.8 million ha or about 44%
of the total. The bulk of the balance is forest, covering 32%.
32.       Paddy is the most important crop occupying 70 percent of all crop-
ped area and contributing about one-tenth of the rice produced in India. Over
95% of paddy is grown in the kharif season, June to December, when moisture is
available from the monsoon. In the coastal areas, paddy is virtually the only
crop grown in kharif; in upland areas the cropping pattern is slightly more
diverse; small grains, pulses and oilseeds are being grown in addition to paddy.
About 25% of the area is double cropped, most of the second crop coming after
kharif paddy on residual moisture. Statewide, in both the kharif and rabi
seasons, other cereals (wheat, maize, millets and barley) take up another 7%



- 10 -
and pulses 14% of the cropped area. This leaves about 9% of the cropped area
for oilseeds (6%), fibers (1%), vegetables and spices. Rice yields in Orissa,
as in other states of Eastern India, are low in relation to the rest of India.
They range from 1.1 tons/ha in rainfed areas to about 2.0 tons/ha under rabi
irrigation. Yields are about twice as high in Punjab, Haryana and Tamil Nadu.
In neighboring West Bengal, with similar climatic patterns, yields are 30%
higher, though a higher proportion of the crop is irrigated, about 40% as
compared to 15% in Orissa.
33.       There have been some increases in Orissa's agricultural production
in the past decade, due to expansion of the area under cultivation (about
350,000 ha), increase of the irrigated area (close to 500,000 ha), and intro-
duction of HYV seeds. However, against a population growth rate of 2.2%,
per capita production has actually declined. Agriculture and allied activi-
ties account for about 60% of State income at current prices, while the
corresponding figure for all India is less than 50%.
34.       The pressures of population and poverty in rural Orissa are consi-
derable. Among Indian States, Orissa has the highest percentage of people
living in rural areas (over 90%) and is also one of the poorest States in
terms of per capita income. The population is stratified along caste, class
and tribal lines and is caught in a web of social-economic relationships and
land tenure systems that further hamper agricultural development and modern-
ization. Small farmers, with holdings of less than 2 ha, represent roughly
2.6 million out of a total of 3.4 million cultivators' households. Although
these farmers operate over 75% of all operational holdings, they control less
than 40% of total cultivable land, while farms of 5 ha or more (representing
less than 7% of holdings) account for some 35% of land. Adding to the skewed
distribution of income in the rural areas are the landless and agricultural
laborers, who constitute an additional 1.8 million households. Complicating
the problem of size of holding is fragmentation, particularly in the delta
areas, where an average 2 ha farm consists of 12 plots. The prospects for
progress against the deep-rooted and longer term problems would be improved
if some production gains could be achieved in the short and medium term.
35.       A general review of Orissa's foodgrain potential and agricultural
development constraints was undertaken by the Bank Group and the Government
of India and of Orissa in 1975 with assistance of the IBRD/FAO Cooperative
Program. This review led to the formulation of the Orissa Agricultural Dev-
elopment Project (Credit 682-IN of April 1, 1977, $20 million) as well as
this proposed project. The former project is designed to strengthen agricul-
tural supporting services, particularly agricultural extension and research.
It is aimed primarily at relieving the short-term constraints to foodgrain
production. In the long run, however, irrigation is a prerequisite for stable
growth in agricultural production.
36.       Orissa has abundant water resources, theoretically sufficient to
irrigate some 15 million ha. However, the potential for utilization of these
resources is limited by a number of constraints, such as topography, over-
concentration of water resources in certain areas of the State, and uneven
distribution over the year with heavy concentration on periods when the need
for irrigation water is lowest.



37.       Development of major irrigation systemas in Orissa--with the excep-
tion of the Mahanadi and Rushikulya Deltas which were begun in the late nine-
teenth century--commenced only after 1950. One of the completed systems is
the Salandi Irrigation Project, which was one of the first irrigation proj-
ects supported by the Bank Group in India (Credit 14-IN of November 1961,
US$8 million). Like other irrigation projects in India at about the same time,
the Salandi Project did not fully achieve its agricultural potential due to
inadequate supporting services and lagging construction of field channels and
drains by the farmers. The problems encountered with projects such as Salandi
have since led GOI and the Bank Group to reorientate their concept of sound
irrigation development. Presently, two major multipurpose schemes and one
major irrigation project are under construction in Orissa and will, when com-
pleted, increase the area commanded by major projects to about 1.0 million
ha.
38.       The previous concentration of Orissa's irrigation development in the
delta areas of the large rivers has resulted in regionally unbalanced growth
in the State. In order to correct this imbalance, GOO started in the 1960's
to construct some medium (2,000 ha - 12,000 ha) irrigation projects (MIPs) in
areas where large scale irrigation and groundwater development is not feasible.
But implementation was sluggish until the beginning of the Fifth Plan in
1974/75. Then, the general emphasis in irrigation development shifted from
major to medium projects. Presently, about 60% of Orissa's investment budget
for irrigation is allocated to MIPs (about $22.5 million annually, see para 41
below). Minor surface irrigation is of little importance in Orissa. Ground-
water development, nearly stagnant at a low level until very recently, is now
receiving increased attention. ARDC will help finance this development with
financial support by the Bank Group under the Second Line of Credit to ARDC
(Credit 157-IN of June 1, 1977, $200 million).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       In support of GOO's development plan for medium-scale irrigation,
the proposed project would finance construction works for about 15 medium
irrigation projects (MIPs) (about 6 on-going and between 8 and 10 new MIPs)
contained in the investment program for the next five years. These, when
completed, would provide irrigation to some 66,000 ha of land throughout
Orissa. The project would also support command area development (CAD) in
three of the State's.major irrigation systems (Mahanadi Delta, Salandi,
Hlirakud), through land consolidation on about 200,000 ha and on-farm works on
57,000 ha.
40.       The CAD component of the proposed project was prepared with assist-
ance from the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. The project was appraised by the
Bank Group in October/November 1976. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is
attached as Annex III. A report entitled "India - Orissa Irrigation Project,"
Report No. 1558a-IN, dated August 25, 1977, is being circulated separately to
the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington in July/August,



- 12 -
1977. The Borrower, the Government of Orissa, and the Agricultural Refinance
and Development Corporation were representated by a delegation headed by
Mr. D.K. Chatterjee, Director, Department of Economic Affairs, GOI.
The Project
41.       The proposed Project would support a five year time-slice (1977/78-
1981/82) of Orissa's medium irrigation program. This time-slice will overlap
with the first two years of the Sixth Five-Year Plan, which is in its early
stages of formulation. At present, it is projected to amount to about
US$125.7 million. The Project would include construction, over the next
five years, of about 15 MIPs covering about 66,000 ha throughout the State.
Eligibility of MIPs for inclusion in the Project would be determined through
procedures (para 48 below) and on the basis of criteria (para 43 below) agreed
upon between the Association, GOI, and GOO. About 6 on-going projects that
can be modified to meet the agreed technical and economic criteria (the
remaining investment in these projects is estimated at $43.5 million) and
between 8 and 10 new projects ($59.2 million), i.e. a total worth of $102.7
million (some 80% of the total MIP program of the State), are likely to be
included in the Project. IDA financing of new MIPs would be limited to that
portion of construction that would be implemented by the end of FY 1981/82.
However, any MIP started under the Project would be completed in accordance
with the agreed criteria. Assurances have been obtained from GOO that it
would endeavor to make as many MIPs as possible eligible for financing under
the Project (Section 3.09 of the draft Project Agreement). -- In addition,
the Project would comprise land consolidation on 200,000 ha and on-farm works
on 57,000 ha in three existing major irrigation systems.
42.       Investment costs are substantially higher in MIPs (on average $1,220
per ha) than in major irrigation projects ($890 per ha). At present, lower
standards of design, evaluation, implementation, and operation and maintenance
apply to MIPs than to major irrigation systems. These lower standards result
in considerable waste of water and rapid deterioration of the canal system.
Deficiencies in the presently applied standards include: unreliability of the
data base used in the planning process; lack of soil and agricultural surveys,
resulting in unrealistic assumptions about cropping patterns; underestimation
of water losses in conveyance and on the fields; reliance on farmers for con-
structing field channels from outlets serving 40 ha blocks without providing
funding, guidance in design and implementation of these works. Inadequate
canal bank compaction, combined with poor maintenance, has led to a severe
deterioration of the conveyance system and in turn to high operational and
seepage losses.
43.       In order to ensure that projects to be financed from the proposed
credit are adequately designed, built and operated, basic data requirements,
specific criteria for planning, design and construction, and a minimum level
of economic viability have been established for MIPs. Projects to be financed
from the credit would be prepared, designed (or redesigned) and constructed
in accordance with these requirements and criteria (Schedule 4 to the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The economic criteria would ensure that
individual subprojects would have an economic rate of return of at least 12%.



- 13 -
The procedure of financing a time-slice of GOO's medium irrigation program,
in combination with the establishment of technical and economic criteria,
would provide an opportunity to review in depth the largest part of Orissa's
irrigation sector and to make an impact, Statewide, on technical and economic
standards applied in MIPs.
44.       Each MIP that would be included in the project would generally
consist of an earthfill storage dam with a gated spillway, an unlined canal
network, which would deliver water through outlets serving 5 ha blocks, and
a drainage network connected to major natural drains. The average cost is
about $1,220 per irrigated ha, ranging from $1,000 to $1,550 per ha. Nor-
mally, the dam accounts for about two-thirds of the cost and the conveyance
and drainage networks for about one-third. Due to size, number and distri-
bution of MIPs throughout the State it would not be feasible to establish
command area development organizations in each project as for major irriga-
tion projects. Instead, proper water supply to each farm would be ensured
by extending the canal system from the standard 40 ha outlets down to turnouts
serving 5 ha blocks. Assurances have also been obtained from GOO that the
staffing of agricultural extension services will be maintained, at this stage
of development, in conformity with the Statewide standards agreed under the
Orissa Agricultural Development Project referred in para 35 above (Section
3.05 (b) of the Project Agreement).
45.       The main objective of the command area development (CAD) component
of the project is to optimize the productive use of available water resources
in three existing major irrigation systems in Orissa. This would be achieved
through land consolidation and provision of irrigation and drainage facilities
at the farm level with associated control structures, lining of critical water
course sections and proper land development. Water distribution to each farm
would be ensured, and proper drainage would eliminate waterlogging in low
lying areas. The results from pilot operations in Orissa indicate that likely
benefits would include a 20% to 30% increase in yields and water savings that
would permit a 20% to 30% increase in the irrigated area.
46.       In the existing highly fragmented land holding pattern, land consol-
idation is a pre-condition for on-farm works to make rotational irrigation
manageable to the farmers. Experience from CAD pilot operations in Orissa and
from other States, where large scale CAD has been attempted, suggests that
major obstacles to the successful implementation of such CAD programs are
obtaining the right-of-way for field channels and drains without payment of
compensation for land and the large number of farmers ineligible for bank
loans due to unclear land titles. Both obstacles would be removed in the
course of land consolidation, which would precede the construction of on-
farm works and which, for a given area, would take three years to implement.
Since the start of the land consolidation program in 1974, about 15,000 ha
have been consolidated and work is underway on about 160,000 ha. The land
consolidation program included in the project would cover about 200,000 ha.
It would be implemented over four years in accordance with the Orissa Con-
solidation of Holdings and Prevention of Fragmentation Act of 1972, which



- 14 -
allows rearrangement and redistribution of land in compact rectangular blocks.
In the course of such land consolidation, land titles are cleared and land is
set aside for communal purposes such as field channels and drains.
47.       On-farm development included in the project for about 57,000 ha,
generally on consolidated land, would mainly consist of constructing field
channels and drains with masonry checks, turnouts and drop structures. About
20% of the field channels would be lined. Land shaping and leveling would not
be required, since most of the areas to be covered are bunded and levelled.
Project Implementation
48.       Because of the large number of MIPs to be financed under the pro-
posed credit and the relatively small size of the individual MIP, and because
of institution building objectives (see para 49 below), a central feature
of the proposed Project is that appraisal and routine progress review of
individual MIPs would be delegated to GOI's Central Water Commission (CWC).
A special Appraisal Committee (AC), consisting of engineers, agriculturalists
and economists is being established in the CWC for this purpose. The appoint-
ment of a director of the AC and staffing arrangements for the AC satisfactory
to the Association would be conditions for the effectiveness of the credit.
Under the general guidance of IDA, the AC would appraise and monitor the pro-
gress of individual MIPs in accordance with technical and economic criteria
and procedures agreed with IDA (paras 41 and 43 above). Potential MIPs have
been identified in the Master Plan of 1972 for irrigation development.
Determining priorities for preparation of MIPs would be the responsibility
of the GOO Secretary of Irrigation and Power after consultation with other
concerned GOO departments. Subsequent to the approval by GOO technical and
administrative departments and to the overall financial clearance by GOO and
GOI, the MIPs would be submitted to the AC for appraisal. The AC would visit
the project area and for each MIP. prepare a project summary to be submitted to
the Association. If the MIP meets all established criteria, costs less than
Rs 70 million ($7.8 million) and has a benefit/cost ratio of better than 1.0,
the CWC would be authorized to approve the project. In all other cases, the
project would be reviewed in detail by IDA before approval. To establish
quality standards for CWC appraisal work, full documentation for the first
three MIPs, irrespective of cost, would be submitted to IDA for approval.
With these procedures, it is expected that about 40-50% of all MIPs to be
financed from the credit, representing more than 60% of total costs, would
be submitted to the Association for detailed review and approval.
49.       The AC would also closely monitor the progress of preparation,
implementation and operation of the MIPs. Frequent progress reports would be
submitted to IDA. The main activities of IDA would concentrate on assessing
the quality of AC appraisal and review work, reviewing procurement procedures,
spot checking whether the agreed criteria have been followed, reviewing the
financial records kept by GOI and GOO, assessing the continuing appropriate-
ness of the established criteria, and examining content. timing and adequacy
of the reports to be submitted by the AC to the Association. The proposed
procedure for implementation of the MIP component of the Project would be



- 15 -
a major step toward the objective of building up a capable and responsible
project preparation and appraisal unit at the Central Government, with exper-
tise on all aspects of irrigation development.
50.       The Irrigation and Power Department (I&PD) of GOO would be respon-
sible for implementing all irrigation works. Field works would be technically
and administratively controlled by the Divisional Executive Engineer. Pro-
gress of project implementation would be reviewed by AC three times during
each year; at least two of these reviews would be during the construction
season. Labor-intensive methods would be used for all construction works.
Responsibility for day-to-day operation of each MIP would rest with the sub-
divisional Assistant Engineer. Water allocation, on a rotational basis, would
be established at the beginning of each irrigation season by a comittee of
technical and administrative officers and a representative of the locally
elected body (Section 2.02(d) of the draft Project Agreement). I&PD would be
responsible for maintenance of MIPs.
51.       The Consolidation Unit of GOO's Revenue Department would carry out
the land consolidation program. A special feature of the consolidation scheme
is the involvement of the concerned village community in all stages of opera-
tion. For this purpose, a Consolidation Committee comprised of at least one
landless agricultural laborer, one representative of each category of land
owners, and one person from Scheduled Castes and Tribes would be set up for
each village and advise consolidation officers on matters such as land values
and allotment of consolidated holdings. The Agriculture Engineering Organi-
zation of the Directorate of Agriculture and Food Production would be respon-
sible for planning, design and implementation of on-farm works. Their activ-
ities would be coordinated by three of the Command Area Development Authorities
(CADAs), which were recently established for the existing major irrigation
systems in the State to ensure full cooperation among the various departments
concerned with CAD. Cost of on-farm works would be charged directly to the
beneficiaries. Financing for such works would be available to all farmers
from land development banks (LDBs) and commercial banks (CBs). Loans for
eligible farmers secured by mortgages would be for a maximum of 15 years in-
cluding a grace period of 2 years, at a minimum interest rate of 10.5%. Far-
mers, who are ineligible for such ordinary loans would receive unsecured
Special Loans on the same terms but at 14% annual interest. Secured loans
would be refinanced at a rate of 90% by the Agricultural Refinance and Dev-
elopment Corporation (ARDC), to which a portion of the credit proceeds would
be relent for this purpose (para 53 below). Unsecured loans would be fully
refinanced by a Special Loans Account agreed upon among GOI, GOO and ARDC to
be set up in ARDC with a 50% contribution by GOI and 25% contributions each
by GOO and ARDC.
Project Cost and Financing
52.       The estimated total cost of the project is $116.0 million equivalent
(net of taxes and duties), including $20.0 million (17%) in foreign exchange.
The principal cost components, including a provision of 20% for physical con-
tingencies, are: medium irrigation projects (US$81.1 million) and command



- 16 -
area development (US$10.8 million, including US$6.7 million for land consol-
idation and US$4.1 million for on-farm works). The balance is made up by
expected price increases (US$21.6 million for MIPs and US$2.5 million for
CAD).
53.       The proposed credit of US$58.0 million would cover 50% of project
cost, including all foreign exchange costs and US$38.0 million of local costs.
Local cost financing is justified in India for projects such as this for the
reasons discussed in paragraph 20. GOO would finance 48%, while 2% would be
contributed by ARDC, LDBs, CBs, and the farmers. All contributions of ARDC,
the Banks and the farmers would be for the US$5.2 million (including physical
and price contingencies) on-farm works component of the Project and would rep-
resent, of the cost for this component, 36%, 10% and 8%, respectively (with
the balance of 46% coming from GOO).    Of the proceeds of the credit, GOI
would channel US$55.6 million to GOO on the standard terms and arrangements
on which development funds are being provided to State governments by the
Center. US$2.4 million would be passed on by GOI to ARDC for up to 15 years
at not less than 7.25% annual interest. ARDC in turn would refinance 90% of
the on-farm work loans extended to farmers by the LDBs and CBs at not less
than 7.5% annual interest, repayable in accordance with the terms of the
loans to the farmers.
Procurement and Disbursement
54.       The proceeds of the proposed credit would be used to finance:
medium irrigation projects (US$52.3 million), land consolidation (US$3.3
million) and on-farm works (US$2.4 million).
55.       Civil works for MIPs (US$67.6 million net of physical and price
contingencies) would be labor-intensive, relatively small, and restricted to
seasonal construction. In these circumstances, it would not be feasible or
economic to combine them into contracts large enough to attract international
competition. It is therefore proposed that they be carried out by local con-
tractors in accordance with GOO's present practice under on-going projects.
Current practice is to contract most of the construction works for dams,
spillways, structures and distribution networks after local competitive bid-
ding. The remaining works are executed under small unit price contracts.
Where bids are not received, e.g. due to the remoteness of an MIP area, the
work is being implemented under force account. Force account work would also
be used when required by safety or quality considerations; such force account
work, however, would be limited to a maximum of 25% of civil works. On-farm
works in major irrigation commands (US$3.4 million net of contingencies),
mainly field channels and drains and associated small masonary structures,
would be built by manual labor, the most economic and practical means. Con-
tracts for these works would also be small and would be let on a unit price
basis to small village contractors. These procedures are satisfactory to the
Association.
56.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed for approved MIPs
against 65% of expenditures on civil works. Disbursements for CAD on-farm
works would also be on a percentage basis (55% of ARDC's refinancing). For



- 17 -
land consolidation, disbursements would be made at the rate of Rs 150 per ha.
Disbursements for force account work, for on-farm works, and for MIP contract
works of less than Rs 50,000 would be made against certificates of expenditure
from GOO and ARDC, as appropriate. The supporting documents for these pay-
ments would not be submitted to the Association but would be retained by GOO
and ARDC, respectively, for inspection by IDA Project review missions. Dis-
bursements for land consolidation would be made against certificates of com-
pletion. The credit would be expected to be fully disbursed by October 31,
1983, about one year after completion of the Project.
Benefits and Economic Justification
57.       The proposed Project would expand by about 89,000 ha the area under
irrigation and also increase the production efficiency of existing irrigated
land. At full development, the project would increase foodgrain production
by some 110,000 tons and generate about 30,000 and 13,000 additional full time
jobs in farm and non-farm sectors, respectively.  Valued at projected inter-
national prices, the increased foodgrain production would be worth about
US$20 million annually. An additional advantage of the Project would be the
geographically wider distribution of direct and indirect benefits from irri-
gation throughout Orissa, which would induce more even economic growth in the
State.
58.       According to the economic criteria for MIPs, CWC would be authorized
to approve projects with. an economic rate of return exceeding 12%. Based on an
estimated average investment cost of $1,220 per ha for MIPs in Orissa's project
pipeline and on a projected "typical" cropping pattern the average economic
rate of return of MIPs is estimated to be about 18%. for the CAD program the
economic rate of return would be about 34%. Since the MIP and CAD components
account for US$102.7 million and US$13.3 million (or 88% and 12%) of project
cost, respectively, the overall economic rate of return for the Project is
calculated at about 20%.
59.       Net farm incomes would rise substantially under the project.  Under
the MIP component, the incomes,of about 30,000 farm households, mostly (88%)
at or below the minimum subsistence level (US$30), would increase by an aver-
age of 180%; thus, at full development, the percentage of farm households
below the minimum subsistence level would be greatly reduced. Similarly, the
share of farm households below the poverty line (US$60) would be reduced from
96% at present to 70%. On-farm works under the CAD component, which would
mainly benefit farmers with land at the tailends of the irrigation outlet
blocks, would raise their incomes (net of loan repayment) by between 15%
and 30% and thus substantially reduce or remove the present income dif-
ferences of about 30% between headreach and tailend farmers.
60.       If costs for operation and maintenance (O&M) and for capital in-
vestment were to be recovered from beneficiaries over 30 years at 10% annual
interest, the annual charge to farmers would amount to about Rs 1,250 per ha.
Assuming that all incremental production will be marketed, water charges and
other irrigation related levies and taxes in Orissa at current levels would,
as the Project is being implemented, result in incremental collections of



- 18 -
about Rs 215 per ha per year for the typical cropping pattern of an MIP. Of
this amount, only about Rs 35 would stem from water charges. These low over-
all charges reflect the low taxation rate of Orissa, whose per capita revenue
ranks 17th among the 21 States of India. Consequently, the States's ability
to increase investments in agriculture without a higher rate of cost recovery,
would be severely constrained by its budgetary resources. However, cost
recovery must be examined in the light of the economic condition of the
beneficiaries and their capacity to pay. The average per capita income in
Orissa, ranks 16th among the Indian States. The proportion of the rural pop-
ulation below the poverty line is larger in Orissa than in any other State.
The average annual per capita income in rural areas is only about US$78 or
about three-fifths of the average per capita income for India. The widespread
poverty in the State and the low and uncertain benefits that farmers obtain
from existing irrigation schemes make it politically difficult for GOO to
change water rates and similar charges in the immediate future. Benefits
from the Project would not be realized fully and perceived by the benefici-
aries until the mid-1980s.   Nevertheless in view of gradually rising incomes
in line with Project implementation, the ability of farmers to pay higher
water charges needs careful monitoring, with a view to drawing up a feasible
cost recovery plan.   To this end, GOO has agreed to review, by December 31,
1979, the State's system of water and water related charges, and to implement
an appropriate system of such charges, based on the recommendations arising
from the review, in consultation with the Association (Section 3.03 of the
draft Project Agreement). Proper consideration would be given to incentives
for and payment capacity of farmers, and to the objectives of ensuring full
recovery of operation and maintenance cost, and as much as possible of capital
cost.
Project Risk
61.       The risks associated with the Project are essentially those normally
associated with irrigation projects in India. For the MIP component, special
risks stem from the use of standardized yield and input projections in the
economic analysis of sub-projects. Since agro-economic conditions in all MIP
areas would be broadly similar, the error introduced by using standardized
projections in evaluating an individual MIP would be small. Moreover, the
overestimation of actual benefits for one MIP would likely be compensated by
the underestimation of benefits for another. Another risk is associated with
the delegation of primary responsibility for field appraisal, approval and
routine progress reviews for qualifying MIPs to a new, untested organization
in the Central Government. However, this risk would be minimized by the various
measures and qualifications described in paragraph 48 above and the expanded
reporting arrangements that would permit the Association to identify problems
early and to intervene directly, if necessary. The risk associated with the
CAD component is small and acceptable considering the significant returns
foreseen and the successful experience in pilot operations.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
State of Orissa, the draft ARDC Agreement between the Association and ARDC,
the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Association, and the text of a draft
resolution approving the proposed credit are being distributed to the Exe-
cutive Directors separately.
63.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The appointment of a director for the Appraisal Committee, and
staffing arrangements for the Appraisal Committee satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation are additional conditions to the effectiveness of the credit (Section
5.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Financial arrangements
for relending part of the proceeds of the Credit (US$2,400,000) by India to
ARDC and the establishment of a Special Loans Account for ineligible farmers
under the Project are conditions of disbursement in respect of the on-farm
works component of the Project (Section 3 (b) of Schedule I to the Development
Credit Agreement).
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By I.P.M. Cargill
Attachments
August 23, 1977



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .01                                                                      S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 C
C   l.a  a                          4-0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C'*'           111~~~~~~~~~~~~~  a z o  IL
0  4  4  -e  -   Ij~~~  .11  SIP       Ill   CS      s04   -   C     I . I  000CC            .  W-      C        NO   A
ha  C  aOl  -        C     C                        4NN   -                                      4   a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W   ~. . 
-  isa                                           a                        -.-.                                       a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6  w.0Z a  -
C     X               L a                        ' .  WS
-  I-..                                                                                                 a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 I M C.CC  W
~~~                                               -I                                            -IIftw  = ~   CC
U  ~~*C  4  00  CNC4C    C   CCC  010  CC C, a*C                            C C -       O                  Ct   00Cx  I
LI  tIC  C  04  COOIOIC  CS'S  11.-.Iv  ~~~~C-  S- C  0C vC             0 CC 4      1   C C     C C  I'  -   ne,-
0                                                                                             a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w ~  
-aw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 aO                              WWw'



ANNlEX I
Page 2 of 4
NOTES
nin otbenaise noted, data for 1960 refer to anY year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 betwee        1968 and 1970 and for Moot Recen.t intimate between
1973 and 1975.
-0 Er-il has been enlenned soa        bjecteive cutry bec...ee of it. sine and rasperable probles of regional inequality.
INDIA          1960     /a1951-61 overge;        lb   1951-60;     Ic  Ratio of population coder 15 and 65 and ove     to labor force sge 15 and over;
Id  Regia.rrd applioantn for wok;         /0  1962;     If  Rogitsornd, not all prt-toe.9ingt    the  -teety;     IA  Inoloding
midwives;     lb  1958;     It  1960-62.
1970    Rateri     of populstion coder 15 and 65 and ove     to labor force sge 15 and ove         lb  1967-68;     Ic  Including midives;
/d 1967.
HilT RECfTif  ESTTKATE:    Ia  1971:     /b  Ratio of popelation ondor 15 and 65 and ovn      to labor feronagn 15 sod over;        It  1976;
Id  Including midwivn;       In  1969-71 avnrgn;       /f  Population It ynars and over.
ENDO7NESIA     1970     I   1961-71;     lb  1971;     / Ic  eluding nidsivec        d  Total hospital bedn inconpiete.
PHILIPPINIS    1970     /A.t percentage Of     mPloynent;     lb  Rot including private -ontiona      sboo.l..
BR.AZrl.       1970     /a   Enomi-allY attics popolstion;        lb  Hospital peraonnnl;      It  Inside only.
RIO, April 18, 1977
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL. INDIGIATORE
Land Area (thou km )                                                                  Poculetion per -urola   corset - Pupolatiun dielded by numbher of pr-uti-
Total - Total cufauc arca uosprmicia load uro       and iblend  -atro.                  tint molt and f-Iul    grodoc to cre,"tr-ined       or `cortified"l
Agri-. - MHue  reuttotmt       of agri.ultura1 area used tonporrily or                 n-roe. en d ..neiliarY Personnel   iub tiroitg nopor      lopti..-
perv..t. ily for cropc, pscturoe, esrket & kitrh- gardtno or to lie                 Poculution pt- bosptli1 bed - Pupol1-luc divided by norbor of boepital
fellow                                                                                bode avilable in publit end Prlo-te gane..      ca .d synuielicod hoapitol
end r=bbilitatios aentoro; eculedoc nuring h.... snd eetablishe,ntrc
GN,iPper -p ite (US)) - GNP per uspit. octistes aet curret maket pritoc,                let tuctodisI etA proce-ti- torn.
taIlcoletd by none   eneo.. ien -otbod on World Benk Atlon (1973-75 bests);         Pot capita cutely of uc    is(7. of -esniroenotr) - Ceepsted from
1960, 1970 end 1975 data.                                                             energy equilnalot of not food    oppyliee seilakie in    -tocty per capita
Per doy; -olluble cuyylics    -upriso de...etit pr-d-utie, imports less
Puceletion end viral tisistite                                                          ne.prte, ed ubangos in crck       etspplies- cecludo     nmlfo,se
Potcls_ion (old-cr. mullion) - As of JulY first:      if nor soslsbie,                  quantitis    _cd in icdProo    iong cod losses in din_ribuie In          re
courage Of two end- your eieo;1960, i97i end 1975 dti.                                -oni   ere e-ti-utod by PAl haoe.d to pbycielgi-ai noeds for tonal
actidity cad boclth toncidnoing o-itrcooata1 tonys.tatre, body ueigbte,
PPaclarion de...lly - pr    turt c    - 91d-yoct popalatioc pot equat    bile-          age and coo distributina of yopulctien, end allusiag lit for canto
coetr (10 beutaroc)r of .tur    cree.                                                 at h.u.eholdI level.
'opolctio     d-eity - cot scer. km of antic. icend - Computed an abo- for            per cepit. ..c.. o f pet.ein (icons per dyc) - Prteoin      -tenrt Of pot
egricultnrl land .t,Y.                                                                "ePit'el    Iupy    ffoo    yc  dey   co  'upY of fod Is defined a
fuel1 tnicrti-n                                                                         Receorcb leries provide for oinitim_ alluctue- of 60 g-am          Of
Crudo birth ratePer thousaod, -e-gse - Acasal lIeo births per th-u-cd                   total preotei per dey, end 20 go     onef unimal cod pelce p-etei, of
of mld-yecr poputiun; ron-year soitbeetie a-orgen odlag in 1960 sad                   chick 10 grmo hboud be caimal yr-tein; theno        t-ed-rd   arc  eer
1970, and flo-year      acreg  ending Ia 197  Icr mos r00rn        tae                  e   hs     f7    ro     nttlpoencd7               on    fale       rtl
Crude doeath taco   - co   ib.s.. ndnr--ao- A  -aa1 deaths per tb-asod,of old-          aan a-rgo for        h.c word, p-pc...d by FAO in rho Third World Feed
year popuaIo~e~n; ton-year arithme.tic averges anding ic 1960ed170nad                 Surcey.
lic _ e-or aoog       nd Ing in 1975 for meat raeor. estiacto.                      Per -spita protein au   1y fro     stiedI sad polac - Protein aupply uf feed
lafant mortality tore (/thou) - Anancl deutbe If infants      cdor one year             do-i-d from. aelal     cad prIso ..   grum St cp dcy.
ofaeper tbhcecd lIce kirtho, ...Death race C/thee) coos I-                                                    - Annual deths per tbhnncd in age grop
'If. ceo ctanoc       ikjos          crg    number of pact or  f life rond-             1-b years, to   hiidr-   inthIis age group; cigo-ted ca00ldicator of
leg si birth; eealy f        _eYnr --aaco     ending io 1560. 1970 cod                maln_rrilco.
1975 fr dove.lopiag   tceries.
Cret roc dcutionosto-Avtraioe nuber of liv e dc-gb ot      e   oowil              Bdo...ttin
boar in boo norma   rproducri_cer yInd ifh.b -pe-ie..c.. preent age-                Adjusted onocllmeat oct10 -     icy school - inEl..ooc.t of all guesc
upeclfic fertily rcrc; ua..ely fiv-your        -orgacen -ding in 1969,               pretg       ofriaycb-geppltiun; iculodos                  hbildroo aged
1970 and 19751 for deoelcpiag   .. cutries.                                           6-,11.yea.rs but.adjocrod fec diffre-t lengtha of primary Iduce.tiom;
PopulatIon 0R_wth yaLe(7.) - total - Ceapound anneal g-oth rots of old-                 forcutries      ith unlo-nl ed-cti-, coroll ...t say e.eod 100%
y..t population fcr 1950-60, 1960-70 sad 1970-75.                                     sInce some pupils ar    bole- ar bhev   the ufficlal scbcel ago.
Pecu,.iatt    growth r-to (7. - orbc  - Competed liko g-uth otet of t.ta1             Adfated onrelLoet ra,tio - secodary school - Computed an         bov-;
popalction; difforot dc initiate of orb-a areas nay affet coapar-                     _eonda~y educat Ionr       tsa      es   four yoaa of apyt-vd poioary
bil ity of date on nag  eoorilo.                                                      iaatouuticn; pre-idec gnera,     octiua          tahrraniag
Ulrban ceculatien 17 of total) -, Rtio of urha     to total papu1otica;                 letruc ti... far popil In  f 12 10 17Yearn of ago; c-r-ep-adeac
differet definitions Of urba       -ec nap affect cap-rbility Of data                 corsen are goercIly      -1cldod.
_~noagceuatoien                                                                     loan  of ubho.liac pravided (fIrst ond secood I-oo      ) - Tote1 yours of
Ag      lt.r5M       Et- Children (0-lb years), ecoking-age (15-64 yecr...               schooling; ot soc-dary,lord, vocatioa ..       nt. ctla my be Per-
and retirod (65 yson ae     aver  as perceatagon of old-peat population.              tio1Iy or _oclteoly souludad.
Agc doedo..cY ratio      Reta of population    -dar 1) and 65 and Ine    to           Vocat ioa ...oInlIIar (7. of secondary) - Voca.tional iastltuti...
tboce of ages 1) tbronib 6b.                                                          include technicci, indantriul or othor pr-grum      which operat
icoo..Ic dependecncy ratio - Relic of poynlotion under 1) and 65 and Ico                iodepoo.doatly or a   doperio..ala of necendary in,etirutioac
to th e labor farce inage8 graup of 15-6b Yoaoe                                     Adult literay rate(.)       Literate adolta(beb     to read end -wire)c
family pc-ig-acptn (cumulative, thou)              1- Cutie- cooker of                   p-rcntcge of total adult    .pclstion eged 1) years and ove.
acco pturn of kirth-ctrt-I de-icen undot auspices Of national family
plenting progrum tit..ienlacotie.                                                    tus
Pa_lly planin.   -ses(7. of caroled cu        )   - r  tten eg   of earried           Pasper r... (urban) - Aorago ...abor of po-ona Per r..a in
wmnof child-beaing ago (15-his yean)wT hon I      h Ith-coctrel device             accupid    --nv tir..nal daciliga In urbn since; duclliage enciwde
to all eartiod women in    -m  gie group.                                             nun-perman.ent structures od ...ccopiod parts.
Oc...cied duelliaga witbhar pipod actor (7.    - Occpied c-Ontie..al
Imploycoct                                                                              doellingSein urba    and rura  a reas  ithuct hsido to outside piped
Total labor fore (then...ad) - Ec..ia.yatis            .esos     inuloding              eater facilitico as perentage uf all occpied delling.
armed f-ren cd u-uployad bat        . aludig     .. boneics  atudot, sic.;          Access, to etlectricIty (7. of all decilinges) - C-nconioocI deniliags      I
defintions      . it verb   ... centiree aretnroupa-ble.                              oib, elocloicity in lioiag quaters an periont of rural dwellingst
taboo force in agiotue(.         - Agri-nItor..l labor farce (in faning,                -rhan and rura   aras
foro-etry, boating and fishiag) an percentage ef tura     la1 bor force.            Rural.deelli... cocantod to electricity (7.      - Computed as shee   far
Uampeyo     (7. od f labor force) - Uaceploynd are useoily defined anrural dwellings only.
petr....      r en  ble ad nilliag to tko a jth, out of a job u 
give   day, r-mined oatIof a Job,esad seking cork for a spocified                   Consumtion
niniona  period not eacoediag Ins cook; nay not bn cump-rble betnnen                Raitotes (per tboc poo) - All typos of receivers for radio honed-
cu..ntries dan t. different dofisition. of napnnyled end      ..urce Of               cents to gonera. 1public per theus...d of populalion; ocnc
data,e.g.    eploym..t office etatiotics, smplo       --rcys, cuepaisory              unic  ecd oncoiv-rs it contries cad in ysatn chen registration Of
saolyme   -auace.                                                                 r.dim nets can in effect; date fo recant years esy act be ...mperable
Incom    Distribntion - Percentage of private iacome (both in cah and                 Paansantcar (pr      thou cp.) - Passenger cars cnpo ise motor cat
kind) -recel-d b-y richest 57., richest 207., peorost 207., and poorest                seating teenithan eight pensc...; e-cludos obulancen, bearsosua.d
407. uf hoa...bhlde.                                                                   mii tarY enhile.
Electricity (kwh/yr pot tap) - Annual censu..pti-n of iadcntria1, co
Dintoibation of land .-ethipc-Pert...tagen       of land oumed by neaItibot               -orial, public and prio-to electricity In kilo...it boors per cpita;
107 ..ad poorest 107. of lead enr.generall1y based on prod-cti- data, with oct alieneee for losse                                                           is
grids hat alewiag for iaports and nopert of electricity.
Health and Nutriti-n                                                                  Newpriat (ay      per cap) - Per capita annual cnonumprtia in kilagrons
.Poplation potphysician - Pepalatica divided by numbo       cf pr-aticing               antimatod foco do....ric predection plan net imports of oewprint.
physicists qualifiod from a m.edical s-heolat usivereIty level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
BCONOMIC DEVEOMlENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1975 -a USS 150
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975/76 -                                                   ANNUAL RATE OF GROWM (%. constant prices)
USR Bln.                                              1960/61-1964/6S     1965/66-1969/70     1970/71-1974/75
GNP at Market Prices             82.8       100.0                                           3.8                3.7                 2.6
Cross Domestic Investment       46.7         20.1
Gross National Saving            16.0        19.3
Current Account Balance         -0.7         -0.8
Resource Gap                    -1.5         -1.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)          Labor Force              V.A. Per Worker
USS Bln.             9                Mii l   ____                   % of Natonal Average
Agriculture                     24.5             46.6                130.0    72.1            188           64
Industry                         11.8            22.3                 20.2    11.2           582           199
Services                         16.3            51,                  30.2    16.7              2          186
Total/average                    52.6           100.0                180.4   100.0            292           100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government /                                    Central Government
(RB. Bln)         9 of GDP                       (R.-. Bi)                 of GDP
197-5/~76     1975/76   1973/74-1975/76               1975           1975/76   1973/74-1975/76
Current Receipts                  133.34        18.5          16.7                       79.11          11.0         9.8
Current Expenditures              118.77        16.5          15.3                       70.05          9.7          8.8
Current Surplus/Deficit            14.57         2.0           1.4                        9.06          1.3          1.0
Capital Expenditures  e/           54.27         7.5           6.2                       40.75           5.6         4.6
External Assistance (net)          13.89         1.9           1.3                       13.89          1.9          1.3
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES                 1965/66    XF        1972/73    1975/74    1974/7     1975/76    SePtenber 1975    September 1976
Billion Rs outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                      61.4      122.4     142.2      169.1      187.2      213.6          199.0            238.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector              40.8       69.o       82.5       92.9      102.6      108.5         112.8             112.7
Bank Credit to Private Seotor              28.1      64.4       76.0       90.1      109.5      134.2         106.0             143.8
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                     January 1976      January 1977
Money and Quasi Money as % of GCP          24.0      26.4       27.9       27.1       26.2       27.9
gholesale Prioe Index
;1961/62 = 100)                       131.6      188.4      207.1      254.2     313.0      302.8          290.0             320.5
Annual peroentage changes ins
Wholesale Prioe Index                      7.7        4.0        9.9       22.7       23.1                                       10.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector              12.9       21.3       19.6       12.6       10.4        5.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector             12.8       13.6       18.0       18.5       21.5      22.5                             24.6
a/ The per capita GNP estimLate is at market prices, oalculated by the conversion technique used in the
World Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
b/ Quick Estimates.
.S Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and
one observation after last year of listed period.
d/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted ou1t.
,/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted cut.
L' Net bank credit to Government Sector.
.8/ Bank Credit to Commercial Sector.



ECONOMIC DCVELOPMENT DATA                                                 ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYI'ETS               1973/74     i115L76                    1976/77 h/          MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVSRACS 1971/74-1975/76)
Exports of Goode                   3,239        4,174        4,555        5,400              Sugar                      342         9
Imports of Good.s                 -3,971       -5,794       -6,085      -5,850              J.le Manufactures          317          8
Trade Balanoe                     - 732        -1,620       -1,530         -450              Tea                        249         6
NFS (net)  /                        n.a.         n.a.        n..         n.a.               Cotton Textiles            413        10
Iron Ore                   206          5
Resourc Gap                         n.a.         n.a.        n.a.        n.a.                Engineering Goods         391         10
Others                   2.071         52
Interest Paymente (net)           - 233         - 260        - 250       - 280               Total                    3,989        100
Other Factor Payments (net)         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.        n.a.
Net Transfere  /                    n.a.         n.a.         n.a.       n.a.
Balanoe on Current Acoounts         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.       n.a.                 XTERNAL DEST. MARCB 51, 1976
USS B1111cr.
Official Aid
Disbursements                  1,249        1,766        2,326      2,050                Repayable in foreign currency         12.3
Amortisation                   - 459        - 519        - 516       - 560               Repayable through export of goods      0.7
Transactions with IMF                 75          515          205       - 365               Total Outstanding and Disbursed       13.0
All Other Iteme                      205           80          559       1,100
DE0BT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976/77       15.5  percent  -
Increase in Reserves (-)            -105           38       - 794      -1.495
Grose Reserves (end year)          1,416        1,378        2,172       3,667               IRRD/IDA LENDING, December 31, 1976   (USS Iln.'
Net Reserves (end year)            1,341          783        1,332      3,202
I IRD      IDA
Fuel and Related Materials
Outstanding and Disbursed          452.7     3208.4
Imports                              720        1,451        1,417      1,625                Undisbureed                        510.3     1140.5
of which, Petroleum               719        1,451        1,417      1,625                Outstanding including
Exports                               20           26           41        n,a,              >Undiebureed                        963.0     4348.9
of which: Petroleum                16           17           22        n.a.
RATE OF EXCHANGE I/
Prior to mid-December 1971    1  USt1.00  =  Rs 7.5                                          After end June 1972    1   Floating Rate
Rs 1.00  =  USSO.133333                                     Spot Rate March 31, 19i6
Mlid-December 1971 to         I  US81.00  . Rs 7.27927                                                  approx. U551.00 G Rs.   8.80475
end June 1972                  Rs 1.00  = US0O.137376                                                 approx. Rs 1.00 = USS  0.113575
/   Estimated.
i/ Included with 'All other Items'.
Y/ Aid and trade figures oonverted to US dollars ueing exchange rates as indicated in inside front
cover of this report or noteo to individual tables.
/   Including garments.
1/ Amortization and interest payments (excluding fMF transactions) as a peroentage of merchandise orports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
TIE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of June 30, 1977)
Loan or                                                                                         US$ Million-/
Credit No.         Year     Borrower                 Purpose                                 (Net of Cancellation)
BANK      IDA      Undisbursed
39 Loans/                                                                            1,091.5
43 Credits fully disbursed                                                                     2,346.9
614-IN             1969      India         Tarai Seeds                                  13.0       ---         3.7
203-IN             1970      India        Punjab Agricultural Credit                     --        27.5        2.5
226-IN             1971      India        Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit             --       24.4         0.6
250-IN             1971      India        Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit                 --        35.0        3.2
264-IN             1971      India        Cochin II Fertilizer                           --       20.0         0.6
267-IN             1971      India        Wheat Storage                                  --         5.0        3.7
278-IN             1972      India        Mysore Agricultural Credit                     --       40.0         0.1
294-IN             1972      India        Bihar Agricultural Markets                     --       14.0        11.1
312-IN             1972      India        Population                                     --       21.2         8.5
342-IN             1972      India        Education                                      --       12.0        10.6
356-IN             1972      India        IDBI                                           --       25.0        12.1
377-IN             1973      India        Power Transmission III                         --       85.0        22.1
378-IN             1973      India        Mysore Agrictultural Markets                   --        8.0         7.1
902-IN             1973      ICICI         Industry DFC X                               70.0        --         9.2
390-IN             1973      India        Bombay Water Supply                            --        55.0       37.3
392-IN             1973      India        Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit              --        38.0        7.4
403-IN             1973      India        Telecommunications V                           --        80.0       12.3
427-IN             1973      India         Calcutta Urban Development                    --        35.0       15.1
440-IN             1973      India         Bihar Agricultural Credit                     --        32.0       17.6
456-IN             1974      India       HN Apple Processing & Marketing                 --        13.0       10.7
481-IN             1974      India        Trombay IV                                     --        50.0       17.3
1011-IN             1974      India         Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                      52.0        --        39.9
482-IN             1974      India        Karnataka Dairy                                --        30.0       29.6
502-IN             1974      India         Rajasthan Canal CAD                           --        83.0       56.2
520-IN             1974      India         Sindri Fertilizer                             --        91.0       29.6
521-IN             1974      India         Rajasthan Dairy                               --        27.7       27.4
522-IN             1974      India         Madhya Pradesh Dairy                          --        16.4       15.7
526-IN             1975      India         Drought Prone Areas                           --        35.0       27.6
1079-IN.            1975      India         IFFCO Fertilizer                            109.0        --        87.5
1097-IN             1975      India         Industry DFC XI                             100.0        --        54.1
532-IN             1975      India         Godavari Barrage Irrigation                   --        45.0       29.5
540-IN             1975      India         ARC Credit                                    --        75.0       20.2
541-IN             1975      India        West Bengal Agricultural Development           --        34.0       29.7
562-IN             1975      India         Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD                  --        24.0       20.5
572-IN             1975      India         Rural Electrification                         --        57.0       53.9
582-IN             1975      India         Railways XIII                                 --       110.0       43.2
585-IN             1975      India         Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                    --        40.0       39.5
598-IN             1975      India         Fertilizer Industry                           --       105.0       97.5
604-IN             1975      India         Power Transmission IV                         --       150.0      150.0
609-IN             1975      India         Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.                  --         4.0        4.0
610-IN             1976       India        Integrated Cotton Development                 --        18.0       18.0
616-IN             1976      India         Industrial Imports XI                         --       200.0        6.5
1251-IN(TW)         1976      India         Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                   145.0        --       145.0
1260-IN             1976      India         IDBI II                                      40.0        --        40.0
1273-IN             1976      India         National Seed                                25.0        --        25.0
1313-IN             1976      India         Telecommunications VI                         80.0       --        54.1
1335-IN             1976      India         Bombay Urban Transport                        25.0       --        25.0
*  680-IN             1977      India         Kerala Agricultural Development                --       30.0       30.0
682-IN             1977      India         Orissa Agricultural Development               --        20.0       20.0
685-IN             1977      India         Singrauli Thermal Power                        --      150.0      150.0
* 687-IN              1977      India        Madras Urban Development                       --        24.0       24.0
* 695-IN              1977      India         Gujarat Fisheries                             --         4.0        4.0
* 1394-IN(TW)         1977      India         Gujarat Fisheries                             14.0       --        14.0
* 690-IN              1977      India        West Bengal Agricultural Development            --       12.0       12.0
*  712-IN             1977      India         Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Development        --       10.0       10.0
*  715-IN             1977      India         Second ARDC Credit                             --      200.0      200.0
*  720-IN             1977      India.        Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                     --        23.0       23.0
*  728-IN             1977      India         Assam Agricultural Development                --         8.0        8.0
* 1473-IN             1977      India         Bombay High Offshore Development             150.0       --       150.0
Total                                                                              1,912.2   4,591.0
of which has been repaid                                                           793.1      27.1
Total now outstanding                                                             1,119.1    4,563.9
Amount Sold                                         111.5
of which has been repaid                          111.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                     1,119.1   4,563.9
Total undisbursed                                                                    483.4   1,551.7
* Not yet effective.
1/ Prior to exchange adjustrents.



AINNEX II
Page 2 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of June 30, 1977)
Fiscal                                              Amount (US$ million)
Year         Company                              Loan     Equity   Total
1959      Republic Forge Company Ltd.              1.5       -        1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.               0.9       -        0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                   1.4       -        1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                        0.2       -        0.2
1963-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.            0.7      0.3       1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.             0.8      0.4       1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.           11.8      1.0      12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.               1.0      0.3       1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                  1.0      0.1       1.1
1967      Indian Explosives Ltd.                   8.6      2.9      11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.               15.1      3.8      18.9
1976      Escorts Limited                          6.6       -        6.6
TOTAL                           49.6      8.8       58.4
Less:  Sold                             6.0       1.6       7.6
Repaid                          13.0       -        13.0
Cancelled                        6.2      0.7       6.9
Now Held                        24.4      6.5      30.9
Undisbursed                      5.6       -        5.6



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION"/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was US$598.6 million in FY77 or 80% of Bank Group
commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$1,552
million as of June 30, 1977, corresponds roughly to commitments over the
preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime which would be expected
ojects in the India program.
Ln. No. 902     Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097    Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475    Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80 million loan of June 23, 1977
Effective Date: October 20, 1977 (Proposed); Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. Loan 902-IN is fully
committed and commitments are progressing satisfactorily for Loan 1097-IN.
Disbursements under L-an 902-IN are ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 614     Tarai Seeds Project; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969;
Effective Date: September 12, 1969; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in
the production, processing and marketing of certified seeds of high yielding
varieties. The corporation is working effectively and has developed an ex-
cellent reputation for quality seed. Expansion of three processing plants
is well under way. Delivery of some equipment in damaged condition, and
retendering, because of poor response for some others, has delayed delivery
schedules necessitating an extension of the Closing Date by one year to
December 31, 1977.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
Cr. No. 250    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million
credit of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 391    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 392    Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Cr. No. 540    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$75.0 million credit of April 28, 1975;
Effective Date: August 5, 1975; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
Cr. No. 715     Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$200.0 million credit of June 1, 1977;
Effective Date: August 1, 1977 (proposed); Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
All the above agricultural credit projects are similar in structure,
being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farmers through
credit institutions, for on-farm investments, primarily in minor irrigation.
Credits 540 and 715 are a continuation nationwide of the previous program of
agricultural credit projects, which were confined to individual states. Apart
from initial start up problems with the individual state projects, mostly due
to the introduction of new lending criteria and lending terms, progress under
these projects has been satisfactory.
Cr. No. 267     Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The Food Corporation of India is making satisfactory progress
in the execution of this project. Piling and foundation work for silos is
nearly completed and some silo construction has begun. The all-India grown
storage and distribution study done with the project has been completed.
Staff training is also in progress.
Cr. No. 456     Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple
processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises grading and



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
packing centers, cold storages, a juice processing plant, road improvements
and cableways. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems; however, remedial measures have been taken to over-
come these difficulties. A recent review mission found substantial improve-
ment in project implementation and apple grower response has been encouraging.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily. The closing date of
Credit 403 was extended by one year to December 31, 1977, to cover the
delivery and installation of imported transmission and switching equipment.
Disbursements under Loan 1313 have commenced.
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9,, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
For Power Transmission III all equipment has been ordered; there
will be a substantial cost overrun due to international price increases, part
of which is being met from Power Transmission IV. For Power Transmission IV,
bids for most of the equipment have been invited.
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 520     Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079    IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1Q79



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Cr. No. 598     Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Progress on the Trombay IV project has been good although project
completion may be delayed by about four months because of longer than expected
delivery times for critical equipment. Under the Sindri project plant con-
struction and erection is proceeding generally according to schedule except
for a one-month delay due to anticipated delays in receipt of some materials.
Commencement of commercial production is expected by March 1978. The anti-
cipated cost to complete the project is presently running within budget. The
IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a result of a change in feedstock
from fuel oil to naphtha and delays in completion of engineering contracts.
The project is now progressing satisfactorily based on naphtha as feedstock.
Site work has begun, process- and time-critical equipment is being ordered,
and engineering work is well under way. Credit 598-IN is designed to increase
the utilization of existing fertilizer production capacity. The project has
encountered delays in sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the
Government. Further, some of the sub-projects identified earlier may not
materialize because of reconsideration by the Central and State governments.
The Central Government has submitted a list of sub-projects to replace the
ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the project is
likely to be delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294     Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29. 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378     Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under
the Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. Markets construction in
Bihar was delayed due to legal challenges arising out of the state's acqui-
sition of land for market sites; however, these difficulties have been satis-
factorily resolved. Construction of markets is well advanced and a number
have opened for business. Progress under the Karnataka project is much less
satisfactory, however, largely due to deficiencies in market planning, design
and construction. These problems and remedial actions have been brought to
the attention of the State and Central Government. The project is being mon-
itored closely to try and bring about the necessary improvements in implemen-
tation.
Cr. No. 312     Population Project; US21.2 million credit of June 14,. 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural uni-
versities in Assam and Bihar. Initial lag in implementation on account
of late appointments of project staff has been overcome. Campus plans
have been approved, and construction has started in Assam and is scheduled
to start in Bihar by mid 1977. Disbursement which has been slow because
of initial delays should accelerate now that construction and equipment
procurement are under way.
Cr. No. 356     Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1978
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The first IDBI Project (Cr. 356) had a slow start mainly due to
institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.
However, the credit is now fully committed. In order to continue Bank
Group's involvement in assisting small and medium scale industries and in
strengthening the State Financial Corporations involved, the second operation
(Ln. 1260) was approved on May 18, 1976, and more than 10% of the loan amount
had been authorized by mid-May 1977.
Cr. No. 390     Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
A substantial cost overrun on the project from US$158 million
equivalent to about US$375 million equivalent has been caused by inflation
and price increases resulting from delays in appointment of engineering con-
sultants and redesign of certain project components. The project has been
redefined and rephased to fit the financing available from the Credit, local
loans and bonds, and internal cash generation of the project entity. The
revised cost estimates for the implementation period 1975/76 to 1979/80
amount to US$266 million equivalent excluding interest during construction.
All major contracts for civil works, equipment and materials have been
awarded. This has considerably sped up disbursements which had been slow.
Financial performance of the project entity during 1976/77 was satisfactory,
and major rate increases from April 1, 1976 should ensure continuing financial
viability of the project entity.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project had a slow start due to delays in preparation of techni-
cal reports for regional and local water authorities. The technical reports
for about a half of the project have now been finalized and construction
works started in October 1976, about one year behind schedule. All consul-
tants for engineering, organization, management and accounting services for
the Jal Nigam (Water Supply Development Corporation) and the Jal Sansthans
(water authorities) have been engaged. Significant institutional develop-
ment can be expected only after the consultants submit their final recommenda-
tions. The project is expected to be completed by March 1980, approximately
9 months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 616    Eleventh Industrial Imports Prolect; US$200.0 million credit
of February 24, 1976; Effective Date: April 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
Utilization of the Technical Development Fund has been slower than
anticipated and the closing date has been postponed by one year to allow
completion of disbursements from the Fund which has been fully committed.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Following considerable increases in project costs, GOI and IDA
finalized a project redefinition in April 1976, to accommodate the project
to funding available. It is now expected to be substantially completed by
March 1979. Agreements have been reached on consultants services and
technical assistance, as provided for under the project.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
The project is designed to develop and promote low-cost solutions
to the problems of providing improved services to the urban poor in the
Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) and to strengthen metropolitan planning.
Project components consisting of sites and services; slum improvement; small-
scale and cottage industry; and maternal and child health are designed to
benefit directly some 250,000 persons in low-income areas of the city. The
water supply and sewerage; road and traffic improvements; bus transport and
technical assistance components are designed to eliminate bottlenecks in
water supply and transport.
Cr. No. 482     Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project;; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy devel-
opment projects organized alzong the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project which got off to a
slow start has begun to show considerable improvement under new management
appointed recently. Farmer response has been good and over 500 dairy coop-
eratives with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. All
four dairy unions, as envisaged under the project, have been established and
are functioning satisfactorily. In Madhya Pradesh good progress has been
made. About 110 new dairy cooperatives societies have been established.
Detailed design studies for plant construction are complete. Technical ser-
vices investments are being made. Contracts have been placed for livestock
imports. The Rajasthan project is also doing well. Four milk unions have
been formed and excellent progress has been made in organizing the servicing
of nearly 350 dairy cooperatives at the village level. Plant-designs are
ready, and procurement is making adequate progress. KDDC decision to procure
plant equipment jointly with RDDC and MPDDC on the same tender should lead to
a recovery of considerable time lost earlier.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress and is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502   *Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974;-Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. N4o. 1251 Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7,1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Cr. No. 720     Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory and particularly successful with respect to
agricultural extension.
Cr. No. 541     West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project became effective on July 31, 1975. Successful reor-
ganization of agricultural extension services has been a major achievement,
but preparations for lending operations have been slow mainly due to poor
coordination of project agencies. IDA and the government of West Bengal
have agreed on measures to improve coordination and on a timetable covering
a range of project activities. Progress with preliminaries for procurement
of equipment, markets construction and riverlift completions are satis-
factory.
Cr. No. 680     Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 682     Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977
(proposed); Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 1, 1977 (proposed); Closing Date: September 30,
1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 1, 1977 (proposed); Closing Date: September 30,
1983



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project;; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project which got off to a
slow start has begun-to show considerable improvement under new management
appointed recently. Farmer response has been good and over 500 dairy coop-
eratives with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. All
four dairy unions, as envisaged under the project, have been established and
are functioning satisfactorily. In Madhya Pradesh good progress has been
made. About 110 new dairy cooperatives societies have been established.
Detailed design studies for plant construction are complete. Technical ser-
vices investments are being made. Contracts have been placed for livestock
imports. The Rajasthan project is also doing well. Four milk unions have
been formed and excellent progress has been made in organizing the servicing
of nearly 350 dairy cooperatives at the village level. Plant-designs are
ready, and procurement is making adequate progress. KDDC decision to procure
plant equipment jointly with RDDC and MPDDC on the same tender should lead to
a recovery of considerable time lost earlier.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress and is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
_TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7,1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Cr. No. 720     Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30.
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory and particularly successful with respect to
agricultural extension.
Cr. No. 541     West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project became effective on July 31, 1975. Successful reor-
ganization of agricultural extension services has been a major achievement,
but preparations for lending operations have been slow mainly due to poor
coordination of project agencies. IDA and the government of West Bengal
have agreed on measures to improve coordination and on a timetable covering
a range of project activities. Progress with preliminaries for procurement
of equipment, markets construction and riverlift completions are satis-
factory.
Cr. No. 680     Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 682     Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977
(proposed); Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690     West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 1, 1977 (proposed); Closing Date: September 30,
1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 1, 1977 (proposed); Closing Date: September 30.
1983



ANNEX III
Page I
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I      Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time Taken by the country to prepare the project
1-1/2 years
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project
Government of Orissa, Irrigation and Power Department;
Government of India, Central Water Commission; IBRD/FAO
Cooperative Program
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
first mission to consider the project
Not applicable/April 1976
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission
October 1976
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations
August 5, 1977
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness
November 30, 1977
Section II     Special Bank Implementation Action
None



ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III    Special Conditions
(a) Condition for the effectiveness of the credit:
Appointment of a director for the Appraisal
Committee and staffing arrangements for the
Appraisal Committee satisfactory to the
Association (para 48).
(b) Conditions for disbursement of on-farm works
component:
(i) Financial Arrangements between GOI and
ARDC (para 53);
(ii) Establishment of a Special Loans Account for
ineligible farmers (para 51).
(c) GOO to review by December 31, 1979, system of water
and water related charges, and to implement appro-
priate system of such charges, based on recommenda-
tions from the review, in consultation with the
Association (para 60).
(d) Water allocation on a rotational basis to be
established at the beginning of each irrigation
season by a committee of technical and administra-
tive of the locally elected body (para 50).



I BRD 12768
PAKISTAN'    C H I N A                               8 !5                                                                               APRIL  1Q77
I9 r  NDI  -                                                      B    F |  <  t > <  <  H  Ac4 ' V R 
IRlA   N  D  I                                       0,A                                           2        A  A  / . 
,,,    ,, L RMA           K       \                                /                 *,' U                         W  E  S  T T
O A                                                                                                                          22N  N   .  /  2  R-Qd  .  B  N  S A  L
</ t 9> / * odomPr  |      7       . T> 5         'r               .                       6          -3 '         3ArB2
< A ;/  OX /k \ ;,A N      ,         -      k .                              *A'  -    M   4 O ,                      -.
ARASIAN'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~~~~                                                                   s)  RRIAA '.
SPA t\  ;,5 Tbuomolrom                                            4. .K\S . 0            C AP rushon&om LEn3 ;5;L5V''  Hlrpkud   12 Dobuka 34  .51, ....... 47 Snl
<~~~~~~~~~~~ )                                                                           - ._ oo  C a dp C tIHldu2 u g itioh53Sat
_~~~~~~~ /                 ..      R >   -                     A F S NmlosJ 3Polemni,AAGAE   25lwy
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A          ;  9  Ogr '           r'-                   <,___sts               o nrie   K  
2~~~~~~~~~~~6 SlNe 4vno                                            _Ko,           IUMILESS18
ZN         (r 528  83'  $ / S/} 8- 8jS' ejo- 87'
5  ~   JSRKA  ANIPATTOR                            Toog,                        STATE  OF  ORISSA, hNDIA
(D                       1920~4.>(6%  K  xsig riae   res&Ptnil eimIrgainPoet
*261c                       9EITN  RIGTDAES  4  OETA  TEII  RIAINPO  CS
24  0 35~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oa,                     2 A      6Goode  IEotkr
B., A            4-"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  oE       2  od, 38Jr.   5  ood
Existigrriatd   27es  Potential Medsium  Ir igationProjet
II  Doriong  2~~~9 Darhrok ogo 43  Podro.  49 SOrOROr1
12  R.odok.tco  20 Dodro .h  35 Uohrorard  641.   "I roo
'~~~~~~~  j  4  *,.  T ~~~~~~  \'-h'---'N-               13  Storei      31Nosoo  tSHoobrorgi  6I5,,,,,,~3H.I.,.  1 K..  3  G.. d., IK ,
IA  Bah,Mo  22~~~~~~1  ,Ik, 3ocra l a' MOTitd.rONOO  52 B.jd.asoo  e, I
IS  Piroroolo  332,  5iook  Tlri 3 ihoEodR
C,   A                                    'd.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 A  E,  069, ,III5T
Bu  bAh-i  24 S-KATRA .JR 3irrc54TOHARdTP
5       20   26A    4S     40  IKi,
TO                 4C                   SN T~'w              lO               2   TT- ,(.   II  871-



