Report No. 155Ea-IN                                                              RLE  ClPY
India: Appraisal of the
Orissa Irrigation Project
August 24, 1977
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division C
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CIJRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00          =          Rupees (Rs) 9.00 1!
IWIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                               =     3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (kn)                          =     0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)              3=                  2.47 acres (ac)
1 million cubic meters (Mm )                    810 acre-feet (ac-ft)
1 thousand million cubic feSt (TMC)    =        28.32 Mmm3
1 cubic foot per second (ft Is)           =     0.0283 M 3/s
1 ton                                     =     1,000 kilograms (kg)
2,205 pounds
1/   Until September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially valued at a fixed
Pound Sterling rate. Since then it has been fixed against a 'basket'
of currencies. As these currencies are floating, the US Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report have
been made at US$1 to Rs 9.00, which was the short-term average rate
prevailing at the time of appraisal.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS A4 ACRONYMS USED
AC         -   Appraisal Committee of CWC
AEO        -   Agricultural Engineering Organization
ARDC       -   Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CAD        -   Command Area Development
CADA       -   Command Area Development Authority
CWC        -   Central Water Commission
DAFP       -   Directorate of Agriculture and Food Production
GOO        -   Government of Orissa
GOI        -   Government of India
ICB        -   International Competitive Bidding
LCB        -   Local Competitive Bidding
I&PD       -   Irrigation and Power Department
MIP        -   Medium Irrigation Project
GLOSSARY
amin      -    surveyor
chak      -    outlet
chakas    -    consolidated plots
kalassis  -    manual worker employed for operation and maintenance of
irrigation system
warabundi -    rotational system of irrigation
FISCAL YEAR
GOI, GOO and agencies - April 1 - March 31
ARDC, Cooperatives    - July 1 - June 30
Commercial Banks       - January - December 31
This document has a rstricted distrbution and may be w_   by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutie. Its contens mAy not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ....................... ......  i - iii
I.        INTRODUCTION   ........................................ ............                                                 I
II.         BACKGROUND   ............................................ ......1
General   .............................................                                                              1
Agriculture and Irrigation in India                                                  ................                2
III.          STATE  OF ORISSA  ....................................                                                               3
General   ..........................................  .............                                                  3
Climate   . ................ ..........                                 ...............* * * * *  .*                3
Topography   and   Soils   ........  .  .  .  .  .     .................                     ............           4
Socio-Economic  Conditions  ...                                   .         .......................                 4
Agricultural Development  ...........-................                                                              4
Irrigation   Development                                       .............................                        5
Project   Formulation   . .................. ............ .                                                         7
IV.         THE   PROJECT   .......................................                                                             8
Scope   of   the   Project                      ............... ............... .                                   8
Medium  Irrigation  Projects                                            9...........              ....... .         9
General ...............                                                                                   9
Criteria for Medium Irrigation Projects .10
Command Area Development  ..... ................                                                                  11
General   ........................................                                                      1
Land   Consolidation   .. .............. .                             ........... .                    11
On-Farm   Works ..................... ............ .                                                    12
V.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS ..........    12
Cost    Estimates   ............................................... 0....                                         12
Financing   ........                       ....................... ..........                                     13
Procurement   ........................................  .............                                             14
Disbursements   . ............                             ............ ...   ...               .......           15
Accounts   and   Audits   . ..................    . ............                                                  15
Cost   Recovery   ...... ......  a ............   .....  ........                                                16



-2-
TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
Page No.
VI.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .....     ...................    17
Medium Irrigation Projects        .........................   17
Orissa Irrigation and Power
Department (I&PD) ....... .............. sees  17
The Appraisal Committee of the Central
Water Commission s...0........................   17
Procedures for Medium Irrigation Projects .....   18
Progress Review and Reporting Requirements ....    20
Project Evaluation .........o . . . ... . . .o.o.e. .*o. . . . .   20
Command Area Development                                21
Command Area Development Organizations *...... .   21
Land Consolidation Process       ....................   21
Consolidation Organization       ....................   22
On-Farm Works .. ...... .s.e.e.s *....................  22
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .........................   23
General            ..... ...... o...............o.o.....   23
Income Effects ..... 0.     ................................   23
Economic Rates of Return ..se......................   24
Environmental Effects ....... a................ .    -.    24
Project  Risks ...o.....  ......  0.00.....00.0  ....    24
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...oo..........   25
ANNEXES
1.   The State of Orissa
2.  Medium Irrigation Projects
3.   Command Area Development
4.   Schedule of Expenditures, Proposed Allocation of the Credit
and Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
5.   Support Materials for Economic and Financial Analyses
MAPS
Soil Types       - IBRD 12766
Monsoon Rainfall - IBRD 12767
Existing Irrigated Areas & Potential Medium Irrigation
Projects - IBRD 12768
Land Cover - Land Use Association



INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The State of Orissa, with a population of 26 M and 6.8 M ha of culti-
vable land, is predominantly rural. The State has relatively fertile alluvial
soils, plentiful monsoon rains, and considerable, but largely unexploited water
resources. However, due to inadequate agricultural supporting services and
inefficient use of existing irrigation systems, foodgrain yields are low and
agricultural production has been virtually stagnant during the last decade.
ii.       A review of Orissa's foodgrain potential and development constraints
was undertaken by IDA, FAO/CP, and the Governments of India (GOI) and Orissa
(GOO) in 1975. Based on the findings, the Orissa Agricultural Development
Project (Credit No. 682-IN, 1977, US$20.0 M) was formulated. The project is
designed to strengthen agricultural supporting services, particularly ex-
tension and research. It is aimed primarily at relieving the short-term
constraints tc foodgrain production. Experience from other parts of India
has indicated, however, that in the long run, irrigation is a prerequisite
for sustained growth in agricultural production. Private groundwater devel-
opment, partly financed through the Agricultural Refinance Development Corp-
oration (ARDC) with Bank Group assistance (Credit. No. 715-IN, 1977,
US$200.0 M) is helping to increase the irrigated area in Orissa. The proposed
project would extend irrigation to areas inadequately served by groundwater
and improve water utilization in selected major irrigation systems.
iii.      Orissa's irrigation development has been concentrated in the rela-
tively more prosperous delta of large rivers such as the Mahanadi. This has
resulted in uneven distribution of irrigation benefits and regionally un-
balanced growth. To correct this imbalance, the GOO in 1960 began construc-
ting a number of medium irrigation projects (MIPs), utilizing numerous small
rivers throughout the State. In support of the GOO's development plan, the
proposed project would finance construction, over a five year period, of about
15 MIPs, covering about 66,000 ha throughout the State. In addition, the
project would support a command area development (CAD) program consisting
of land consolidation on about 200,000 ha and on-farms works on 57,000 ha.
These measures would greatly improve water use in three of the State's major
irrigation systems.
iv.       Medium irrigation projects encompass cultivable command areas of
2,000 to 12,000 ha. Each MIP is generally composed of an earthfill stor-
age dam with a gated spillway, an unlined canal system which would deliver
water through outlets serving 5 ha blocks and a drainage network connected
to major natural drains. The average cost of MIPs is about Rs 11,000
(US$1,220) per ha of cultivable command area.
v.        In view of the large number of MIPs to be financed under the proposed
credit (about 15 MIPs) and their relatively small size, appraisal and progress



- IL -
review by IDA of individual MIPs would not be practical. Instead, under the
general guidance of IDA, the Central Water Commission (CWC) of GOI would
appraise and monitor the progress of individual MIPs in accordance with
technical and economic criteria and procedures agreed with IDA. This approach
would strengthen local capabilities for project appraisal, planning, design
and implementation and, thus, lead to a general improvement in the technical
and economic viability of all projects in the irrigation sector.
vi.       The command area development program would be extended to the three
existing irrigation projects in Orissa -- Mahanadi Delta, Hirakud and Salandi.
In the existing highly fragmented land holding pattern, construction of
on-farm works can be possible only following consolidation to make rotational
irrigation manageable to the farmers. In addition, experience from CAD pilot
operations in Orissa and from other States where large scale CAD has been
attempted suggest that major obstacles to the successful implementation of
such programs are: (a) obtaining rights-of-way for field channels and drains
without payment of compensation for land; and (b) the large number of farmers
ineligible for bank loans due to unclear titles. Both obstacles would be
removed in the course of land consolidation which would precede the construc-
tion of on-farm works.
vii.      The Irrigation and Power Department (I&PD) of GOO would be respon-
sible for the planning, design, implementation, and operation and maintenance
of MIPs.  Coordination committees would be established at State and project
levels to ensure better interdepartmental cooperation, especially with the
Directorate of Agriculture and Food Production (DAFP). Such coordination is
essential both in project preparation and operation.
viii.     Potential MIPs were identified in the Master Plan of 1972 for irri-
gation development. Procedures for establishing the eligibility of MIPs to
be financed under the project include the following steps: (a) the priorities
for preparation of MIPs are established by the Secretary of Irrigation and
Power after consultation with concerned GOO departments; (b) subsequent to the
approval of GOO Technical and Administrative departments and the GOI Planning
Commission, the MIPs are submitted to CWC for appraisal. The Appraisal Com-
mittee (AC), consisting of engineers, agriculturalists and economists would be
established in the CWC for this purpose; (c) the AC would visit the project
area and prepare a Project Summary for each MIP; and (d) if the MIP meets all
established criteria, costs less than Rs 70 M (US$7.8 M) and has an economic
rate of return exceeding 12%, the CWC would be authorized to approve the
project. In all other cases, the project would be reviewed in detail by IDA
before a decision is made whether to include the project in the credit.
ix.       The AC would also closely monitor the progress of preparation,
implementation and operation of the MIPs. Frequent progress reports would
be submitted to IDA. The main activities of IDA would be to: (a) assess the
quality of AC appraisal and review work; (b) spot check whether agreed crite-
ria have been followed; (c) review the financial records kept by GOI and GOO;
(d) review procurement procedures; (e) review the appropriateness of the
established criteria; and (f) review the content and frequency of the reports
to be submitted by CWC to IDA.



- iii -
x..       The Consolidation Unit of the Revenue Department would carry out the
land consolidation program. The Agriculture Engineering Organization of the
Directorate of Agriculture and Food Production (DAFP) would be responsible for
the planning, design and implementation of on-farm works. Their activities
would be coordinated by the three Command Area Development Authorities (CADAs),
which were recently established to ensure full cooperation among various de-
partments concerned with CAD. Chak Level Operating Committees would be es-
tablished for water distribution within the turnout areas (chaks) and for
maintenance of the on-farm works.
xi.       Total project costs are estimated at US$116.0 M, which include a
medium irrigation projects component of US$81.1 M, land consolidation of
US$6.7 M, on-farm works of US$4.1 M and overall price contingencies of
US$24.1 M. The proposed credit of US$58.0 M would finance the foreign
exchange costs (US$20.0 M) and about 40% of local costs or about 50% of
total project cost. The GOI would relend the proceeds of the credit (except
disbursement for on-farm works which would be relent to ARDC) to the GOO in
accordance with its standard arrangements for State development projects.
Land consolidation works would be financed from the GOO budget; on-farm
works would be financed by farmers using loans from commercial and land
development banks. On-farm development loans would be refinanced by the
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC) at a rate of 90%.
Farmers who are ineligible for ordinary loans from barks, mostly due to
unclear title, would be financed from a revolving fund set up in ARDC and
funded through GOI, ARDC and GOO contributions.
xii.      Civil works, which are scattered throughout the State and restricted
to seasonal construction would be best carried out by labor intensive methods.
The works would not be practical to group into large contracts and, thus, would
be unsuitable for international competitive bidding. They would be tendered in
accordance with GOO's standard procedures which are satisfactory. No equipment
would be procured under the project.
xiii.     At full development (about mid-1980s), the project would increase
annual foodgrain production by some 110,000 tons, resulting in a net foreign
exchange saving of about US$20 M, and generate about 34,000 and 13,000 addi-
tional full time jobs in farm and non-farm sectors, respectively. It would
also increase net farm incomes in the presently rainfed areas on the average
of 180% and in the irrigated areas through CAD by about 16-33% and, thus, re-
duce the rural poverty considerably. An additional advantage of the project
would be the geographically wider distribution of direct and indirect benefits
from irrigation, which would induce a more even economic growth in the State.
xiv.      The economic rates of return for the MIP and CAD components are 18%
and 34%, respectively. The overall rate of return for the project is estimated
at 20%. The project is suitable for a credit of US$58.0 M on standard IDA
terms. The Borrower would be the Government of India.






INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The State of Orissa, located in the Eastern Region of India, is well
endowed with relatively fertile alluvial soils, plentiful monsoon rains and
considerable but largely unexploited water resources. Yet, foodgrain yields
are generally lower than the national average and most social and economic
indicators are inferior to the rest of India.
1.02      The Government of India (GOI) has requested IDA assistance in financ-
ing medium irrigation projects (MIPs) and command area development (CAD) in
Orissa. Utilizing numerous small rivers located throughout the State, the
project would provide irrigation to areas where large scale development and
groundwater exploitation are not feasible. It would also improve water use
efficiency at the farm level in existing major irrigation systems through the
CAD program.
1.03      The proposed project, financed by the Agricultural Refinance and
Development Corporation from the line of credit made available by IDA (Credit
No. 715-IN, US$200.0 M), and the Orissa Agricultural Development Project
(Credit No. 682-IN, 1977, US$20.0 M), was formulated after a review of Orissa's
agricultural potential and development constraints, undertaken jointly by IDA,
FAO/CP, GOI and the Government of Orissa (GOO) in 1975. This report is based
on the findings of a mission to India in October/ November 1976 comprising
Messrs. P. Ljung, S. Baker, W. van Tuijl and Ms. M. Nguyen (IDA) and Mr. U Hpu
(Consultant). The GOO was assisted in preparing the CAD component by a team
from the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme (Report No. 22/76 IND 31). In the
course of the appraisal, the mission was also joined by staff from the Central
Water Commission of GOI.
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      India covers some 3.27 M km2 of which 49% is cultivable and about
11% irrigated. India's population of about 630 M is growing at an annual
rate of 2.3%. National income has grown at nearly 4% per annum since 1950,
and the per capita GNP reached US$150 in 1975. Although average per capita
income has increased, in general there has been little change in the living
standards of the vast masses of urban and rural poor, which -- conservatively
measured -- consist of some 200 M people with incomes below the poverty line
of US$60 per capita per year. Thus, the Government's development plans give
emphasis to alleviating poverty and creating employment, especially in rural
areas.



-2-
Agriculture and Irrigation in India
2.02      Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Indian economy and con-
tributes about 45% of GNP. It engages about 70% of the labor force and
provides the base for about 60% of India's exports. During the last decade,
GOI development plans have emphasized agriculture and sought to raise foodgrain
production by increasing the use of fertilizers, plant protection chemicals,
and improved seed varieties. In support of this, GOI has modernized and
expanded its agricultural credit institutions and accelerated the development
of irrigation.
2.03      Despite these endeavors and the impressive results of the green
revolution in some areas -- primarily the wheat growing northwestern states --
the annual overall growth rate in foodgrain production over the last 15 years
has been only about 2.3% or approximately equal to the population growth.
Furthermore, India's agriculture remains heavily dependent upon the vagaries
of weather, and foodgrain production can vary as much as 20% from one year
to another. Major factors in reducing this dependence would be the expansion
of irrigation and the improvement of existing irrigation facilities.
2.04      Up to 1964/65, irrigated area increased at a rate of only about 2.1%
per year, of which approximately two-thirds was from surface water resources
and one-third from groundwater. Since then, the rate of increase has about
doubled, mainly through an accelerated program of groundwater development. At
present, the irrigated area is 42 M ha, about three-fifths of which is surface
irrigated and two-fifths groundwater irrigated.
2.05      The pace of groundwater development has fallen off recently because
the limit of groundwater resources is being approached in the northwestern
states. In the northeastern states with excellent groundwater potential, the
pace of development is currently hampered by institutional constraints, espe-
cially the lack of a well established agricultural credit structure.
2.06      The pace of surface water development has increased only slightly
over the past 25 years except for a moderate acceleration within the last two
years. Plan targets set by GOI for a more rapid development of surface irri-
gation have never been fulfilled. A major problem has been the continuing
pressure to start a large number of projects, which with the limited resources
has resulted in long construction periods for all projects. However, in
recent years, Indian authorities have made certain efforts to complete ongoing
projects.
2.07      In most completed projects, actual utilization is significantly
less than irrigation potential. Consequently, in the Fifth Plan (1974/75 to
to 1978/79), increased emphasis has been given to "command area development,"
which involves public investments to enable a better utilization of irrigation
water (drainage, roads, markets, agricultural extension and research) as
well as private investments to improve water use efficiency at the farm level
(watercourse lining, field channels and drains, land shaping and leveling).



-3-
However, insufficient attention has been paid so far to the formulation of
realistic planning and design criteria for irrigation works. In particular,
water losses assumed in the design of the conveyance system are generally much
lower than actual losses.
III. STATE OF ORISSA
General
3.01      The State of Orissa, covering some 15.5 M ha, is located in the
Eastern Region. Its population of about 26 M is predominantly rural and its
urbanization rate (8%) is one of the lowest in India. State per capita income
is about Rs 900 (US$100), which is only two-thirds of the national average
(US$150).
3.02      The 1975 review 1/ of Orissa's agricultural potential and develop-
ment constraints, undertaken jointly by IDA, GOI and GOO, concluded that the
State's climate, soils and irrigation potential offered good opportunities for
accelerated agricultural development. However, the pace of development is
constrained by: ineffective agricultural extension services; inadequate
systems for delivery of farm inputs; small and fragmented holdings; large
numbers of disadvantaged groups (Schedule Castes and Tribes); poor utilization
of available water resources; and lack of coordinated planning. As a result,
the Orissa Agricultural Development Project (Credit 682-IN), is now being
implemented to alleviate short-term constraints on both rainfed and irrigated
agriculture primarily through extension and research. In addition, the Bank
Group supports groundwater development through the second line of credit to
the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (Credit 715-IN). The
proposed Orissa Irrigation Project would expand the area under surface irri-
gation in the State and improve water utilization in existing surface irri-
gation systems.
Climate
3.03      Orissa has a tropical monsoon climate with temperatures that are
suitable for year round cropping. Annual rainfall ranges from about 1,200 mm
in the southern Coastal Plain to about 1,700 mm in the Northern Plateau (para
3.04) and averages about 1,500 mm. Some 85% of rainfall occurs during the
kharif season (June to October). However, variation in amount (as high
as 50% from one year to the next) and timeliness are significant, which makes
supplementary irrigation during the kharif season necessary for high and
stable yields. Due to low rainfall, intensive cropping in the rabi season
(November to April) is not feasible without irrigation.
1/   "India:  Eastern Region Foodgrains Production Review (Orissa)", IBRD
Report No. 972--IN, February 1976.



-4-
Topography and Soils
3.04      On the basis of physical features and agro-climatic conditions,
Orissa may be roughly divided into four zones: (i) the Northern Plateau (23%
of the State's area) characterized by hill ranges rising to elevations of 2,000
ft to 3,000 ft above sea level; (ii) the Central Table Land (23%), generally
flat with slightly undulating and folded topography, rising to elevations of
1,000 ft; (iii) the Eastern Ghat Region (36%) with hill ranges along with some
plains and valleys lying between them, with elevations of the plateaus ranging
from 900 ft to 2,000 ft, and (iv) the Coastal Plain (18%) characterized by a
number of deltas.
3.05      Two types of soils are generally found in Orissa:  residual soils
of the uplands, and transported alluvial soils of the lowlands. Residual
soils are predominantly lateritic, highly leached, acidic and low in nitrogen
and organic matter. They tend to be shallow, sandy and erodible and have low
water retention capacity. Transported soils are moderately fertile, less
acidic and more productive than the residual and they are suitable for
paddy.
Socio-Economic Conditions
3.06      About 60% of the population have incomes below the poverty line
(US$60). The population is stratified along caste, class and tribal lines,
with the Schedule Castes and Tribes making up about 38% of the total popula-
tion, varying from 20% in the coastal areas to 70% in inland areas. The
labor force constitutes 31% of the total population. Cultivators and agricul-
tural laborers account for 49% and 28% of the labor force, respectively.
3.07      "Small" and "marginal" farmers (less than 2 ha) operate over 75%
of all holdings but control less than 40% of cultivable land, while farmers
with 5 ha or more (less than 7% of holdings) control about 35%. The skewed
distribution of holdings is further complicated by land fragmentation; in
the delta areas an average farm (2 ha) comprises about 12 plots. According
to the 1970-71 Agricultural Census, about 92% of cultivable land is owner
operated. Share-cropping is the predominant form of tenancy.
Agricultural Development
3.08      Production and Yields.  Agriculture dominates Orissa's economy, con-
tributes about 60% of the gross domestic product and employs about 77% of the
total labor force. The net cultivated area is about 6.8 M ha. Paddy is the
most important crop (70% of the cropped area) but yields are low: 1.1 tons
per ha for rainfed, 1.6 tons for irrigated kharif paddy and 2.0 tons for ir-
rigated rabi paddy. High yielding paddy varieties account for most of the
rabi crop but only for about 10% the kharif crop. Other crops such as cereals
(7% of the cropped area), pulses (14%), oilseeds (6%), fibers (1%) and vege-
tables (2%) are grown mostly in upland areas. The cropping intensity is
greater in the coastal districts (134%) than in the inland areas (118%) and



-5-
averages about 125% for the State. Agricultural production has virtually
stagnated since the mid-1960s. Rice production in 1973/74 (4.4 M tons) re-
mained the same as in 1964/65.
3.09      Agricultural Extension and Training.  The extension service is now
being reorganized, under the Orissa Agricultural Development Project, with a
single line of command from the Director of Agriculture to the Village level
Workers (VLW). The VLW will work only on extension, covering 400 to 800
farmers, through a system of visiting groups of 50 to 100 farmers on a regular
basis every two weeks. The link between extension and research is also being
strengthened.
3.10      Agricultural Research.  This is carried out by the Orissa University
of Agriculture and Technology (OUAT) and the Central Rice Research Institute of
the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, located in the State. Research
covers the development of improved varieties of rice, cereals, pulses and
oilseeds as well as the economic evaluation of cropping systems, pest and
disease control and rainfed agriculture. The Orissa Agricultural Development
Project supports an improved adaptive research program.
3.11      Agricultural Inputs.  The use of cash inputs, such as fertilizers,
improved seeds and pesticides is presently low, primarily due to ineffective
agricultural extension and a poor distribution system. An all-India project to
improve input storage and distribution, which would also cover Orissa, is now
under preparation by IDA and the National Cooperative Development Corporation.
Marketing and processing facilities are more than adequate for present needs,
with larger rice mills operating at only one-third capacity. Institutional
credit is mostly provided by the cooperative system but loan recovery has
generally been poor. However, in recent years, recovery has improved due to
the implementation of remedial measures recommended by the Reserve Bank of
India and the Agriculture Refinance Development Corporation (ARDC).
Irrigation Development
3.12      Irrigation Potential.  Orissa has abundant water resources that are
largely undeveloped. Its extensive netwo5k of rivers, streams and drainage
ways annually discharges about 100,000 Mm into the Bay of Bengal. In addition,
the annual flow of groundwater into the sea is estimated at some 30,000 Mm .
Theoretically, these water resources could irrigate some 15 M ha. However, the
potential for utilization of these resources is limited by a number of factors:
(i) more than 80% of the surface flow occurs during the June-September period
when the need for irrigation water is the lowest; (ii) topography is not con-
ducive to the construction of major dams; (iii) inflows from upper riparian
states are likely to be substantially reduced; and (iv) about 80% of the
groundwater resources are in the Coastal Plain (para 3.04) which is already
well served by surface irrigation systems. Taking these constraints into
account, it is estimated that the irrigation potential and the present util-
ization of water resources are as follows:



Irrigation (in 21 ha)
Actual 73/74               Potential           Utilization
Kharif   Rabi   Total   Kharif   Rabi   Total   % of Potential
Major         0.57    0.30    0.87
Medium        0.08    0.02    0.10    2.25    0.90   3.15            31
Minor         0.59    0.04    0.63    1.00    0.25   1.25            50
Lift and
Well       0.03    0.02    0.05    1.80    1.20   3.00              2
Total         1.27    0.38    1.65    5.05    2.35   7.40            22
3.13      Major Irrigation Projects (over 12,000 ha).  Construction of major
schemes started towards the end of the nineteenth century, when irrigation
canals commanding about 150,000 ha were built in the Mahanadi and Rushikulya
Deltas. During the first half of this century, the canal irrigated area re-
mained virtually unchanged. However, since 1950, GOO has completed two major
schemes, the Salandi and Hirakud projects, and substantially extended the
Mahanadi Delta system. The area presently commanded is about 0.57 M ha, and
when two major multipurpose schemes and one major irrigation project, now under
construction, are completed in the mid-1980s, the area commanded by major
projects will increase to about 1.0 M ha.
3.14      The Salandi Irrigation Project (Credit No. 14-IN, 1961, US$8.0 M)
was one of the first irrigation projects supported by the Bank Group in India.
Project implementation and disbursements were slow, mainly due to design
modifications and procurement difficulties. Like other Indian irrigation
projects financed by the Bank Group at about the same time, the Salandi Proj-
ect did not achieve its agricultural potential due to inadequate supporting
services and lagging construction of field channels and drains by the farmers.
These problems have led GOI and the Bank Group to adopt a more integrated
approach to irrigation development rather than focusing only on the construc-
tion of dams and canals (para 2.07).
3.15      Medium Irrigation Proiects (2,000-12,000 ha).  Past irrigation
development has been concentrated in the more prosperous delta areas of
large rivers. This has resulted in uneven distribution of irrigation bene-
fits and regionally unbalanced growth. In order to correct this imbalance,
GOO started, around 1960, to construct a number of medium irrigation projects
(MIPs) throughout the State, particularly in areas where large scale irri-
gation and groundwater development are not feasible. However, the commit-
ment to these projects was low and many MIPs were under construction for
10-15 years. At the start of the Fifth Five Year Plan in 1974/75, the
emphasis changed from major to medium projects, and since then, GOO has
made a concerted effort to speed up implementation; of the 29 MIPs under
construction in 1975/76, 13 either have been or will be completed during
1977/78.



- 7 -
3.16      Minor Surface Irrigation Projects (less than 2,000 ha).  For cen-
turies, Orissa farmers have used bucket-lift and other traditional irri-
gation methods. They have also constructed tanks for storage of local runoff
during the monsoon. Typically, these schemes provide supplementary irrigation
during the kharif and the area irrigated varies substantially from year to
year. Because of the low reliability of irrigation supply, these schemes
are given lower priority than major and medium projects and the area irrigated
has remained virtually unchanged since 1950.
3.17      Groundwater.  Orissa's groundwater potential remained largely un-
developed until the mid-1960s. Since the Orissa Lift Irrigation Corporation
(OLIC) was created in 1973, groundwater development has accelerated, and
currently, there are some 90,000 dug wells and 700 tubewells supplying irriga-
tion to 50,000 ha. A plan prepared by ARDC and OLIC proposes development
of 200,000 dug wells, 15,000 private tubewells and 2,250 public tubewells
for groundwater irrigation of an additional 295,000 ha by 1978/79 (para 3.02).
3.18      Investment Budget for Surface Irrigation (Annex 2).  Expenditures on
medium and major irrigation projects have increased rapidly since the begin-
ning of the Fifth Five Year Plan and are anticipated to increase as follows:
Actual                   Anticipated
Year         1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  Total
US$ Million      9.1     15.9       24.4     25.4      34.2   109.4
Major irrigation projects account for about 40% of actual and planned ex-
penditures and medium projects for 60%. The Sixth Plan is presently in its
early stages of preparation. However, it is likely that investments for
surface irrigation will at least remain at their present levels in real terms.
Project Formulation
3.19      In general neither major nor medium irrigation projects have yielded
benefits to the full extent of their potential. Reasons for this poor perform-
ance include:
(i) Water losses in the conveyance system and on fields are
grossly underestimated at the design stage, resulting in
the area actually irrigated being considerably smaller
than the area commanded by the distribution system.
(ii) Incomplete water conveyance systems and inadequate drainage
at the farm level. Water at present is supplied through
outlets serving 40 ha blocks, and the farmers are expected
to construct field channels and drains within these blocks.
There is no effective organization to help farmers with
the design, implementation and financing of these works.
Consequently, virtually no field channels and drains have
been constructed. This has resulted in ineffective water
use, shortages in some parts of the blocks, and water-
logging in others.



-8-
(iii) Lack of integrated development of the irrigated areas;
typically there is little input from the agricultural staff
in the design and operation of irrigation systems. The
agricultural extension service is only partly effective in
teaching the farmers cultivation practices suitable for
irrigated crops and improved farm water management.
(iv) Severe fragmentation of holdings in the densely populated
delta areas, where a typical 2 ha farm consists of about
12 plots. This hinders effective farm operations and, in
particular, it makes water deliveries on a rotational
basis (warabundi) unmanageable for the farmer.
(v) Inadequate planning and preparation of medium irrigation
projects. Usually only rudimentary basic data are col-
lected and analyzed before construction of a project.
The hydrological data base is typically poor which results
in over- or under-design of the dam and the irrigation
network in relation to the water de facto available. Soil
surveys and agro-economic surveys are not carried out, and
designs are often based on cropping patterns that are un-
likely to be adopted by the farmers or, if they were adopted,
would lead to uneconomic use of irrigation water.
3.20      The project would support GOO's plans to spread irrigation devel-
opment from the coastal areas of the State (where irrigation has long been
established) more evenly throughout the State by financing medium irrigation
projects. These projects would be designed and constructed in accordance
with criteria which are aimed at alleviating existing problems (para 3.19).
In addition, the project would improve water use efficiency at the farm level
in three existing major irrigation schemes through a command area development
(CAD) program.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Scope of the Project
4.01      The project would include:
(a) construction, over a five year period, medium irrigation
projects, covering about 66,000 ha throughout the State;
(b) command area development in three existing major
irrigation systems -- Hirakud, Salandi and
Mahanadi Delta -- consisting of (i) consolidation
of about 200,000 ha of irrigated land and (ii)



-9-
construction of on-farm works (field channels
and drains, access crossings, and other asso-
ciated structures) on a consolidated area of
about 57,000 ha.
B. Medium Irrigation Prolects
General
4.02      Medium irrigation projects (MIPs) encompass cultivable command
areas of 2,000 to 12,000 ha. Each MIP is generally composed of: (i) an
earthfill storage dam with a gated spillway; (ii) an unlined canal network
which would deliver water through outlets serving 5 ha blocks,l/ and (iii)
a drainage network connected to major natural drains. Typically, about
80%-90% of the command area is irrigated in khariff and 40%-50% in rabi.
The average cost is about Rs 11,000 (US$1,220) per ha of cultivable command
area, ranging from Rs 9,000 (US$1,000) to Rs 14,000 (US$1,550). This is
substantially higher than the cost of about Rs 8,000 (US$890) per ha for
most unlined major irrigation schemes. In general, however, MIPs have shor-
ter gestation periods and thus yield somewhat quicker benefits. Normally,
the dam accounts for about two-thirds of the cost of a MIP and the conveyance
and drainage networks together for about one-third.
4.03      The proposed IDA credit would finance, over a five year period, any
MIP meeting technical and economic criteria agreed with IDA (paras 4.04-4.10).
It is estimated about one-third of the 19 MIPs now under construction would
be modified to meet these criteria and that between 8 to 10 new MIPs, designed
specifically to meet the criteria, would be started under the credit. In view
of the large number of MIPs involved, appraisal and progress review by IDA of
individual MIPs would not be practical. Instead, under the general guidance
of IDA, the Central Water Commission (CWC) of GOI (paras 6.03-6.04) would
appraise and monitor the progress of individual MIPs in accordance with cri-
teria (paras 4.04-4.10) and procedures (paras 6.05-6.17) agreed upon with IDA.
This procedure would enable a more even spread of IDA assisted irrigation
benefit. It would also provide an opportunity to: first, review in depth,
and get fully involved in, the largest part of Orissa's irrigation sector
in the near future and to make a major impact, State-wide, on technical and
economic standards applied in medium irrigation projects; second, build up a
capable and responsible unit at the Center that would have the potential to
assume, gradually, responsibilities also for other irrigation projects.
1/   For the major projects, CAD organizations would be established for im-
plementation of on-farm works below the outlets that serve 40 ha blocks
(paras 4.11 and 6.19). Since the numerous MIPs would be widely located
throughout the State, it would at this stage of development be neither
practical nor administratively feasible to establish a CAD organization
for each MIP. In these new projects, proper water supply to each farm
would instead be ensured by extending the canal system down to turnouts
serving 5 ha blocks.



Criteria for Medium Irrigation Projects
4.04      Basic data requirements, specific criteria for planning, design
and construction, and a minimum level of economic viability have been estab-
lished for each MIP to be financed under the project. An agreement has been
reached with GOI and GOO that MIPs to be financed under the IDA credit would
be designed, constructed and completed in accordance with these requirements
and criteria which are detailed in Annex 2 and summarized below:
4.05      Basic Data Requirements:  (i) a land classification map based on a
soil survey; (ii) an agro-economic survey to provide a basis for future agri-
cultural, social and economic development planning; (iii) rainfall records in
or near the project catchment area for a minimum of 20 years; (iv) a 20 year
runoff estimate based on streamflow measurements with current meters corre-
lated with observed rainfall data; and (v) sediment samples at or near each
dam site for determination of reservoir sediment storage capacity.
4.06      Water Requirements and Reservoir Operation Studies:  (i) Christian-
sen's equivalent, or an equivalent method would be used to estimate crop water
requirements; (ii) water requirements for rice would include allowance for
saturation, evaporation and percolation; (iii) assumed field irrigation effi-
ciencies would not be greater than 90% for rice and 60% for other crops; (iv)
assumed canal conveyance efficiencies would not be greater than 70% for systems
flowing at more than 80% of capacity and 60% for systems flowing at less
than 80% of capacity; (v) command area and active reservoir capacity would be
such that full kharif irrigation requirements would be met in 75 years out of
100; (vi) the average area to be irrigated in rabi would be established through
a 20-year reservoir operations study; and (vii) a minimum 50 year sediment
capacity would be provided in the reservoir.
4.07      Design Criteria:  (i) watercourses and turnouts would serve irriga-
ble areas no larger than 5 ha each; (ii) minor canals would be designed for
rotational (warabundi) irrigation, with special attention given to peak
capacity requirements; (iii) canals and minor watercourses would be designed
with structures to permit full irrigation deliveries to all commanded area
when flows are less than 50% of capacity; (iv) the unit hydrograph and
design storm method would be used in conjunction with the regional formula
(Dicken's enveloped curve floods) to estimate the required spillway capacity;
and (v) an emergency spillway would be provided where favorable topography
exists.
4.08      Construction:  (i) land clearing and shaping on presently unculti-
vated land would be done prior to the delivery of water; (ii) canal embank-
ments and the invert of the canal would be mechanically compacted when the
invert is in fill; (iii) earthfill around structures would be mechanically
compacted; and (iv) construction of each project would be completed within
five years.
4.09      Cost Estimates:  (i) cost estimates would be based on bid prices
prevailing in the project area at the time of appraisal; (ii) cost estimates
would include: a physical contingency factor of 20% of construction costs,



- 11 -
and costs for administration, design and supervision (normally about 15% of
the construction cost), land acquisition, and resettlement of families
displaced by the project.
4.10      Economic Criteria:  (i) individual sub-projects would have a benefit-
cost ratio exceeding 1.0 based on annual net benefits and investment costs
discounted at a 12% interest rate; (ii) the benefit-cost ratio would be
established by using techniques set out in the "Form for establishing the
economic viability of medium irrigation projects" (Annex 2, Appendix 1,
pages 5-6); and (iii) cost of land acquisition would be excluded; and (iv)
cost of land clearing and shaping on presently uncultivated land would be
included.
C. Command Area Development
General
4.11      The command area development (CAD) program would cover about 200,000
ha in three of Orissa's major irrigation systems -- the Hirakud, Salandi and
Mahanadi Delta schemes. The main objective of the program would be to opti-
mize the productive use of available water resources. This would be achieved
through land consolidation and provision of irrigation and drainage facilities
at the farm level together with associated control structures, lining of cri-
tical water course sections and proper land development. Water distribution
to each farm would be ensured and proper drainage would eliminate waterlogging
in low lying areas. Results from pilot operations in Orissa, covering a
total of about 5,000 ha in various command areas, indicate that the likely
benefits would be a 20% to 30% increase in yields and water savings that would
permit a 20% to 30% increase in the irrigated area.
4.12      Experiences from pilot operations in Orissa and elsewhere in India,
where large scale CAD has been attempted, suggest that major obstacles to the
successful implementation of such programs are: (i) obtaining rights-of-way
for field channels and drains without compensation; and (ii) the large number
of farmers ineligible for bank loans due to unclear titles. Both these ob-
stacles would be removed in the course of land consolidation which would
precede construction of on-farm works.
Land Consolidation
4.13      Land fragmentation in Orissa has been a constraint to intensified
agriculture. In 1972, GOO introduced the "Orissa Consolidation of Holdings
and Prevention of Fragmentation Act", which enables the rearrangement and
redistribution of land in compact rectangular blocks. In the course of land
consolidation, land titles are cleared and land is set aside for communal
purposes such as field channels and drains. Under the CAD program, the align-
ment of field channels and drains would be coordinated with the layout of the
chakas (consolidated plots) so that each holding would be ensured direct and
independent access to an irrigation and drainage channel. Topographical



- 12 -
surveys for on-farm works would be undertaken during the consolidation pro-
cess. Since the start of the land consolidation program in 1974, about
15,000 ha have been consolidated and work is underway on about 160,000 ha
in the three command areas. Since the consolidation process takes about
2-1/2 to 3 years (paras 6.21-6.22), a 200,000 ha is a realistic target for
a four year implementation period.
On-Farm Works
4.14      Topographical surveys would be carried out on a 30 m x 30 m grid
with contours of 0.30 m intervals. Layout plans, designs for field channels
and drains would be made for each chak (area served by an irrigation turnout)
at the same time as the holdings are consolidated. Rights-of-way for channels
and drains would be located along the realigned boundaries of the holdings.
4.15      Field channels would be designed as an extension of the main
canal system. They would be provided with masonry checks, turnouts and drop
structures. It is estimated that lining would be required for about 20% of
the total length of the field channels, principally in the main stem near the
head reaches of the channels. Where natural drainage is inadequate, field
drains would be constructed to: (i) reduce the area, depth and duration of
flooding during heavy rains; (ii) provide drainage of paddy fields when needed;
and (iii) intercept groundwater flow, particularly the seepage from irrigation.
4.16      Principal field channels would have an escape to a drain and each
farm would be provided with an outlet to a field drain. Access to fields
is traditionally available by informal rights-of-way, which connect with
public roads. Permanent structures would be provided where field channels
and drains cross access tracks and roads. Land shaping and leveling would
not be required since most of the irrigated areas are already bunded and
leveled.
4.17      Construction of field channels and drains, which is mostly earthwork
and masonry (drop structures, division boxes, farm outlets) would be done by
manual labor. The construction would be supervised by the staff of the Agri-
cultural Engineering Organization (para 6.25). Since no large scale on-farm
development has previously been undertaken in Orissa, the implementation pro-
gram would be limited to 57,000 ha over a four year period.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
Cost Estimates
5.01      Medium Irrigated Projects (Annex 2).  The project would support a
five year time-slice of Orissa's medium irrigation program, which is proj-
ected to amount to about US$125.7 M. The proposed IDA credit would finance
all expenditures on MIPs, designed and constructed in accordance with the
agreed criteria (paras 4.04-4.10), during the 1977/78-1981/82 period. On-
going MIPs and MIPs started in 1977/78 would be completed under the project



- 13 -
while MIPs started in 1978/79 or later would only be financed up to 1981/82.
However, any MIP started under the project would be completed in accordance
with the agreed criteria. The five-year expenditures on MIPs that meet the
criteria are estimated atUS$102.7 M,comprising US$59.2 M for new and US$43.5 M
for ongoing MIPs. This amount includes US$21.6 M in expected price increases
calculated at an annual inflation rate of 8%.
5.02      Command Area Development (Annex 3).  The cost of the CAD component
includes consolidation and on-farm works, estimated at Rs 300 per ha and
at Rs 650 per ha, respectively. Total cost for this component would amount
to US$13.3 M, including physical contingencies (20% of cost of works), admini-
stration, engineering and supervision costs (up to 20%) and price contingen-
cies (US$2.5 M) at 8% annually.
5.03      Total project cost would be US$116.0 M, with a foreign exchange
component of US$20.0 H1 or 17% of the total cost. Taxes and duties are in-
significant and therefore not included.
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total
--- Rupees million --  ---- US$ million
MEDIUM
IRRIGATION PROJECTS
Cost including
physical contin-
gencies and
administration       588.0   142.0    730.0   65.3   15.8          81.1
Price Contingencies   156.7    38.0    194.7   17.4    4.2           21.6
Total             744.7   180.0    924.7   82.7   20.0    102.7
COMIIA.D AREA DEVELOPMENT
Land Consolidation       60.0      -        60.0    6.7    -          6.7
On-Farm Works            37.0      -        37.0    4.1    -          4.1
Cost including
physical
contingencies
and administra-
tion                   97.0      -       97.0   10.8    -          10.8
Price Contingencies    22.3        -        22.3    2.5    -          2.5
Total             119.3      -       119.3   13.3    -          13.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST           864.0   180.0  1,044.0   96.0   20.0    116.0
Financing
5.04      The proposed IDA credit of US$58.0 M would finance the foreign
exchange component of the project (US$20.0 M) and about 40% of local costs or
about 51X of total project cost.  The credit would be made to GOI on standard



- 14 -
terms. Agreement has been reached with GOI that; (i) the proceeds of the
credit, except disbursements for on-farm works, would be channeled to GOO on
GOI's standard terms and arrangements for development assistance to the states;
and (ii) disbursements for on-farm works (US$2.4 M) would be made available
to ARDC.
5.05     On-farm works (US$5.2 N, including price contingencies) would be
financed by the farmers using funds provided by commercial and land devel-
opment banks at a minimum interest rate of 10.5% over a maximum 15 years
period, including a grace period of two years on repayment of principal.
Farmers' downpayment would range from 5% to 15% depending on their pre-
development incomes. Loans made to eligible farmers would be refinanced by
ARDC at the rate of 90%. ARDC's refinance would be in line with repayment
periods of ultimate borrowers and bear a minimum interest rate of 7.5%
annually. ARDC would in turn be refinanced by GOI, with a maximum repayment
period of 15 years at an annual interest rate not less than 7.25%. The loan
to farmers ineligible for ordinary bank credit would be refinanced to 100%
by a revolving fund contributed by GOI, GOO, ARDC and administered by ARDC
(Annex 3).
5.06      The Sixth Five-Year Plan is in its early stages of formulation
and Orissa's overall investment program for MIPs over the next five years
is not yet firm. However, agreements have been reached with GOO that:
(i) as many as possible of the ongoing and the new MIPs would be implemented
in accordance with the established technical and economic criteria; and
(ii) it would promptly provide the funds to implement and complete IDA-
financed MIPs in accordance with the schedule of expenditures (Annex 4, Table
1). GOO would inform IDA about any material changes in its expected MIP
investment program (Annex 2, para 8). Conditions of disbursement for on-
farm works would be that: (i) a revolving fund for loans to farmers ineli-
gible for ordinary bank credit has been established; and (ii) financial
arrangements, satisfactory to IDA, have been made between GOI and ARDC.
Procurement
5.07      Medium Irrigation Projects.  Civil works would be restricted to
seasonal construction and best carried out by labor-intensive methods. Works
would be relatively small and scattered throughout the State. Consequently,
it is not feasible nor economic to group them into large contracts for Inter-
national Competitive Bidding. Present practice of GOO for ongoing MIPs is to
contract most of the construction works for dams, spillways, and distribution
networks to local contractors after Local Competitive Bidding; procedures for
which are satisfactory. The remaining portion is completed under small unit
price contracts. Due to the remoteness of many of the HIP areas, responses to
bids are not received in some cases and the work is implemented under force
account. Force account would also be used when required by safety or quality
considerations. However, such procedure would be limited to a maximum of 25%
of all civil works.



- 15 -
5.08      On-Farm Works.  Land shaping and leveling would not be required under
the project. Field channels and drains and associated masonry structures
would be built by manual labor, the most economic and practical means. Con-
tracts for these works would be let on a unit price basis to small village
contractors. The procedures used for letting such contracts are satisfactory.
Disbursements
5.09      Disbursements for approved HIPs (para 6.10) would cover 65% of ex-
penditures on civil works. Disbursements for force account work and for
payments of less than Rs 50,000 under civil works contracts would be made
against certificates of expend4ture -- itemized by sub-projects -- submitted
by GOO. Documentation of these works would be retained by GOO and made
available for inspection during project supervision. Full documentation
would be required for other contract works.
5.10      Two disbursement categories would be established for CAD:  one for
land consolidation and another for on-farm works. Disbursement for land con-
solidation would be made at a rate of Rs 150 per ha against Inspector General
of Land Registration's certificates of completion of consolidation. Disburse-
ments for on-farm works would cover 55% of ARDC's refinance and be made against
a certificate of expenditures submitted by ARDC. The documentation for this
would be retained by GOO and ARDC, respectively, and made available for
inspection by IDA during project progress review. The estimated schedule of
expenditure, the proposed allocation of the proceeds of the credit and the
semi-annual disbursement schedule are presented in Annex 4. It is expected
that disbursements would be completed by October 1983, about one year after
completion of the project.
Accounts and Audits
5.11      Implementing agencies would be subject to normal Government control
and auditing procedures which are satisfactory. Agreements have been reached
with GOO that: (i) the Irrigation and Power Department (para 6.01), the Con-
solidation Unit (para 6.23) and the Agriculture Engineering Organization (para
6.25) would maintain separate accounts on project expenditures -- in the case
of MIPs, accounts would be maintained for each sub-project; and (ii) these
accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA;
(iii) audit summaries would be submitted to IDA within twelve months after
each fiscal year together with the auditors' reports and (iv) complete
accounts and financial statements would be available for inspection during
project review missions.
5.12      Auditing procedures for ARDC are satisfactory.  Agreements have
been reached with ARDC that: (i) it would require participating banks to
maintain separate accounts for lending made under the project, and (ii)
these would be audited and audit summaries would be submitted to IDA within
four months after the end of each fiscal year, together with an audited ARDC
statement on project lending to such banks.



- 16 -
Cost Recovery
5.13      The average cost of MIPs is about Rs 11,000 per ha.  The annual
charge for full recovery of O&M and capital costs over 30 years at an interest
rate of 10% would amount to about Rs 1,250 per ha.
5.14      The prime vehicle for recovery of irrigation costs in Orissa is
the water charge. The level of the water charge depends on the crop grown
and the season in which irrigation is received. The rates range from less
than Rs 4 per ha to about Rs 125 per ha. At current levels, the charge would
amount to about Rs 35 per ha per year for the typical cropping pattern of an
MIP. Other agricultural taxation includes the land revenue assessment, the
graded producer's levy and sales tax. Land revenue assessment, which depends
on soil type and location, averages about Rs 20 per ha. Large farmers owning
more than 10 ha of irrigated or 20 ha of unirrigated land are subject to a
graded producer's levy in which they are required to sell part of their paddy
crop at procurement prices lower than the market prices. More important is
the sales tax on agricultural goods. Paddy purchased by millers and whole-
salers is taxed at 7%. Rice that has not been taxed as paddy is taxed at 3%;
other foodgrains, pulses and oilseeds at 3%. If it is assumed that all the
incremental production due to investment in MIPs financed under the project
would be marketed, the sales tax would, on the average, amount to Rs 160 per
ha.
5.15      Orissa has one of the lowest taxation rates in India and the
State's per capita revenue ranks 17 among the 21 States. Consequently, in-
creasing investments in agriculture without a high rate of cost recovery would
severely strain the State's budgetary resources. On the other hand, Orissa
has a larger portion of its rural population below the poverty line than any
other State in India. Average rural per capita income is only about Rs 700
(US$78) or about three-fifths of the average per capita income for India.
Thus, a feasible cost recovery plan must take into account the economic
condition of the beneficiaries and their ability to pay.
5.16      Assurances have been obtained that GOO would, by December 31, 1979,
review the question of water charges and implement, after consultation with
IDA, a system of water and water related charges to ensure adequate recovery
of annual O&M costs and as much as possible of capital costs. In establishing
the level of charges, due regard would be given to incentives for and payment
capacity of farmers.



- 17 -
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Medium Irrigation Projects
Orissa Irrigation and Power Department (I&PD)
6.01      The direct responsibility for planning, implementation, and opera-
tion and maintenance (O&M) of MIPs would rest with I&PD of GOO. The I&PD is
headed by a Chief Engineer (CE) who reports to the Secretary of Irrigation
and Power. Recently, in order to reduce the workload of the CE, some of his
functions have been delegated to two Additional Chief Engineers: one is res-
ponsible for construction and O&M of MIPs, and the other for construction and
O&M of the Mahanadi Delta project. The CE retains direct responsibility for
all planning and design activities and for construction and O&M of major ir-
rigation projects outside the Mahanadi Delta. At headquarters, he is supported
by the Directorate of Design and the Planning Cell.
6.02      The I&PD is organized on a geographical basis with seven circles,
each headed by a Superintending Engineer (SE). The SE is responsible for
four to five divisions, each headed by an Executive Engineer (EE). A divi-
sion consists of five to eight sub-divisions. Generally, two to four sub-
divisions have responsibilities for investigations, minor works and O&M of
existing projects within specific geographical areas. Special construction
sub-divisions are set up for execution of larger works. For a typical 10,000
ha project, three sub-divisions are created; one for dam construction, one for
construction of the distribution and drainage networks and one for operation
and maintenance of the construction equipment. Sub-divisions are headed
by Assistant Engineers (AE). I&PD has a sufficient number of technically
competent staff to plan, design and construct the MIPs in accordance with
the agreed criteria.
The Appraisal Committee of the Central Water Commission
6.03      The Central Water Commission (CWC) of GOI is the highest technical
authority for water resources development in India. The Commission consists
of a Chairman and four members. It has a staff of more than 1,000 engineers.
A large part of the staff is on rotation from the states. The CWC is re-
sponsible for technical review of all major and medium irrigation projects
before they are submitted for approval to the Planning Commission of GOI. In
the case of medium irrigation projects, the review is only proforma, while
major irrigation projects are analyzed in detail.
6.04      The CWC would be responsible for appraising and reviewing the pro-
gress of MIPs financed under the project. For this purpose, CWC has estab-
lished an Appraisal Committee (AC), headed by the Member, Planning and Pro-
gress. The Committee has a competent engineering staff. Agriculturalists
would be deputed from the Department of Agriculture and economists from the



- 18 -
irrigation wing of the Planning Commission. Conditions of credit effective-
ness would be that: (i) GOI has appointed a director for AC, and (ii)
staffing arrangements, satisfactory to IDA, have been made for AC.
Procedures for Medium IrriRation Prolects
6.05      There would be a continuous interaction between AC and GOO during
the implementation of MIPs. The main activities in the "project cycle" would
follow procedures described below:
6.06      Sub-prolect Identification.  The overall strategy for irrigation
development in Orissa is outlined in the Master Plan of 1972, which also
identifies potential MIPs. Priorities for preparation of MIPs are estab-
lished by the Secretary of Irrigation and Power after consultation with
concerned GOO departments.
6.07      Sub-project Preparation.  As at present, sub-project investigations
would be carried out by I&PD at the Division level under supervision of the
EE.  These investigations would form the basis for a draft Project Report,
which would include preliminary designs, cost estimates and a tentative
implementation plan. The draft would be reviewed by the I&PD Planning Cell
and Directorate of Design before finalization. An agreement has been
reached with GOO that a Preparation Committee, at project level, would be
established for each IDA financed MIP. This committee would include the
EE, concerned Block Development Officers within the project area and district
level officers from the Agriculture and Cooperation, Revenue, Forestry and
Fisheries Departments. At State level, an interdepartmental committee has
been set up to review draft Project Reports. The progress of MIP prepara-
tion would be reviewed every six months by AC to ensure the implementation
of established criteria for planning and preparation.
6.08      Submission of Sub-project to CWC.  After clearance by GOO technical
and administrative departments, sub-project proposals would be included in
GOO's annual development plan to be reviewed by the Planning Commission of
GOI. Subsequent to Planning Commission approval of the plan, the selected
MIPs would be submitted to CWC for appraisal.
6.09      Sub-project Appraisal.  The AC would visit the sub-project area to
review the proposed sub-project in detail and ascertain that the proposed MIP
meets the criteria agreed with IDA (paras 4.04-4.10). The AC would also
ensure that: the proposed cropping pattern is suitable for the command area;
agricultural supporting services are adequate; and the implementation schedule
is realistic. The AC would confirm and adjust the cost estimates as necessary
and prepare a Project Summary, which would be submitted to IDA.
6.10      Sub-project Approval.  The AC would be authorized to approve sub-
projects that meet the technical criteria and cost less than Rs 70 M (US$7.8 M)
excluding price contingencies if the benefit/cost ratio is higher than 1.0.
In all other cases, sub-projects would be reviewed by IDA which would base
its decision on an analysis of Project Reports and Summaries (paras 6.07 and
6.09), supplemented by field visits, if necessary. To establish quality



- 19 -
standards for CWC appraisal work, full documentation for the first three MIPs
(Project Report and Project Summary) would be submitted to IDA for approval
regardless of the costs. With these procedures, it is expected that about
40-50% of eligible MIPs, representing more than 60% of the IDA financed
investment program, would be subject to IDA detailed appraisal of individual
schemes.
6.11      Sub-Project Implementation.  The I&PD would be responsible for the
implementation all irrigation works. Each MIP would be implemented by two or
three sub-divisions that would be technically and administratively controlled
by the divisional EE (para 6.02). Agreements have been reached with GOO that:
(i) simultaneously with the construction of each MIP, GOO would strengthen, if
necessary, the credit, input supply and marketing facilities in the area to
meet the need of irrigated farming, and (ii) the staffing of agricultural
extension services in each MIP area would conform with statewide standards set
under the Orissa Agricultural Development Project. Progress of project imple-
mentation would be reviewed by AC three times during each construction season.
6.12      Operation and Maintenance.  Responsibility for the day-to-day
operation of each sub-project would rest with the sub-divisional Assistant
Engineer. Under him, three to five Junior or Sub-Assistant Engineers would
each be responsbile for a section of the canal system (commanding about
5,000 ha) down to the farm turnouts. Within this area, one or two patrols
would be posted to assess the water delivery requirements and each would
supervise five to ten kalassis. The kalassis would operate sluices and out-
lets and do routine maintenance within a command area of about 250 ha each.
Water would be delivered, on a rotational basis, through outlets serving no
more than 5 ha. Water allocation would be established at the beginning of
each irrigation season by a committee consisting of a Revenue Officer, the
Assistant Engineer in charge of the MIP, Agricultural Extension, Cooperative
Extension, and Block Development Officers and Panchayat Samiti (Chairman
of the local by elected body at block level). This committee would also
coordinate all other activities pertaining to irrigated agriculture such as
cropping patterns, input distribution and credit facilities. An agreement has
been reached with GOO that such a committee would be established for each
MIP.
6.13      Most system maintenance would take place during the non-irrigation
season (March to June). In order to ensure effective O&M of the system and
to reduce establishment charges, the I&PD has recently employed small unit
price contractors for annual repair and maintenance work. Kalassis are re-
sponsible for routine maintenance during the irrigation season. An agreement
has been reached with GOO that I&PD would investigate alternative methods for
maintenance works in order to establish the most cost effective way of ensur-
ing a proper maintenance of MIPs; the conclusion of this study would be
submitted to IDA by March 31, 1983.
6.14      Since the present investigation and design practices for storage
and diversion dams are consistent with IDA standards, no criteria has been
specified for these structures. An agreement has been reached with GOO that
biennial safety inspections would be undertaken for all dams and necessary
repairs would be made.



20 -
Progress Review and Reporting Requirements
6.15      Progress review and the reporting requirements, which have been
agreed with CWC, are designed to: (i) ensure that the sub-projects are de-
signed, appraised and implemented in accordance with the agreed criteria;
(ii) ensure that work for which disbursements are requested actually has been
carried out; (iii) provide information ("feedback") to allow better project
preparation and appraisal in the future; (iv) provide guidance for the AC
staff in its review of project progress; (v) develop channels for mutual ex-
change of experience between IDA, CWC and GOO staff; and (vi) provide early
warning signals to IDA if problems are developing in implementation of the
MIPs.
6.16      The AC would closely monitor progress of project preparation,
implementation and operation. The following reports would be prepared by
AC and be submitted to IDA for review:
(a) An "Annual Implementation Program" (Annex 2, Appendix 2)
would be prepared after a review, with the GOO officials,
of projects under preparation and implementation. Special
attention would be given to budgetary allocation for each
sub-project in order to ensure that adequate funds would be
provided in accordance with agreed implementation schedules.
(b) A "Progress Summary: Preparation" (Annex 2, Appendix 3)
would be prepared after each visit to the Divisional Office
where a sub-project is being prepared and preferably to
the project site. Progress of sub-project preparation
would be reviewed every six months.
(c)  A "Progress Summary:  Implementation" (Annex 2, Appendix 4)
would be prepared and updated three times during each con-
struction season, after visits to the MIP site.
(d) A "Progress Summary: Operation" (Annex 2, Appendix 5) would
be prepared once a year after a visit to the completed proj-
ect to assess irrigation benefits and to review the quality
and effectiveness of O&M.
6.17      The main thrust of IDA review would be to:  (i) assess the quality
of AC's appraisal and review work; (ii) spot check whether agreed criteria
have been followed; (iii) review procurement procedures; (iv) check the
financial records kept by GOI and GOO; (v) assess the appropriateness of
established criteria; and (vi) examine the contents and timing of reports
submitted by CWC.
Project Evaluation
6.18      There would be a need to evaluate the costs and benefits associ-
ated with the improved design and construction standards implemented under the
project.  For this purpose, an agreement has been reached with GOO that I&PD



- 21 -
and DAFP would undertake a study, by March 1983 ,of water losses and agricul-
tural benefits in both existing and IDA-financed MIPs. This study, together
with the bench mark agro-economic surveys (para 4.05) and CWC progress reports
would form the basis for an evaluation of the MIP component, which would be
undertaken jointly by GOO, CWC and IDA.
B. Command Area Development
Command Area Development Organizations
6.19      The CAD organization in Orissa extends from Cabinet level down
to village committees. In May 1976, the GOO constituted three Command Area
Development Authorities (CADAs) for the Hirakud, Salandi and Mahanadi Delta
irrigation systems. Each CADA is chaired by a Revenue Divisional Commissioner
and administered by a Project Director. CADA acts as a coordinating agency
for all activities related to CAD such as construction of field channels and
drains, improvements to and O&M of irrigation systems, consolidation of hold-
ings and development of agricultural supporting services. However, it has the
power to direct, subject to broad guidelines established by the GOO, the manner
in which programs relating to these activities would be executed. Initially,
the CADA is provided with working capital from GOO. Under the project, the
beneficiaries when applying for loans would authorize the lending banks to
place the amount with the CADA who, through the Agricultural Engineering
Organization, would plan, design and supervise the construction of on-farm
works.
6.20      In order to ensure effective supervision of the CAD programs in
all three areas as well as to ensure inter-departmental coordination, GOO
has established a State Committee, presided over by the Chief Minister. The
Committee consists of Cabinet members, senior GOO officials and Chairmen of
the three CADAs. The CAD Commissioner is appointed as convenor of the State
Committee. The Agricultural and Cooperation Department is the administrative
department for CAD.
Land Consolidation Process
6.21      Land consolidation is carried out in stages:  (i) cadastral survey,
topographical survey, preparation of maps and layouts for irrigation, drainage
and road system; (ii) determination of land rights, valuation of different
land classes, and settlement of rent and cess payments wherever necessary;
(iii) preparation of a new plan for the village, including allocation of land
for communal purposes (such as field channels and drains, access roads and
other public uses); (iv) reallocation of land into compact holdings; and
(v) preparation of new land ownership records and maps.
6.22      The consolidation process is lengthy since ample provisions are
made for objections and appeals by farmers concerned at each stage in the
process. Completion of consolidation takes about 2-1/2 to 3 years. In order



- 22 -
to prevent future fragmentation of consolidated plots, the Act prohibits
transfer of ownership for holdings less than one acre to any one except to an
adjoining farmer.
Consolidation Organization
6.23      Responsibility for consolidation rests with the Consolidation Unit,
established in the Revenue Department and headed by a Director. The basic
operating unit is a consolidation camp (normally covering 2,000-2,500 ha of
consolidable area), consisting of an Assistant Consolidation Officer, one
surveyor and two consolidators. Each camp is responsible for cadastral sur-
veys, field inquiries for determination of land values, preparation of land
records and maps, delineation of consolidated plots and allotment to land-
owners. About 5 to 8 camps constitute a circle, headed by a Consolidation
Officer (CO). He supervises the work of the camps and has power to resolve
disputes concerning allotment of land and determination of land values. About
three circles constitute a range, headed by a Deputy Director, Consolidation,
who had jurisdiction over appeals made by landowners. The Director of Con-
solidation has overall administrative control and supervision responsibility.
The Consolidation Commissioner, who is responsible for the formulation of the
program, has final jurisdiction over the appeals made by farmers against
decisions of lower consolidation authorities. The budgetary provisions come
from the Revenue Department.
6.24      A special feature of the consolidation process is the involvement
of the village community at all stages. A Consolidation Committee, comprised
of at least one landless agricultural laborer, one representative of each
category of land owners and one person from Scheduled Castes/Tribes, is con-
stituted for each camp. The Committee advises the consolidation officers on
matters such as determination of land values and allotment of consolidated
holdings.
On-Farm Works
6.25      The Agriculture Engineering Organization (AEO) of DAFP, headed
by the Joint Director of Agriculture, Engineering, would be responsible for
the implementation of on-farm works. Four Divisions would be established for
topographical surveys, alignment of field channels and drains, preparation of
cost estimates and supervision of on-farm works carried out by small contrac-
tors. Each Division would be headed by an Executive Engineer, assisted by
four Assistant Agricultural Engineers and 16 Junior Agricultural Engineers.
AEO would be suitable for implementing on-farm works since it has staff with
training in both agriculture and engineering and who have experience from
planning, design and supervision of on-farm works in the pilot projects (para
4.11). Responsibilities for water distribution and maintenance of field chan-
nels and drains would rest with the Chak Level Operating Committee consisting
of nominees of cultivators within the chak.



- 23 -
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION 1/
General
7.01      The proposed project would both expand the area under irrigation
and increase the productivity of existing irrigated land. Through these means,
it would increase foodgrain production and provide additional year-round
employment opportunities to landless laborers and small farmers. Increased
agricultural income and non-farm employment generated by the project would
improve the welfare of Orissa's rural people who are among the poorest in
India.
7.02      Organizational arrangements introduced under the project would
strengthen local capabilities for project planning, design and implementation,
and, thus, lead to a general improvement in the technical and economic via-
bility of all projects in the irrigation sector.
7.03      The overall impact of the project at full development can be
summarized as follows:
MIPS        CAD        Total
Increase in irrigated area (ha)            87,000       2,000     89,000
Increased foodgrain production (tons)    84,000        26,000    110,000
Net foreign exchange savings (US$)             15 M         5 M       20 M
Generated farm employment (jobs)           28,000       6,000     30,000
Generated non-farm employment (jobs)       10,000       3,000     13,000
Income Effects
7.04      Most beneficiaries of the MIPs component would be subsistence far-
mers who now practice rainfed farming. At present, their average per capita
farm income (Rs 250) is only about one-fifth of the average per capita income
for India. Under the project, net farm incomes of about 30,000 families would
increase by an average of 180%. The effect of the MIPs in improving incomes
of various groups is illustrated below:
Percentage of Farm Households
Net Per Capita                                Future                 Future
Income Below              Present        Without Project         With Project
Minimum Subistence
Requirements (US$30)       88                 83                    33
Poverty Line (US$60)         96                 94                    70
Average Per Capita
Income for Orissa
(US$100)                   99                 98                    87
1/   For details regarding MIPs, see Annex 2, and regarding CAD, see
Annex 3.



- 24 -
7.05      The CAD program would mainly benefit farmers with land in the tail-
ends of the outlet blocks. The present field-to-field irrigation, which
leaves tailend farmers with either too little or too much water, results in
income differences of about 30% between headreach and tailend farmers. The
on-farm works would increase the incomes of tailend farmers (net of loan
repayment) by 15%-30x. Although headreach farmers' net incomes would not
change significantly, they would benefit from stable yields as a result of
the more reliable water supply.
Economic Rates of Return (ERR)
7.06      According to the economic criteria established for MIPs, CWC would
be authorized to approve projects with an ERR exceeding 12%. Based on an
estimated average investment cost of Rs 11,000 per ha for MIPs and on a
projected "typical" cropping pattern, it is estimated that the average ERR
of MIPs would be around 18%. The estimated ERR for the CAD program would be
about 34%. The overall ERR of the project is estimated at 20%.
Environmental Effects
7.07      The main water-related diseases in Orissa are malaria and typhoid.
Although the incidence of such diseases is not expected under the project, an
assurance would be obtained that GOI and GOO would take all measures as con-
sidered necessary to minimize the hazards of malaria and other water-related
diseases in both MIPs and CAD project areas.
Prolect Risks
7.08      The risk associated with the MIP component would stem from (i) the
use of standardized yield and input projections for the economic evaluation
of all sub-projects and (ii) the procedures for approval and progress review
of sub-projects. Since the agro-economic conditions in all sub-project areas
would be broadly similar, the error introduced by the use of standardized
projections in the evaluation of an individual sub-project would be limited.
Furthermore, the overestimation of actual benefits for one MIP would be com-
pensated by the underestimation of benefits for another. Thus, the risk
of the MIPs taken as a group is minimal. Arrangements for approval of the
sub-projects and the reporting requirements that would permit IDA to identify
problems early and to intervene directly, if necessary, are designed to
minimize the risk associated with the proposed appraisal and progress review
procedures. In view of the benefits from institution building and the social
importance of MIPs constructed in the more backward areas of Orissa, the risk
is acceptable.
7.09      The risk associated with the CAD component would be small due to
high anticipated returns and the successful experience of pilot operations.



-25-
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Agreements have been reached with GOI and GOO that IDA-financed MIPs
would be designed, constructed and completed in accordance with the agreed
technical and economic criteria (para 4.04);
8.02      Agreements have been reached with GOI that:
(i) it would channel the proceeds of the credit, except dis-
bursement for on-farm works, to GOO on standard terms and
arrangements for development assistance to the states
(para 5.04); and
(ii)  disbursements for on-farm works would be made available
to ARDC (para 5.04).
8.03      Agreements have been reached with GOO that:
(i) as many as possible of the on-going and the new MIPs
would be implemented in accordance with the estab-
lished technical and economic criteria (para 5.06);
(ii)  GOO would promptly provide the funds to complete IDA-
financed MIPs in accordance with the schedule of
expenditures (para 5.06);
(iii)  the implementing agencies would maintain separate accounts
on project expenditures -- in the case of MIPs, accounts
would be maintained for each sub-project (para 5.11);
(iv)  the accounts would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA (para 5.11);
(v) audit summaries would be submitted to IDA within twelve
months after each fiscal year along with the auditors'
reports (para 5.11);
(vi)  complete accounts and financial statements would be avail-
able for inspection during project review missions (para 5.11);
(vii)  GOO would, by December 31, 1979, review the question of water
charges and implement, after consultation with IDA, a system
of water and water related charges to ensure adequate recovery
of annual O&M costs and as much as possible of capital costs.
In establishing the level of charges, due regard would be given
to incentives for and payment capacity of farmers (para 5.16);



- Zb -
(viii)  a Project Preparation Committee, consisting of the Execu-
tive Engineer, concerned Block Development Officers and
district level officers from the Agriculture and Coopera-
tion, Revenue, and Forestry and Fisheries Departments,
would be established for each MIP (para 6.07);
(ix)  simultaneously with the construction of the MIPs, it would
strengthen, if necessary, the credit, input supply and
marketing facilities in the areas to meet the need of
irrigated farming (para 6.11);
(x) the staffing of agricultural extension services in each
MIP area would conform with the statewide standards set
under the Orissa Agricultural Development Project (para 6.11);
(xi)  water allocation in each MIP would be established at the
beginning of each irrigation season by a committee consisting
of a Revenue Officer, Assistant Engineer in charge of the
project, Agricultural Extension, Cooperative Extension and
Block Development Officers and Panchayat Samiti (para 6.12);
(xii) the I&PD would investigate alternative methods for maintenance
works in order to establish the most cost effective way of
ensuring a proper maintenance of MIPs. The conclusion of
this study would be submitted to IDA by March 31, 1983
(para 6.13).
(xiii)  biennial safety inspections would be undertaken for MIP
dams and necessary repairs would be made (para 6.14);
(xiv) it would by March 1983, undertake a study of water losses
and agricultural benefits relating to technical criteria
established for IDA-financed MIPs (para 6.18); and
(xv)  all measures would be taken to minimize the hazards of
malaria and other water-related diseases in MIP CAD project
areas (para 7.07).
8.04      Agreements have been reached with ARDC that:
(i) it would require participating banks to maintain
separate accounts for lending under the project
(para 5.12); and
(ii)  these accounts would be audited and audit summaries
would be submitted to IDA within four months after
the end of each fiscal year, together with an audited
ARDC statement on project lending to such banks
(para 5.12).



- 27 -
8.05      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be that:
(i) GOI has appointed a director for AC (para 6.04); and
(ii) staffing arrangements, satisfactory to IDA, have been
made for AC (para 6.04).
8.06      Conditions of disbursements for on-farm works would be that:
(i)   GOI and ARDC have made satisfactory financial arrangements
to IDA (para 5.06); and
(ii) a revolving fund for loans to farmers ineligible for
ordinary bank credit has been established (para 5.06).
8.07      With the above assurances and conditions of disbursements, the pro-
posed project would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$58.0 M on standard
IDA terms. The Borrower would be the Government of India.
August 24, 1977



ANNEX 1
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
THE STATE OF ORISSA
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND
General ......s1
Plimate o .a...............                            1
Physiography                                           2
soils3
Topography and Land Use......                          3
Population                                             3
Farm Size and Land Tenure..oo.ooo........s.*   4
II. AGRICULTURE IN ORISSA
General                                                4
Cropping Patterns and Yields                           4
Agricultural Production              ...               5
Faming Practices                                       5
Agricultural Supporting Services                       6
III.   IRRIGATION IN ORISSA
Water Resources                  .......               8
Irrigation Potential and Utilization    .....          9
28



ANNEX 1
Page 1
THE STATE OF ORISSA
I. BACKGROUND
General
1.        The State of Orissa is located in the eastern part of India.  It
has substantial areas of relatively fertile alluvial soils, moderate to heavy
monsoon rains and considerable, largely unexploited surface and groundwater
resources. Yet despite this largess of natural resources, foodgrain yields
are lower than the average for India and production has in recent years barely
kept pace with population growth. Rural institutions are generally weak and
most social and economic indicators are lower than the India average.
Climate
2.        The climate of Orissa is suitable for cropping throughout the year.
Temperatures are lowest in December-January, with an average minimum daily
temperature of 12 -15C and an average maximum daily temperature of 270-280C.
The corresponding temperatures for the hottest months, April, May and June,
range from a minimum of 260-280C to a maximum of 37-39 0C.
3.        Rainfall is the dominant climatic factor.  The yearly mean for the
State is about 1,500 mm (50 year average), varying from 1,300 to 1,650 mm for
the 13 districts in Orissa (Table 1,Map No. 12767). However, from one year to
the next, variations in a district might be as high as 50%. About 85% of the
rain occurs during the kharif season (June to October) as a consequence of the
south-west monsoon.  The annual rainfall distribution is as follows:
Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May June  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec  Total
Rainfall - mm   14   26   24  37   73   215  352  338  239  136   40   6  1,500
Rainy days      0.9  1.6  1.5 2.5  4.4  10.1 15.6 15.5 12.2  6.2  1.6 0.4   72.5
Rainfall intensities during the monsoon season are high, leading to much run-
off and flooding of low lands, and intensive cropping in the rabi season
(November-April) is impossible without irrigation. Due to the highly erratic
monsoon, supplementary irrigation frequently is necessary during the kharif
season to achieve high and stable yields.
29



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Physiography
4.        The State of Orissa lies between 17031' to 22027' north latitude and
810 27' to 87030' east longitude and covers an area of 156,000 sq km. It is
bounded on the southeast by the Bay of Bengal, on the north by Bihar, on the
northeast by West Bengal and on the southwest by Andhra Pradesh and Madhya
Pradesh. On the basis of physical features and agro-climatic conditions,
Orissa may be divided roughly into four zones: (1) the northern plateau,
(2) the central table land, (3) the eastern Ghat region, and (4) the coastal
plain.
5.        The Northern Plateau is a continuation of the Chotanagpur plateau
of Bihar and includes the districts of Mayurbhanj, Keonjhar and Sundargarh,
and parts of Dhenkanal, Cuttack, Balasore and Sambalpur. About 23% of the
total area of the State is in this region. There are a number of hill ranges
rising to elevations of 2,000 ft to 3,000 ft above sea level. About 45% of
the area is covered by forest and 36% is under cultivation.
6.        The Central Table Land consists of the district of Bolangir, the
southern part of Dhenkanal District, and parts of Phulbani, Cuttack, and
Sambalpur districts. The region, as large as the Northern Plateau, is gene-
rally flat with undulating and folded topography. It consists chiefly of the
Mahanadi basin. The land gradually rises from east to west and rarely attains
an elevation greater than 1,000 ft.  The western part of the region is in-
tersected by small rivers at almost regular distances. Agricultural production
in the area greatly increased with the commencement of irrigation from Hirakud
project. Among the four agroclimatic regions, it is the most suited for wheat
and, next to the coastal region, paddy cultivation.
7.        The Eastern Ghat Region mostly consists of hill ranges, which are
part of the main line of the eastern Ghats, along with some plains and valleys
lying between the hill ranges. Thiese hill ranges also contain extensive pla-
teaus, most of which have elevations between 1,000 ft to 1,500 ft. This is
the largest of the four regions, covering some 36% of the State, and it con-
sists of the districts of Koraput, Kalahandi, Phulbani and some of Ganjam.
The area is predominantly covered by forest. The sourthern portion of
Koraput is a plateau with an elevation of more than 2,000 ft. A large part
of Kalahandi District (elevation of about 900 ft) lies between the river Tel
in the north and the Jeypote plateau in the south and is the area most suited
for rice. Most of the other areas of Koraput District are characterized by
scattered isolated hills, sometimes covered with thin forest. The hills in
the area are intercepted with small and meandering streams having flood plains
terraced and cultivated with rice.
8.        The Coastal Plain runs from north to south in a strip from 15 to 16
mi wide in the districts of Balascre, Cuttack, Puri and Ganjam. The coastal
plain is characterized by a number of deltas and this zone covers about 18% of
the total. The relative humidity in the plain is high throughout the year.
For crop production, this is the most important region of Orissa.
30



ANNEX I
Page 3
Soils
9.        The soils of Orissa can be grouped into residual and transported
soils. The residual soils of the uplands are predominantly red and yellow
laterites which are typically highly leached, acidic (pH 5.0-6.50), and low
in organic matter and nitrogen, with high phosphorous fixation. Although
lateritic, most do not contain lateritic masses within their profiles. They
tend to be shallow, sandy and erodible on the steeper slopes. Their pro-
ductivity is therefore limited both by fertility and water holding capacity.
The uplands also contain smaller areas of "black cotton" and brown, forest
soils, which are deeper, finer in texture, and generally more fertile, but
are much less permeable and more erosive than the red and yellow soils.
They have a high water holding capacity but are slow to dry, and, since
they cannot be worked when very wet, seedbed preparation and land cultiva-
tion are difficult without adequate water control.
10.       The transported alluvial soils found in the lowlands are moderately
fertile, slightly acidic, deep and more productive than the residuals. These
soils are ideal for paddy production. Residual moisture in the winter is not
enough for a second (rabi) crop of paddy, but pulses can be widely grown.
The potential of the alluvial soils of the coastal zone depends primarily
upon elevation and therefore the intensity and duration of inundation. In
the lowest areas, flood control measures are necessary to increase productiv-
ity. Although the transported soils cover only 6% of the State's area, they
are the most important agriculturally. Along the coast, there are problems of
salinity. Leaching and drainage measures and construction of embankments to
check encroachment of sea water are needed to improve soil fertility.
Topography and Land Use
11.       Microtopography is extremely important and traditionally plays a
major role in cropping patterns and practices. It is closely related to water
availability during the growth season, and crops are planned accordingly. The
cultivable area is composed of high, medium and low lands. The high lands are
usually planted to upland short duration paddy or, in the lighter soils and
slopes, to millets, maize, oilseeds and pigeon pea. These are the first crops
to suffer in drought. The medium lands are planted to medium duration paddy,
and the lowlands are planted to long duration, relatively flood resistant,
paddy, harvested in December or January. Many farmers own parcels of land
in all three categories, providing them with some form of insurance under
varying climatic conditions. Of the 6.8 M ha under cultivation, about 47%
are upland, 30% medium and 23% lowland. The existing land use-pattern is
shown on Map: "Orissa, India, Land Cover-Land Use Association".
Population
12.       Orissa has a population of 26 M (1976 population extrapolated from
21 M in 1971, Table 2), with about 92% living in the rural areas. Orissa
ranks 11th among the India states in terms of population, and it is probably
one of the poorest states, since about 60% of the population has an income
31



ANNEX 1
Page 4
below the country poverty line (US$60). The overall literary rate was 26%
in 1971, compared to an India average of 29%, with considerable variability
from one district to another (i.e. about 30% in coastal districts and 10%
in some inland districts). The population is also stratified along caste,
class and tribal lines which hamper economic development in the State. The
scheduled castes and tribes, the weakest section of the economy, make up about
38% of the total population, varying from 17%-25% in the coastal districts to
30%-70% in inland districts. The labor force constitutes 31% of the total
population. Cultivators and agricultural laborers account for 49% and 28%
of the labor force, respectively.
Farm Size and Land Tenure
13.       Overlapping with the schedule tribes and castes, but recognized
separately for administrative purposes, are the "small" and "marginal" farmers,
with holdings of less than 2 ha, who represent roughly 2.6 M out of a total
of 3.4 M cultivators' households (Table 3). Although these farmers operate
over 75% of all operational holdings, they control less than 40% of the total
cultivable land, while farms of 5 ha or more (representing less than 7% of
holdings) account for about 35% of the land. Adding to the skewed distribu-
tion of income in the rural areas are the landless and agricultural laborers,
who constitute an additional 1.8 M households. Fragmentation is primarily a
problem in the coastal areas, where the farm sizes are also smaller.
14.       The bulk of the agricultural land in Orissa is owned by its opera-
tors; about 92% of the total area is recorded as fully owned and operated
and the remaining 8% is shown as rented from others. From the statistics,
the problem of share croppers does not appear to be really severe, since only
about 0.3 M ha or 5% of the cultivated area, is recorded to be share cropped.
However, in practice, a much larger but unquantified area is believed to be
share-cropped.
II. AGRICULTURE IN ORISSA
General
15.       Agriculture is dominant in Orissa's economy, contributing over 60%
of the gross domestic product. The livelihood of about 80% of the population
is in some way dependent on agriculture. Of a total area of about 15.5 M ha,
about 6.8 M are cultivated.
Cropping Patterns and Yields
16.       Paddy is the most important of the crops grown, occupying some 70%
of all cropped area. The remainder is taken up by cereals (7%), pulses (14%),
oilseeds (6%), fibers (1Z), and vegetables (2%). Over 95% of the rice crop is
grown in the kharif season, from June to December. In the coastal area, only
paddy is grown in kharif whereas in upland areas, cereals, pulses, groundnuts
and oilseeds are grown in addition to paddy. The statewide cropping intensity
32



ANNEX 1
Page 5
is about 125%, and is greater in the coastal districts (134%) than in the
inland areas (118%). Most of the second crop, planted after the kharif paddy
crop is harvested, depends principally on residual moisture for its water
requirements. Rice yields are low in relation to the rest of India and similar
areas in Asia are about: 1.1 tons/ha for rainfed paddy; 1.6 tons/ha for irri-
gated paddy in kharif, and 2.0 tons/ha for irrigated paddy in rabi. The low
rice yields will, as a result of the extension and research programs provided
under the Orissa Agricultural Development Project (Credit No. 625-IN, 1977,
US$21.0 M) increase by some 15-20% through improved cultivation practices
and depending on the level of recommended fertilizer use, by between 50% and
100% for adopting farmers. Wheat yields, on the other hand, are higher than
the all-India average because wheat is grown mainly under irrigation in
Orissa, using modern varieties and high levels of chemical fertilization.
Pulse yields are roughly the same as the all-India average.
Agricultural Production
17.       Foodgrain production is grown at an annual rate of less than 1% from
1964/65 to 1974/75. The production of rice was stagnant, partly due to flood
and drought spells such as in 1965/66, 1971/72 and 1974/75. The production of
minor crops such as wheat and maize increased significantly; however, since
their base is small compared to total output, the overall effect was almost
negligible. The production of non-food crops increased modestly, except for
the production of oilseeds which doubled between 1964/65 and 1973/74.
Farming Practices
18.       Rice.  Because of the uncertainty of rainfall in the rainfed agri-
cultural areas of the State, it is necessary to plow during the first rains
to ensure optimum infiltration of water and provide storage to achieve a good
early establishment of the rice seedling. Dry soil is too hard to cultivate
with animal draft power before it has become saturated, so that planting must
be delayed until sufficient moisture is present to soften the soil. As mech-
anization is not common in Orissa, land preparation is mostly done by bul-
locks. Standards of cultivation are generally low, which results in severe
weed problems during later growth stages, aggrevated by the fact that most of
the crop area is broadcast so that timely hand weeding is not possible. The
current practice is to cross-plow or harrow through the established crop.
This achieves some weed control, and limited trials suggest it does not sig-
nificantly affect yields of indigenous varieties. However, with high yield-
ing varieties (HYV) this operation may severely check growth and reduce yields,
and, therefore, it is not an acceptable method of weed control.
19.       In the kharif, irrigated paddy is usually broadcast in June/July and
harvested in November/December. Cross plowing is carried out one month after
planting and usually about 2.4 cart loads of manure are applied. Little in-
organic fertilizer is used. High yielding varieties are not widely planted
due to poor water control and higher risks of damage through diseases and
pests. In the rabi, irrigated paddy is transplanted in January/February and
receives varying amounts of fertilizer.
33



ANNEX I
Page 6
20.       Other Crops.  Pulse crops are usually grown on residual soil mois-
ture after the kharif paddy crop. Groundnuts are mostly grown in upland areas
during kharif or on residual moisture in previously flooded low land or with
irrigation during the rabi season. Wheat is mostly grown under irrigated
conditions.
Agricultural Supporting Services
21.       Agricultural Extension and Training.  The extension system is reor-
ganized on a statewide basis under the Orissa Agricultural Development Project.
The reorganization involves:
(a) placing the entire extension staff under the direct
command of the Directorate of Agriculture and Food
Production (DAFP);
(b) increasing the numbers of professional supervisors and
Subject Matter Specialists;
(c) a method of field and village visits which would ensure
regular coverage of most farms;
(d)  effective and continuously applied in-service training; and
(e) strengthening of Village Level Worker (VLW) pre-service
training to ensure a continuing supply of well-trained
workers.
22.       The VLWs work only on extension, each covering 400 to 800 farmers.
They visit groups of 50 to 100 farmers on a regular basis every two weeks.
The link between extension and research is also strengthened.
23.       Agricultural Research.  Agricultural research is carried out by
OUAT and, for rice, by the Central Rice Research Institute (CRRI) of the
Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) at Cuttack. Some adaptive
research is also carried out by DAFP. Both the CRRI and OUAT have produced
several high yielding varieties of rice, such as Hema, Kumar and Rajeswari,
which are suitable for the red laterite soils of Orissa, and Iarijata and
Suphala, which are adaptive to low land conditions and are resistant to major
pests and oilseeds. In addition, OUAT has also done work on economic eva-
luation of cropping systems, pest and disease control, soil fertility and
rainfed agriculture.
24.       Despite the accomplishments outlined above, much more effectively
applied and adaptive research is needed to overcome the constraints to crop
production in Orissa. Such research programs are being carried out by the
OUAT and DAFP under the Orissa Agricultural Development Project.
25.       Farm Power.  Most Orissa farmers are wholly dependent on human
labor and animal power. About 3.4 M cultivators, 1.9 M agricultural laborers
and an estimated 2.6 M animals work on the land.  Nevertheless, there are
34



ANNEX 1
Page 7
serious shortages of animal power for early cultivation, and of labor, par-
ticularly for transplanting and weeding, despite pervasive landlessness, un-
employment and poverty. A major constraint to production is the failure to
prepare and sow the land in time. Before the first rains have softened it,
the soil generally is too hard to cultivate and then, at a time when the bul-
locks are in poor condition following the dry season, peak demand results in
a shortage of draft power and consequent late planting, inadequate prepara-
tion and poor cultivation. The local country plow is also very inefficient,
requiring many more animal hours than improved plows to achieve less. Mecha-
nization is at an early stage in Orissa, with only about 1,800 tractors and
450 power tillers in use, and it will spread slowly because of the many small
fragmented farms. Animal power must therefore be used better to improve culti-
vation.
26.       The DAFP and CRRI have carried out valuable work on improved animal-
drawn implements, a number of which, particularly the mould-board plow, are
ready for production and distribution on a commercial scale.
27.       Input Supply.  Orissa's present fertilizer use is low (average 9
kg/ha compared with the all-Indian average 14.8 kg/ha), partly because exten-
sion is not organized to encourage it and because the distribution system is
not well-developed. Fertilizer supply is not an immediate constraint since
the production plants in Orissa have capacity to produce more than local
demands for some years. However, neither the cooperatives (which handle
the imported fertilizers) and the private retailers are well equipped for the
distribution of fertilizers, either in terms of technical knowledge and train-
ing or the storage, transport and working capital required. In addition,
GOI-controlled distribution margins also create a further disincentive to the
expansion of fertilizer uptake, especially in remote areas.
28.       Neither cooperatives nor private traders supply seeds, pesticides
or implements on any scale. The DAFP has been primarily responsible for the
production of seeds (from departmental farms) as well as for the distribution
of improved seeds, the processing facilities for which are rudimentary. Seeds
are usually sold uncertified; seed certification for cereals having only been
introduced in the rabi season of 1974/75 on a pilot basis.
29.       Marketing and Storage.  About 12% of paddy production was marketed
in 1974/75. In the case of pulses, the marketable surplus varies from 40% to
50% and oilseeds from 50% to 70%. There are about 1,400 primary or village
markets in the State, which means that producers, except in the less populated
parts, normally have direct access to a weekly market. About 37 regulated
markets with storage space, grading facilities, auction halls, shops for
commission agents and traders and other amenities for market users are in
operation in the State. Fees and market practices are standardized and sales
are by open auction. The GOI has recently sponsored new efforts to hasten
the development of regulated markets in the command areas of irrigation pro-
jects, in important producing areas for commercial crops and in economically
backward areas.
35



ANNEX 1
Page 8
30.       The Cooperatives have played a small part in the marketing of food
crops due to their limited storage facilities. The private traders, with
adequate storage facilities for their needs, are relatively active in mar-
keting food crops, especially in the coastal districts. In many areas with
inadequate communication facilities, especially in the hilly tracts, the
local traders, due to the absence of competition, tend to pay a price lower
than that offered in the coastal areas. Formal grading of rice is undertaken
only for purchases under the official fixed price programs. Maize, for which
some attempts for procurement have been made, has not been graded but standards
for moisture content and admixture have been fixed.
31.       The GOO also has practiced a limited procurement of paddy and rice
in order to stabilize prices and to ensure the required minimum food needs of
the population in times of shortage. Theoretically, the GOO has a monopoly
for the wholesale trade of rice. Licensed millers are required to buy paddy
at official fixed prices and deliver the corresponding quantities of rice to
the Government's storage or distribution agents (monopoly procurement). In
1974/75, the Government introduced the miller's levy system, where millers are
required to deliver 75% of the rice milled from the paddy they buy rather than
100%. In practice, it is difficult to enforce the procurement regulations,
especially in the case of small millers and shellers. Typically, the GOO would
procure only about 5-6% of the production. The effect of these systems is to
discourage the more efficient processors (modern rice mills) and encourage the
less efficient processors (small millers and shellers). The GOO also intro-
duced, for 1975/76 kharif season, a levy on paddy producers with more than four
irrigated acres or eight unirrigated acres of paddy. The levy rises progres-
sively from one to three quintals per acre depending on the size and type of
land. This system has not worked well due to bad land records.
32.       In addition to procurement on paddy and rice, the GOO also restricted
the unlicensed movement of paddy and rice either out of the State or out of the
surplus producing areas within the State. The effect of this is to reduce the
open market price of paddy below what it otherwise would be in the surplus
areas.
33.       There are about 2,985 registered rice mills in the State, of which
the majority are small milling units. In addition, the number of unregistered
small hullers is estimated to be on the order of 3,500-5,000, which handle a
significant share of traded paddy and rice. The large millers normally operate
at only one-third of their full capacity, partly due to the procurement levy
mentioned above.
III. IRRIGATION IN ORISSA
Water Resources
34.       The water resources of the State of Orissa are, for the most part,
underdeveloped.  Even in areas which have fully developed irrigation systems,
36



ANNEX 1
Page 9
water losses (seepage and operational) and waste (inefficiency of use) gener-
ally account for some 70% of the irrigation supply. Better water control and
water management practices would significantly improve the use of the pre-
sently developed water resources.
35.       Rainfall, of course, is the principal source of water for irriga-
tion but the foremost constraint to its use is its unreliability (para 3).
In spite of fairly good average annual rainfall, the State suffers from
drought and flood every year in some part or other, since the rainfall is
erratic and ill-distributed. Continuous spells without rains give rise to
drought conditions, and unusual heavy down-pours within a very short time
create heavy floods and damage crops in nearly every year.
36.       The State is well covered with a network of rivers, streams and
drainage ways which annually discharge about 100,000 Mm into the Bay of
Bengal. In addition to the surface water resources, the State has consider-
able groundwater potential, particularly in the delta area with an annual
flow estimated at some 30,000 Mm . Development of the large plains or delta
areas has already been taken up, utilizing the flows of the larger streams or
rivers. Many small village tanks have been constructed throughout the State
for local rainwater storage during the monsoon season. The tanks provide a
means of utilizing the small, intermittent local water resources that would
otherwise be lost to beneficial use. However, development of the medium and
minor irrigation potential of the State is just in its beginning stages and
the many smaller streams offer excellent opportunities for such development.
Irrigation Potential and Utilization
37.       The potential for utilization of these resources is limited by a
number of factors: (i) more than 80% of the surface flow occurs during the
June-September period when the need for irrigation water is the lowest; (ii)
the topography usually makes it difficult to construct major dams for storage
of water for the rabi season; (ii) the upper riparian states are likely to
substantially increase their water use; and (iv) about 80% of the groundwater
occurs in the Coastal Plain (para 3.04) which already has extensive canal
systems. Taking these constraints into account, it is estimated that the
irrigation potential and the present utilization of the water resources are
as follows:
Irrigation (in M ha)
Actual 73/74            Potential             Utilization
Kharif  Rabi  Total   Kharif  Rabi  Total        % of potential
Major Flow        0.57   0.30   0.87)
)   2.25   0.90   3.15            31
Medium Flow        0.08   0.02   0.10)
Minor Flow         0.59   0.04   0.63    1.00   0.25   1.25             50
Lift and well     0.03   0.02   0.05    1.80   1.20   3.00               2
1.27   0.38   1.65    5.05   2.35   7.40             22
37



ANNEX 1
Page 10
38.       Major Irrigation Projects (over 12,000 ha).  Construction of major
schemes started towards the end of the nineteenth century, when irrigation
canals covering about 150,00 ha were built in the Mahanadi and Rushikulya
Deltas. During the first half of the twentieth century, the canal irrigated
area remained virtually unchanged. However, since Independence GOO has com-
pleted two major schemes and substantially extended the Mahanadi Delta system.
The area commanded by existing projects is about 0.57 M ha. Presently, two
major multipurpose schemes and one major irrigation project are under con-
struction. When these projects are completed in the mid-1980s, the area
commanded by major projects will have increased to about 1.0 M ha.
39.       Medium Irrigation Project (2,000 - 12,000 ha).  Orissa's irrigation
development has been concentrated in the relatively more prosperous delta
areas, utilizing the flow of large rivers. This has resulted in uneven dis-
tribution of irrigation benefits and regionally unbalanced growth. Around
1960, GOO realized this problem and started construction on a number of medium
irrigation projects (MIPS) in order to spread irrigation development more
evenly throughout the State. However, the commitment to these projects was
low and many MIPs were under construction for 10-15 years. At the start of
the Fifth Five Year Plan, the emphasis changed from major to medium plans, and
now about 60% of the investment budget for irrigation projects is allocated to
MIPs.
40.       Minor Flow Irrigation_Projects (less than 2,000 ha).  For centuries,
the Orissa farmers have used bucket-lift and other traditional methods for
irrigation. They have also constructed tanks for storage of local runoff dur-
ing the monsoon. Typically, these projects only provide supplementary irriga-
tion during the kharif season and the area irrigated varies substantially
from year to year. Because of the low reliability of the irrigation supply
from these projects, they are given lower priority than major and medium
projects and the irrigated area has remained virtually unchanged since Inde-
pendence.
41.       Groundwater.  Orissa's groundwater potential remained largely
undeveloped until the mid-1960s. Since the Orissa Lift Irrigation Corpora-
tion was created in 1973, groundwater development has been accelerating with
IDA assistance through its line of credit to ARDC. Currently, there are
some 90,000 dug wells and 700 tubewells in operation. However, they irrigate
only about 50,000 ha.
August 1977
38



ANNEX 1
Table 1
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Yearly Rainfall, by district, 1901-50 and 1965 through 1974
(millimeters)
Ave.    Ave.
1965  1966  1967  1968  1969  1970  1971  1972  1973  1974  1965-74 1901-50
Balasore         1096  1039  1246  1508  1512  1697  2133  1140  1569  1127    1407    1568
Balangir          789  1103  1316  1087  1272  1666  1645  1236  1030   686    1183    1443
Cuttack          1270  1259  1405  1576  1331  1769  1859  1146  1380  1011    1401    1510
Dhenkanai         662  1094  1122   993  1323  1534  1853  1238  1313   818    1195    1421
Ganjam            842   775   780  1501  1306  1377  1412  1239  1001   998    1123    1296
Kalahandi         669  1265  1887  1013  1456  1830  1734  1258  1228   740    1308    1378
Keonjhar         1395  1269  1449  1371  1268  1663  2010  1030  1450  1138    1404    1534
Koraput           923  1423  1366  1276  1182  2119  1895  1339  1266  1010    1380    1522
Mayurbhanj       1386  1165  1345  1388  1238  1508  1842  1367  2010  1277    1453    1648
Phulbani         1101  1145  1121  1199  1361  1684  1646  1126  1290   813    1249    1597
Puri              952  1247  1291  1616  1345  1567  1669  1140  1306   989    1312    1449
Sambalpur         940   865  1616  1206  1169  1588  1757  1039  1366   828    1237    1528
Sundargarh        936  1103  1301  1114  1173  1499  1831   995  1375   932    1226    1648
Orissa Average   997  1135  1327  1296  1303  1654  1791  1176  1352   951    1298    1503
39



ANNEX 1
Table 2
IND IA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Population by Districts in Orissa (1971)
Density     Scheduled   Scheduled    Percentage
Name of District   Population   per sq km   Cast (SC)   Tribe (ST)   of SC and ST
1. Balasore          1,830,504       286         338,802     129,192          25.6
2. Balangir          1,263,657       142         208,430     249,131          36.2
3. Cuttack           3,827,678       341         691,180     110,746          20.9
4. Dhenkanal         1,293,914       120         216,887     166,999          29.7
5. Ganjam            2,293,808       183         365,284     228,945          25.9
6. Kalahandi         1,163,869        98         199,151     340,541          46.4
7. Keonjhar            955,514       116         107,784     448,675          58.2
8. Koraput           2,043,281        76         274,115   1,151,231          69.8
9. Mayurbhanj        1,434,200       138         103,713     839,835          65.8
10. Phulbani            621,675        56         117,987      250,605         59.3
11. Puri              2,340,859       230         316,831       86,591         17.2
12. Sambalpur         1,844,898       105         287,998      519,016         43.7
13. Sundargarh        1,030,758       107          82,692      550,401         61.4
Total State   21,944,615        141      3,310,854   5,071,908          38.2
Source: (i) Census of India, 1971 (Orissa) General Population Table.
(ii) Statistical outline of Orissa, 1972.
40



ANNEX 1
Table 3
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Land Distribution and Tenancy
Size of Holding           Number of Holdings             Area of Holdings
(ha)                 ('000)            %           ('000 ha)       %
below 0.5                 732             22            217           3
0.5 - 1.0                744              22            553           9
1.0 - 2.0              1,121              33          1,714          27
2.0 - 5.0                577              17          1,911          30
5.0 - 10.0               185               5          1,246          19
10.0 - 20.0                 41              1            533           8
20.0 and above               8              -            274           4
Total                3,408             100          6,448         100
Source: Report on Agricultural Census of Orissa 1970-71.
41



ANNEX 1
Table 4
Page 1
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Medium Irrigation Projects
A. Existing and Continuing Projects
Ultimate
Kharif
Year of        Scheduled         Irrigated
Map      Commence-        Year of             Area
Project                       No.        ment          Completion         ('000 ha)
Major Projects (over 12,000 ha)
Hirakud                               1          49-50          Completed            164
Rushikulya                            2        pre indep.       Completed           140
Mahanadi Delta                        9          58-59*           78-79             408
Salandi                              10          61-62            75-76              46
Jaipur Canal (Anandapur)              8          72-73            78-79             111
Salki                                 5          57-58            75-76               20
Medium Projects
Haladia                               3                                             n.a.
Baldia                                4                                             n.a.
Derj ang                             11          59-60            75-76             6.5
Salia                                18          58-59            76-77             8.1
Budhabudhiani                         6          57-58            74-75              3.0
Ghodahado                            12          61-62            75-76              7.3
Dhanei                               13          56-57            75-76              3.9
Pitamehal                            15          69-70            76-77              3.2
Bahuda-I                             14          62-63            76-77             8.5
Uttei                                16          70-71            76-77             8.9
Baghua-Stage I                       17          70-71            76-77              3.2
Dahuka                               19          72-73            77-78              4.7
Hiradharbati                          7          51-52            73-74              5.1
Sundar                               23          72-73            78-79              2.8
Saipala                              24          73-74            78-79              2.1
Kalo                                 21          72-73            78-79              3.6
Dadaraghati                          20          73-74            79-80              2.6
Ramiala                              25          73-74            79-80              7.9
Khadkhai                             22          73-74            79-80              5.9
Remal                                27          74-75            79-80              4.1
Sunei                                28          74-75            81-82              6.5
Daha                                 30          74-75            79-80              4.0
Nessa                                31          74-75            79-80              0.6
Dumerbahal                           32          74-75            79-80              2.1
Pilasalki                            33          74-75            79-80              1.8
Ramanadi-Stage I                     29          74-75            79-80              1.0
Aunli                                26          75-76            78-79              1.2
Gohira                               34          75-76            80-81              6.1
* The first part of the Mahanadi Delta system was built in the middle of the 19th   42
century.



ANNEX 1
Table 4
INDIA                                 Page 2
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Medium Irrigation Projects
B. Potential Medium Projects Under Investigation
Cultivable Command Area
Name of ProJect                Map No.                        ('000 ha)
Upper Suktel                      35                            1.4
Lower Lant                       41.                            6.8
Gandanjar                         36                            0.8
Titilagarh                        37                            3.2
Jatuk                             38                            3.6
Sankhanai                        40                             2.2
Manojhar                         42                             8.9
Mahendratanaya                    46                            9.1
Padma                            43                             5.4
Loharakhandi                     44                             3.9
Harabhangi                       45                             3.9
Telengir                         47                             n.a
Sagada                           48                             n.a
Sandul                           49                             4.8
Budhi                            50                             0.8
Khuntakata                       51                             1.4
Bhalujodi                        52                             8.1
Gumadi                           53                             3.6
Hada                             54                             1.2
Kuaria                           55                             3.9
Kusumi (Sambalpur)               56                             2.7
Ahedajore                        57                             4.1
Talasara                         58                             1.5
Sarapgarh                        59                             2.0
Kansabahal                       60                             5.0
Barasuan                         61                             3.1
Indra Diversion Weir             62                            n.a
Jharbandha                       63                            n.a
Chinoli                          64                            n.a



ANNEX 2
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
MEDIUM IRRIGATION PROJECTS
Table of Contents
Page No.
Is   BACKGROUND  I........................... 
II.   THE LINE OF CREDIT CONCEPT ...o .............   1
General ...............................                  1
Elements in the LOC Approach        .......................   2
Objectives for the LOC Approach .........ss...........   2
Investment Budget .................................   3
III.   DEFICIENCIES IN EXISTING MEDIUM
IRRIGATION PROJECTS ....................o....e.....   4
IV.   CRITERIA FOR MEDIUM IRRIGATION PROJECTS ............   5
General ........................* ....................   5
Soil Survey ........ooo    .........   ...............   5
Agro-economic Survey .......................  *****..   5
Hydrological Studies    ................ ..... . . . . .. .   6
Water Requirements and Reservoir Operation Studies .   7
Design Criteria  s      ...................................   8
Construction Methods . .... o..... .......... . ..  * . . . .. . . .   8
Cost Estimates ....... ....................................  9
Economic Criteria        ..................................   9
V.   DESCRIPTION OF A MEDIUM IRRIGATION
PROJECT (Ramiala) ...............................  10
VI.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ........................  12
Orissa Irrigation and Power Department (I&PD) ......  12
The Appraisal Committee of
the Central Water Commission-..........o..........  13
VII.   IMPLEMENTATION OF THE LINE OF CREDIT .......... .....  14
General .................   ......        00......................   14
Project Identification ..........-.......... o...se..   14
Project Preparation .. .............................  14
Project Submission to CWC .........................  14
Appraisal ..oo..............                            15
Project Approval ..      .......................   15
Project Implementation   .........................  15            44



ANNEX 2
Table of Contents (con't)           - 2 -
Page No.
Operation and Maintenance (O&M)        ....................  16
Progress Review .. . ... .... ..... ....*... 0-. ... ...  16
Disbursements ....................18
VIII.   AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT .. ... ......................  18
General  ....ooo.*ooooo.o..* ...o.........o...o........o  18
Yields  -ooo .... o..000.0.0*0...0.00.00000........ ....  19
Cropping Patterns *.... *ooo.........*................    19
Input Requirements and Crop Budgets o ........... 0...0   19
Farm Budgets o.o....ooo..............    o....................  20
Farmer's Ability to Pay Water Charges ..............  22
Cost Recovery .-.-... 0..... ..... . ... .0 ..... .....  24
IX.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .... o ............. ......... ........  26
E-onomic Rates of Return .................... 00 .......  26
Project Risk  ooo .................. 00..*...00.0.0......   26
APPENDICES
1.   Project Summary
2.   Annual Implementation Program
3.   Progress Review Summary:  Preparation
4.   Progress Review Summary:  Implementation
5.   Progress Review Summary:  Operation
45



ANNEX 2
Page 1
MEDIUM IRRIGATION PROJECTS
I. BACKGROUND
1.        Medium irrigation projects (MIPs) encompass cultivable command
areas of from 2,000 to 12,000 ha. Each MIP is generally composed of a storage
or diversion dam, a conveyance, and a drainage network. Typically, the dam
accounts for about two-thirds of the total project costs, the distribution
and drainage networks for about one-third.
2.        Because of the significant economics of scale in irrigation, the
average cost per cultivable command area is substantially higher for MIPs
(about Rs 11,000 per ha ranging from Rs 10,000 to Rs 14,000) than for major
projects (about Rs 8,000). However, MIPs have a shorter gestation period and
provide a faster realization of irrigation benefits. Furthermore, while major
irrigation projects are located in the valleys of the few large rivers, the
MIPs would be constructed along the numerous smaller rivers throughout the
State. Consequently, they provide an opportunity to spread the direct and
indirect benefits more evenly and to achieve a broader development impact.
Since the GOO's present development policy gives emphasis to the improvement
of standard of living of population in backward and drought prone areas, the
MIPs have high priority in Orissa's irrigation development.
3.        The GOO intends to invest some Rs 1.1 billion over the next five
years for construction of MIPs. In order to have any significant impact on
the development of medium irrigation in Orissa, the proposed project would
finance a substantial part of the State's investment program. In view of a
large number of MIPs, individual appraisal and supervision of IDA would not
be practical. Instead, the Central Water Commission (CWC) of GOI would
appraise and monitor the progress of individual MIPs in accordance with
criteria and procedures agreed with IDA and under the general supervision
of IDA. Thus, a line of credit (LOC) would be adopted.
II. THE LINE OF CREDIT CONCEPT
General
4.        Under the line of credit (LOC) approach, the main responsibilities
for appraisal and progress review of the individual MIPs would rest with the
CWC. The focus of IDA's involvement in the LOC would be on the overall
objectives for the medium and minor irrigation sector, on the improvement of
planning and design criteria applicable to all projects and on the monitoring
of CWC's appraisal and review function.
46



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Elements in the LOC Approach
5.        The LOC approach contains the following elements:
(a) An assessment of the agricultural and irrigation potential
in Orissa (Annex 1);
(b) A review of the effectiveness of existing projects as
well as plans and designs for projects under prepara-
tion (paras 10-16);
(c) Development of guidelines and criteria for the prepara-
tion, design, construction and evaluation of the sub-
projects (paras 17-25);
(d) A review of GOO's institutional capability to plan and
implement the MIPs (paras 28-29);
(e) Establishment of an Appraisal Committee (AC) within
the CWC for progress review and appraisal of the
individual subprojects (paras 30-32); and
(f) Establishment of procedures for approval and progress
review of subprojects and for disbursements (paras 33-56).
Objectives for the LOC Approach
6.        The line of credit approach for medium and minor irrigation in
Orissa would achieve the following objectives:
Institutional: (i)  Strengthening appraisal capability within
CWC, which is the central technical auth-
ority for approval of irrigation projects
in India.
(ii) Strengthening coordination between various
departments in Orissa to ensure that multi-
sectoral considerations are taken into
account in the planning, implementation
and operation of medium and minor irrigation
proj ects.
Technical:      (i)  Establishing a better data base for the plan-
ning and design of MIPs.
(ii) Establishing technical criteria leading to a
more efficient use of water in MIPs.
4?



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Economic:       (i)  Enabling a geographically wider distribution
of the direct and indirect benefits from irri-
gation and thus promoting a more even economic
growth in the State; and
(ii)  Establishing economic criteria for MIPs to
ensure that only economically viable sub-
projects are approved.
Investment Budget
7.        Expenditures on major and medium irrigation projects in Orissa
have increased rapidly since the beginning of the Fifth Five-Year Plan
(1974/75 to 1978/79). In the effort to spread irrigation benefits more
evenly throughout the State, GOO has given high priority to the construction
of medium irrigation projects which would benefit the more backward areas of
the State. This has resulted in about 60% of the irrigation investment budget
allocated to medium projects and 40% to major projects.
8.        The proposed IDA credit would finance GOO's investment program for
MIPs over the next five years.  A review of the MIPs now under construction
and potential MIPs indicates that one-third of the MIPs now under construction
would be modified to meet established technical and economic criteria, and
between 8 to 10 new MIPs would be included under the IDA credit. Past and
projected future investments in both major and medium irrigation projects are
as follows:
Actual                   Projected                 Total
74/75 75/76 76/77  77/78 78/79 79/80 80/81 81/82  77/78-81/82
-----------------------(US$ Million)------------------------
Major                3.4   5.0   9.2   12.2  13.8   n.a.  n.a.  n.a.         n.a.
Medium
On-going, likely
not to be mod-
ified to IDA
standards          5.1   8.6  11.1    6.9   7.1   2.8   3.2   3.0          23.0
On-going, likely
to be modified
to IDA stand-
ards               0.3   1.7   2.9    4.1   9.2  10.4  10.3   9.5          43.5
New IDA financed
Projects            -     -     -      0.8   3.2  17.2  20.1  17.9         59.2
Sub-total
IDA financed     -      -     -      4.9  12.4  27.6  30.4  27.4        102.7
Total Medium       5.3  10.3  14.0   11.8  19.5  30.4  33.6  30.4         125.7
Investigations    0.3   0.6   1.2    1.4   0.9  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.           n.a.
Total              9.1  15.9  24.4   25.4  34.2  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.          n.a.
48



ANNEX 2
Page 4
9.        The proposed credit would finance about three-quarters of GOO's
investment program for MIPs over the next five years.
III. DEFICIENCIES IN EXISTING MEDIUM IRRIGATION PROJECTS
10.       Although the cost of irrigation is substantially higher in MIPs
than in major projects, lower standards are at present followed in project
planning, in the design and construction of the distribution network and in
operation and maintenance procedures, resulting in considerable waste of water
and a rapid deterioration of the canal system. The IDA's review of existing
and planned MIPs has identified a number of deficiencies in present prac-
tices, which are discussed briefly below.
11.       One of the principal factors contributing to poorly functioning
projects is the unreliability of the data base used in the planning process.
In Orissa, investigation costs for MIPs are presently limited to 1% of the
total estimated project cost, while the provision for major projects ranges
between 1% and 3%. The result of this low budget allocation for project
preparation is that only the most rudimentary data collection is done. The
hydrological data base is typically poor which results in an over or under
design of the dam and the command area in relation to the water de facto
available. An allocation of 3% to 5% would be required for MIPs.
12.       No soil survey or agricultural surveys have been carried out and
this has resulted in the adoption of design cropping patterns that either
are unlikely to be adopted by the farmers or would lead to uneconomic use
of irrigation water. This problem is enhanced by the fact that the design
of MIPs is a pure engineering exercise with only nominal input from exper-
ienced agriculturalists.
13.       Water losses in conveyance and on the fields are underestimated
leading to a much smaller irrigated area than what was originally planned.
14.       Irrigation water is supplied through outlets designed to serve
40 ha blocks. The farmers are expected to construct field channels and
drains within these blocks. However, no effective organization exists to
help them with the design and implementation of these works, which has meant
that virtually no field channels have been constructed. This leads to water
shortages in some parts of the blocks and water logging in other parts.
15.       Except around structures, canal banks are not compacted, which,
combined with poor maintenance, has led to a rapid deterioration of the
conveyance system and high operational and seepage losses.
16.       Water allocation decisions are undertaken by the local revenue
officer and not by the irrigation staff responsible for operation and main-
tenance of the system. This frequently results in unsystematic and uneconom-
ical water delivery schedules.
49



ANNEX 2
Page 5
IV. CRITERIA FOR MEDIUM IRRIGATION PROJECTS
General
17.       Based on a review of existing MIPs in Orissa and of present design
standards (paras 10-16), a number of specific criteria for the planning, de-
sign and construction of MIPs to be financed under the LOC have been devel-
oped. It would be the responsibility of the CWC to ensure that these criteria
are met for all the subprojects approved under the LOC.
Soil Survey
18.       A soil survey and land classification map derived therefrom should
be carried out prior to the implementation of the project 1/ in order to
establish the extent and level of suitability of the proposed project lands
for sustained crop production under irrigation. The lands should be ranked
through consideration of the physical and chemical attributes, topography,
drainage and other relevant soil-related characteristics, and shall be des-
ignated by classes on the basis of the integrated effects of these charac-
teristics on attainable, profitable crop production. Two basic land classes
suitable for production of diversified upland crops, two classes for lowland
crops, one class to identify lands where crops can be grown but irrigation
development probably would not be profitable, and one class to identify the
non-arable lands would be established. These classes should be indicated
appropriately on maps along with subscripts denoting the kind and the inten-
sity of the production constraints that now have or would have a strong
influence on the yield and/ or on the cost of producing adaptable crops.
Agro-economic Survey
19.       In order to provide a basis for future agricultural, social and
economic development planning of an irrigated command area, an agro-economic
survey should be undertaken prior to the implementation of the project. 1/
Standard questionnaires should be developed jointly by the Directorate of
Agriculture and Food Production and the Planning Cell of the Irrigation and
Power Department. The survey should cover the following factors:
(a) Demographic and social characteristics (population,
average family size, labor force).
(b) Employment (farm, non-farm) and income;
(c) Land use, ownership and farm size distribution;
(d) Existing cropping pattern and yields (distinguish between
rainfed and irrigated agriculture);
1/   For ongoing projects these data can be collected concurrently with
project construction.
50



ANNEX 2
Page 6
(e) Agricultural production and disposal;
(f) Marketing channels and prices;
(g) Use of agricultural inputs for both rainfed and
irrigated conditions (fertilizer, draft power); and
(h) Agricultural supporting services (extension services,
storage facilities).
Hydrological Studies
20.         Basic hydrological data required for each medium and minor
irrigation project to be included in the LOC would be:
(a)  A minimum 20-year rainfall record in or near the catch-
ment area, with a ten year minimum record allowable for
projects where a reasonable correlation with long-term
records in adjacent basins is possible. Rainfall data
correlations should be adjusted for altitude differen-
tials, where the correlated record is used to compute
catchment runoff.
(b) A stream gauging network on major tributaries and/or
at the dam site should be established. Streamflow
measurements should be made with recently rated
(within two years under normal use) current meters
in accordance with accepted practice. Stable river
invert sections should be established at each gauging
site, with the invert designed to accurately measure
low flows. Alternatively low flow measurements may be
made with carefully set weirs or other accurate flow
measurement devides.
(c) At least one year stream gauging record should be avail-
able. 2/ The recorded streamflow should be used to cor-
relate the actual streamflow at the site with runoff
computed using long-term rainfall records. Streamflow
should be reconstituted on a monthly basis for a 20-year
study period using a proven simulation program. Projects
submitted for approval in the second and third years, (or
longer) should have a 2 and 3 year stream gauging program
for correlation purposes, respectively.
1/   For ongoing projects these data can be collected concurrently with
project construction.
2/   For ongoing projects, the current meter measurements could be carried
out simultaneously with the construction of the dam or diversion weir.
51



ANNEX 2
Page 7
(d)  Sediment samples should be taken at each dam site for a
wide range of streamflows for use in estimating reservoir
sediment space requirements.
Water Requirements and Reservoir Operation Studies
21.       General planning criteria to be followed in determining water
requirements and for reservoir operation studies:
(a) Crop water requirements for rice and diversified
upland crops should be determined by Christiansen's
method, in accordance with the procedures laid
down in the publication "A Guide for Estimating
Irrigation Water Requirements" prepared by the
Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India.
Alternatively, the water requirements may be cal-
culated according to the Modified Penman method,
following FAO Irrigation and Drainage Paper No. 24.
For rice, land preparation requirements should in-
clude water for saturation, evaporation and per-
colation. During the cultivation period, water
requirements for percolation losses and a cultiva-
tion depth (normally 3 to 4 inches) should be pro-
vided. This also applies to paddy nurseries.
(b) Assumed canal conveyance efficiencies would not be
greater than 70% for irrigation systems flowing at
more than 80% of their capacity and 60% for systems
flowing at less than 80%. Field irrigation effi-
ciencies of not more than 90% for rice crops and
60% for diversified (upland) crops should be assumed in
accordance with local conditions. Where land is leveled,
higher efficiencies up to 70% may be used for upland
crops.
(c) The area to be commanded by the project in the kharif
season (or the active reservoir capacity) should be sized
to provide full irrigation requirements in 75 years out
of 100. A 10% under-irrigation in any single month can
be assumed with a slight reduction in yield. The area to
be cropped in the rabi season is dependent on storage
available at the end of kharif. For the economic evalua-
tion, the average rabi area would be established through
a 20-year reservoir operations study.
52



ANNEX 2
Page 8
Design Criteria
22.       The following minimum design standards should be met:
(a) The Irrigation and Power Department should construct --
and maintain -- watercourses and regulated turn-outs
serving areas no larger than 5 ha each. 1/
(b) Minor canal designs should be made on the basis of
warabundi (rotational) irrigation. The designs
should provide for peak carrying capacity as deter-
mined on the basis of crop water requirement com-
putations;
(c) Canals and watercourses should be designed and con-
structed to permit full irrigation deliveries to all
command areas when flows in the canals or minors are
less than 50% capacity. For this purpose, cross re-
gulators or check structures should be provided to
raise water levels in the watercourses, and turnouts
should be designed and constructed to permit gravity
releases to the whole area. Drop structures should
be provided for all watercourses and drains, at loca-
tions where flows otherwise would be excessive and
create erosion problems.
Construction Methods
23.       The construction of the projects should follow sound engineering
standards, in particular:
(a) The Government should ensure that the land clearing and
shaping on presently uncultivated land are done by the
concerned individuals/agencies prior to the delivery of water.
(b) Special care should be taken in construction of canals
and minor distributors to guard against leakage and
excessive erosion. In this regard, canal embankments
and earthfill around structures should be compacted.
Furthermore, where the canal invert is in fill, the
canal banks and the invert should be compacted. Mechan-
ical compaction equipment should be employed.
I/   This criterion is required since CAD has been excluded from the MMIPs.
CAD is a slow, time consuming process that requires heavy concentration
on institution building in its early stages. Since the numerous MMIPs
would be spread over the whole State, it is not feasible at this stage
to establish effective institutions covering all MIPs that can assist
the farmers in the design, implementation and financing of on-farm
works. Thus, in order to improve water distribution at the farm level,
the blocks canal system would be designed with farm turn-outs that
serve 5 ha instead of the normal 40 ha blocks.                           53



ANNEX 2
Page 9
(c) Construction of each project should be completed within
five years.
(d) The Government should ensure that the land clearing and
shaping on present uncultivated land are done by the
concerned individuals/agencies prior to the delivery of
water.
(e) An emergency spillway should be provided where favorable
topography exists to reduce spillway costs and/or reduce
the risk of dam failure from a flood greater than that
predicted using the data available.
Cost Estimates
24.       Cost estimates for project construction work should be based on
bid prices prevailing in the project area at the time of project submission.
A physical contingency factor of 20% of the construction cost should be
applied. The Government's costs for administration, project preparation,
design and construction supervision (normally about 20% of the construction
cost of works excluding cost of land and special tools and plants) should
be included in the estimate. The estimate also should include the cost of
land acquisition costs associated with resettlement of farmers displace
by the projects and costs of land clearing, shaping and levelling, if any,
for presently uncultivated land.
Economic Criteria
25.       The economic viability of the projects should be established through
a comparison of the discounted project benefits with the discounted project
costs. In order to ensure that consistent and realistic yield, input and
price assumptions are made and to simplify the calculations, the benefit
matrix, 1/ developed by IDA, should be used for the economic evaluation of
projects included under the LOC. The "Form for establishing the economic
viability of medium and minor irrigation projects" (Appendix 1, page 5)
should be filled out in the following manner:
(a) Benefits. The present and the anticipated cropping pattern
should be inserted on the appropriate lines of the form and
total benefits should be calculated through multiplications
with the benefit factors of each crop. Different sets of
benefit factors should be used for drought prone areas,
defined by the total average (20 years minimum records)
kharif rainfall (June to October).
(b) Costs. The basic project cost should be calculated in
accordance with procedures described in para 24. For the
economic analysis, land acquisition cost should be excluded
1/   Basic assumptions used in the derivation of the economic value per ha
of each crop ("benefit factors") are described in detail in Annex 5.
54



ANNEX 2
Page 10
The basic cost should be adjusted for the length of the
implementation period. For projects with an implementation
period of five years, no adjustment should be done, for
projects with a four and three-year implementation period,
the base cost would be reduced by 6% and 11%, respectively.
(c) Economic Viability. The buildup rates and discounting factors
of both benefits and costs are taken into account in the bene-
fit factors. Consequently, the total incremental project
benefit should be compared directly to the adjusted project
cost. If the benefit/cost (B/C) ratio is higher than 1.0, 1/
the AC would be authorized to approve the project.
V. DESCRIPTION OF A MEDIUM IRRIGATION PROJECT (Ramiala)
26.       The Ramiala Irrigation Project is one of the MIPs anticipated to be
included under the line of credit. Work on the project has been started since
1975/76 and the expenditure incurred up to the present amounts to 6% of the
total project cost. The project was appraised jointly by the IDA mission and
the technical staff of CWC.
27.       The project is located in the Dhenkanal District of Orissa State.
It envisages the construction of a dam across the Ramiala River along with a
distribution and drainage network. The project would benefit about 2,700
farm households mostly of the subsistence category which practice rainfed
farming. Farm size distribution in the command area is 50% less than 1 ha,
40% between 1 to 2 ha and only about 10% above 2 ha. Average per capita
income is about Rs 250 and far below the poverty level. Salient features of
this project are:
Hydrology
Catchment - 328 sq km
Mean Annual Rainfall: 118.3 Cm.
Reservoir
Full reservoir level (FRL) - 109.73 m
Maximum water level (MWL)  - 110.64 m
Dead Storage level (DSL)   - 101.95 m
Gross Storage at FRL        - 86 Mm  3
Dead Storage at DSL         - 16.6 Mm3
Live Storage                - 69.4 Mm
Top Level of Dam            - 113.69 m
Submerged Are of MWL        - 1,669 ha
1/   A 12% rate of opportunity cost of capital has been chosen for the calcu-
lation of the benefit factors. The established criteria implies that
projects with a rate of return higher than 13% can be approved by AC.
55



ANNEX 2
Page 11
Main Dam
Type: Rolled earth filled homogenous section
Total length of dam         - 475.00 m
Maximum height of dam from
deepest foundation level -  28.35 m
Spillway
Type:  Ogee type with radial crest gates 12.20 x 6.10 m
Size                        - 4 nos.
Length of Spillway          - 60.96 m
Spillway capacity
(design flood)            - 2,831 m /sec
Distribution System
Length of unlined
main canals               - 31.50 km
Unlined water courses with 5 ha block outlets.
Gross command area          - 12,455 ha
Cultivable Command Area    -  9,990 ha
Area irrigated during
kharif                    -  7,492 ha
Area irrigated during
rabi                      -  5,194 ha
Total annual irrigation    - 12,685 ha
56



ANNEX 2
Page 12
Cost Estimate                                 Cultivable
Rs '000      Rs/Command Area      % of Total
Land Acquisition
Dam (including
resettlement)            8,620
Main Canals                1,300
Distributaries             0,800              -                  -
Sub-total               10,720            1,070              10.0
Civil Works - Base Cost
Dam                       46,300            4,630              43.0
Main Canals               11,960            1,200              11.2
Distributaries             7,430              740               6.9
Water Courses              3,540              350               3.3
Drainage                   1,000               10               0.9
Sub-total               70,230            6,930              65.3
Physical Con-
tingencies (20%)        14,000            1,390              13.0
Total Civil Works /a   84,230             8,320              78.3
Administration, Engineering
and Supervision (15%)      12,630            1,250              11.7
Total Project Cost /b       107,580           10,640             100.0
of which
Dam                       72,430            7,160              67.3
Conveyance and Drain-
age System              35,150            3,480              32.7
/a   Foreign exchange component for these labor intensive works is
estimated at 25%.
/b   Foreign exchange component for the whole project is estimated at 20%.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Orissa Irrigation and Power Department (I&PD)
28.       The direct responsibility for planning, implementation, operation
and maintenance of the MIPs would rest with the I&PD of GOO. The I&PD is
headed by a Chief Engineer (CE) who works under the guidance of the Secretary
57



ANNEX 2
Page 13
of Irrigation and Power. Recent]y, in order to reduce the work load of CE,
certain functions were delegated to two Additional Chief Engineers (ACE):
one is responsible for construction and O&M of medium and minor irrigation
projects and the other for construction and O&M of the Mahanedi Delta
projects. However, the CE is ret:aining the responsibility for all planning
and design activities and for construction and O&M of major irrigation pro-
jects outside the Mahanedi Delta. At headquarters, he is supported by the
Directorate of Design and the Planning Cell.
29.       The I&PD is organized on a geographical basis with seven circles,
each headed by a superintending engineer (SE) (Chart 1). A circle consists
of 4 to 5 divisions, each headed by an Executive Engineer (EE). The divisions
are built up both along functional and geographical lines (Chart 2). Gen-
erally, 2 to 4 sub-divisions have responsibilities for investigations, minor
works and O&M of existing projects within their areas. Special construction
sub-divisions are set up for execution of larger works. For a typical 10,000
ha project, three sub-divisions are created; one for dam construction, one for
construction of the distribution and drainage networks and one for operation
and maintenance of the construction equipment. The sub-division is headed by
an Assistant Engineer (AE).
The Appraisal Committee of the Central Water Commission
30.       The Central Water Commission (CWC) of GOI is the highest technical
authority for water resources development in India. The Commission consists
of a Chairman and five members. It has a staff of more than 1,000 engineers.
A large part of the staff is on rotation from the States.
31.       The CWC is responsible for technical review of all major and medium
irrigation projects before they are submitted for approval by the Planning
Commission of GOI. In the case of medium irrigation projects, the review is
only proforma, while major irrigation projects are analyzed in detail. The
CWC usually is actively involved in the planning of large projects of high
national importance. Recently, CWC established a Central Monitoring Direc-
torate, which continuously follows the implementation of selected major
projects. The CWC is sometimes directly responsible for the planning and
implementation of federally sponsored schemes.
32.       The CWC would be responsible for the appraisal and progress review
of medium and minor irrigation projects to be financed under the proposed
line of credit. For this purpose, CWC has established an Appraisal Committee
(AC), headed by the Member, Planning & Preparation (P&P). The unit has a
competent engineering staff. Agriculturalists would be deputed from the
Department of Agriculture and economists from the irrigation wing of the
Planning Commission.
58



ANNEX 2
Page 14
VII. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE LINE OF CREDIT
General
33.       There would be a continuous interaction between AC and GOO during
the implementation of the line of credit. The implementation process is des-
cribed below for the main activities in the "project cycle".
Project Identification
34.       Potential MIPs are identified in GOO's Master Plan (1972) for irri-
gation development. The initial investigations for the projects are under-
taken by the various divisions which prepare a Preliminary Investigation Report.
This purely engineering report which gives an indication of the technical
feasibility of the project and outlines the requirements for detailed inves-
tigations, provides the basis for a decision about a full scale investigation
program. The investigation and preparation priorities of MIPs are established
by the Secretary for Irrigation & Power after consultation with concerned GOO
departments.
Project Preparation
35,       The detailed investigations are carried out by the division under
supervision of the EE. They form the basis for a draft Project Report, which
includes preliminary designs, cost estimates and a tentative implementation
plan. The draft is reviewed by the Planning Cell and the Directorate of
Design before finalization. For projects to be financed under the LOC, a
Project Preparation Committee at project level would be established. This
committee would include the EE, the Block Development Officers within the
project area and district officers from the Agriculture, Forestry, Revenue
and Cooperative Departments. At the State Level, an interdepartmental com-
mittee has been set up for the review of draft Project Reports.
36.       Designs for minor canals and structures are prepared by the divi-
sion. Designs for major structures and canals (capacity over 1 m /s) are
prepared by the Directorate of Design in Bhubaneswar.
37.       The progress of project preparation works would be reviewed every
six months by the AC to ensure the implementation of established criteria for
planning and preparation.
Project Submission to CWC
38.       After clearance with GOO's technical and administrative departments,
the MIPs would be included in GOO's annual development plan to be reviewed by
the Planning Commission of GOI. Subsequent to GOI approval of the plan, the
selected MIPs would be submitted for CWC for appraisal.
59



ANNEX 2
Page 15
Appraisal
39.       The AC would appraise each MIP on behalf of IDA.  The AC would visit
the project area, review the proposed project in detail and ascertain that the
project meet the established criteria (Chapter IV). The AC would also ensure
that the proposed cropping pattern is suitable for the command area, that all
designs are technically sound and that the implementation schedule is realis-
tic. The AC would revise the cost estimates in accordance with the estab-
lished criteria and prepare a Project Summary (Appendix 1), which would be
submitted to the Bank.
Project Approval
40.       The Member, P&P of CWC who heads the AC would be authorized to
approve projects costing less than Rs 70 M (or US$7.8 M excluding price con-
tingencies) if the benefit/cost ratio (B/C) is higher than 1.0. In all other
cases, MIPs would be submitted to IDA for approval.
41.       In order to establish appraisal quality of the AC, full documentation
of the first three projects (Project Report and Project Summary) would be sub-
mitted to IDA for approval regardless of the costs. Furthermore, the Project
Summary would be reviewed by IDA before disbursements are authorized for each
MIP. This would ensure that MIPs approved by AC would meet standards accep-
table to IDA.
Project Implementation
42.       The I&PD would be responsible for implementing all irrigation works
including construction of the dam and the distribution system down to 5 ha
outlet. Field works would be technically and administratively controlled by
the Divisional Executive Engineer. Typically, three sub-divisions, each
headed by an Assistant Engineer, would be set up for the construction of the
project. Since the civil works would be labor-intensive, relatively small,
restricted to seasonal construction and would not be practical to group into
large contracts, they are unsuitable for International Competitive Bidding
(ICB). The present practice of GOO for on-going medium products is to con-
tract most of the construction work for the dam, spillway structures and
distribution network, to local contractors after local competitive bidding
(LCB). The remaining portion is completed under small unit price contracts.
Due to the remoteness of many of the NMIP areas, in some cases responses
to bids are not received and the work is implemented under force account.
These procedures are acceptable to IDA.
43.       The progress of project implementation would be reviewed by AC three
times during each construction season.
60



ANNEX 2
Page 16
Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
44.       Water Allocation.  At the beginning of each irrigation season, an
overall water delivery plan would be established by a committee consisting of
the Taksildar (Revenue Officer), the Assistant or Sub-Assistant Engineer in
charge of the project, the Agricultural Extension Officer, the Cooperative
Extension Officer, the Block Development Officer and the Panchayat Sarpanch
(the Chairman of the local elected body at the block level). This Committee
would also coordinate all other activities pertaining to irrigated agriculture
such as cropping patterns, input distribution and credit facilities.
45.       Day-to-Day Operation.  The responsibility for the operation of the
MIP rests with the subdivisional Assistant Engineer. Under him, three to
five Junior or Sub-Assistant Engineers are each responsible for a section of
the canal system (about 5,000 ha) down to the farm turnouts. Each section
employs one or two patrols who assess the water delivery requirements and
supervises the five to ten kalassis. The kalassis operate sluices and outlets
and do routine maintenance within a commanded area of about 250 ha each. Under
the proposed LOC, water would be delivered, on a rotational basis, through
outlets serving no more than 5 ha each.
46.       Maintenance.  Most maintenance of the systems would take place
during the non-irrigation season (March to June).  In order to ensure effec-
tive O&M of the system and to reduce establishment changes, the I&PD has
recently started to employ small unit price contractors for the annual repair
and maintenance work.  The kalassis are responsible for the routine mainten-
ance during the irrigation season.  Under the proposed LOC, the I&PD would
investigate alternative methods for the maintenance work in order to establish
the most cost effective way of ensuring a proper maintenance of MIPs.
Progress Review
47.       General.  The system for progress review and the reporting require-
ments for the proposed LOC are designed to:
(i) ensure that the sub-project are designed, appraised
and implemented in accordance with the agreed criteria;
(ii) ensure that work for which disbursements are requested
actually has been carried out;
(iii) provide information ("feedback") to allow better proj-
ect preparation and appraisal in the future;
(iv) provide guidance for the AC staff of CWC in its
review activities;
(v) develop channels for mutual exchange of experience
between IDA, CWC and GOO staff;
61



ANNEX 2
Page 17
(vi) provide early warning signals to IDA if problems are
developing in the implementation of the LOC, and
48.       The Appraisal Committee (AC) of CWC.  Before the start of each fis-
cal year, the AC would meet with GOO officials to review the implementation
program for the following year. This review would cover both MIPs under
preparation and under implementation. Special attention would be given to
the budget allocation for each MIP in order to ensure that adequate funds are
available for implementation of the MIPs in accordance with the time schedule.
During the discussion, AC would raise general questions about the progress
during the previous year. After this review, AC would submit the Annual
Implementation Program to IDA (Appendix 2).
49.       Progress of MIPs under preparation would be reviewed by AC every six
months. Normally this review would involve a visit to the Divisional Office
where the project is prepared. However, at least during the first mission,
the AC staff would visit the project area and review the general suitability
of the dam site, the command area and the site for current meter measurements.
50.       Progress of MIPs under implementation would be reviewed three times
during each year. At least two of these reviews would be made during the
construction season. Completed projects would be reviewed once every year.
These review missions would always involve a visit to the project area.
51.       Subsequent to the review missions (generally within one month after
return of the mission) Progress Review Summaries would be submitted to IDA.
Outlines of Progress Review Summaries for projects under Preparation, Imple-
mentation and Operation are shown in Appendices 3, 4 and 5, respectively.
52.       Project Review by IDA Staff.  All reports would be submitted to the
Bank's New Delhi Office (NDO), where they would be reviewed by the agricul-
tural and engineering staff. The NDO would also participate -- in an advisory
capacity - in some of the appraisal and review missions. Furthermore, at
present there is a close working relationship between NDO and CWC. This
would ensure that NDO would be continuously informed about the progress of
the LOC.
53.       The thrust of IDA activities would include:
(i) review the quality of AC's appraisal and review work;
(ii)  spot check whether the agreed criteria have been
properly implemented;
(iii)  review procurement procedures;
(iv)  review the financial records kept by GOI and GOO;
(iv)  assess the appropriateness of established criteria.
62



ANNEX 2
Page 18
(v) review the content and frequency of the reports to
be submitted by CWC to IDA and propose revisions,
if required.
Disbursements
54.       From the GOO's point of view, the construction of MIPs is a con-
tinuous operation. Each year the program covers a number of projects at
different stages of preparation and implementation. Because of budget and
manpower constraints, it is neither feasible nor desirable to start a large
number of new projects in any single year. Thus, IDA would finance projects
that would be started over a two to three year period.
55.       A time slice approach, over a five-year period, is selected to fi-
nance MIPs under the proposed IDA credit. IDA would finance the MIPs now
under construction but could be modified to meet the technical and economic
criteria to completion. Finance of new MIPs that meet these criteria would
be constructed in year 2 and year 3 of the IDA credit and would be completed under
a repeater credit. This approach would give a neatly arranged and relatively
fast disbursement schedule.
56.       The MIPs would form a single disbursement category.  Only sub-
projects that meet technical and economic standards acceptable to IDA would
be eligible for disbursements. Disbursements would be made for 65% of
expenditures for civil works. Disbursements for force account work and for
payments of less than Rs 50,000 under civil works contracts would be made
against certificates of expenditures -- itemized by subproject -- from GOO.
Supporting documentation for these works would be retained by GOO and made
available for inspection during project supervision. Full documentation would
be required for other contract works. It is expected that disbursements would
be completed by March 1983.
VIII. AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
General
57.       Inherent in the line of credit approach is that the individual
subprojects are not fully identified at the time of IDA appraisal. However,
based on extensive field visits and analysis of available climatic as well
as agroeconomic data, it was concluded that:
(i)  the agricultural conditions in the areas where medium
and minor irrigation projects would be constructed,
are largely similar, and
(ii)  differences in non-irrigated yields in the areas are
largely due to the distribution of rainfall during
the kharif season.
63



ANNEX 2
Page 19
58.       The descriptions, projections and analyses below refer to the
"typical" situation in non-coastal areas where most MIPs would be located.
The discussion further assumes that the average kharif rainfall is above
1,100 mm. The variations in rainfall (Annex 5) mean that the benefits from
the LOC as a whole is slightly underestimated.
Yields
59.       The present yields have been derived from the State agriculture
statistics, agro-economic surveys and information gathered during field visits.
Under "future without project" conditions, improved cultivation practices re-
sulting from the implementation of the Orissa Agricultural Development Project
financed by the Bank Group would lead to some increase in yields. Under
"future with project" conditions, significant increase in yields would be
due to improved quality and reliability of the irrigation supply as well as
provision of drainage.  It has been shown in Orissa that with proper water
control and good cultivation practices, yield level of 4.5 tons/ha of paddy can
be achieved. Summary of present and projected yields are presented in Table
1.
Cropping Patterns                         C
60.       At present, about 80% of the cropped area in kharif is under rain-
fed paddy. Virtually no high yielding varieties (HYVs) are grown under rainfed
conditions. Rainfed sugarcane accounts for about 1% of the area. Upland crops
-- primarily maize, ragi, groundnuts and vegetables -- are grown on the re-
mainder of the area. The overall cropping intensity under rainfed conditions
is about 100%. After construction of MMIP, the cropping intensity would
increase significantly to about 140% due to water availability in the rabi
season and reliable water supply in the kharif. Furthermore, the reliability
of irrigation supply would cause a shift from the cultivation of local variety
to HYVs which generate higher yield. The shift in cropping patterns and the
assumed yield increases are illustrated for a "typical" 10,000 ha project in
Table 2. The production increase would amount to about 1.3 tons of foodgrain
per ha of CCA. The average investment cost for MIPs is about Rs 11,000 per
ha in 1977 prices. The proposed LOC would finance projects for a total cost
of Rs 924.3 M (US$102.7 M) in current prices or about Rs 729.9 M (US$81.1 M) in
constant 1977 prices. Thus, a total of about 66,000 ha would be developed
under the LOC. The total production increase due to the MIPs financed under
LOC would amount to about 87,000 tons of foodgrains.
Input Requirements and Crop Budgets
61.       Present and projected input requirements are given in Table 3.  The
estimated current levels of inputs are based on interviews with farmers from
some sub-project areas and on infonnation obtained from the District Agri-
culture Officers, the Directorate of Agriculture and Food Production (DAFP)
and from the agro-economic surveys in the irrigated areas of Puri and Sambalpur
Districts. Future requirements are based on the recommendations by the DAFP
and on observed cultural practices of the progressive farmers in the inland
areas of the State. For different tnputs, the estimates are:
64



ANNEX 2
Page 20
(a)  Land Preparation:  Much of the land preparation would be more
timely and efficient as a result of irrigation and the imple-
mentation of the Orissa Agricultural Development Project. No
substantial change in farming practices is assumed under pro-
ject conditions.
(b) Fertilizers: Very little chemical fertilizer is used at present
but manure is widely used. No fertilizer is used for local rain-
fed paddy, while a little is used for irrigated HYV Kharif and
Rabi paddy. Some improvement is assumed under "without project"
conditions as a result of the implementation of the Agriculture
Development Project. The "future with project" usage of fertil-
izer is based on interview with agricultural officers and pro-
gressive farmers in the irrigated areas of the Puri and Samabalpur
districts.
(c) Farm Power: The improved cultural practices as recommended
in the Agricultural Development Project would reduce labor and
animal requirements for land preparation. However, this would
be offset by the increased requirements for transplanting
(instead of present broadcasting), harvesting and threshing.
Bullocks are usually owned by the larger landholders and rented
by the smaller holders. It is estimated that the inputed cost
of a pair of bullocks to the owner is roughly equal to the daily
rental charge. This has consequently been uniformly applied
for all crops and farm sizes.
(d) Other Inputs: Seed rates are assumed to be constant for present
as well as future requirements. Interest on production credit
and depreciation on farm implements are included in the mis-
cellanous charges.
62.       Crop budgets based on financial prices are presented in Table 4.
The prices used in this analysis are discussed in Annex 5. Both family and
hired labor is priced at an average rate of Rs 5 per man day.
Farm Budgets
63.       Households in Orissa can be somewhat arbitrarily classified into
five groups according to their economic situation:
Landless Agricultural Laborers: Most of whom earn their living
as daily workers in the fields or in construction, make up about
about 30% of rural working population in the State.
Marginal Farmers cultivate less than 1.0 ha of land. Since even
with irrigation, the production would provide less than the sub-
sistence requirement of an average family (about 5.8 persons),
typically half of the household income would have to be supplied
from work outside the family farm. In the farm budget analysis,
a 0.5 ha farm has been chosen to represent those 30% of the house-
holds that operate less than 1.0 ha.                                   65



ANNEX 2
Page 21
Small Farmers cultivate an area of 1.0 to 2.0 ha, typically have a
a per capita income that is well below national average -- about 23%
of the households belong to this category -- which is represented in
the farm budget analysis by 1.5 ha.
Medium Farmers cultivate an area of 2.0 to 5.0 ha and they account
for about 12% of the households. This group is represented by a 3.0
ha farm.
Large Farmers own more than 5 ha and constitute about 4% of the
households in the State. Many of the large farmers have joint
holdings with various generations of a family as the owners. This
group is represented by the 5.0 ha farm, including the lowest es-
timate of the farm income.
64.       The following cropping intensities have been assumed in the farm
budget analysis:
Cropping Intensity (%)
Future             Future
Farm Size (ha)      Present    Without Project    With Project
0.5              100            100                150
1.5              100           100                140
3.0              100            100                135
5.0              100            100                132
In the preparation of farm budgets (Table 5), the following assumptions have
been made:
(a) Hired Labor: The number of family members varies with farm
size and the need for hired labor depends on availability of
family labor. However, most marginal and small farmers only
hire labor during the peak season, while large farmers depend
more on hired labor. Based on the agroeconomic survey in
Sambalpur District (non-coastal area), it is assumed that
about 10%, 40%, 60% and 70% of field labor requirements of a
0.5, 1.5, 3.0 and 5 ha farm, respectively, are supplied by
hired labor at present and in the "future without project
situation."   Under project condition, the hired labor pro-
portion is assumed to increase to 30%, 60%, 70% and 80%.
(b) Non-Farm Incomes: These have not been included in the analysis
due to lack of data. However, since the net farm incomes of
marginal and small farmers do not meet the subsistence require-
ment, non-farm incomes would constitute about one-third to one-
half of the total incomes. Their relative importance, however,
declines with larger farm sizes. Consequently, the farm budgets
underestimate the income levels of marginal and small farmers and
give a somewhat distorted picture of relative income differences.
66



ANNEX 2
Page 22
(c)  Land Revenues:  Land revenues in rural areas vary for different
types of lands (i.e., high land and low land). The weighted
average is estimated at Rs 20/ha. This has been included in
the farm budget analysis.
(d)  Irrigation Charges.  The prevailing water rates for irrigation
are presented in Table 6. The weighted charges are assumed for
future with project.
65.        For farms that would be provided with irrigation under the project,
the income levels would change as follows:
Relative Increase
Net-Farm Income (Rs)          due to Project (%)
W/a    W/b
Farm Model        P                Wi-    W2-          W2-W       W2-WI
Wi
0.5 ha          370      440     900   1,200         173          33
1.5 ha          710     820   2,000   2,660          224         33
3.0 ha        1,470   1,890   3,880   4,710          149          21
5.0 ha        2,350   3,200   6,720   9,060          183          35
/a   Under existing irrigation design and standard.
/b   Under improved irrigation design and standard.
66.       Net farm incomes would increase 180% on the average due to irrigation.
However, the increase of farm incomes under improved irrigation design and
better water management practices would be 25%-30% more than that under exist-
ing standard.
67.        Few data exist on non-farm incomes of the farmers.  However, since
small and marginal farmers are likely to supplement farm incomes with wage
earnings, the distribution of incomes would be less skewed than as presented.
At present, it is estimated that the average per capita income in the State
is Rs 900. Assuming the State per capita income would increase about 1.6%
annually (average of the growth rate for the last 13 years), at full develop-
ment (about mid-1980s) three quarters of the cultivators who would have bene-
fited from the MIPs would still have a per capita income which is less than
the State average.
Farmer's Ability to Pay Water Charges
68.       For estimation of the farmer's ability to pay water charges, it is
necessary to estimate the "project rent."  In simple terms, project rent can be
defined as the incremental net income when all factors of production, except
water and related services supplied by the project, are given the rewards that
are required for their cooperation. Project rent is equal to net incremental
income less the necessary rewards to family labor and management for their
additional labor and entrepreneurship.
67



ANNEX 2
Page 23
69.       The calculation is complicated by the uncertainty about the yields
and crop prices that the farmer can expect. Some studies of farmers' behavior
show that a simple approach can be adopted to take into account the risk factor
by estimating certainty equivalent value (CE) of the expected value (EV). 1/
If the yields have a normal distribution which is known, CE can be expressed
as a function of EV:
CE = EV - n x s
where     s  =  the standard deviation
n = a factor that expresses the farmer's risk
aversion
70.       Some empirical studies 1/ indicate that the farmer's choice of
cropping patterns and production techniques can be accurately predicted for
values of "n" in the interval of 1 to 2. The value of "n" decreases when
the farm size increases. For this analysis, it is assumed that n = 1.5 for
0.5 ha and 1.5 ha farms and n = 1.0 for 3.0 ha and 5.0 ha farms.
71.       Historic yields figures from the state show that both rainfed and
irrigated yields vary within 20% from their average values. With improved
design and management standard, yields would become more stable. Conse-
quently, it is assumed that yields after project implementation would vary
within 10% of the average value. The above assumptions would give values
of CE as follows:
Future Without   Future with Irrigation   Future with irrigation
Farm Size        Irrigation        (existing standard)        (improved standard)
0.5 ha)                                                 CE = EV - 1.5 x 0.1 x EV
)     CE = EV - 1.5 x 0.2 x EV = 0.70 x EV          = 0.85 x EV
1.5 ha)
3.0 ha)                                                 CE = EV - 1.0 x 0.1 x EV
)     CE = EV - 1.0 x 0.2 x EV = 0.80 x EV           = 0.9 x EV
5.0 ha)
72.       The next problem which arises in the calculation of project rent
is the value of family labor. Under "future without project" condition family
labor is evaluated at market wage rate. With irrigation, the overall labor
demand would increase significantly. Thus, family workers would require
a somewhat increased return for their labor in order to compensate for the
lost leisure. A 10% premium on present market wage rate is assumed for
family labor under future with irrigation condition.
73.       The reward for management and entrepreneurship can, in part, be
related to the capital employed in the production if this is not included
1/   Studies on farmer's risk behavior by the Development Research Center,
IBRD.
68



ANNEX 2
Page 24
in the crop production cost.  But it is primarily a premium for the special
skills that farm management require. Furthermore, many activities are not
included in the crop labor requirements such as applying for credit, listen-
ing to extension officers, hiring and directing daily laborers. Consequently,
it has been assumed that the "management fee" is equal to 10% of the net
returns.
74.       The project rent for each farm model is shown in Table 7.  The re-
sults indicate that because of low yields and inadequate irrigation, the proj-
ect rent would be very low (average about Rs 100 ha) for existing irrigation
technology. With improved design and operation of the irrigation system, the
project rent would be substantially higher (about Rs 900 per ha, on the aver-
age). The results of this and the farm budget analysis (paras 63-67) show:
(a) The low and questionable benefits the farmers gets from
irrigation projects designed and operated at their pre-
sent standard. The project rent calculation is based
on estimated average yields and input requirements, and
thus it is likely that some farmers do not benefit from
irrigation at all. 1/ This is obviously an important
reason for the low water charges in Orissa.
(b) The high potential benefits from improvements in the design
and operation of irrigation projects.
(c) The relatively low incomes of most farmers even after
improved irrigation has been provided. Due to the small
farm sizes in Orissa and the relatively low irrigated
yields that are projected for "with project" conditions,
about three quarters of the beneficiaries would still
have incomes below the State average (which is about 2/3s
of the national per capita income).
Cost Recovery
75.       The average cost of MIPs would be about Rs 11,000 per ha.  The
annual charge for full recovery of capital costs over 30 years at 10% would
amount to about Rs 1,250 ha per year.
76.       The prime vehicle for recovery of irrigation costs is the water
charge. The rates for the water charge depends on the crops grown and in
which season irrigation is received. The rates range from less than Rs 4
per ha to about Rs 125 per ha. For the typical cropping pattern under the
MIPs, the charge would amount to about Rs 35 per ha per year.
1/   The appraisal mission found examples of irrigated yields that were lower
than normal rainfed yields.
69



ANNEX 2
Page 25
77.       The land revenue assessment which depends on the soil type and
the location of the plot, averages about Rs 20 per ha. Large farmers owning
more than 10 ha of irrigated or 20 ha of unirrigated land are subject to a
graded producer's levy 1/. More important, however, is the sales tax on
agricultural goods. Paddy purchased by millers and wholesalers is taxed at
7%. Rice that has not been taxed as paddy is taxed at 3%; other foodgrains,
pulses and oilseeds are taxed at 3%. If it is assumed that all the incre-
mental production due to the MIPs would be marketed, the average tax would
amount to Rs 160 per ha.
78.       Despite various efforts to increase Government revenue, Orissa has
one of the lowest taxation rates in. India and the State's per capita tax
revenue ranks 17 among the 21 States. Consequently, increasing investments
in agriculture without a higher rate of cost recovery would severely strain
the State's budgetary resources.
79.       The average per capita income in Orissa ranks 16 among the States.
According to surveys in the mid-1960s, 2/ Orissa has on a larger portion of its
rural population below the poverty line than any other State in India. The
average income in rural areas is around Rs 700 per capita, which is about
three-fifths of the average per capita income for India.
80.       As noted in paragraph 74 above, the present benefits from irriga-
tion are low and uncertain which, combined with the generally low rural in-
comes, have been the major reasons for low water charges. Under improved
design standards and with better water management, farm incomes would in-
crease significantly. However, these benefits would not be realized until
the mid-1980s. Because of the significant difference in farm income and
project rent for farmers under existing irrigation standard and under the
standard that would be implemented through the LOC, there is a need to
monitor carefully the ability of farmers to pay water charges before a fea-
sible cost recovery plan can be drawn up.
81.       The GOO would review the question of water charges and implement,
after consultation with IDA, a system of water and water related charges to
ensure adequate recovery of 0 & M costs and as much as possible of capital
costs by December 1, 1979. In establishing the level of charges, due regard
would be given to incentives for and payment capacity of farmers.
1/   Sale of paddy at procurement price which is usually lower than the
market price.
2/   The rural per capita income itl Orissa has been virtually stagnant during
the last ten years.
70



ANNEX 2
Page 26
IX. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Economic Rates of Return (ERR)
82.       An average ERR is estimated for MIPs in Orissa's project pipeline
based on the weighted average investment cost of Rs 11,000 per ha and the
projected "typical" cropping pattern. In addition, the following assumptions
are made:
(a) A project life of 30 years;
(b) Prices of agricultural outputs, inputs and conversion
factors described in Annex 5;
(c) Input requirements discussed in Chapter V;
(d) A five year implementation period;
(e) Full development is reached five years after project
completion; and
(f) Build-up rates of costs and benefits as:
Year           1   2   3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10   11-30
Cost /a (%)   9  21  30   25   15    0    0    0    0        0      0
Benefits (%)  0   0   0    0    0   40   60   85   92   100    100
La   O&M costs are included in production cost.
The average ERR is estimated at 18%.
Prolect Risk
83.       The risk associated with the MIP component would partly stem from
the use of generalized benefit factors (para 406) that, besides rainfall,
would not always take into account local development constraints. However,
since a land classification map would be required for the planning of each MIP,
the soils would be reflected in the projected cropping pattern rather than in
the projected yields. The agro-economic conditions in the potential project
areas are broadly similar and it is estimated that the use of standardized
yield projections rather than project specific projects would have little
impact on the economic viability of the subprojects. At most the likely error
in the net benefits would be 20%, which for a marginal project (i.e., with a
benefit cost ratio of 1.1) would reduce the economic rate of return two per-
centage points from 13% to 11%. In view of the usual uncertainties that are
71



ANNEX 2
Page 27
inherent in projections of future benefits and costs, it is likely that the use
of subproject specific projections instead of standard projections, in practice,
would not influence the accept/reject decision. Furthermore, since the
benefit factors reflect "average" conditions in the potential project areas,
the overestimation of actual benefits for one MIP would be compensated by the
underestimation of benefits for another. Thus, the overall viability of the
MIP component would not be effected by the use of generalized benefit factors.
84.       Another risk element in the MIP component is associated with the
proposed appraisal and supervision procedures. The reporting requirements
and frequent IDA revtew of progress reports are designed to ensure a proper
appraisal and implementation of the MIPs. Furthermore, the AC of CWC has
already prepared satisfactory Project Summaries for two projects in Orissa's
pipeline. In view of the social importance of medium irrigation development
in the inland -- and more backward -- areas of Orissa the rather limited risk
associated with the proposed implementation procedures is acceptable.
August 1977
72



ANNEX 2
Table 1
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Present and Projected Yields
Future -1/
Present                               2/
9/        9~~/
Crop                      Rainfed  Irrigated 1   Rainfed  Irrigated 1-'Irrigated 2-'
Kharif
Paddy, local               1.10        1.60        1.30        1.90          2.30
Paddy, HYV                 1.40        1.80        1.70        2.20          2.80
Maize                      0.70        0.90        0.90        1.10          1.40
Ragi                       0.55        0.70        0.70        0.90          1.10
Pulses                     0.40        0.50        0.50        0.60          0.70
Oilseeds                   0.60        0.90        0.70        1.10          1,30
Vegetables                 4.00        5.00        5.00        6.00          7.00
Rabi
Paddy, HYV                  -          2.00         -          2.50          3.30
Wheat                       -          1.50         -          1.80          2.20
Pulses                      -          0.60         -          0.70          0.80
Oilseeds                    -          1.00         -          1.20          1.30
Vegetables                  -          6.00         -          7.00          8.00
Perennial
Sugarcane                 30.00       50.00       40.00       60.00         75.00
1/ Assume improved agricultural services.
2/  Irrigated 1:  Existing irrigation standard.
Irrigated 2: Improved irrigation standard.
73



Table 2
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Present and Projecred General Cropping Patterns
On 10000 ha of area to be irrigated
----------- Present--------------                     ----------- Future Without---------           -------------- Future with Project-----------------
Area        Yield         Production                  Area         Yield          Production            Area        (000 ha)                Yield(tons/ha)              Production
000 Ila      Ton/ha        000' tons                  000 ha        Tons/ha        000' tons          Irrigated    Non-irrigated       Irrigated  Non-irrigated           000 tons
Kharlf Season
Paddy (local)                                    8.0          1.1             8.80                      6.0           1.3            7.80              1.0             _                 2.3           -                   2.30
Paddy (IIyV)                                      -            -               -                        2.0           1.7            3.40              7.0.            -                 2.8           -                  19.60
Maize                                              .4         0.7             0.28                      0.4           0.9            0.36              0.2             0.2               1.4           0 4                 0 46
KaSi                                              .4          0.6             0.24                      0.4           0.7            0.28              0.2             0.1               1.1           0.7                 0.29
Pulses                                             .3         0.4             0.12                      0.3           0.5            0.15              0.1             0.2               0.7           0.5                0.17
Groundnuts                                         .5         0.6             0.30                      0.5           0.7            0.35              0.3             0.2               1.3           0.7                0.53
Vegetables                                         .3         4.0             1.20                      0.3           5,0            1.50              0.2             0.1               7.0           5.0                 1.90
Rabi Season
Paddy (PlYV)                                                                     ~                                                                     1.6                               3.3                               5.28
Whl.est                                                                                                                                                0.8                               2.2                               1.76
Pulses                                                                                                                                                 0.5                               0.8                               0.40
Groundnut                                                                                                                                              0.5                               1.4                               0.70
Vegetables                                                                    -                                                                        0.6                               8.0                               4.80
year round
Sugarcane                                        0.1          30              3.00                      0.1           40            4.00               0.2                              75                               15.00
Total cropped area                   10.0                                                   10.0                                           13.2             0.8
Net cultivated area                  10.0                                                   10.0                                                   10.0
Cropping Intensity                   100%                                                   100%                                                  140 %



INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
ANNEX 2
Crop Input Requirements and Crop Budget                                                                                        TableIl
(At Financial Prices)
----- P4ddy(Kharif)             -         ----------- Paddy(Kharif)--------  ----- Paddy(Rabi)------  ------ tlJ:kL(Rabi)------
Local                                      HIYV
Present             Future               Present               Future          Present       Future          Present       Future
RF    IRI      RF      IRI    IR2        RF    IRI        RF    IRI    IR2        IRI       IRI      IR2       IRI        IRI      IR2
YIELD (tons/ha)                     1.1    1.6       1.3    1.9    2.3       1.4    1.8       1.7    2.2    2.8        2.00      2.50    3.30        1.50      1.80    2.20
Annual Family and Hired Labor
(man-days per ha)
Land Preparation                   36     36       36      36      40       36      36       36      40      40       40        40       40         30        30       30
Planting and Nursing                4     30        4      30      32        4      30       30      32      35       32        35       35          4         4        4
Crop Management                    16      20      20      24      26       20      24       22      26      30       26        30       30         21        26       31
Harvesting and Threshing           49      54      50      60      62       50      60       57      62      70       62        70       75         45        50       60
Sub-total (md/ha)          105    140       110    150    160       110    150       145    160    175        160       175      180        100       110      125
(Rs/ha)        525    700       550    750    800        550    750       725    800    875       800        875      900       500       550      625
Fertilizer and Pesticides
N (Kg/ha)                          -      30       15      40      60       30      40       40      60      80       50        70      100         40        60       80
(Rs/ha)                         -      125       86    230    344        125    167      230    344    459        225       402       574       230       344      459
P (Kg/hia)                         -      -        -       20      30       -       20       20      30      40       20        30       50         20        30       40
(Rs/ha)                         -       -        -       99    149        -      99       99    149    199         88       149       249        88       149      199
K (Kg/ha)                          -      -        -       -       -        -       -        -       -       20       10        15       25         20        30       40
(Rs/ha)                         _       _        _       _       _        _      _        _       _       38       16         29       48        32        58       77
Manure (cart-load)                  7       7        ,     70       7        7       7        7       7       7        7         7        7          7         7        7
(Rs/ha)                   70      70       70      70      70       70      70       70      70      70       70        70       70        70         70       70
Plant Protection (Rs/ha)           -      60       30      70      80       70      80       80    120    160        120       145      200         80       100      120
Other Inputs
Animal Power (ad/ha)               38     40       38      40      40       38      40       38      40      42       42        44       45         28        30       31
(Rs/ha)            304    320      304    320    320        304    320       304    320    336        336       352      360       224        240      248
Seed          (Kg/ha)             50      50       50      50      50       50      50       50      50      50       50        50       50'      100        100      100
(Rs/ha)             65      65      65      65      65       65      65       65      65      63       65        65       65       265        265      265
Miscellaneous(Rs/ha)               30     50       35      70      90       40      50       40      90    110        80       100      120        60         70       80
NOTE: RF - rainfed
IRI - irrigated yields under existing standard
IR2 = irrigated yields under improved standard
tj



ANNWX 2
INDIA                                                                                                   Page 2
ORISSA LRRIGArION PROJEC.T
Crop inpust Requirement and Crop Budket
------------- Malze(Kharif) -----------             ------------- RagiLarif)----------               ------------- Pulue            ---------      -------Pulses(Rabi------
Preseat                   Future                   Present                  Fututre                 Present                 Futurc               Present       Future
RFP      IRI          F      IRI      IR2          RF      IRI         RF      IRI      IR2         RF      IRI        RF      IRI        IR2
YlEl.D (Tons/ha)                             0.70      0.9nl      0.90      1.10     1.40       0.55    0.70        0.70    0.90       1.10      0.40     0.50      0.50    0.60        0.70      0.60        0.70     0.80
Amnnal Family and Hlred Labor
(man-days per ha)
Land Preparation                            15        15         15       15       13          13       13         13       13       12         15       15        is        15        13        15          13       13
Planlting and Nuirsing                       7         7          7        7        7           7        7          7        7        7          5        5         5         5         4         5           4        4
Crop Management                             18        20         20       23       30          20       22         22       24       28          5        7          7        7         8         7           8       10
llarvesting and Trhreshing                  35        38         38       40       40          30       33         33       36       38         15       18        18        18        25        18          25       28
Sub-total (md/ha)                 75        80         80       85       90          70       75         75       80       85        40        45        45       45         50        45         50        55
(Rs/ha)              375       400        400      425      450         350      375        375      400       425       200      225        225      225       250       225         250      250
Fertilizer a:j Pesticides
N (Kp/hal                                   -         20         10       20       40          -        10         10       10       30         -        10        20       20         30        -           15       30
(Rs/ha)                                  -          84         57      115      230         -        42          57      115      172        _        42        115      115       172         -          86      172
P (Kg/lia)                                  -         -          -        10       20          -        -          -        10       15         -        -         -        15         30        -           15    *30
(Rs/ha)                                  -          -          -        50       99         -        -           -        50       75                            -        75       149         -          75      149
K (Kg/la)                                   -         -          -        10       20          -        -          -        10       15
(Rs/ha)                                  -          -          -        16       32         -        -           -        16       24
Maniure (cart-load)                          7         7          7        7        7           7        7          7        7         7         7        7         7         7         7         7           7        7
(Rs/ha)                            70         70         70       70       70          70       70         70       70       70        70        70        70       70         70        70         70        70
Plane Protection (Rs/ha)                    -         -          25       55       80          -        -          55       65      100        -         -         -        60         60        -          65        80
Other InPuts
Animal Power (ad/ha)                        17        18         18       18       19          15       16         16       16       17         10       12        12       13         14        14          15       16
(Rs/ha)                     136       144        144      144      152         120      128        128      128      136         80       96        96      104        112       112         120      128
Seed          (Kg/ha)                      17         17         17       17       17          12       12         12       12       12        20        20        20       20         20        20         20        20
(R5/ba)                      50        50         50       50       50          35       35         35       35       35         70       70        70        70        70        70          70       70
Miscellaneous(Rs/ha)                        10        15         15       20       25          10       15         15       20       25        20        20        20       25         30        25         30        40
NOTE: RF = rainfed
IRI = irrigated yields under existing standard
IR2 - Irrigated yields under improved standard
-J



AifIUEX 2
Page 3
INDIA
r^RTSSA TRRlt'ATIon '()R'I
Crop I[put Requiiremeit aid Crop Buidget
---------Oilseeds (Khari) -----------         ---Oilseeds (Rab--           -----Vegetabi es (Klarif)---    Vege tral ,. (Rl, i )       ------ Sga re.   (A_.nna I)-------
Presentr               Futujre           Present        Futuire           Present          Ftit lre      lPrv seiit   FnUtre           P'resent           FRJtnlwe _
RF       lRI      itF       IRI      IR2       RF       IRI      IR2             IRF    IRI HF    TI    IR2    fi     1tl,   11<2    ikF      IRI    -R-F1     li R1  IR2
YIELID (tons/ha)                     0.60    0.90       0.70    1.i0      1.30      1.00    1.20    1.30           4    5       5      6      7       6       7      8       3')     50       40      6tl     75
Annuiil.i Family and hiired Labor
(ma n-days per lia)
Land Preparation                     20       20        20       20       20        20       20      -20       24   24       24    25    25        25      25    27        5O      55       0      55      55
1llant ilg anid Ntirsinig             7        7         7        7        7         7        7        7       29   29       29    32    32        32      32    35       40) 40            4)      4(1     40
Crop Managemenit                     10       23        13       28       30        15       30       33       25   30       30    33    38        31      38    40        60      70       f0      95    105
fharvesinLg atid Threshinig          33       40        35       55       68        48       63       70       62   67       67    7D    75        70      75    78       100O   135       120    16O    200
Stub-total (md/lid)           7(1      90        75      110      125        90      120      130      140  150    150   160   170    101)    170   180            250    300       270    35()    400
Ills/ha.)         350     450        375     550       625       450      600      650      700  750    750   800   85(    800)    850   9O/l    1250   1500            13591    1750   ?()00
Fertilizer anid Peslicides
N (Kg/ha)                            -        15        10       20       25        15       20       25       -    201    20    30    40         3()     40    50         5(    10)        7(0    150     200
(RIs/hIa)                         -        63        57      115      144         63      115      144       -    84    115   172   230        125    230   287        209    418       402    861   1148
P (Kg/I,.))                          -        25        20       25       30        25       30       40       -    15       15    20    3()       30     40    50         15     30        20      50    100
(Ks/l,a)                          -       118        99      124      149        118      149      199       -    71      75    99   149    149        199   249        75    149        99     249    4'i7
K (Kg/ha)                            -        25        20       25       30        25       40       60       -    20       20    30    40       30      41)    60        10     20        15      30      60
(Rs/lha)                          -        43        38       48       58         43       77      115       -    35      38    58    77        52      71   115        16      35       29      58     115
Manur, (cart-load)                    7        7         7        7        7         7        7        7      10    10       10    10    10        10      10    10        Z5      25       25      25      25
(Rs/ha)                      70       70        70       70       70        70       70       70      100  100    100   100   100    100          100   100      250    250        250     250     250
Planit P'rorection (Rs/ha)           -        -         -        40       45        40       45       65       -    40       40    60    80        80    105   130       145    245        200     300    345
other Inputs
Animal Power  (ad/hIa)               20       23        21       23       24        22       23       24       20   22       20    22    24       22       24    26       37       19       38      40      41
(Rs/ha)             160      184       168      184      192       176      184      192      160  176    160   176   192         176    192   208        296    312       304     320     328
Seed           (Kg/h1a)              50      50         50       50       50        50       50       50      0.5  0.5    0.5   0.5   (.5    0.5    0.5   0.5    3001)   30)(J0    3()O(    3000   3000
(Rs/ha)             165      165       165      165      165       165      165      165       50   50       50    50    50        50      5O    65        65      65       fi5     65      65
Miscellaneous (Rs/ha)                30       40        35       45       50        40       45       55       20   25       25    30    35        30      35    40        30     150      140     160     17O
NOTE:   RF - rainfed
lRI = Irrigated yields under existing standard
JR2 - irrigated yields under improved standard
-I



ANNEX 2
Table 4
INDIA
ORTqqA IRRIGATION PROJFCT
Financial Crop Budget (At Full Development)
Gross                                         Total      Net
Crop             Season      Type          Yield        Value     Labor       Animal      Others      Inputs    Value
(tons/ha)  --------------------------Rs/ha-------------------------------
Paddy, local          kh          irri         2.30          2622       800         320          798         1918       703
Paddy, HYV            kh          irri         2.80          3192       875         336         1101         2312       880
ra          irri        3.30           3762      900         360         1326         2585      1177
Maize                 kh          rf           0.90          1224       400         144          217          761       463
kh          irri        1.40          1904       450         152          592         1194       710
Ragi                  kh          rf           0.70           875       375         128          232          735       140
kh          irri        1.10           1375      425         136          506         1067       308
Pulses                kh          rf           0.50          1315       225          96          275          596       719
kh          irri        0.70           1841      250         112          551          913       928
ra          irri        0.80           2104      275         128          581          984      1120
Oilseeds              kh          rf           0.70          1876       375         168          465         1008       868
kh          irri        1.30           3084      625         192          680         1497      1987
ra          irri        1.40          3752       650         184          813         1647      2106
Vegetables            kh          rf           5.00          2500       750         160          413         1323      1177
kh          irri        7.00           3500      850         192          690         1733      1767
ra         irri         8.00          4000       900         208          941         2049      1951
Wheat                 ra          irri         2.20          3586       625         248         1135         2008      1578
Sugarcane          annual         irri          75           9150      2000         328         2590         4918      4232
rf:    rainfed
irri: irrigated
kh:    kharif
ra:    rabi
-a



ANNEX 2
Table 5
Page 1
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budget for 0.50 ha Farm
P         FWO      FW 1 "/                     FW 2-
Irrigated Rainfed
Cropped Area (ha)
Kharif
Paddy, local                       0.45       0.35               0.05       -
Paddy, HYV                          -         0.10               0.40       -
Maize                              0.02       0.02               0.01      0.01
Pulses                             0.01       0.01                -        0.01
Vegetables                         0.02       0.02               0.01      0.01
Rabi
Paddy, HYV                                                       0.11
Wheat                                                            0.07
Pulses                                                           0.01
Groundnuts                                                       0.02
Vegetables                                                       0.04
Total Cropped Area (ha)              0.50       0.50                    0.75
Net Cultivated Area (ha)             0.50       0.50                    0.50
Cropping Intensity (%)             100        100                     150
Gross Production Value (Rs)        610        800        1,930                      2,430
Farm Production Costs (Rs)
Hired Labor                       25         30          170                        180
Animal                           145        145          220                        230
Other Inputs                      80        175          610                        790
Total                   250        350        1,000                      1,200
Net Production Value (Rs)          360        450          980                      1,230
Land Revenue (Rs)                 10         10           10                         10
Irrigation Charges (Rs)            -          -           20                         20
Subtotal                 10         10           30                         30
Net Farm Income (Rs)               370        440          900                      1,200
1/  Future with irrigation under existing standard.
2/  Future with irrigation under improved standard.
79



ANNEX 2
Table 5
Page 2
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PRO.TECT            _
Farm Budget for 1.50 ha Farm
P          FWO       FW I1/                        FW 2!
Irrigated Rainfed
Cropped Area (ha)
Kharif
Paddy, local                   1.20       1.00                 0.20
Paddy, HYV                      -         0.20                 1.00
Maize                          0.10       0.10                 0.05       0.05
Ragi                           0.10       0.10                 0.05       0.05
Pulses                         0.05       0.05                 0.02       0.03
Vegetables                     0.05       0.05                 0.03       0.02
Rab i
Paddy, HYV                                                     0.25
Wheat                                                          0.12
Pulses                                                         0.07
Groundnuts                                                     0.08
Vegetables                                                     0.08
Total Cropped Area (ha)         1.50       1.50                       2.10
Net Cultivated Area (h)         1.50       1.50                       1.50
Cropping Intensity (%)        100        100                        140
Gross Production Value
(Rs)                       1,740      2,270         5,020                          6,350
Farm Production Costs (Rs)
Hired Labor                  300        330           970                           900
Animal                       400        400           580                           600
Other Inputs                 300        690        1,555                          2,035
Subtotal              1,000      1,420         3,035                          3,605
Net Production Value
(Rs)                          740       850         1,985                          2,745
Land Revenue                  30         30            30                            30
Irrigation Charges             -          -            55                            55
Subtotal                  30        30            85                             85
Net Farm Income (Rs)          710        820         2,000                         .,660
1/  Future with irrigation under existing standard.
2/ Future with irrigation under improved standard.
80



ANNEY 2
Table 5
Page 3
INDIA
ORjSSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budget for 3.00 ha Farm
P        FWO      FW 1-                        FW 2 -/
Irrigated Rainfed
Cropped Area (ha)
Kharif
Paddy, local                 2.40      2.00               0.40
Paddy, HYV                    -        0.40               2.00
Ragi                          0.10     0.10                -        0.10
Pulses                        0.10     0.10                -        0.10
Groundnut                    0.25      0.25               0.15      0.10
Vegetables                    0.15     0.15               0.15
Rabi
Paddy, HYV                                                0.40
Wheat                                                     0.20
Pulses                                                    0.10
Groundnut                                                 0.20
Vegetables                                                0.15
Total Cropped Area (ha)         3.00     3.00                     4.05
Net Cultivated Area (ha)        3.00     3.00                     3.00
Cropping Intensity (%)       100       100                      135
Gross Production V4aue
(Rs)                       3,760    4,800         10,260                      12,610
Farm Production Cost (Re)
H-ired Labor               905       995         2,050                        2,220
Animal                     815       820         1,130                        1,170
Other Inputs               510    1,035          3,040                        3,900
Subtotal              1,530    1,950          6,220                       7,290
Net Production Value
(Rs)                       2,230    2,850          4,040                        4,870
Land Revenue                 60       60            60                           60
Irrigation Charges           -         -           100                          100
Subtotal                           60           160                          160
Net Farm Income (Rq)       1,470    1,890          3,880                        4,710
1/  Future with irrigation under existing  standard.
2/  Future with irrigation under improved  stanc-ard.



ANNEX 2
Table 5
Page 4
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budget for 5.0 ha Farm
P        FWO        FW i l                        FW 2 2
Irrigated Rainied
Cropped Area (ha)
Kharif
Paddy, local                  3.50      3.00                 0.05
Paddy, HYV                     -        0.50                 3.00
Maize                         0.20      0.20                 0.15        -
Ragi                          0.30      0.30                  -         0.15
Pulses                        0.20      0.20                  -         0.20
Groundnut                     0.40      0.40                 0.20       0.20
Vegetables                    0.20      0.20                 0.20        -
Rabi
Paddy, HYV                                                   0.60
Wheat                                                        0.30
Pulses                                                       0.20
Groundnut                                                    0.30
Vegetables                                                   0.20
Perennial
Sugarcane                     0.20      0.20                 0.40
Total Cropped Area (ha)          5.00     5.00                  6.60
Net Cultivated Area (ha)         5.00     5.00                  5.00
Cropping Intensity (X)        100       100                  132
Gross Production Value
(Rs)                        6,540    8,410          18,340                         22,600
Farm Production Cost
Hired Labor               1,810    1,975           4,190                          4,420
Animal                    1,300    1,310           1,810                          1,880
Other Inputs                980    1,825           5,350                          6,970
Subtotal               4,090    5,110          11,350                        13,270
Net Production Value
(Rs)                        2,450    3,300           6,990                          9,330
Land Revenue                100       100            100                            100
Irrigation Charges            -         -            170                            170
Subtotal                 100       100            270                            270
Net Farm Income (Rs)        2,350    3,200           6,720                          9,060
1/ Future with irrigation under existing  standard.                       82
2/ Future with irrigation under improved  standard.



ANNEX 2
Table 6
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Water Rates for Crops -/
Crop                                      Rs/ac/year
Kharif paddy  Ist class                         8.00
Kharif paddy  2nd class                         6.00
Kharif paddy  3rd class                         4.00
Kharif paddy  4th class                         2.00
Dalua paddy (rabi)                             24.00
Tobacco                                        22.50
Potato                                         15.00
Vegetables including peas                      12.00
Onion                                          15.00
Wheat                                           9.00
Maize                                           7.50
Mung                                            1.50
Groundnut                                       7.50
Orchards                                       18.00
Sugarcane                                      27.00
Jute                                            4.50
Fodder                                          7.50
Pulses                                          3.00
Cotton                                         15.00
Til (Oilseeds)                                  3.00
Betel leaf                                     45.00
Arhar                                           7.50
Sunhemp                                        10.50
Chilli                                          7.50
Saru                                           45.00
Ragi                                            3.75
Mustard                                         3.00
Ganja                                          50.00
1/ As of April 1976
83



INDIA
ORTSSA TRRT(ATTON PRnOTFCT
Estimates of Project Rents
0.5 ha Farm              1.5 ha Farm              3.0 ha Farm             5.0 ha Farm
W      WI        W2    W        Wi        W2    W        Wi        W2    W       Wi        W2
1. Expected Gross Produc-
tion Value (Rs)              800    1,930   2,430  2,270   5.020   6,350  4,800  10,260 12,160  8,410  18,340  22,600
2. Certainty Equivalent
of (1) (Rs)                  560    1,350   2,060  1,580   3,510   5,400  3,840   8,200 10,940  6,730  14,670  20,340
3. Production Costs (Rs)        350    1,000   1,200  1,420   3,030   3,600  2,850   6,220  7,290  5,110  11,350  13,270
4. Family Labor (Rs)             270      400      420    490       600     650    660       880    940    840   1,050   1,110
5. Net Returns (Rs)
(2) - (3) - (4)              -60       -50    +440   -330    -120  +1,150   +330  +1,100  2,710    780   2,270   5,980
6. Management Fee (Rs)             0        0       40       0        0     120      30      110    270       80     230      600
7. Implicit Land Rent (Rs)
(6) - (5)                    -60       -50      400   -330    -120   1,030    300         990  2,440    700   1,940   5,360
8. Project Rent (Rs)               -      +10      460       -    +210   1,360        -      690  2,140        -   1,240   4,660
9. Project Rent per
Irrigated ha (Rs)              -       +20      920       -    +140      910       -      230    710              250      930
Weighted Average                         (WI:  Rs 110/ha,   W2:  Rs 880/ha)
W = Future without irrigation
Wl = Future with irrigation under existing standard
W2 = Future with irrigation under improved standard
m x



INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PR(OJECT
ORGANIZATION CIfART: ADMINISTRAIIVE AND TECHNICAL CONTHIOLS IN
THE IHRIGATION SECTOR
I ;IILI. IAIIY
It 
II It      f tL
EXLCUI1IVIL ENGINtLH                             IIHI-CIU311       I
Pi|XafI Iy Oi                                   U I 
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -u    - - --- -       -------
AUDITIONAI CHILF ENGINEER                                                                                          AUIIIVINAL CHIEF LNGIlNEER
r-~|--~'~'~'~'~'~'4l~'~'~'~~'~'t                                         s                ..........- -----     --         ....''''''''. ......
SUPLHINII NILN1 ENGINLEII    sIIFERINTLN DENT ENGINLEEI   SUPEHINILNDI NT ENGINELR    SUPEI11NTENUENT ENGINEEti    SUPERINTENDENT ENGINEER        SI IN DENI  EN(GINELR|   SIPLIUINIENOENT ENGINELE           SUPIL1INTENOENT ENGINLEH
| I I.'.oW  ClCII  I  I       CUIIAF k CullI,.I  I ,hDW   I I II             I  CiI,         ul C-tI,!                BurHa,el , C C,,OI!    I   I      . C.,         I            B/I., C-1,             II,,k ,u,I MCcI ,,    I
.............i.. I,Y.,II,ecIs
D ,,I,,Ol                                                                                                                                                                                                              3Id
_._._._ nV{^SIl99x$(/n Wl a. H . l.k 172G9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MO                                                                                  126
02
I.n~~~~~~l



INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART: ONE IRRIGATION CIRCLE
SUPERINENDENT
ENGINEER
I    o'. |             I'                                                                            I                -AuWu 
CI RCLE
DIVISION               EXECUTIVE ENGINEE                 ExNEER                              EXECUTIVE ENGINEER                 EXECUTIVE ENGINEER                   EXECUTIVE ENGINEER
(ck..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SUns DIVISION            2 4 ASSISTANT ENGINEEHS            2--4 ASSISTANT ENGINEERS           2-4 ASSISTANT ENGINEERS             2-4 ASSISTANT ENGINEERS             2--4 ASSISTANT ENGINEERS
SFCTION              8--16 JUNIOR ENGINEERS/            8-16 JUNIOR ENGINEERS/              8-6 JUNIOR ENGINEERS/               8-6 JUNIOR ENGINEERS/               8-6 JUNIOR ENGINEERS/
|SUB-ASSISTANT ENGINEERS|        | SUB-ASSISTANT ENGINEERES         |  SUB-ASSISTANT ENGINEERS  |       |S8-SSISTANT ENGINEERS |                SUB-ASSISTANT ENGINEERS|
Eot construction ri1 a lvpical 10,000 h.a pm1.01                                            Iuivesriations             Ott an
Op.,. "noniru tind WorEs  basis d
Wotld Banlk-t7270



INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
FOR TYPICAL 10,000 HA PROJECT
C IIRCLE
DIVISIONI
~Ijn DIVISION
SEC rIOlI
1W. ASSWANT    1'.. A~sIsAANN             A      AMN               'MI                 AI ASSAMIND                   A 1 AMIN                              A M    I A
WA A .0.L171
0,



ANNEX 2
APPENDIX 1
Page 1
WORLD BANK LINE OF CREDIT FOR
MEDIUM IRRIGATION PROJECTS
STATE
XXDDC     PROJECT
PROJECT SUMMARY
Date Approved by CWC:
Approving Officer:
Project Summary Prepared by:
88



ANNEX 2
APPENDIX 1
Page 2
I.  SALIENT FEATURES OF THE PROJECT
General
District/s in which project is located:
Name of River                           2
Size of Catchment Area:              km
Size of Cultivable Command Area:            ha
Hydrology
Rainfall: Number of years of records inside project area
Number of years of records from station            which is located
km from project area:
Streamflow: Number of years of current meter measurements:
Number of years of other streamflow measurements:
Number of years of reconstituted streamflow for reservoir
operations study:               3
Reservoir Capacity:  Total Storage:             m3
Live Storage:             m  or            % of averge
annual runoff
Irrigation
Conveyance efficiency: Main canal operating full (80% to 100% of capacity):
Main canal operating at less than 80% of capacity:
Field irrigation efficiency:  Paddy:            %
Upland Crops:    __     %
Assumed Percolation Losses in Paddy Fields:             mm/day
Irrigated Areas: Kharif, paddy:            ha or           % of CCA
Kharif, upland:          ha or           % of CCA
Rabi, paddy:             ha or           % of CCA
Rabi, upland:            ha or           % of CCA
Sugarcane:               ha or           % of CCA
Full kharif irrigation requirements would be provided           years out of 100.
Costs and Benefits
Total Project Cost:  Rs            million
Benefit Cost Ratio:
89



ANNEX 2
APPENDIX 1
Page 3
(Subsequent Pages of the Project Summary would contain, at least, the
following headings)
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Climate
(Most of the information would be in ANNEX 1, need not be summarized.)
Topography and Soils
(Summarize the conclusions of the soil survey. Discuss the land classifica-
tion, Drainage problems. Need for land leveling/shaping.)
Population, Farm Sizes and Land Tenure
(Population within the gross command area. Land less population. Summarize
the results of the relevant parts of the agroeconomic survey.)
Agriculture
(Summarize the agricultural results of the agroeconomic survey. Yields,
cropping patterns, use of fertilizers and high yielding varieties.)
III. THE PROJECT
General
(Brief summary of the proposed works, size of CCA, etc.)
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
(Rainfall, hydrology and reservoir yields. Catchment area. Water demand
and rule curves for water releases from the dam. Reservoir storage capacity
calculations. Results of reservoir operations. Study would be summarized
in ANNEX 2.
Dam
(Description of dam site geology and design parameters of the dam.)
Irrigation and Drainage Network
(Description, design parameters, control structures, communication system.)
90



ANNEX 2
APPENDIX 1
Page 4
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Construction Organization
(Describe in detail the proposed organization for project implementation.)
Equipment Requirements
(List either in text or in an ANNEX.)
Implementation Schedule and Schedule of Expenditures
(Bar chart would be attached in ANNEX 3. The schedule of expenditures should
have taken the projected price increases into account. A simple chart
slhwing accumulated expenditures would be in ANNEX 4.)
Resettlement. (Comment on plans for resettlement of displaced persons)
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Agricultural Development
(Discussed the proposed cropping pattern against the background of the
soil survey and land classification. Discuss any constraints to the
agricultural development of the area.)
Benefit Matrix
(First discuss adjustments made to the financial costs in order to achieve
the economic costs. Second, show the complete benefit matrix.)
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
(Does the project conform with the established criteria? Is is approved
by CWC or does it have to be submitted to IDA for approval?)
ANNEX 1:   Climatic Data
ANNEX 2:   Summary of Reservoir Operations Study
ANNEX 3:   Implementation Schedule (Chart)
ANNEX 4:   Schedule of Expenditures (Chart)
MAP 1:     Project Area (showing dam, irrigation and drainage network,
recommended scale 1:10,000 with 0.5 in contour intervals);
MAP 2:     Land classification;
MAP 3:     Large scale map of dam and typical cross sections;
MAP 4:     Length section of main canal showing off-takes, cross regulation
and escapes;
MAP 5:     Typical layout of distributary with turnouts and the area commanded
under each turnout.
91



ANNEX 2
APPENDIX 1
Page 5
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Form for Establishing Economic Viability
-of Medium Irrigation Project - _
Average Rharif Rainfall                    Area           Benefit Factor-            Total Benefit
(June - October), r -                      (ha)                 Rs/ha                    (Rs)
BENEFITS
A. With Project Cropping Pattern
Rharif
Irrigated Paddy                      -----x         ---------------             -------------
Irrigated Upland Crops               ------x                                    - -----------
Rainfed Paddy                        -----x          -------------- -           -------------
Rainfed Upland Crops                 -----x          -------------- =           ------------
Fallow                               ------x         -------------- -           -------------
Rabi
Irrigated Paddy                      ------x                                     - -----------
Irrigated Upland Crops               ------x        -------------- -
Fallow                               ------x        ------ -------- -           ----------- -
Perennial
Irrigated Sugarcane                  -----x                         - - ----------
Rainfed Sugarcane                    ------x                          =
Value of Production with Project (1)                                              ------------
B. Present Cropping Pattern
(without project)
Kharif
Irrigated Paddy                      ------x        --------------- -          ------------
Irrigated Upland Crops               ------x        -------------- -           -------------
Rainfed Paddy                        ------x        -------------- =            -----------
Rainfed Upland Crops                 ------x        --------------- =           ------------
Fallow                               ------Kx                                   --- - --------
Rabi
Irrigated Paddy                      -----           ------------- ---
Irrigated Upland Crops               ------x        -- - ------- - -- -
Fallow                               -----x         ---------------             -------
Perennial
Irrigated Sugarcane                  ------Kx                                   -------------
Rainfed Sugarcane                    ------x         --------------- -          ------------
Forest                               ------x         -------------- -           --------
Value of Production without Project (2)                                           ------------
C. Economic Benefits from Project
(3)    -   (1)    -   (2)                                                         -------------
COST5
Xane Projeat Cost (4)
Adjustunt for Less than 5 y.ar Iupl.eitati-n parted (5) 1/                      --- - ----- -
Adjusted Project Cost (6) - (4) - (5)                                           -----------
BENEFIT/COST RATIO
(7) - (3)t(6)
1/ Choose the appropriate benefit factors in accordance with average kharif rainfall (page 6).
2/ No adjustment for a 5 year construction period.
-6% adjustment for a 4 year construction period.
-11% adjustment for a 3 year construction period.
92



ANNEX 2
APPENDIX 1
INDIA                                        Page 6
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Benefit Factors for Evaluating
Medium Irrigation Prolect __
(Rs/ha)
r I/> 1,100           1,000 <  Cr)-'.. 1,100            (r)- <  1,000
Future With Project
Kharif
Irrigated Paddy                     21,500                       21,500                         21,500
Irrigated Upland Crops              14,800                       14,800                         14,800
Rainfed Paddy                       11,600                       11,000                         1C,100
Rainfed Upland Crops                 9,100                        8,600                          7,900
Fallow                                    0                           0                              0
Rabi
Irrigated Paddy                     26,700                       26,700                         26,700
Irrigated Upland Crops              18,600                       18,600                         18,600
Fallow                                    0                           0                              0
Perennial
Irrigated Sugarcane                 43,000                       43,000                         43,000
Rainfed Sugarcane                   23,200                       22,000                         20,200
Future Without Project
Kharif
Irrigated Paddy                     16,900                       16,900                         16,900
Irrigated Upland Crops              13,000                       13,000                         13,000
Rainfed Paddy                       11,600                       11,000                         10,100
Rainfed Upland Crops                  9,100                       8,600                          7,900
Fallow                                    0                           0                              0
Rabi
Irrigated Paddy                     20,300                       20,300                         20,300
Irrigated Upland Crops              16,400                       16,400                         16,400
Fallow                                    0                           0                              0
L     Perennial
Irrigated Sugarcane                 33,800                       33,800                         33,800
Rainfed Sugarcane                   23,200                       22,000                         20,200
Forest                               1,000                        1,000                          1,000
1/ r = average Kharif,(June-October),rainfall (20 years).



ANNEX 2
APPENDIX 2
Page.l
ANNUAL IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM: 19
WORLD BANK LI'NE OF CREDIT FOR
MEDIUM IRRIGATION PROJECTS
PART 1: GENERAL INFORMATION
State:
Number of Projects under Preparation:
Number of Projects under Implementation:
Number of Projects undef'Operation:
Total World Bank Funds Available for Program:  US$             million
Total Disbursements to Date:  US$           million
Report Prepared by:
Dates When the Implementation Program was Discussed with State Officials:
CWC Staff Participating in Discussions:
PART 2: PROGRESS PREVIOUS YEAR
Project Preparation
19      19
Status:  1-Problem Free or Minor Problems; 2-Moderate
Problems; 3-Major Problems;
Trend:   1-Improving; 2-Stationary; 3-Deteriorating;
Types of Problems:  (Enter Most critical factor first)
F-Financial/Budgetary; M-Manegerial; T-Technical;
O-Other, Specify;
C-Non-Conformity with World Bank Criteria, specify;
Project Implementation
19      19
Status: 1-Problem Free or Minor 'Problems; 2-Moderate
Problems; 3-Major Problems;                          _
Trend:  1-Improving; 2-Stationary; 3-Deteriorating;
Types of Problems: (Enter Most critical factor first)
F-Financial/Budgetary; M-Manegerial; T-Technical;
O-Other, specify;
C-Non-Conformity with World Bank Criteria, specify:
General Comments:
(One or two pages descriging overall progress in preparation and implementa-
tion of MMIPs, mentioning principal problem encountered, issues raised, and
highlights concerning project execution, costs and budgetary allocations and
implications for the implementation of next years program.)
94



ANNEX 2
APPENDIX 2
Page 2
PART 3: GENERAL COMMENTS REGARDING THE IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM FOR 19_
(Including summary of projected quarterly expenditures for each project.)
PART 4: PROGRAMS FOR INDIVIDUAL PROJECTS
Project 1
(A short summary of key events for the following year. Exhibit 1 from the
"Supervision Summary" should be updated and attached. Comments on the
feasibility of the proposed schedule.)
Project 2 etc.
95



ANNEX 2
APPENDIX 3
Page 1
PROGRESS REVI:EW : PREPARATION
WORLD BANK LINE OF CREDIT FOR
MEDIUM IRRIGATION PROJECTS
PART 1: GENERAL INFORMATION
Project Name:
State:
Probable Size of Command Area:             ha
Probable Project Cost: Rs          million
Probable Month for Submission of Project Report to CWC:
Supervision Report Prepared by:
PART 2: MISSION SCHEDULE
Dates at Project Site      Dates in State
Present Mission                Fr          To             Fr         To
Previous Mission               Fr          To             Fr         To
Staff Partcipating in Present Mission:
PART 3: OVERALL PROGRESS
Present  Previous
Mission  Mission
Estimated Month for Completion of Project Preparation
Probable Project Cost (Rs million)                          _         __=
Status: 1-Problem Free or Minor Problems; 2-Moderate
Problems; 3-Major Problems:
Trend:  1-Improving; 2-Stationary; 3-Deteriorating;
Types cf Problems: (Enter Most critical factor first)
F-Financial/Budgetary; M-Manegerial; T-Technical
O-Other, specify:
C-Non-Conformity with World Bank Criteria, specify:
General Comments:
(One page describing overall progress in project preparation, mentioning
principal problem encountered, issues raised, and highlights concerning
project preparation, costs and budgetary allocations.)
96



ANNEX 2
APPENDIX 3
Page 2
PART 4: DETAILED PROGRESS
(This part of the report should at least include the following headings:
(i) Agroeconomic surveys;
(ii) soil survyes;
(iii) topographical surveys;
(iv) geological investigations;
(v) preliminary designs;
(vi) cost estimates and construction schedule;
(vii) plans for implementation and operation and maintenance; and
(viii) report preparation.
A chart in the form of Exhibit 1 should be attached to the report; it will
compare the actual progress with the original program. Other charts covering
specific project preparation activities may also be attached.)
97



PROJECT PREPARATION
Suggested Method of Preparation                          Progress Report
Month of        19
19_______________ _  teporting   Date
19                   ____________                  19
J   F   M   A   M   J   J   A   S   0   N   D   J   F   M   A   M   J   J   A   S   0   N
1. Agro-economic surveys                                            72      100
2. Soil surveys                                                     43
3. Flow measurement program
4. Topographic surveys
5. Geological investigations
6. Preliminary design
7. Cost estimates and
construction schedule
8. Proposals for organiza-
tion and management
9. Report preparation
Chart Key.  Scheduled work program s for each item in the schedule are shown on a line scale by a double line divided
into alternately hatch shaded sections [                 ], each section representing 10% of the physical
work to be performed. As work need not be scheduled for even distribution in time, the length of
sections of a bar need not be uniform even though each represents equal amounts of work. Actual
progress is shown by a parallel double line similarly divided into alternately full shadowed sections
[I r- -1   ], each also representing 10% of the work.  The percentage completion at the reporting
date is given at the right hand end of progress lines.  Commissioning dates are indicated by the
symbol CD. In case scheduled programs should be revised, the first report being prepared after such
revision goes into effect should show both the bar program being abandoned and the new one being adopt-
ed in its place.  The reasons for such changes, and estimates of their effect on the overall completion
X0        of the project should be stated in the text of the report.                                                         > >
Y- x



ANNEX 2
APPENDIX 4
Page 1
PROGRESS REVIEW  : IMPLEMENTATION
WORL9. BANK LIME OF CREDIT FOR
MEDIUM IRRIGATION PROJECTS-
PART 1: GENERAL INFORMATION
Project Name:
State:
Size of Command Area:              ha
Estimated Project Cost at Appraisal:  Rs           million
Date Approved by CWC:
Supervision Report Prepared by:
PART 2: MISSION SCHEDULE
Dates at Project Site       Dates in State
Present Mission                Fr           To              Fr          To
Previous Mission               Fr           To              Fr          To
Staff Participating in Present Mission:
PART 3: OVERALL PROGRESS
Present Previous
Appraisal Mission Mission
Estimated Month of Project Completion
Estimated Project Cost (Rs million)
Status: 1-Problem Free or Minor Problems;
2-Moderate Problems; 3-Major Problems;
Trend:  1-Improving; 2-Stationary; 3-Deteriorating;
Types of Problems:  (Enter Most critical factor first)
F-Financial/Budgetary; M-Manegerial; T-Technical;
O-Other, specify:
C-Non-Conformity with World Bank Criteria, specify:
General Comments:
(One or two pages describing overall progress in project implementation,
mentioning principal problem encountered, issues raised, and highlights
concerning project execution, costs and budgetary allocations)
99



ANNEX 2
APPENDIX 4
Page 2
(Subsequent pages of the "Supervision Summary: Implementation" should cover
the following:)
PART 4: CONFORMITY WITH WORLD BAN4K CRITERIA
(Does the construction conform with the established criteria? If not,
give reasons and actions taken.)
PART 5: DESIGNS, SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS
(Progress, bottlenecks, if any, and remedies.)
PART 6: TENDERING AND AWARDS OF (CIVIL WORKS CONTRACTS
(Details on preparation of tender documents, issue of tenders, contracts
awarded and comparison between contract cost and engineering estimates.)
PART 7: FORCE ACCOUNT WORKS
(Description of works carried out under force account, reasons why force
account works are executed, performance.)
PART 8: PROCUREMENT OF MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT
(Progress, bottlenecks, if any, arid remedies.)
PART 9: CONSTRUCTION PROGRESS
(A brief description on the cosntruction progress during the reporting
period. A chart in the form of Exhibit 1 should be attached to show scheduled
and actual progress for each principal project feature. A comparison of
the total accumulated anticipated expenditures vis-a-vis the actual expenditures
should be provided in a form as shown in Exhibit 2. Explanations of and
comments on:
(a) actual or expected material deviations from the original
(or amended) constrlction schedule;
(b) actual or expected dlifficulties or delays, any measures
taken or planned to correct them, and the probable effects
on the construction schedule;
(c) expected changes in the completion date of any major part
of the project or the project as a whole;
(d) any actual or expected event or condition which may affect
the cost of the project.)
PART 10: LABOR SITUATION
(Approximate total laborforce, description of problems, if any, and remedies.)
PART 11: PROJECT MANAGEMENT
(Performance of project management, changes in key personnel, staff problems
and vacancies.)
100



ANNEX 2
APPENDIX 4.
Page 3.
PART 12: BUDGETARY SITUATION
(Details of changes in bu4get allocation for the project, adequacy of budget
allocation for the completion of the project in accordance with the time
schedule.)
101



CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
Suggested Method of Presentation                               Progress Report
Month of             19
p eportin  Date
19                       19     _____19                                    19
JF  MA  HJ  JA  SO  ND  JF  MA  HJ  JA  SO  ND  JF  MA  HJ  JA  SO  ND  JF  MA  HJ  JA  SO  ND
1. Land Aquisition
2. Access Roads and Camps
3. Engineering and Design
4. Dam: Earthwork
Structures
5. Diversion Weir                                                       57                         100
6. Main Canals                      ___r4v_-_-__           *_ ee  48
7. Branch Channels
8. Distributaries
9. Roads
etc.                    _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _  _ _
Revision in Schedule of Program
Date
1.
2.
3.
4.
Chart Key.  Schedule  work programs for each item in the schedule are shown on a line scale by a double line divided
into alternately hatch shaded sections II  -   r-31, each section representing 10% of the physical work
to be performed. As work need not be scheduled for even distribution in time, the length of sections of
a bar need not be uniform even though each represents equal amounts of work. Actual progress is shown
by a parallel double line similarly divided into alternately full shaded sections [                        ],   M  
each also representing 10% of thework.  The percentage completion at the reporting date is given at the    i. M Mi
right hand end of progress lines.  Commissioning dates are indicated by the sumble CD.  In case scheduled  '- to
programs should be revised, the first report being prepared after such revision goes into effect should
show both the bar program being abandoned and the new one being adopted in its place.  The reasons for            -LI
such changes, and estimates of their effect on the overall completion of the project should be stated
in the text of the report.



SCHEDULE OF ACCUMULATED ANTICIPATED AND ACTUAL EXPENDITURES
Suggested Method of Presentation
RP.eporting Date
19                      19                       19                      19__ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _
JF  MA  HJ  JA  SO  ND  JF  MA  HJ  JA  SO  ND  JF  MA  HJ  JA  SO  ND  JF  MA  HJ  JA  SO  ND
Accumulated
anticipated and
actual expendi-
tures (in mln
Rs)
x 
icipated ~ ~    ~     ~      S 



ANNEX 2
APPENDIX. 
Page 1
PROGRESS REVIEW : OPERATION
WORLD BANK LINE OF CREDIT FOR
MEDIUM IRRIfGATION PROJECTS
PART 1: GENERAL INFORMATION
Project Name:
State:
Size of Command Area:          ha
Actual Project Cost:  Rs        million
Date Approved by CWD:
Date of First Release of Water:
Date of Completion:
Supervision Report Prepared by:
PART 2: MISSION SCHEDULE
Dates at Project Site      Dates in State
Present Mission                Fr           To             Fr         To
Previous Mission               Fr           To             Fr          To
Staff Participating in Present Mission:
PART 3: OPERATION SUMMARY
This Year  Previous Year
Area Irrigated in Kharif: Upland Crops               __      ha              ha
(Months:                )  Lowland Crops                     ha              ha
Area Irrigated in Rabi:   Upland Crops                       ha              ha
(Months:                )  Lowland Crops                     ha              ha
Area Irrigated in Hot Season: Upland Crops                   ha              ha
(Months:                    )  Lowland Crops                 ha              ha
Status: 1-Problem Free or Minor Problems;
2-Moderate Problems; 3-Major Problems;
Trend: 1-Improving; 2-Stationary; 3-Deteriorat-
ing;
Types of Problems: (Enter Most Critical factor
W-Inadequate Inflow to Reservoir;
M-Managerial; T-Technical; O-Other,
specify:
C-Non-Conformity with World Bank Criteria,
specify:
General Comments:
(The overall irrigation supply situation. What is the supply situation in
tail-end areas? When the irrigation schedule and the water allocation plan
adequate? Complaints from farmers? Measured seepage losses in main canals
and distributaries.)
104



ANNEX 2
APPENDIX 5
Page 2
PART 4: RESERVOIR OPERATIONS
Month 1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10    11    12
Area Rainfall
Inflow to Reservoir
Irrigation Releases
Spills
General Comments:
(Where releases.)
PART 5: MAINTENANCE
This Previous
Year    Year
Status: 1-Problem Free or Minor Problems; 2-Moderate
Problems; 3-Major Problems
Trend:  1-Improving; 2-Stationary; 3-Deteriorating;
Types of Problems: (Enter Most critical factor first)
F-Financial/Budgetary; M-Managerial; T-Technical;
0-Other, specify:
C-Non-Conformity with World Bank Criteria, specify:
General Comments:
(Are project works maintained properly? Where in the system are the problems
most critical? Maintenance works carried out during the year. Equipment
for maintenance.)
PART 6: STAFFING
(Staffing schedule of the project showing the various categories of staff
employed and their number. Performance of key staff. Is the staff
availability adequate for proper operation and maintenance?)
PART 7: O&M COST AND BUDGETARY SITUATION
(Breakdown of expenditures for O&M. Budget allocation. Is the budget
adequate for proper O&M.)
PART 8: AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
(Project area yields. Constraints to agricultural development such as
supply of credit and cash inputs, draft power, farm labor. Need for land
leveling/shaping. Water distribution below the turnouts.)
105



ANNEX 3
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND           I..................  .....*......*..          1
General ............. 1...************e***********                1
Command Area Development Concept .....            ..............  2
II.    COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT COMPONENTS ................    3
General ........................********..****..***               3
Land Consolidation ......              ... .......... .           3
On-Farm Works ....0........0.......**.. ,,,* *....***             4
III.     COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENT o ...........            5
Cost Estimates .......... . ,        ..0.*.*************** *     5
Financing and Disbursements ..o........ .oo......                 6
Accounts and Audits .............*. ......00  ... .......        6
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT 6......................                6
General  .0.0 .....*.... ,                                  0    6
State Committee for Command Area Development ooo....              7
The Command Area Development Authority 7............              7
Chak Level Operating Committee 8.............. ....               8
Agricultural Engineering Organization ..........    8
Land Consolidation Process ........................               9
Consolidation Organization               ................        9
Consolidation Committee ... ..  ............... ........    10
Financing On-Farm Works . ... .. ..    ..... .o-oo.. . ... . . . . ....  10
Operation and Maintenance of On-Farm Works .........    11
Program Implementation o ... o....... . . .*..... 0.0...0.....  12
V.   AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT ...........................    12
Coastal Areas (Mahanadi, Salandi) ..................   12
Non-Coastal Area (Hirakud)  .. ..              .....................  13
Crop Inputs and Farm Budgets o ...................   13
106



ANNEX 3
Table of Contents  (cont'd)                   - 2 -
Page No.
VI.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ...........                ..............    15
General  ...................................    15
Employment  Benefits  ................................                    15
Income Distribution  ................................                     15
Economic Evaluation  .............................. ..                    15
Risk and Uncertainty  ...............................                     16
107



ANNEX 3
Page 1
COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT
I. BACKGROUND
General
1.        The traditional approach to irrigation development in India, under
which some 42 M ha have been brought under irrigation, is to end the publicly
constructed canal system at outlets serving a block of land of 40 ha or more,
leaving the cultivators within the block to arrange water distribution among
themselves. The present practice of water distribution on the farm in most
cases is field to field irrigation, which leaves the "tail-end" cultivators
within a 40 ha block with either too much water which results in water log-
ging or with too little water for intensive cropping. Furthermore, the cul-
tivators generally have not been able to reach agreement on the construction
of on-farm works and have not had adequate "know how", training or credit
availability to complete these works successfully. Generally, the standard
of development has been considerably less than desirable, resulting in low
average crop yields and a wasteful use of irrigation water. Consequently,
in most completed projects, there is a significant difference between the
irrigation potential that has been created and actual utilization.
2.        The Command Area Development (CAD) program being undertaken by the
Government of India and the World Bank is aimed at bridging this gap. It
embraces both new irrigation projects, where land is coming under service by
canals for the first time, and older projects which have been served by canals
for some years but where the taking up of irrigation has been slow or tech-
nically unsatisfactory or the deterioration of lands has occurred. Although
a CAD program already has been initiated in several other states in India,
this is the first such project to be undertaken by the Bank Group in the
State of Orissa.
3.        A number of pilot projects for on-farm works, covering a total of
5,000 ha, have been carried out in the major command areas in Orissa (Mahanadi
II, Salandi and Hirakud) in order to experiment with various design parameters,
establish unit costs, test implementation procedures and refine survey and
planning works. The results have been encouraging, with an increase in
irrigated area of 20% to 30%.
4.        Experience from other states of India, where large scale on-farm
development has been attempted, suggests that the major obstacles to CAD are:
(a) the alignment of field channels and drains and obtaining
the right of way for these without payment of compensation
for land; and
108



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(b) the large number of farmers ineligible for bank loans
due to unclear titles.
Both of these obstacles would be removed in the course of the land consoli-
dation program which was initiated by the GOO in 1973. As the Bank Group
has encouraged many states in India to do land consolidation before CAD,
the support of the program under IDA financing would set a precedent for
future Bank involvement.
Command Area Development Concept
5.        The proposed CAD project in Orissa is built on experience gained
from a number of pilot projects in various command areas (para 3) as well
as from CAD programs in other states in India. The project sets a pattern
that can be replicated throughout Orissa in the future. Primary considera-
tions in project formulation have been:
(a) Optimal use of available water resources. This would be
achieved through the provision of irrigation and drainage
facilities for each farm with adequate control structures,
lining of critical canal sections and proper land develop-
ment (paras 11-16);
(b) Ensuring the distribution of water. On-farm development would
deliver water to each farm and proper drainage would remove
water logging from "tail-end" farms in low-lying areas. Con-
sequently, irrigation benefits would be more evenly distri-
buted;
(c) Institutional building. The various steps of CAD: topographic
survey, border realignment, planning and execution of fields
channels and drains would be done by different agencies, such
as the Consolidation Unit of the Revenue Department and the
Agricultural Engineering Organization of DAFP. Although these
agencies are technically competent to carry out the works,
inter-departmental coordination would be essential to ensure
effective implementation and supervision of the CAD program.
A CAD Authority (CADA) has been established in each command
area for this purpose (paras 25-27); and
(d) Farmer's participation in CAD. This is achieved through the
Consolidation Committee which advises the consolidation
officers at various stages and through the "Chak Level
Operating Committee" which decides on water allocation
within an outlet (paras 28, 35).
109



ANNEX 3
Page 3
II. COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT COMPONENTS
General
6.        Since many steps required for planning, design and construction
of field channels and drains (topographical and cadastral surveys, border
realignment, land records clearing) are included in the consolidation process,
the land consolidation program is a pre-requisite for the implementation of
on-farm works. Consequently, the construction of field channels and drains
within a chak (outlet) would be phased after consolidation is completed
for that particular chak.
Land Consolidation
7.        For many years, land fragmentation has been a serious constraint to
intensive agriculture in Orissa.  The median farm size is about I ha, with an
average of 10-12 farm plots per holding.  In order to promote more efficient
and intensive agricultural development, land consolidation has been taken up
in the State with the legal support provided by the "Orissa Consolidation of
Holdings and Prevention of Fragmentation Act of 1972".
8.        The scheme envisages rearrangement and redistribution of land in
compact rectangular blocks. In the course of land consolidation, land records
are cleared and land is set aside for communal purposes such as field channels
and drains. The alignment of field channels and drains would be coordinated
with layout of the chakas (consolidated plots) so that each of the chakas would
be ensured to have direct and independent access to an irrigation and drain-
age channel. Topographical surveys of the areas to be consolidated are there-
fore undertaken simultaneously with the updating of records and the proposed
channel alignments are marked on the maps.
9.        It is estimated that 4.5 M ha out of 6.7 M ha of the total culti-
vated area in the State can be consolidated, of which 915,000 ha are irrigated.
Priority has been given to major irrigation command areas in view of their
production potential and immediate needs for proper water management. So far,
an area of 250,000 ha has been included in the State consolidation program
covering 1,751 villages, of which 1,085 are located in Mahanadi Delta in an
area of 158,000 ha. About 666 villages, accounting for 88,000 ha, are located
in the Salandi and Hirakud commandL areas.
10.       The GOO is intending to carry out land consolidation of about
250,000 ha within six years. Given the efficient organization for consoli-
dation, this is a realistic estimate. However, since this is the first time
the Bank Group has been involved in a land consolidation program in India, a
four year program would be included under the project to consolidate an area
of 200,000 ha in the four command areas: Mahandi I and II, Salandi and
Hirakud. Since the start of program in 1974, about 15,000 ha are consolidated
in the three command areas, and wcrks are underway for 160,000 ha in Mahanadi
I and II.
110



ANNEX 3
Page 4
On-Farm Works
11.       The deficiencies of the field to field irrigation practice in
Orissa (para 1) have constrained the development of intensive agriculture
and the adoption of modern agricultural techniques. In order to better
utilize available water resources, on-farm works would be undertaken for
a total area of 57,000 ha in the four command areas of Mahanadi I and II,
Salandi and Hirakud. The works would include field channels, field drains,
necessary control structures and land leveling and shaping where necessary.
12.       Planning and Design.  Topographical and cadastral surveys would be
carried out during the consolidation process. The topographical surveys
would be carried out on a 15m x 15m grid with contours of 0.30 m intervals.
Layout plans and cost estimates would be made for each chak. The design of
field channels and drains would be undertaken on the basis of the topography
and rights of way for these would be provided along the realigned boundaries
of the holdings. All works would be carried out by the staff of the Agri-
culture Engineering Organization (paras 29-30).
13.       The field channels would be constructed as an extension of the main
canal system. They would be provided with masonry checks, turnouts and drop
structures. Lining would be provided for about 20% of the total length of the
field channels, principally in the main section near the head reaches of the
channels, which often are in raised embankments to gain command of downstream
areas. Such lining would reduce seepage losses in these reaches and improve
the reliability of water supply to tail end areas.
14.       Where natural drainage is inadequate, field drains would be provided
to: (i) reduce the area, depth and duration of flooding during heavy rains;
(ii) remove drainage of paddy fields when needed; (iii) provide drainage
of paddy fields when needed, and (iv) intercept groundwater flow, particu-
larly the seepage from irrigation.
15.       Principal field channels would have an escape to a drain and each
farm would be provided with an outlet to a field drain. Access to fields is
traditionally available by informal rights-of-way, which connect with public
tracks and roads. Permanent structures would be provided where field channels
and drains cross access roads and tracks.
16.       Land shaping requirements generally vary from one command area to
another, depending upon the topography, the depth and texture of soils, the
size of holdings, pre-project conditions -- whether already shaped or leveled
or relatively undeveloped -- the amount of rainfall, and the type of crops to
be grown. In Hirakud, Salandi and the Mahanadi delta, virtually the entire
area is already bunded and leveled. Some leveling still continues in Hirakud,
generally as an off-season occupation of cultivators with marginal areas of
particularly irregular topography on their holdings. Where land development
111



ANNEX 3
Page 5
would be carried out in conjuction with land consolidation, the land is anti-
cipated to be leveled by the cultivators. This would consist principally of
re-leveling portions of isolated fields cut off during alignment to bring
them to the level of adjacent fields. The change in level would be only a
few inches in most cases, and the cultivators would be able to carry out this
work in the course of cultivation.
17.       Construction Methods.  Construction of field channels and drains,
which is mostly earthwork and masonry (drop structures, division boxes,
farm outlets), would be let to small village contractors. All excavation
would be done by manual labor. The construction would be supervised by the
staff of the Agricultural Engineering Organization. Land leveling and shap-
ing, which is negligible, would be carried out by the cultivators.
III. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENT
Cost Estimates
18.       The cost of land consolidation which mainly covers the establishment
expenditure is estimated at Rs 300 per ha.
19.       Based on the experiences from the CAD pilot projects in Orissa,
costs of on-farm works are estimated as follows:
Rs/ha
Field Channels
Unlined (80%)                                   110
Lined   (20%)                                   220
Structures                                       50
Field Drains                                       60
Structures                                       10
Access Crossings (channels and drains)             10
Sub-total                                    460
Physical Contingencies (20%)                       92
Administration, Engineering and
Supervision (20%)                                92
Rounded     650
112



ANNEX 3
Page 6
20.       Total CAD costs would be US$10.8 M equivalent, including physical
contingencies and establishment costs but net of price contingencies. Since
most of the works would be carried out by manual labor with a small amount
of materials, taxes, duties and the foreign exchange component of the proj-
ect are negligible. Price contingencies are based on an estimated annual
inflation rate of 8%. This would give an estimated cost for CAD of US$13.3 M
equivalent.
Financing and Disbursements
21.       The proposed credit of US$2.4 M for the CAD would finance 40% of
the four-year program of land consolidation and on-farm works. In most on-
going CAD programs, IDA disburses against the cost of civil works. However,
since consolidation is a time consuming operation (2 1/2 to 3 years) and the
GOO would incur the costs for consolidation long before the on-farm works
are implemented, two disbursement categories would be established for the CAD:
one for land consolidation and another for on-farm works. Disbursement for
land consolidation would be made at a rate of Rs 150 per ha against Commis-
sioner of Land Register and Resettlement's certificate of completion of
consolidation works. Disbursement for on-farm works would be made for 55%
of the ARDC's refinance for on-farm works against a certificate of expendi-
ture. The documentation for CAD would be retained by GOO and ARDC for
inspection during project supervision. The estimated schedule of expenditure,
the proposed allocation of the proceeds of the credit and an annual disburse-
ment schedule are presented in Annex 4.
Accounts and Audits
22.       The implementing agencies of CAD would prepare and maintain separate
accounts and financial statements on expenditures for CAD works under IDA
financing in accordance with sound accounting practice. Such accounts and
financial statements would be audited annually by the Auditor General of
Orissa. Complete accounts, financial statements would be available for inspec-
tion during project supervision. Audit summaries would be submitted to IDA
within nine months after each fiscal year. ARDC would require participating
banks to maintain separate accounts for project lending which would be audited
and submitted to IDA within four months after the end of each year, together
with an audited ARDC statement of project lending to such banks.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
General
23.       The success of command area development is largely dependent on an
effective organizational structure. In Orissa, the organization extends from
the Cabinet level down to village committee.
113



ANNEX 3
Page 7
State Committee for Command Area Development
24.       In May 1976, GOO constituted three Command Area Development Auth-
orities (CADAs) for the three major irrigation systems of Hirakud, Salandi
and Mahanadi Delta. In order to ensure effective supervision of the CAD
programs in all three systems as well as to bring about inter-departmental
coordination, the GOO has set up a State Committee presided over by the Chief
Minister. Members are ministers, secretaries and heads of departments and
agencies connected with CAD, the Chief Secretary, the Additional Chief
Secretary, the Agricultural Production Commissioner, the Commissioner,
CAD and the Chairmen of the three CADAs. The CAD Commissioner, who is
also Special Secretary to Government in the Agricultural and Cooperation,
Irrigation and Power and Revenue Departments, is appointed as the convenor
of the State Committee. The Agriculture and Cooperation Department is the
administrative department for CAD.
The Command Area Development Authority (CADA)
25.       The CADA is the main management unit at the project level.  It is
registered as a "Society" in order to enable the CADA to take up loans on
behalf of the ineligible farmers. The main functions of the CAD would be:
(a) formulation of a plan, program or scheme for maximizing
agricultural production in the concerned command area;
(b) implementation of such a plan, program or scheme as may
be necessary for the integrated development of the area;
(c)  modernization, maintenance and efficient operation of the
irrigation system up to the outlet of one cusec capacity;
(d) construction and development of field channels and drains
within the command of each outlet;
(e) development and maintenance of the drainage system;
(f) land leveling on an outlet command basis for the type
of irrigated crop that is to be grown;
(g)  fair distribution of water to individual fields;
(h) consolidation of holdings and redrawing of field
boundaries on an outlet command basis;
(i) development of groundwater to supplement surface
irrigation;
(j) selection and introduction of suitable cropping
pattern;
114



ANNEX 3
Page 8
(k) supply of all inputs and services including credit;
(1) development of marketing, processing facilities and
communication;
(m)  preparing individual programs of action for small and
marginal farmers and agricultural laborers;
(n) diversification of agriculture and development of
activities like animal husbandry, farm forestry,
poultry; and
(o) soil conservation and afforestation where necessary.
26.       In respect of these functions, CADA acts as the coordinating
agency. However, it has the power to direct, subject to broad guidelines
indicated by the Government, the manner in which programs relating to
Agriculture, Cooperation and Animal Husbandry would be executed. It also
exercises administrative control and in some cases, financial control over
agencies responsible for implementation of on-farm development works.
27.       The CADA would be provided with working capital initially from the
GOO (through the Agriculture and Cooperation Department) to execute on-farm
works through the Agricultural Engineering Organization. The beneficiaries
while applying for loans would authorize the commercial and cooperative banks
to place the amount with the CAD for executing CAD works.
Chak Level Operating Committee
28.       The operation and maintenance of field channels and drains would
rest with the farmers. A Chak Level Operating Committee, consisting of
nominees from the cultivators, is established within one chak for this pur-
pose.
Agricultural Engineering Organization (AEO)
29.       The AEO is a unit established in the DAFP and headed by the Joint
Director of Agriculture, Engineering. The unit is responsible for planning,
design and execution of on-farm works. Two special Divisions would be estab-
lished for the sole purposes of topographical survey, alignment of field
channels and drains, preparation of outlet-wise detailed estimates and super-
vision of on-farm works carried out by small contractors (para 17). Each
Division is headed by an Executive Engineer who is assisted by four Assistant
Agriculture Engineers and 16 Junior Agriculture Engineers.
30.       The AEO would be suitable for implementing on-farm works since it
has staff with training in both agriculture and engineering. They also have
experiences from planning, design and supervision of on-farm works in the
pilot projects (para 3). Surveys of on-farm works would be carried out during
the non-construction season.
115



ANNEX 3
Page 9
Land Consolidation Process
31.       The process of land consoLidation would be conducted through various
stages, such as
(a) cadastral survey, topographical survey, preparation
of maps and layout of irrLgation, drainage and road
systems;
(b) determination of land rights, valuation of different
land classes, and settlement of rent and cess wherever
necessary;
(c) preparation of a new plan for the village, including
allocation of lands for communal purposes (such as
field channels and drains, access roads and other
public uses);
(d) reallocation of lands in compact holdings to each land
owner; and
(e) preparation of land ownership records and maps based
on the new land allocations.
32.       The consolidation process is a lengthy one since ample provision is
made for objections and appeals by the farmers concerned at each stage in the
process. Completion of consolidation in a camp (para 34) will take about
2 1/2 to 3 years.
33.       Fragmentation of the consolidated plots is prevented under the pro-
vision of the Act. Transfer of land ownership is allowed for holdings larger
than 1 ac. Holdings less than 1 ac can only be sold to the adjoining farmer.
Consolidation Organization (Figure L)
34.       The responsibility for consolidation works rests with the Consolida-
tion Unit, established in the Revenue Department and headed by a Director of
Consolidation (DC). The basic operating unit for the scheme is a consolidation
camp (normally covering 1,500-2,500 ha of consolidable area), consisting of an
Assistant Consolidation Officer (ACO), an amin (surveyor) and two consolidators.
Each camp is responsible for cadastral surveys, field inquiries for determina-
tion of valuation of land, preparation of land records and maps, carving out
new consolidated plots and alloting them to landowners. About 5 to 8 camps
constitute a circle (covering about 15,000 to 25,000 ha of consolidable area),
headed by a Consolidation Officer (CO). He has supervision responsibility and
the power to resolve disputes concerning allotment of consolidated lands and
the determination of land value. About three circles constitute a range,
headed by a Deputy Director, Consolidation (DDC), who also has jurisdiction
116



ANNEX 3
Page 10
over the appeal made by landowners. The Director of Consolidation (DC) has
overall administrative control and supervision responsibility. He also has
authority to reverse decisions made by the DDC. The Consolidation Commissioner
(CC), who is responsible for the formulation of the program, has final juris-
diction over the appeals made by farmers against the decision of lower con-
solidation authorities. The budgetary provision for consolidation works
would come from the Revenue Department. The Act provides for cost recovery
not more than Rs 25 ha from the owners of consolidated units.
Consolidation Committee (CC)
35.       A special feature of the scheme is the involvement of the village
community in all stages of operation. A CC, comprised of at least one land-
less agricultural laborer, one representative of each category of landowners
and one person from the Scheduled Castes/Tribes, is constituted under the
statute for this purpose in the area covered by a camp. The CC would advise
the consolidation officers on matters such as determination of value of land
and structures as well as on the allotment of consolidated holdings.
Financing On-Farm Works
36.       On-farm works in the consolidated area would be voluntary as land
would be already acquired for this purpose within one chak (outlet) under the
Consolidation Scheme. The costs would be apportioned among the beneficiaries
according to the extent of holdings owned by them.
37.       Financing of CAD works would be available to all farmers from the
Land Development Banks (LDBs) and Commercial Banks (CBs). It is roughly
estimated that 80% of the loan requirements would be made by the LDBs and CBs.
Long-term loans secured by mortgages on the land scheduled for development,
would be provided for a maximum 15 years at a minimum interest rate of about
10.5% with a grace period of two years. Farmers who are ineligible to apply
for loans due to defective land titles or because of overdues on debts to
local authorities, cooperative or commercial financing institutions would
be provided with unsecured special loans (para 38) at 14% for 12 years with
the same grace period. However, in the consolidated area, land titles would
be cleared in the course of land consolidation. Consequently, the financing
problems for ineligible farmers would be minimal.
38.       Secured LDB and CB loans would be refinanced at a rate of 90% by
the Agricultural Refinance Development Corporation (ARDC). The financial
positions of the LDBs and CBs have improved over the years. In 1975-76, the
average recovery rate was about 60%-70%. Unsecured loans would be fully
refinanced by the CAD Special Loans Fund administered by ARDC. Financial
responsibility for these Special Loans Fund would be shared by GOI, GOO and
117



ANNEX 3
Page 11
ARDC. The conditions of the fund would be negotiated between ARDC, GOI and
GOO. The main features of the fund would be as follows:
(a) The Fund would be utilized for financing the expenditure
in connection with on-farm development in respect of
ineligible farmers (farmers who are not able to get
funds from banks for on-farm development for one reason
or the other);
(b) The requirements of finances for on-farm development works
in respect of ineligible farmers would be estimated at the
commencement of every financial year and would be contri-
buted in two stages; 50% of the estimated requirements will
be contributed in advance by the three agencies, namely,
GOI, GOO and ARDC in the proportions of 50%, 25% and 25%,
respectively, the remaining 50% will be contributed by all
the three agencies in the same proportion as soon as 80% of
the contributions made in advance are fully utilized;
(c) The Fund would be maintained by the ARDC;
(d) The Fund would be administered by a committee consisting
of the representatives of GOI, ARDC and GOO;
(e) The accounts of the Fund would be maintained by ARDC;
(f) The Fund would be a revolving fund and all recoveries
in respect of lending out of this Fund shall be credited
to the Fund;
(g) The GOO shall not withdraw their contributions from the
Fund until all command area projects in the State are
completed and until the loans from uneligible farmers
are fully repaid;
(h) The contribution from GOI shall not be withdrawn so long
as contributions from ARDC are withdrawn; and
(i) The GOO would guarantee the loans given by the Fund.
Operation and Maintenance of On-Farm Works
39.       A warabundi (rotational) system of irrigation would be followed to
reduce seepage losses and to improve operation. Under rotational irrigation,
the full flow from the one cusec outlet would be delivered to one farm ditch
or one cultivator at time fixed intervals, with the remainder of the farm
delivery system remaining unused. This would largely concentrate seepage in
the upstream section of the field channels, which would be lined (para 13).
118



ANNEX 3
Page 12
The proper control of structures and good organization and supervision are
required for effective operation of the warabundi system. Responsibilities
for water distribution in such manner and maintenance of field channels and
drains would rest with the Chak Level Operating Committee (para 28).
Program Implementation
40.        A phased program of implementing consolidation works and on-farm
development are as follows:
----- Land Consolidation -----            On-Farm Development ----
(in '000 ha)                          (in '000 ha)
77/78 78/79 79/80  80/81  Total  77/78  78/79 79/80 80/81  Total
Mahanadi I   19.5  16.5   5.4    8.6   50.0    2.0   2.0   5.0   11.0   20.0
Mahanadi II  11.5  20.4  22.5   39.6   94.0    2.0   2.0   8.0   16.0   28.0
Salandi         -    1.1   8.4   11.5   21.0        -      -    4.0    4.0    4.0
Hirakud         -      -    3.1   31.9   35.0       -      -    5.0    5.0    5.0
Total   31.0  38.0  39.4   91.6  200.0    4.0   4.0  13.0   36.0   57.0
V. AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Coastal Areas (Mahanadi, Salandi)
41.        Due to the flat topography and leveled land, paddy is grown exclu-
sively in the kharif except in limited areas of high land. The paddy crop is
mainly late maturing, photo-sensitive, winter varieties. The average irri-
gated yield is low (about 1.6 tons/ha), partly due to unreliability of water
supply and partly due to inadequate extension services. With improved ex-
tension and cultural practices (more timely planting and weeding, higher
plant population), paddy yield would increase to 2.0 tons/ha. Better water
control as a result of field channels and drains from the turnout to each
farm would increase yields significantly to (2.3 tons/ha) and make possible a
spread in the use of HYVs. Improved water control and cultural practices
would also lead to some increase in the area sown with rabi paddy HYVs and
increase yield from its present level of 2.2 tons/ha to 3.3 tons/ha. Some
pulses and oilseeds (mostly groundnuts) would also be grown in the rabi
with yields increasing slightly. The present weighted average cropping
intensity is 143%, reaching 145% in "head-reach" farm and 140% in the "tail-
end" farms. The discrepancies in cropping intensities would be reduced
due to more equal distribution of water under the project.
119



ANNEX 3
Page 13
"ion-Coastal Area (Hirakud)
42.       The area is more undulating with slopes ranging from 4% to 10%.
However, in the irrigated area most of the lands are leveled. Paddy is
still the predominant crop in the kharif, mostly of local or improved
varieties. The HYVs are widely planted in the rabi. Irrigated wheat is
gaining popularity as it requires less water than rabi paddy. Yield rates
are similar to that in the Mahanadi Delta. However, the average cropping
intensity is higher at 159%, with 140% for "tail-end" farms and 170% for
head reach" farms.
Crop Inputs and Farm Budgets
43.       The average farm sizes in the command areas vary from 1.22 ha
in Mahanadi Delta to 2.30 ha in Hirakud system, with the median size
around 1.0 ha. For farm budget analysis, a 1.0 ha farm is chosen to repre-
sent the cultivators in the project areas. Since on-farm development would
affect farmers located within a 40 ha outlet differently, the following
farm models are analyzed:
Farm                         Cropping Intensity
Command Area          Size         Type                     %
(ha)                          P        W       W
Qfahanadi             1.0       "Head-reach"        145      145     148
Salandi                         "Tail-end"          140      140     148
Hirakud               1.0       "Head-reach"        170      170     173
"Tail-end"          140     140      173
P : Present           W : future without CAD         W : future with CAD
44.       The following assumptions have been made in the analysis:
(a) Net Cultivated Area. At present and "future without project",
the net cultivated area is 1.0 ha. It is estimated that about
2% of the command area would be acquired for field channels
and drains. Consequently, the net cultivated area under
"future with project" condition would be 0.98 ha.
(b) Crop Yields and Input Requirements. The present yields and
input requirements are based on the results from agro-
economic surveys in the command areas. Projected yields
and input requirements are based on interviews with the
progressive farmers in the area and cultivators in the
120



ANNEX 3
Page 14
pilot projects on water management. Detailed descrip-
tions are presented in Annex 2, Table 2. Projected
future yields are partly based on improved extension
and cultural practices resulting from Orissa Agricul-
tural Development Project.
(c) Hired Labor. Based on the results from the agro-economic
surveys, it is assumed that "head-reach" farmers would
hire about 58% of annual labor requirements and tail
end farmers about 44%. Under project condition, since
yields would be similar for both types of farms due to
better water control, the proportion of hired labor
would be the same. Because of increased yields, it is
assumed that about 60% of labor requirements would be
hired.
(d) Cropping Pattern. Results from the agro-economic survey
indicate that the discrepancies between "head-reach" and
"tail-end" farms are less in the M4ahanadi and Salandi
command areas than in the Hirakud system. This may be
due to more un'leveled lands in the latter. Consequently,
the benefits of on-farm development would be more for
farmers in Hirakud than in Mlahanadi and Salandi areas.
Furthermore, since the "tail-end" farmers would then be
assured of more timely supply and no longer suffer from
water logging, their irrigated areas and yields would
rise more substantially than those of "head reach"
farmers.
(e) Land Revenue Taxes. A weighted average of Rs 20 per ha
for different types of land is included as land revenue
taxes in the farm budgets.
(f) Irrigation Charges: The prevailing water charges, which
vary depending on crops, are assumed for future situa-
tions. A detailed list of water rates is presented in
Annex 2, Table 6.
(g) Loan Repayment: The investment costs for CAD works
(excluding consolidation costs) are estimated at Rs 600
per ha (in July 1977 price level). At an interest rate
of 11% for 12 years, the annual payment for the loan
would be Rs 180 ha. These costs have been included in
the analysis. Since the CAD loan and its terms are
fixed in constant terms (i.e. at 1977 price level),
the repayment would decline in real terms. Conse-
quently, the farm budgets would give an exaggerated
picture of relative income change (i.e. from present
and "future without" to "future with").
Present and projected farm incomes are presented in Table 2.
121



ANNEX 3
Page 15
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
General
45.       The dissemination of modern farm technologies in large measure
depends on the degree of water control at the farm level. With irregular
irrigation, farmers prefer the traditional varieties which stand up well to
intermittent irrigation supplies and inadequate drainage systems. The intro-
duction of reliable irrigation and adequate drainage through investments in
CAD would facilitate the spread of new varieties, encourage increased use
of inputs and extend the irrigated areas, resulting in a production in-
crease in the order of 25,000 tons of rice in the command areas.
Employment Benefits
46.       Labor requirements would rise, mainly as the result of higher
yields and more intensive land use in the command areas. Taking into account
the likely growth in farm employment that would occur, resulting from the
operation of the Agriculture Development Project, about 6,000 full time jobs
would be generated from the CAD investments. With an increase in annual
gross value of agricultural production of some Rs 55 M at full development,
increase in non-farm employment would be on the order of 3,000 man-years.
Income Distribution
47.       The net farm incomes of cultivators of 1 ha holdings would change
as follows:
Net Farm Income    Relative Increase
Command Area      Type             (Rs)              due to Project (%)
P             W
Mahanadi    Head-reach    1,750  1,730  1,740            0.5
Salandi     Tail-end        885   1,495  1,740          16
Hirakud     Head-reach    1,300  2,120  2,250            1
Tail-end       1,050  1,690  2,250         33
48.       After loan payment on CAD works, net farm income of "tail-end"
farmers would increase about 16% in the coastal command area and 33% in
non-coastal command area. Although no significant increase in income
would occur to the "head-reach" farmer, he would have stable yields as
the result of CAD. At full development, farm incomes would be similar
for both "head-reach" and "tail-end" farmers.
Economic Evaluation
49.       Since water regulation through field channels and drains under
the project is an alternative to existing field-to-field irrigation, the
cultivators near the "tail-end" of a system likely benefit substantially
122



ANNEX 3
Page 16
from CAD works while those nearest the outlet would benefit less from water
savings generated from better water control. Based on the agro-economic
surveys of the command areas, it is assumed that about 65% of the area would be
classified as "head and middle reach" and the remainder as "tail-end". The
economic evaluation of CAD is based on the following assumptions:
(a) Prices. The economic prices of agricultural outputs and
inputs are discussed in Annex 5.
(b) Net Benefits. The net benefits per ha are the weighted
average of benefits accruing to the two types of farms.
Since land leveling would be minimal, soil fertility
would not be affected. The following pattern of build-
up is assumed:
Year          0   1   2   3   4    5   6-10
Benefits %   0  40  65  85  95  100   100
(c)  Investment Costs.  Since many of the steps involved in
land consolidation (i.e. topographic surveys, clearing
of land records, border realignment) are needed for the
planning and design of CAD works, the cost of the land
consolidation program (estimated at Rs 200/ha) consti-
tutes a part of the investment costs of the CAD. The
economic cost for land consolidation is derived by
adjusting the financial cost to the SCF of 0.75. The
cost of on-farm works is estimated at Rs 600 per ha.
The construction conversion factor 0.70 is applied to
financial costs.
50.       A summary of costs and benefits of CAD works is described in Table
3. The economic rates of return would be 34% and 35% for Mahanadi, Salandi
command area and Hirakud system, respectively.
Risk and Uncertainty
51.       Given the estimated high rate of return and the experiences gained
from the pilot operations in Puri and Sambalpur districts, the investment risk
associated with the CAD is small.
August 1977
L'z'5



(OKISSA iKI (GATIUN PI1UJEECI
P'resent and Projected Cropping Patterns aud Pro(luction 1/
in (a) Coastal Area and (b) Non-Coastal Area
Present                 Future Without Project             Future With Proiect
Produc-                        Produc-                           Produc-
Area      Yield   tion         Area       Yield   tion         Area       Yield      tion
000 'ha   T/ha    000 'T       000 'Ia   T/ha    000 'T        000 'ha   T/ha        000 'T
Kharif                                            A.  COASTAI. AREA (52,000 ha)
Paddy (local)        46.80   1.565    73.24          41.60   2.095    87.15         15.60      2.3       35.88
Paddy (HYV)            -       -          -           5.20   2.395    12.45         31.30      2.8       87.60
Rabi
Paddy (IIYV)         14.70   2.140    31.45          14.70   2.84      41.79        15.60      3.3       51.48
Pulses                5.20   0.565       2.94         5.20   0.665      3.46          5.20     0.8        4.16
Oilseeds              7.80   0.965       7.53         7.80   1.265      9.87         7.80      1.4       10.92
Total (ha)         74.50                           74.50                          75.50
Net Cultivated
Area (ha)        52.00                          52.00                           51.00
Cropping Inten-
sity  (Z)         143                            143                             148
B.  NON-COASTAL AREA (5,000 ha)
Kharif
Paddy (local)         4.20   1.565    6.57            3.77   2.09       7.89         1.50      2.3        3.45
Paddy (HYV)           0.25   1.765    0.44            0.68   2.51       1.71         3.00      2.8        8.40
Oilseeds              0.05   0.900    0.05            0.05   1.1        0.06         0.05      1.3        0.07
Vegetables            0.10   5.000    0.50.           0.10   6.0        0.60         0.10      7          0.70
Rabi
Paddy (local)         0.l3   1.80       1.31          0.48   2.2        1.06          -         -          -
Paddy (HYV)           2.31   2.157    4.98            2.56   2.88       7.37         3.50      3.3       11.55
Wheat                 0.10   1.50       0.15          0.10   1.93       0.19         0.10      2.2        0.22
Oilseeds              0.13   1.00       0.13          0.13   0.13       0.17         0.15      1.4        0.21
Pulses                0.05   0.60       0.03          0.05   0.70       0.03         0.05      0.8        0.04
Vegetables            0.05   6.00       0.30          0.05   7.00       0.35         0.05      8          0.40
Total (ha)          7.97                            7.97                           8.50
Not Culviate'
Area  (ha)        5.00                           5.00)                           4.90)
Cropping Inten-
sitv  (%)         159                            15P                             173
1/Weighted on the assumption that 65% of the area is in Head and Mid reach and 35% in Tail reach.                                  '
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



INDTIA
ORISSA IRRICA'T[ON PROJECT
Non-Coastal Area (Ilirakud)
Farm Budget for 1.0 l1a Farm
----------------kiead-Keach------  -------------- Tail-Reacli -------------
-----P-----    -----FWO-----  -----W-----             P ------   ----FWO-----   ----rw------
Area   Yield   Area   Yield   Area    Yield    Area   Yield   Area   Yield   Area   Yield
RKlarif                              (ha)   (t/ha)  (ha)   (t/ha)  (11a)   (t/ha)   (ha)   (t/ha)  (ha)   (t/ha)  (ha)   (t/ha)
Paddy, local                       0.85    1.6    0.75    2.2    0.30    2.3         0.82    1.5    0.76    1.9    0.30    2.3
Paddy, IIYV                        0.05    1.8    0.15    2.6    0.60    2.8         0.05    1.7    0.11    2.3    0.60    2.8
Oilseeds                           0.01    0.9    0.01    1.1    0.01    1.3         0.01    0.9    0.04    1.1    0.01    1.3
Vegetables                         0.02    5.0    0.02    6.0    0.02    7.0         0.02       5    0.02    6.0    0.02    7.0
Rabi
Paddy, local                       0.15    1.8    0.10    2.2        -       -       0.14    1.8    0.19    2.2        -       2.3
Paddy, HYV                         0.55    2.2    0.60    3.0    0.70    3.3         0.30    2.0    0.35    2.5    0.70    3.3
Wheat                              0.02    1.5    0.02    2.0    0.02    2.2         0.02    1.5    0.02    1.8    0.02    2.2
Oilseeds                           0.03    1.0    0.03    1.3    0.03    1.2         0.02    1.0    0.02    1.2    0.03    1.4
Pulses                             0.01    0.6    0.01    0.7    0.01    0.8         0.01    0.6    0.01    0.7    0.01    0.8
Vegetables                         0.01    6.0    0.01    7.0    0.01    8.0         0.01    6.0    0.01    7.0    0.01    8.0
Total Cropped Area  (ha)             1.70      -      1.70     -      1.70      -       140      -       140     -       170      -
Net Cultivated Area (ha)             1.00      -      1.00     -       .98     -       1.00      -     1.00      -       .98      -
Cropping Intensity  (%)               170      -       170     -       173     -       1.40      -       140     -       173      -
GROSS PRODUCTION VALUE (Rs)                3470           4940            5730               2670            3760              5730
FARM PRODUCTION COSTS  (Rs)                2090           2740            3300              1550             2000              3300
NET PRODUCTION VALUE   (Rs)                1380           2200            2430              1120             1760              2430                11
Land Taxation         (Rs)                 20             20              20                 20              20                20              m F _
Irrigation Charges   (Rs)                  60             60              60                50               50               60 1                X
Loan Repaynments      (Rs)               -_    .          -              205_1/              -               -                205
Sub-total         (Rs)                80              80             285                70               70              285
u
NET FARM INCOME          (Rs)              1300           2120            2145               1050            1690              2145
1/  The loan repayment is fixed in constant terms (1977 price level) and, consequently, declining in real terms.



INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Coastal Area (Mahanadi, Salandi)
Farm Budget for 1.0 ha Farm
-------------llead-Reaclh---------------    ---------------Tail-Reach ---------------
-P------   ----FWO-____           -----PW-----    --FWo- -                --- ___F------
Area   Yield   Area   Yield   Area   Yield    Area   Yield   Area   Yield   Area   Yield
Kharif                                 (lha)   (t/ha)  (ha)   Ct/ha)  (ha)   (t/ha)    (ha)   Ct/ha)  (lha)   (t/ha)  (ha)    (t/ha)
Paddy, local                        0.90    1.6    0.80    2.2    0.30    2.3          0.90    1.5    0.80    1.9    0.30    2.3
Paddy, IIYV                          -        -      0.10    2.5    0.60    2.8          -        -     0.10    2.2    0.60    2.8
Rabi
Paddy, HYV                          0.30    2.2    0.30    3=0    0.30    3.3          0.25                       2.5    0.30    3.3
Pulses                              0.10    0.6    0.10    0.7    0.10    0.8          0.10    0.5    0.10    0.6    0.10    0.8
Oilseeds                            0.15    1.0    0.15    1.3    0.15    1.4          0.15    0.9    0.15    1.2    0.15    1.4
Total Cropped Area  (ha)              1.45      -      1.45      -      1.45      -      1.40       -     1.40       -     1.70       -
Net Cultivated Area (ha)              1.00      -      1.00      -       .98      -       1.00      -     1.00       -       .98      -
Cropping Intensity  (%)                145      -       145      -       148      -        140      -       140      -       148      -
CROSS PRODUCTION VALUE (Rs)                 2850           4020             4600               2510             3340              4600
FARM PRODUCTION COSTS  (Rs)                 1640           2230             2620               1570             1790              2620
NET PRODUCTION VALUE   (Rs)                 1210           1790             1980                940             1550              1980
Land Taxation          (Rs)                 20             20               20                 20               20                20
Irrigation Charges   (Rs)                   40             40               40                 35               35                40
Loan Repayinent         -                                  l~~~~~~~~~~/ l/
I.oan Repayment        (Rs)                 -                              180-                -                -                180-
Sub-total         (Rs)                 60              60              220                 55               55               220
NET FARM INCOME          (Rs)               1150           1730             1740                885             1495              1740         w
1/  The loan payment is fixed in constant terms (1977 price level) and, consequently, declining in real terms.
0'



ANIEX 3
Table 3
INDIA
ORISSA MEDIUM AND MINOR AND CAD PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits of
Command Area Development
M.ahanadi and Salandi Command Area
Year
1     2      3     4      5      6     7      8      9     20-15
_____________ --------- Rs/ha----------- - ----
Investment Costs
Land Consolidation        -68   -68   -69   0        0     0      0      0     0        0
On-farm Development
(including planning
and supervision)            0      0      0  -420   0      0      0      0     0        0
Total                -68   -68   -69  -420   0        0     0      0      0        0
Economic Net Benefits
Head-reach                  0      0      0   0      100   160   210   240   250        250
Tail-reach                  0      0      0   0      270   440   570   640   670        670
Weighted Average -/  0        0     0   0      160   260   340   380   400        400
Economic Rate of Return          34%
Hirakud Command Area
Investment Costs
Land Consolidation        -68   -68   -69   0          0     0      0      0     0        0
On-farm Development
(including planning
and supervision)            0      0     0  -420       0     0      0     C      0        0
Total                -68   -68   -69  -420       0      0     0      0      0       0
Economic Net Benefits
Head-reach                  0      0      0     0.   60   150   210   250   280         280
Tail-reach                  0      0     0      0   180   500   680   820   910         910
Weighted Average -/  0        0     0      0   100   275   375   450   500        500
Economic Rate of Return          35%
1/  Weighted on the assumption that 65% of the area is in Hqead-reach and 35%. in
Tail-reach.                                                                        127



INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF ORISSA CONSOLIDATION OF HOLDINGS
HOARD Of IHfVENIIE
CONSO)ItIATION
COMMISSIONER
DIFiECTOR
R.Itql.               DIIPFITY DIRECTOR                     DEPUTY DIRECTOH                          8-11IpI Nin,ip,rI                     DEPUTY DIRECTOR                        DEPUTY DIIRECTOFR                      DEPUTY DIRECTOR
ISII 150(l 1 I. C;li.0eS BNOiIoAAii                                                                                                             Bl .IrO                  |              A-;-W                                BOd,ii'i
2 CONSOLDATIO                          3 CONSOLIDATION                        I CONSOLIDATION
115 25.0110 hd)    2 CONSOLIDATION OFFICERS             3 CONSOLIDATION OFFICERS              3 CONSOLIDATION OFFICERS                        OFFICERS                               UFOFIC RS                              OFFICEFIS
Csnlx              31 ASSISTANT  ONSOLIDATION            20 ASSISTANT CONSOLIDATION                    37 ASSISTANT                            I6 ASSISTANT                         S 24 ASSISTANT                           7 ASSIT AN1
11.5131 3,000 hil          OFFICERS                                OFFICERS                      CONSOLIDATION OFFICERS                 CONSOLIDATION OFFICERS                 CONSOLIDATION OFI-ICEFiS                    CONSOLIDATION
I                                                                                                    OfF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEICLR
-- -   --------   ---                        -- --                                         - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - -  -  - - ---   -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - I  -- --   -- - - --  --- - --- -    --- - -- --   I - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
3 CONSOLIDATION OFFICEFIS                                                                                           2 CONSOLIDATION OFFICERS                   2 CONSOLIDATFION
01-F ICERS
I),. 781                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                21
F[)' ' 781   |  8 ASSISTANTC CNSOLIDATION |                            ,                                                      13 ASSISTANT                           19 ASSISTANT            |                                            5|
OFFICERIS|  CONSOLIDATION OFF ICERS                                                                                                                CONSOLIDATION OFFICERS                                                   rD
W0,1d 3-k- 17271



ANNEX 4
INDIA                                               Table 1
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditures-/
Total Cost    FY78    FY79    FY80   FY81    FY82
MduIriain---------------(Rupees mi;lllion) -------------
Medium Irrigation     (Rpemilo)
Projects                   730.0       42.3      99.0   204.9  209.4   174.4
Expected Price
Increases             194.7        1.7     12.2    43.6   64.9    72.3
Sub-total         924.7      44.0    111.2   248.5  274.3   246.7
Land Consolidation          60.0        9.3      11.4    11.8   27.5       -
On-Farm Works               37.0        2.6       2.6     8.4   23.4      -
Sub-total          97.0      11.9      14.0    20.2   50.9       -
Expected Price
Increases              22.3        0.5      1.7      4.3   15.8      -
Sub-total         119.3      12.4      15.7    24.5   66.7       -
Total (Rs M)             1,044.0       56.4    126.9   273.0  341.0   246.7
Total (US$ M)              116.0        6.3      14.1    30.3   37.9    27.4
1/ The average annual increase in the wholesale index for India was 8% for the
period 1960/1976.  This rate is assumed to continue during the implementation period.
o0



ANNEX 4
Table 2
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of the Credit
Category                      Proposed Allocation             % of Expenditure
of the Credit                  to be financed
-------US$ million----
(1)  Medium Irrigation                52.3                   65% of civil works
Projects
(2)  Land Consolidation                3.3                  Rs 150 per consolidated ha
(3)  On-farm Works                     2.4                  55% of ARDC's refinance
Total                      58.0
130



ANNEX 4
Table 3
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year                              Disbursements
and Semester                           Semester       Commulative
(US$ million equivalent)
1978   Ist                                -               -
2nd                              1.0              1.0
1979   Ist                              2.0              3.0
2nd                              3.0              6.0
1980   Ist                              4.5             10.5
2nd                              6.0             16.5
1981   Ist                              8.0             24.5
2nd                              9.5             47.0
1982   Ist                              7.0             41.0
2nd                              6.0             47.0
1983   Ist                              5.0             52.0
2nd                              4.0             56.0
1984   Ist                              2.0             58.0
131



ANNEX 5
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUPPORT MATERIALS FOR ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSES
Table of Contents
Pare No.
I.   PRICES FOR ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .........   1
General ................. .00..............0.00........ 
Official Exchange Rate (OER) .......         ................    1
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) ....          ...............    1
Prices of Agricultural Outputs            .....................   1
Prices of Agricultural. Inputs .         .....................    2
Construction Conversion Factor   .....................    2
II.   LABOR ANALYSIS ...*********..........          ...............    3
General ... o..... .... .... .   o.............................   3
Labor Supply  .*        ............................. ...    4
Labor Demand ....................... o ......... o...... ...*    4
Construction Labor   .**.*..* ......................    5
III.   DEVELOPMENT OF BENEFIT MATRIX FOR MEDIUM
IRRIGATION PROJECTS ...*.........................    6
General .........,6
Basic Assumptions ...*0****... *........ .........0.    6
Benefit Factors  ....................                          8
Adjustment to Benefit Factors ............................    8
132



ANNEX 5
Page 1
,AlPOQRT iLATERIALS FOR ECONOIIIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSES
i. PRICES FOR ECONOMIC ANID FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
General
1.        The economic prices of major traded agricultural outputs and inputs
are derived from the IBRD projected 1985 world market prices expressed in
1977 currency value with appropriate adjustments for freight, handling and
processing. The projected economic prices for non-traded crops, on the other
hand, are based on the historical ratios between these crops and that of
rice. The financial prices of various crops are projected on the basis of
their historical price trends (para 4).
Official Exchange Rate (OER)
2.        Until September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially valued at a fixed
Pound Sterling rate. Since then it has been fixed against a "basket" of cur-
rencies. As chese currencies are floating, the US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate
is subject to change. Conversions of financial prices have been made at US$1
to Rs 9.0 which was the short-term average rate prevailing at the time of
appraisal.
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)
3.        In order to take into account the level of protection provided by
tariffs and trade restrictions, a SCF is applied to the price of non-traded
goods and to consumption. For the last five years, the calculation of SCF
gives 0.75 1/.
Prices of Agricultural Outputs
4.        The economic prices for traded goods such as rice, wheat, ground-
nuts, sugarcane are based on their border prices at the OER. The domestic
cost components (i.e. local transport and marketing charges) are adjusted by
the SCF of 0.75. The economic prices for non-traded goods are derived by
applying the historical price ratios between these outputs and rice to the
economic price of rice. The projected financial prices for various crops
are based on the estimated historical price trends 2/ in India, adjusted
for local conditions in Orissa.
1/   As derived by staff of South Asia Projects.  This estimate does not
take into account trade restrictions. Consequently, the estimate
provides an upper limit for SCF.
2/   See Draft on Economic and Financial Prices of Agricultural Projects in
India, by staff of South Asia Projects Department.
133



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Prices of Agricultural Inputs
5.        Fe-tilizers.  GOI exercises statutory control over the prices of
fertiliz.L. The controlled prices are intended to reflect, not only the
production costs of local industry, but also an equalization factor to
arrive at a "pool" price for both local and imported supplies. At the peak
of international prices in 1974, Government subsidy on imported fertilizer
(i.e. urea) amounted to nearly Rs 2,000 per ton. During recent years, as the
world market prices of fertilizer have decreased, the subsidy is subsequently
eliminated and the controlled prices are about the same level as the world
market prices. Consequently, fDr farm budget analysis, financial prices of
fertilizer are projected to be the same as the projected world market prices.
6.        Agriculture Labor.  The financial wage rate for farm labor is around
Rs 6.0 per day and Rs 4.0 per day during the peak and slack periods, respec-
tively. The economic cost of labor is based on a seasonally adjusted oppor-
tunity cost in terms of output :foregone in alternative employment.  The details
of the analysis are given in Chapter II.
7.        Animal Power.  The rental rates for a pair of oxen is about Rs 8.0
per day. This is roughly equal to the imputed cost to the owner. Consequently,
for financial analysis, the rental charges are included in the farm budget for
all crops and various farm sizes. The economic cost is derived by applying the
SCF to the financial prices.
Construction Conversion Factor
8.        The construction of irrigation infrastructure, roads and on-farm
works is carried out by equipment, and skilled and unskilled labor. For the
economic analysis, the construction conversion factor is estimated as
follows:
(a) Traded Component. This component includes capital-intensive
works which require imported materials. Since it is traded,
the conversion factor is 1.00. It is estimated that about
30% of the construction costs fall under this category.
(b) Non-Traded Component. This component includes works that
require skilled labor and local manufactured materials.
The SCF of 0.75 is used as the conversion factor for these
works. About 30% of the construction costs are included irn
this category.
(c) Unskilled Labor. The shadow wage rate for construction
and unskilled labor is analyzed in Chapter II. For economic
analysis, a conversion factor of 0.43 is used.
134



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Conversion Factor
Traded Items                  1.00
Non-Traded Items              0.60
Unskilled Labor               0.43
Construction Costs
(weighted average)           0.70
9.        A summary of prices for economic and financial analysis is presented
in Table 1.
II. LABOR ANALYSIS
General
10.       Among the states of India, Orissa has the largest percentage of
population living in rural areas (92%). About 83% of the rural labor force
depend on agriculture, varying from 81% in the coastal districts to 84% in
the inland districts. Non-farm occupations form only a minor source of in-
comes to the population in the rural areas. Among them are rural industry
and services which account for 3.6% and 6.4% of the rural workers, respectively.
Services offer employment to 7.4% of rural workers in the coastal regions
and to 5.6% in the inland regions. This notable difference can mainly be
explained by the increased agricultural production resulting from irrigation
in the coastal area.
11.       The average size per capita holding in Orissa is 0.31 ha.  Despite
the low man-to-land ratio, about 30% of the total rural work force consists
of landless agricultural laborers. A majority of cultivators are owner culti-
vators, varying from 45% to 52% of rural working population in coastal dis-
tricts to 55% to 57% in the inland districts. Average farm size in Orissa is
1.9 ha, varying from an average of 1.4 ha in the coastal districts and 2.4 ha
in the inland districts. However, more than 50% the households have less
than 1 ha of irrigated land in coastal district and 2 ha in inland districts.
At present, an average sized family (about 5.8 persons) requires approximately
2.0 ha of unirrigated land or 1.0 ha of irrigated land to meet basic subsis-
tence needs. Consequently, it can be concluded that a large number of farm
households have to rely on wage employment for a major part of their income.
12.       Because of relatively high un- and underemployment in the State,
current wage levels probably have overstated the opportunity cost of farm labor
and construction labor. Thus, the opportunity cost of labor has been derived
from the "S-shaped" curve (shown in Figure 1). The assumption behind the
curve is discussed below (para 16).
135



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Labor Supply
13.       Since the components oi: the project are located in different areas
in the State, the labor supply is not easily identified. Instead, based on
the average cultivable area per agricultural worker for the whole State of
1.44 ha (1971-72), farm labor availability at present is roughly estimated
at 6,900 persons for a cultivated area of 10,000 ha. The estimates of labor
supply have been made using an average of 250 days per annum per worker.
This allows for less than a full day work for the young and old who are
included in the labor force estimate and also for people working long hours
during peak months of agricultural activities (the peak monthly labor supply
is higher than the average for the year).
Labor Demand
14.       Farm Labor.  Estimates of monthly farm labor requirements for various
crops are given in Table 2. Total labor requirements are based on the "typi-
cal" 10,000 ha cropping pattern for medium and minor irrigation projects
(Annex 2). The "typical" project would increase labor requirements from
1.0 bI at present to 2.2 M man-days. Taking into account the likely growth
in farm employment that would occur without the project, about 4,300 full
time jobs would be created in future with project.
15.       Non-Farm Employment.  The project would offer scope for a substantial
rise in agricultural income and hence generate additional income and employ-
ment in the non-farm sector. Experience from similar areas in Asia indicates
that an increase in agricultural production of Rs 15-20,000 would generate
one man-year of employment in the local non-farm sector such as marketing, pro-
cessing and transport. As a result of irrigation, the gross value of pro-
duction of the typical 10,000 ha project would increase by some Rs 25 M.
Thus, the increase in non-farm employment would be on the order of a 1,500
man-years.
16.       Opportunity Cost of Labor.  Scarcity of detailed data on farm income
levels, off-farm employment opportunities and the profile of agricultural
labor force makes the evaluation of shadow wage rates for farm labor fairly
subjective. Theoretically, it is assumed that the relationship between the
quantity and opportunity cost of Labor can be approximated by an S-shaped
curve. The marginal opportunity cost of farm labor is positive at all levels
of demand and increases when more labor is absorbed into field work. Thus,
the increase in opportunity cost is initially slow, reflecting scarcity of
alternative productive employment, with the rate of increase growing as
labor becomes more fully utilized, At employment levels above the maximum
labor availability, the opportunity cost would increase at a slower rate
since the high wage rate would attract a large number of migrants.
17.       In practice, it is reasonable to approximate this theoretical "S-
shaped" curve by three straight segments based on the following assumptions:
136



ANNEX 5
Page 5
(a) At minimum employment levels, the marginal cost would
be the value of additional consumption needed for
family members to undertake field work (Rs 0.7 per
man-day) 1/, plus the value of foregone activities
such as fishing, home improvement (Rs 0.80 per man-
day);
(b) when the monthly farm labor requirements exceed the
off-peak family labor supply (taken as 60% of the
full supply), the marginal cost would be slack market
wage rate (Rs 4.00 per man-day);
(c) at the peak level of employment, the marginal cost
would be equal to the maximum market rate (Rs 6.00
per man-day); and
(d) when the employment is larger than the estimated supply,
the wage rate is assumed to be Rs 6.00 per man-day
which should be adequate to attract migrant labor.
18.       For medium and minor irrigation projects, farm labor is shadow
priced by taking the average of the monthly opportunity cost, which is esti-
mated at Rs 3.45 in financial prices. For economic analysis, the SCF is
applied to the financial opportunity cost, which gives an average shadow
wage rate for farm labor of Rs 2.6 per man-day.
Construction Labor
19.       The construction of irrigated infrastructures such as distributaries
field channels and drains has been traditionally carried out by the labor-
intensive methods during the agricultural slack season. The main source of
supply of construction labor for these small projects is landless agricul-
tural laborers and small farmers. Thus, the output foregone in alternative
employment of the construction labor is represented by the income from
agriculture during slack season. The shadow wage rate (SWR) for construction
labor can be derived from the opportunity cost and would amount to Rs 2.3 per
man-day in financial terms and Rs 1.7 in economic terms, giving a conversion
factor for construction labor 0.43 of average market wage (Rs 4 per man-day).
1/   For India, it has been estimated that an adult male who is not doing
any productive work consumes 1,830 kcal/day. For each hour of manual
work, his calorie requirements increase is 155 kcal/hour. Thus, for a
full eight hour working day, he consumes 3,070 kcal. At a financial
price of rice of Rs 2,115 kg and the caloric value of rice of 3,600
kcal/kg, the incremental rice consumption when he starts to work is 0.043
kg/ hour or 0.344 kg/day. The cost of this consumption is Rs 0.7 day.
137



ANNEX 5
Page 6
III. DEVELOPMENT OF BENEFIT MATRIX FOR MEDIUM
AND MINOR IRRIGATION PROJECTS
General
20.       The medium irrigation projects (MIPs) would be appraised and
approved by the AC of CWC within a free limit defined by IDA (Annex 2). In
order to ensure that assumption for yields, inputs and prices are uniform and
realistic and that projects financed by the IDA credit are economically viable,
a benefit matrix, developed by IDA would be applied to the economic evaluation
of projects submitted to the AC for approval.
21.       The development has taken into account as far as possible the vari-
ance between different agroclimatic zones as well as socioeconomic factors that
would influence the agricultural performance. Based on the extensive field
visits and the analysis of available climatic and agroeconomic data, the
following conclusions have been drawn:
(a) the agricultural conditions of the areas where medium
and minor irrigation projects would be constructed
are largely similar;
(b) the agriculture performance in areas with large tribal
population is not significantly different from that of
non-tribal areas;
(c) farm sizes in tribal areas are not smaller than in
non-tribal areas; and
(d) the difference in non-irrigated yields in various
areas is largely due to the distribution of rainfall
during the kharif season.
Consequently, a general economic benefit matrix can be applied to various
projects. No income distribution weight would be applied in the analysis.
However, adjustment of the benefit matrix would be made for drought prone
area (paras 27-32).
Basic Assumptions
22.       Yields and Crop Input Requirements.  Yields and crop input require-
ments of various crops grown in medlium and minor irrigation areas are dis-
cussed in Annex 2.
138



ANNEX 5
Page 7
23.       Prices.  Economic prices and conversion factors of agricultural
outputs, inputs and construction costs are discussed in Chapters I and II.
24.       Discounting Factor.  A 12% interest has been chosen in the devel-
opment of benefit matrix as this rate represents the opportunity cost of
capital in India. The final year of the construction period is chosen as
the base year for discounting purpose. Consequently, in order to take into account the
time perspective of yield development, build-up rates have been developed
for each crop under each situation (rainfed, irrigated). The annual distri-
bution of construction costs are assumed as follows:
25.       Build-up Rates.  The yield projection is assumed at full develop-
ment (about mid-1980s).
Year                          Implementing Period
5 years                4 years                  3 years
Percent of Construction Costs Incurred Each Year (%)
1             9                      13                      22
2           21                       31                      46
3           30                       35                      32
4           25                       21
5            15
Since the base year for the economic analysis is chosen as the final year of
construction period, the weighted compounding factors for construction costs
would be 1,243, 1,173 and 1,111 for 5, 4, 3 years of implementation, respec-
tively.  For the economic analysis, these factors would have to adjusted by
the construction conversion factor of 0.70.
Benefit Factors
26.       The crop-specific benefit factors, expressed in rupees per ha,
are developed based on the net present value (NPV) approach and the estimated
economic crop budgets (Table 4). The NPV approach implies that the discounted
benefits are higher than discounted costs. This gives the following formula.
50                                 50   bc             50  P. * C
(A cb                               c           b>                _ _    1
i0   c   -              (B   x   I    1    )   >        ____ (l
all crops    c    i=l (l+r)i       all crops            i=l (1+r)i         i=l (l+r)L
Where c  = index for crops
i  = year
A  = area under crop C with project
B  = area under crop C without project
c
b  = net economic benefit in year i of one hectar e under crop c
i
r  = interest rate (at 12%)
C  = total investment costs
P. = percent of total investment costs spent in year i
139



ANNEX 5
50                  50                                   Page  8
E  Pi x C           E     Pi
Rewrite  i=l (1 + r)i    C x i=l (1 + r)i         o
Where   k  =  E      P
0       ____Pi _
i=l (1 + r)i
Divided (1) by ko:
E (A  x     b  / k   ) - E (B  x  b. / k  )  '  C (2)
C        j    0           C         1    0
c       i=l(1 + r)i       c       i=1 (1 + r)i
Let   F  =     bi / k        Where F  = the benefit factor for crop c
il (1 + r)i
Rewrite (2)
Thus
(A  x F)      (B  x F
(A  x F)      (B  x F)  >  C or }3/C = c   c    c    c   c    c
c   c,   c    c   c    c                                C
A summary of benefit factors for future with and without project conditions
is presented in Table 5. The discointed value of future agricultural pro-
duction would be established by multiplying the "future with project" and
present ("approximation for the "fut:ure without project") cropping patterns
with the relevant benefit factors. The difference between "with" and "without"
production values would give the discounted net benefit of the project, which
would be divided by the capital cost to obtain benefit cost ratio.
Adjustment to Benefit Factors
27.          Rainfall in Orissa varies widely not only from season to season
but also from one region to another. The low rainfall area in the State
also has a wide variation of rainfall pattern during the kharif from year
to year. These areas are more prone to frequent droughts which affect
agricultural production severely. Consequently, irrigation is necessary
even during the kharif to ensure crop production as well as stable yields.
28.          Based on district-wise and time series data on rainfall and non-
irrigated yields of paddy in Orissa, a regression analysis in terms of qua-
dratic function was developed to assess the nature of relationship between
rice output and the availability of kharif rainfall (June to October). 1/
2
1/  Regression equation:  Y  = a  + a. R       2
R =         Rk + R
where             YR = rainfed yields
Rk = kharif rainfall
Other variables such as fertilizer consumption, cultivable area per
agricultural worker, proportion of tribal population and average farm
sizes were included in the analysis but the regression coefficients were
always insignificant at the 10% level and virtually no improvements in
the correlation coefficient was achieved.                                 140



ANNEX 5
Page 9
Under the prevailing farm practices and use of inputs, the relationship
between crop yield and rainfall implies a diminishing rate of return to
water at a higher level of rainfall as illustrated in Figure 2. This
relationship is assumed for all rainfed crops included in future and
present cropping pattern.
29.       Assuming an input elasticity as the result of yield increase in
the order of 0.5, the following relationship is developed between yield
and net production value (NPV) of rainfed crop per ha:
Actual Yield as                 NPV as % of NPV
% of Optimum Yield            at Optimum Yield Level
100                            100
90                             87
80                             73
70                             60
60                             47
50                             33
40                             20
30.       However, the rainfall varies from year to year and because of the
diminishing returns to water, the average NPV is lower than the NPV that
corresponds to the average rainfall. The larger the variation in rainfall
the larger the difference between the average NPV and the NPV corresponding
to the average rainfall. Also, given a certain standard deviation, the differ-
ence is larger for areas with lower average rainfall than for areas with
high average rainfall.
31.       The relationship between average kharif rainfall and average NPV
was established by applying a probability distribution to the relationship
between rainfall and NPV. The result is:
Average Rainfall                  Average NPV
as % of Optimum                   as % of NPV
Rainfall                    at Optimum Rainfall
100                              100
90                               97
80                               91
70                               78
60                               58
32.       A review of 50 years annual rainfall for the whole state gives an
average kharif rainfall at 1,280 mm. The optimum rainfall according to the
regression analysis is 1,260 mm. The standard benefit factors are based on
situations where the kharif rainfall is in the range between 1,100 and 1,400
mm, which is the normal situation in most parts of the State. For areas with
lower rainfall, the following adjustments have been done:
141



ANNEX 5
Page 10
Adjustment to Benefit Factors
Average Kharif Rainfall Level             of Rainfed Crops
(at least 20 years)                            (%)
Above 1,100 mm                                       0
1,000 - 1,100 mm                                    -5
Less than 1,000 mm                                 -13
August 1977
142



ATNEX 5
Table 1
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Summary of Prices Economic and Financial Analysis
Economic Prices            Financial Prices
Crops                     1977       1985           1976/77     1985/86
Paddy                   1,000      1,500           1,100       1,140
Wheat                   1,480      1,730           1,500       1,630
Maize                   1,300      1,330           1,200       1,360
Ragi                    1,120      1,220           1,110       1,250
Pulses                  2,510      2,570           2,100       2,630
Sugarcane                   150        200             120         122
Oilseeds 1/               2,850      2,280           2,770       2,680
Vegetables                  480        480             500          500
Inputs
Nitrogen (N)            3,430      4,930           4,180       5,740
Phosphate (P)           3,000      4,400          4,720        4,970
Potash (K)              1,440      1,620          1,730        1,920
Animal Power 2/               6          6               8            8
Farm Labor 31
Peak                        4/         4/              6           6
Slack                        /4                                    4
Conversion Factors
Standard Conversion Factor        0.75
Construction Conversion Factor   0.70
Skilled Labor                     0.75 of market wage
Unskilled Labor                   0.43 of market wage
Farm Labor                        0.43 of peak market wage rate
1/ shelled groundnut
2/ per animal pair day
3/ per man day
4/ Chapter 2
143



ANNEX 5
Table 2
INDIA                                 Page 1
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Monthly Labor Requirement for Different Crop
in Mandav per Hectare
Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   Mav   June   July   Aug   Sept   Oct   Nov   Dec   Total
Paddy (Kharif)
Local
Present- R.F.    0        0      0      0      0      18       20      4       5      5    28      25      105
Present- IR 1    0        0      0      0       0      18      35    19        5      5     30    28       140
Future- R.F.       0      0      0      0      0      18       21      6       5      5    29      26      110
Future- IR l       0      0      0      0      0      18       36    21        6      6    33      30      150
Future- IR 2       0      0      0      0      0      18       38    24        6      6    35      33      160
Paddy (Kharif)
HYV
Present- R.F.       0     0      0      0      0      18       24      9       6    28    25        0      110
Present- IR 1    0        0      0      0      0      21       38    21        8    33      29      0      150
Future- R.F.       0      0      0      0      0      18       35    20        8    34      30      0      145
Future- IR 1        0      0     0      0       0      22      41    23        8    35      31      0      160
Future- IR 2        0     0      0      0      0      23       42     25      10    40      35      0      175
Paddv (Rabi)
Present- IR 1   39    24    10    36    31              0       0      0       0      0      0    20       160
Future- IR 1    41       25    11    41       35        0       0      0       0      0      0    22       175
Future- IR 2    42       25    11    43       37        0       0      0       0      0      0    22       1S0
Wheat (Rabi)
Present- IR 1    8        9    27      23      0        0       0      0       0      0    15    18        100
Future- IR I      10    10    30    25         0        0       0      0       0      0    15      20      110
Future- IR 2    12    12    36         30      0        0       0      0       0      0    15    20        125
Maize (Kharif)
Present- R.F.      0      0      0      0      0        8      11      8       9    22      17      0       75
Present- IR 1    0        0      0      0      0        8      11      8      10    24    19        0       80
Future- R.F.       0      0      0.    0       0        8      11      8      10    24      19      0       80
Future- IR 1       0      0      0      0      0        8     11       9      11    26      20      0       85
Future- IR 2       0      0      0      0      0        7      10    11       15    27      20      0       90
Ragi (Kharif)
Present- R.F.      0      0      0      0      0        7      10      8      10    20    15        0       70
Present- IR 1    0        0      0      0      0        7      10      9      11    22      16      0       75
Future -R.F.       0      0      0      0      0        7      10      9      11     22    16       0       75
Future- IR 1       0      0      0      0      0        7      10      9      12    24      18      0       80
Future- IR 2       0      0      0      0      0        6      10    10       14    26      19      0       85
144



AN`NEX 5
Table 2
Page 2
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Monthly Labor Requirement for Different Crop
in Manday per Hectare
Jan   Feb   liar   Apr   Mav   June   July   Aug                  Oct   Nov   Dec   Total
Pulses (Kharif)
Present- R.F.       0     0      0      0       0       8      10      4       2      9      7      0       40
Present- IR 1    0         0      0      0      0       8      10      5       3    10       9      0       45
Future- R.F.       0      0      0      0      0        8      10      5       3    10       9      0       45
Future- IR 1       0      0      0      0      0        8      10      5       3    10       9      0       45
Future- IR 2       0      0      0      0      0        7       8      4       4    15      12      0       50
Pulses (Rabi)
Present- IR 1    7    10          6    13       9       0       0      0       0      0      0      0       45
Future- IR 1        7      8     6    16    13          0       0      0       0      0      0      0       50
Future- IR 2        7      8      7    19     14        0       0      0       0      0      0      0       55
Oilseeds
(Kharif)
Present- R.F.       0     0      0      0      0      10       14      6       5    19    16        0       70
Present- IR 1    0        0      0       0     0      10       14      9      11    26    20        0       90
Future- R.F.       0      0      0      0      0      10       14      6       6    21      18      0       75
Future- IR 1        0     0      0      0      0      10       14    10       14     34     28      0      110
Future- IR 2       0      0      0      0      0      10       14     11      15    41      34      0      125
Oilseeds (Rabi)
Present- R.F.    14        7     7    28    24          0       0      0       0      0      0    10        90
Future- IR 1    14    11    15         39    31         0       0      0       0      0      0    10       120
Future- IR 2    15    13    15    42    35              0       0      0       0      0      0    10       130
Vegetables
(Kharif)
Present- R.F.       0      0     0       0      0      12      27     21      12     37     31      0      140
Present- IR 1    0        0      0      0      0      12       27     22      15    41    33        0      150
Future- R.F.       0      0      0      0      0      12       27    22       15    41      33      0      150
Future- IR 1       0      0      0      0      0      13       28    25       16    43      35      0      160
Future- IR 2       0      0      0      0      0      13       28    26       19    47      37      0      170
Vegetables
(Rabi)
Present- IR 1   25    16    43         35      0        0       0      0       0      0    13      28      160
Future- IR 1    26    19    47         37      0        0       0      0       0      0    13    28        170
Future- IR 2    27       20    49      39      0        0       0      0       0      0    14      31      180
Sugarcane
Present- R.F.    35    35    30    30           5       5       5      5       5    10    40    45         250
Present- IR l   45    45    40         30       7       7       7      7       7    10    45       50      300
Future- R.F.      40     35    35    30        5        5       5      5       5    10    45    50         270
Future- IR 1    50    50    50    40            9       9       9      9       9    10      50    55       350
Future- IR 2    60    55        55    50    10         10      10    10       10    15      55     60      400
145



ANNEX 5
Table 3
TPDTA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Monthly Labor Requirements for
a 10,000 ha Project
(Thousand Mandays)
Future                     Future
Present           without project            with project
January                       4                      4                        116
February                      3                      4                         83
March                         3                      3                         98
April                         3                      3                        157
May                           1                      1                         86
June                        161                    161                        197
July                        187'                   223                        359
August                       49                     94                        221
September                    55                     63                         99
October                      81                   144                        340
November                    260                   274                        352
December                    205                   161                        120
Total                     1,012                 1,135                      2,228
146



AN' EX S
Table 4
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
tconomic Crop Buuget (At Full DeveloPment)
Gross                                            Total       Net
Yield      Value      Labor       Animal       Others       Inputs      Value
Crop        Time       Type    (tons/ha)   -----------------------Rs/ha ------------------------------
Kharif
Paddv,      [Present   rf        1.10        1650       271         228          165          664          986
I          irl       1.60        2400       361         240          403         1004         1396
local      IFuture    rf         1.30       1950        284         228          269          781        1169
irl      1.90        2850        387        240          560         1187         1663
ir2      2.3U        3450        413        24u          758         1411         2039
Paddy,     IPresent   rf         1.40       2100        284         228          368          880        1220
I          irl       1.80        2700        387        240          555         1182         1518
HYV        IFuture    rf         1.70        2550       374         228          515         1117        1433
Irl      2.20        3300        413         240         758         1411         1889
ir2      2.80        4200        452         252        1013         1716         2484
[Present   rf        0.70         931       194         102          115          410          521
I          irl       0.90        1197       206         108          249          563          634
M4aize      IFuture    rf        0.90        1197       206         108          189          504          693
irl      1.10        1463        219        108          354          681          782
ir2      1.40        1862        232        114          568          914          948
[Present   rf        0.55         671       181          90          100          371          300
I          irl       0.70         854       194          96          184          474          380
Ragi       IFuture    rf         0.70         854       194          96          194          484          370
I          irl       0.90        1098       206          96          349          651          447
I          ir2       1.10        1342       219         102          488          810          532
[Present   rf        0.40        1028       103          60          150          313          715
I          irl       0.50        12B5       116          72          273          461          824
Pulses      IFuture    rf        0.50        1285       116          72          249          437          848
irl      0.60        1542        116         78          417          611          931
I          ir2       0.70        1799       129          84          555          768         1031
[Present   rf        0.60        1368       181         120          225          526          842
I          irl       0.90        2052       232         138          484          855         1197
Oilseeds   IFuture    rf         0.70        1596       194         126          395          714         882
irl      1.10        2508        284        138          544          966         1542
ir2      1.30        2964        322        144          639         1105         1859
IPresent   rf        4.00        1920       361         120          105          586        1334
I          irl       5.00        2400       387         132          367          886        1514
Vegetables |Future    rf         5.00        2400       387         120          332          839        1561
irl      6.00        2880        413        132          469         1014         1866
I          ir2       7.00        3360       439         144          629         1212        2148
Rab i
IPresent   irl       2.00        3000       413         252          671         1336        1665
Paddy,     iFuture    irl        2.50J       3750       452         264          856        1572         2178
I          ir2       3.30        4950       464         270         1194        1928         3022
[Present   irl       1.50        2595       258         168          653         1079        1516
Wheat       [Future    irl       1.80       3114        284         180          836        1300         1814
I          ir2       2.20        3806       322         186         1045        1554         2252
[Present   irl        .60        1542       116          84          230         430         1112
Pulses      [Future    irl        .70        1799       129          90          385          604        1195
I          ir2        .80        2056       142          96          575         813         1243
lPresent   irl       1.00        2280       232         132          514         879         1401
Oilseeds   [Future    irl        1.20        2736       310         138          595        1043         1693
I          ir2       1.40        3192       335         138          746        1220         1972
lPresent   irl       6.00        2880       413         132          528        1073         1807
Vegetables IFuture    irl        7.00       3360        439         144          663        1246         2114
I          ir2       8.00        3840       464         156          844        1464         2376
Perennial
[Present   rf       30.00        6000       645         222          874        1741         4259
Sigarcane  I           irl      50.00      10000        774         234        1322         2330         7670
IFuture    rf       40.00       8000        697         228         1047        1972         6028
mirl               60.00      12000        903         240         1718        2861         9139
ir2     75.         15000      1032         246         2308         3586       11414
Note:  rf:   rainfed                                                                                     147
irl:   existing irrigation standard
ir2:   improved irrigation standard



ANNEX .5
Tlable 5
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Benefit Factors for Evaltuating
Medium and Minor Irrigation Prolects
(Rs/ha)
r"> 1,lO0             1,000 <  (r)'< 1,100               (r)l/<  1,000
Future With Project
Kharif
Irrigated Paddy                      21,500                       21,500                          21,500
Irrigated Upland Crops                14,800                       14,800                         14,800
Rainfed Paddy                        11,600                        11,000                         10,100
Rainfed Upland Crops                  9,100                         8,600                          7,900
Fallow                                     0                            0                               0
Rabi
Irrigated Paddy                      26,700                       26,700                          26,700
Irrigated Upland Crops               18,600                        18,600                         18,600
Fallow                                     0                            0                               0
Perennial
Irrigated Sugarcane                  43,000                       43,000                          43,000
Rainfed Sugarcane                    23,200                        22,000                         20,200
Future Wlthout Project
Kharif
Irrigated Paddy                      16,900                        16,900                         16,900
Irrigated Upland Crops               13,000                       13,000                          13,000
Rainfed Paddy                        11,600                       11,000                          10,100
Rainfed Upland Crops                  9,100                         8,600                          7,900
Fallow                                     0                            0                               0
Rabi
Irrigated Paddy                      20,300                       20,300                          20,300
Irrigated Upland Crops               16,400                       16,400                          16,400
Fallow                                     0                            0                               0
Perennial
Irrigated Sugarcane                  33,800                        33,803                         33.333
Rainfed Sugarcane                    23,2')                        22,000                         20,200
Forest                                1,0nn                         1,000                          1,000
I/ r = average kharif (June-October) rainfall (20 years).



ANNEX 5
Figure 1
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
OPPORTUNITY COST OF FARM LABOR
simplified linear curve
//
5                                                              /
/~~~~~~
10      20      30       40      50      60       70      80       90      100     t10      120     130      140     150      160     170      180     190      200
Labor Demar,d as % of Loczal Supplv
4                                                                                                                                                              W       n
,cWrd8ak  77



ANTIEX 5
Figure 2
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Relationship Between Rainfall and Yield for Paddy
Yield as Percent of
Optimum Yield (%)
100 \
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10                                                                Rainfall as rercent
of Optimum Rainfall
(5:)
10    20    30    40    50    60    70    80    90   100
150



IBRD 12766
T                                                                                                                                  8Y
APRIL 1977
I       H          A
LCUTTA
N D   A
J  N  1) A      C                                                                                                                                       T'
IIIIIAIIIII                                                                                                                                                             A
N
K.4 1,
A  L F' L  R'
- - -----------
SC
T f
H[LBAN;
K%"
AI
UA  OF ordsSA, NDIA
'n
IL              F)
td-'
A  KI-T  Al
--d
J,,d
q.d
Li
116 d.
17, o - cftga towm vilwQes
-CHATRAPUR Dwritt he*04orwr
St-fV
Stott bowdones
A  D  E
A    N                                                                                                                                                                                                                    f4a      16
-01
OP,






[BRD 12767
at  54           85                         80                                                     APRIL 1977~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PIL17
PAKISTA4]      CKI N A 
I   N   D  I A  5G                                                             B                                                                Mdro-               ~LU
S ~~~~~~~~~~JN ~ ~ ~     ~           
~~~~>   INDIA  K                                                                                                    Shersapur~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BN       
22~
ArWCAt-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~TT  OFORSA, NM
R                                                           RE~~~MNOO    AiFL
4~~~~~~0 adsoekhormaraot
30- 3491762- 856mm)~~~~~~~20-
J')J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Blw3 Blw72m
Td,~~~~~~~~~~55   ubrofriydy
t I WH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ao os
45~~~~~~~~~35 00Cte,lwsaIae
CTATEOFPI DRIStrcthaduater
MONSOON~Sat heAdquarter
A    N  A' A                                         50' aild abvm (1270M. QndDstrict  aurdaem
up                                  45~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tt -b4undaries29m
40487 t   112.
82  83'                                                     I                        2P   49  rio  to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 I'Ss  ita0 140   l






54,  661                        54'                                          5"                             -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~I BRD 12768
PAKISTAN,,       -         C H I N A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AP .RL 1977
0 t SRINK A    w                                                 9                                     I'.                                B          Ilu H                 A C56R   -t                  -t         (         t"                            Misnvrn                           CALCdUTIAaB  H  R
>\                                                         J 2   >   \   t   :   ;   r   G  <                      Q                                 <      0                                                                 r e   X  / F
N                                         >                                            -, } =X-'4< :; .  9\  ,,,,   ,   )   g   ('  t  STAIE  OF  OR SSA, IND A E
,!>A               $v  ,,                                           -g~->>%-.                                                                                                           N                 1'.'                                                               >3u(vuo7ee Eitn  Ir dAes&Ptnil  eimIrgto   rjcs
&    b                                                                /                                                                < i-  /J                                                 3 '             'L._' V  EitlSTiNG IRRiGtEDAREAS    E4-POtENTIL MtDIUMDIRRiGATiO B  E  N  G, A
PA r or~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N  A                                                                                                                                             2                                                           C
400/  '          ' \        7      y---'----                               t            1                                                  6/ c2a  -'C                                          Rro,onee                   *      ii4Si-ol3   son           4
URNA         9       =---~                                                                                                                                                                                                     90        6680        /   *R  &  '4 U    %V  0Slni  ESelIJrmu; SRTIs
A                                                                6o,gv  /                     1             /                                                                -                                                                                                    (
o>, ?   mkrulr v i .   '   0          t <,    g    <                                                                                                                                CHATRAPUR iA4t,icthaeAdquArt-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h,  AD
JIF            ,/50 yA                                                               t      y    D     /    S          >                                                                                                     0       2        0       6         0       10      10       1,        6
K/           --ortv,se J"4182    K/SIIOOCn                                                                        1rrd                         i                                                                                                   ILS
C: j2   N 3'       (    r    ,fv                       Et'                                          8j'                                            Ej'47'21
f.           Thsr,,r-514  u4
026                                                                                                                                                      2
*32                                                                                                        Bh.L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o'  5244                                                                     36
35                       442
40  N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -~~~~~~~0
x  I                 I                                  00                        '                  i .  C43/ASAE    FO ISA    N I
/2
/    /                    '->  ~~~~~~2/     0   7    as'tijj-~~~~~UR   Existing Irrigated Areas & Potential Medium Irrigation Projects
/  N  /  ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ,-                 C                                           I                        <)(/%4r0                              90 ~~~~~~~~4 3P,ElISRaN IRRIGATED) AREAS:  6450PTENTIAL MEDIUM IRRIGATION 8R60ECT15
I  Shoovrropvo                                                                       C                                                                             10 Desuse        34 GoOse          AoSendv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I Dhk  3   .h  4s-~
4   v  ~ ~ ~          ~          ~         ~          ~         ,   ~~~~                                                                                UK Dodosegeosi   35 Unner Ovorel   03 SuShi~~~~~~~~~~ R,hkd.  0  .d.g~t    3 U    -uk.1 boS.h
a  45                                                                  3  H.I.V                        ~~~~~~~ ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~24 Knipe   34 B-i-deree  54 Kb-de
A  B. ill                12~~3 Pileei,-    /7 Teler--r      v3 Jrerbnedt
(  r~~~~~~~~~vo,  3                                                                                                                                                                        Segoije        64 Chilire~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 .kiS   .  3   -1  ,G d
0468.1                                                                                                               Seelios~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8J..'C"lS~-2 A,, 4 L-L1 5
~~  N  orlolerec                                Bay       ci       Bengal                          IA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  5,ehed  28 S-   Mitor rvvvsI.-
(                                                                                                                                                                                           lOsIsot Dovndflr 65~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G..h.30Dh  4  .-k.d
~~~                     ?o~~~~~~~~~r~-                                                                                                                                         14                             -.--                 46 ote boun-dories, .!,
<    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  H-'> ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~3D-"31 ..                                                                                                       4 Hb-i.
,'/'>7".-                                                                                                                                                                                       2       A        6        6        lTD     12.d    64 Ch 6-l
~~~~~                                                                                                                                                       0             20            44~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
694                    83 0Ct."-L .e
3)     I         "~~~'~                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CHATeoeAPO9O  6/lED,C he0w
"'0)              I                /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ta~h.q.otr
so.                  Se'                                           54'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b d,,e






ORISSA, INDIA 
LAND) COVER-LAkND USE                                                                                                                                                                                                    &PtnilMdu
ASSOCIATION                                                                                                                                            ..-iaonPjet
4                                                                                                                                  5 4,4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41
44~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                 , 4
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
m                   5   6~~~~~~~~~~3
,wo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D3446
Sq                      ,H35Th '4.445.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Y2d4.44444 
C.~~~~~~~~~~~~~2



