CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 740 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Orissa Irrigation Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 11, 1977


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 740 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREENENT, dated October 11, 1977, between INDIA, acting by
its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the State of Orissa, the State of Orissa has
agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying
out of the Project;
(C) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation, the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corpora-
tion has agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect
of the carrying out of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Agreements
of even date herewith referred to in Recitals (B) and (C) above;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Orissa" means the State of Orissa, a State of India, or
any successor thereof;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the State of Orissa of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements suppleiental
to the Project Agreement;
(c) "ARDC" means the Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation, a statutory corporation established and organized
under the laws of the Borrower;
(d) "ARDC Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and ARDC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time and such term includes all agreements
supplemental to the ARDC Agreement;
(e) "Lending Banks" means Orissa State Cooperative Land
Development Bank and Commercial Banks in Orissa participating in
lending to farmers under the Project;
(f) "MIP" means a medium irrigation project comprising
a cultivable command area of between 2,000 and 12,000 hectares;
and
(g) "Rs." means rupees in the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fifty-eight million dollars ($58,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 1983 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each Janu-
ary 15 and July 15 commencing January 15, 1988, and ending
July 15, 2027, each installment to and including the installment
payable on July 15, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall enable Orissa and ARDC to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the ARDC Agree-
ment all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facil-
ities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
enable Orissa and ARDC to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.


﻿-4-
(b) The Borrower shall make available out of the proceeds of
the Credit funds equivalent to $55,600,000 to Orissa in accordance
with the Borrower's standard arrangements for developmental
assistance to the States of India.
(c) The Borrower shall relend funds equivalent to $2,400,000
out of the proceeds of the Credit to ARDC under financial arrange-
ments to be entered into between the Borrower and ARDC under
terms and conditions which shall include inter alia those set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall ensure that the procedures
for approval and monitoring of MIPs as set forth in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement are adhered to.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Orissa shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement;
(b) ARDC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the ARDC Agreement;
(c) ARDC shall have become unable to pay any of its debts as
they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by
ARDC or by others whereby any of the property of ARDC shall or may
be distributed among its creditors;
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ARDC or for the suspension of its operations; and
(e) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that (i) Orissa will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement, or (ii) ARDC will be able
to perform its obligations under the ARDC Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:


﻿-5-
(s) any events specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and Orissa or ARDC, as the case
may be; and
(b) any events specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of
Orissa has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental action;
(b) the execution of the ARDC Agreement on behalf of ARDC,
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action; and
(c) the Borrower has made arrangements satisfactory to
the Association for the staffing of the Appraisal Committee
referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and a Director for
said Committee has been appointed.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by Orissa, and is legally binding upon Orissa in
accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the ARDC Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by ARDC and, is legally binding upon ARDC in accordance
with its terms.


﻿-6-
Section 5.03. The date January 16, 1978 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 4.02
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director or Deputy Secretary of the Department of
Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative,s of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable aoddress:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By Is N. A. Palkhivala
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ E. Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amount of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil Works for          52,300,000           65%
MIPs
(2) Land Consolidation        3,300,000          Rs.150 per con-
solidated hec-
tare
(3) On-farm Derelop-         2,400,000           55% of ARDC
ment                                         Refinancing
TOTAL     58,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of
the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such item as required to be
consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
and


﻿-9-
(b) expenditures in respect of Part C of the Project
until (i) evidence satisfactory to the Association has been
furnished to the Association that the financial arrangements
referred to in Section 3.01 (c) have been made, and (ii) the
Special Loans Account referred to in Part II of Schedule 3
to this Agreement has been set up.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
grapi 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Completion of ongoing and execution of new MIPs in
Orissa.
Part B:   Consolidation of about 200,000 hectares of irrigated
lands located In the Hirakud, Salandi and Mahanadi Delta
irrigation systems of Orissa.
Part C:   On-farm development (field channels, drains, and struc-
tures) of about 57,000 hectares of irrigated lands
located in the Hirakud, Salandi and Mahanadi Delta
irrigation systems of Orissa.
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 1982.


﻿-11 -
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Lending Terms and Conditions
I.   Ordinary Land Development Loans
1.   Borrower to ARDC
(a) For ARDC refinancing up to 9 years:
(i) annual interest rate of not less than 6.75%,
less 0.25% for prompt payment; and
(ii) repayment at the end of 9 years.
(b) For ARDC refinancing for more than 9 and up to 15
years:
(i) annual interest rate of not less than 7.25%,
less 0.25% for prompt payment; and
(ii) repayment at the end of 15 years.
(c) Borrower to carry exchange risk.
2.   ARDC to Lending Banks
(a) Annual interest rate of 7.5% minimum.
(b) Installment repayments to coincide approximately
with collections from ultimate borrowers.
(c) Refinancing by purchase of debentures or by loans
not exceeding 90% of individual loans.
3.   Lending Banks to Ultimate Borrowers
(a) Annual Interest rate of 10.5% minimum.
(b) A once and for all evaluation fee of 0.5% of
the cost of project investments may be charged.


﻿- 12 -
(c) Repayment periods to be based on the ultimate
borrower's repayment capacity, but not to exceed
15 years.
(d) Grace periods not exceeding 2 years from the
date of disbursement of the loans, may be granted
at the discretion of ARDC provided that the repay-
ment period of such loans is not exceeded.
II. Special Loans
Terms and interest rates for lendings by the Borrower, Orissa
and ARDC to the Special Loans Account (SLA); for lending from
the SLA through the Lending Banks to the Command Area Devel-
opment Authority (CADA); and for recovering by the CADA from
farmers who have benefited from on-farm development shall be
in accordance with the Guidelines for the Special Loans to
Finance On-Farm Development Works in the Command Area Proj-
ects issued by ARDC on October 29, 1976. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, these Guidelines shall
not be amended for this Project.
III. General
(a) Security would be as determined by the Lending
Banks and ARDC.
(b) Technical standards acceptable to ARDC would
be observed.
(c) Where the land development works are executed
by centralized agencies and no cash is paid to the
individual farmer to carry out the work, no cash
contribution by the beneficiary will be necessary.
In any other cases the contribution described in
the respective loan agreement with ARDC will
apply.
(d) In respect of lendings by the Orissa State Cooper-
ative Land Development Bank, the borrower will have
to purchase at least one share to become a member.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procedures for Appraisal and Progress
Monitoring of Medium Irrigation Projects (MIPs)
A.   The Central Water Commission under the Ministry of Agricul-
ture and Irrigation of the Borrower shall maintain an Ap-
praisal Committee which shall be responsible for appraisal
and monitoring of the progress of individual MIPs. Except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, the procedures for
appraisal and monitoring shall be as follows:
1.   Preparation.
Orissa shall be responsible for the preparation of
each MIP. The Appraisal Committee shall monitor the progress
of the preparation of MIPs through field visits and review of
reports, plans, specifications, contract documents, construc-
tion and procurement schedules.
2.   Appraisal.
Orissa shall submit each MIP to the Appraisal Committee
for appraisal. The committee or its representatives shall (a)
visit the MIP area, (b) review reports, plans, designs
and specifications to ensure that the MIP has been designd
in accordance with (i) established technical criteria, and
(ii) sound engineering practices with special emphasis given
to the safety of the dam structure, (c) review and, if
required, adjust cost estimates and sc_Ldules of expenditures
to properly reflect the likely cost of the MIP, (d) review
the cropping pattern to ensure that it is realistic and
suitable for the MIP area, (e) review arrangements for
resettlement of families affected by the MIP in accordance
with Orissa's policies, and (f) review the adequacy of
extension, credit, input supply, transport and marketing
facilities available to farmers in the MIP area.
3.   Approval.
The first three MIPs proposed to be financed from the
proceeds of the Credit shall be submitted to the Association
for approval. Thereafter, any MIP that meets the established
criteria, is designed in accordance with sound engineering
practices, costs less than Rs. seventy million excluding


﻿-14-
expected price increases, has a benefit cost ratio of not
less than 1.0 as calculated in accordance with the estab-
lished economic criteria, and has a cropping pattern that is
realistic and suitable for the MIP area, may be approved by
the Appraisal Committee for financing from the proceeds of
the Credit. Any other MIP shall be submitted to the Associ-
ation for approval.
4.   Implementation.
The Appraisal Committee or its representatives shall
visit the site of each MIP under construction, and review
relevant records, plans, specifications and procurement
schedules in order to (a) ensure that the MIP is constructed
in accordance with the established technical criteria,
(b) monitor the progress of the construction, and (c) assist
Orissa in solving any technical problems that might arise.
5.   Operation and Maintenance.
The Appraisal Committee shall review for each MIP, for a
period not exceeding two years after completion of each
MIP, records maintained by Orissa on (a) the area irrigated
in each irrigation season, (b) monthly inflow and water
release data, (c) costs of and organization for operation and
maintenance of the MIP, in order to ensure that the MIP is
operated and maintained in accordance with sound economic and
engineering standards.
B.   Orissa shall make available to the Appraisal Committee or
its representatives plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents, construction and procurement schedules and other
records in respect of MIPs to be financed under the Project,
as the Appraisal Committee might reasonably request.
C.   The Appraisal Committee shall prepare reports on the conclu-
sions of its appraisal and monitoring, of such timing,
scope and detail, as have been agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.


