CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 740 IN
Project Agreement
(Orissa Irrigation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF ORISSA
Dated October 11, 1977


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 740 IN
ORISSA PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 11, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association)
and STATE OF ORISSA, acting by its Governor (hereinafter called
Orissa).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreemet of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to fifty-eight million dollars
($58,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Orissa
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS Orissa, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Dtvelopment Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Orissa shall carry out, or cause to be carried
out, the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural and engineer-
ing practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. (a) Orissa undertakes, (i) that each MIP to be
financed under the Project shall be prepared, designed and con-
structed in accordance with the established technical and economic
criteria, and (ii) that provisions shall be made for funds suffi-
cient to complete the MIPs started under the Project in accordance
with said criteria.
(b) For the purpose of carrying out each MIP under the
Project, Orissa shall establish Project Preparation Committees
consisting inter alia of the Executive Engineer and concerned
Block Development Officers, and District Officers from the Depart-
ments of Agriculture and Cooperation, Revenue, and Forestry and
Fisheries of Orissa.
(c) Orissa shall adhere to the appraisal and progress
monitoring procedures for MIPs as set forth in Schedule 4 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
(d) For the purpose of allocation of water at the beginning
of each irrigation season, Orissa shall establish Water Allocation
Committees for each MIP under the Project consisting inter alia of
a Revenue Officer, the Assistant Engineer in charge of the MIP,
the Agriculture Extension, Cooperative Extension and Block
Development Officers, and the Chairman of the local elected body
at the block level (Panchayat Samiti).
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
Orissa shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be
used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) To such extent and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, Orissa shall furnish to the
Association the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents
and construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto.
(b) Orissa: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be maintained,
records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including


﻿-3-
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the
Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Association's representatives to visit the facil-
ities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit so made available to it and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 2.06. (a) Orissa shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project and the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement.
(b) Orissa shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by Orissa of its obligations under
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. Orissa shall cause its departments and other
agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof to maintain rezords adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices their operations and financial condition related to the
Project.
Section 3.02. Orissa shall cause its departments and other
agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof to: (i) have their accounts and financial
statements related to the Project for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as avialable, but in any
case not later than twelve months after the end of each such
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information


﻿-4-
concerning the said accounts and financial statements and the
audit thereof as the Assocation shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 3.03. With a view to ensuring recovery of annual
operation and maintenance costs and as much as possible of capital
costs, and having regard, inter alia, to incentives for, and pay-
ment capacity of farmers, Orissa shall (a) undertake a review of
water and water-related charges in Orissa by not later than
December 31, 1979, and (b) implement an appropriate system of
water and water-related charges, based on the recommendations
arising from the said review, in consultation with the Associa-
tion.
Section 3.04. In executing the Project, Orissa shall promptly
take necessary measures to minimize the risk of malaria and other
water-related diseases in the areas covered by the MIPs.
Section 3.05. (a) In order to meet the increasing needs
of irrigated farming for the MIPs constructed under the Project,
Orissa shall, if necessary, strengthen the credit, input supply,
and marketing facilities available to farmers in MIP areas.
(b) Orissa shall maintain staffing of its agricultural
extension services in each MIP area in conformity with the
statewise standards agreed between the Association and Orissa
under the Orissa Project Agreement (Orissa Agricultural Develop-
ment Project) dated April 1, 1977.
Section 3.06. Orissa shall undertake biennial safety inspec-
tions of MIPs financed under the Project, and shall make all
necessary repairs as will be required.
Section 3.07. Orissa shall, by March 31, 1983, complete and
furnish to the Association a study of such scope and in such
detail as shall be mutually agreed upon between the Association
and Orissa, of (i) water losses, and (ii) agricultural benefits,
relating to technical criteria established for MIPs constructed
under the Project.
Section 3.08. Orissa shallP by March 31, 1983, complete and
furnish to the Association, a study on methods for the execution
of maintenance works in order to establish the most economical and
effective way of maintenance of MIPs.


﻿-5-
Section 3.09. Orissa shall use its best endeavors to make
eligible for financing from the proceeds of the Credit as many
MIPs as possible.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of Orissa thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Orissa of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by the Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-6-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For Orissa:
Agricultural Production Commissioner
Government of Orissa
Bhubaneswar, Orissa
India
Cable address:
AGRISEC
Bhubaneswar
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Orissa may be taken or executed by a
Secretary to the Government of Orissa or such other person or
persons as Orissa shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. Orissa shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf
of Orissa, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by Orissa pursuant to any
of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ E. Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF ORISSA
By Is/ N. A. Palkhivala
Authorized Representative


﻿SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   1.   Contracts for dams, spillways, structures and distribu-
tion networks for the construction of MIPs may be let on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
under procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Contracts for works in respect of on-farm development
included under Part C of the Project may be let on unit
price basis to the local contractors.
3.   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Sched-
ule, works under Part A of the Project for which safety
or quality considerations, or the use of heavy machin-
ery, are required, may be carried out by force account
provided, however, that the aggregate of said force
account works shall not exceed 25% of all civil works
under Part A of the Project.
B.   1.   With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Orissa shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Orissa
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with
this Schedule, promptly inform Orissa and state the reasons for
such determination.


﻿-9-
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding
paragraph, Orissa shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recoimendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
this Schedule, promptly inform Orissa and state the reasons for
such determination.


