Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8939
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
MULTISTATE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 1970-BR)
JULY 27, 1990
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Thi documet has a restrcted dibtiaon and may be ued by rx^#b   y Inthe pedrmum i
dti o&fal duties. Its contets may not othrwise be dilosed wIfo"" WVdd bnk sudrdim



GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BNH         - National Housing Bank
CAESB       -  State Water Company of the Federal District
CAGEPA      -  State Water Company of Paralba
CEF         - Caixa Economica Federal (Federal Savings Bank)
CETESB      -  Sao Paulo State Environmental Agency
COSAMA      -  State Water Company of Amazonas
COSAN       -  Superintendency of the Sanitation Financing System (BNH)
COSANPA     -  State Water Company of Part
DESAN       -  Superintendency of the Sanitation Financing System (CEF)
DNOS        - National Department of Sanitation Works
EVG         - Global Feasibility Study
FAE         -  State Water and Sewerage Revolving Fund
FEEMA       - Rio de Janeiro State Environmental Agency
FCVS        -  Fund for Absorption of BNH's Mortgage Loan Portfolio Shortfalls
FGTS        - National Pension Fund
MDU         - Ministry of Urban Develop.aent
NTL         - National Tariff Law
OT          -  Technical Advisor
PAHO        -  Pan American Health Organization
PLARASA     - National Sanitation Plan
SANEAGO     -  State Water Company of Goias
SANESUL     -  State Water Company of Mato Grosso do Sul



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
THIE WOR;O SANK
Washigton. DC 20433
U.S A
Olk amt 64wisl
July 27, 1990
NEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on Brazil
Multistate Water Supply and Sewerage Project
(Loan 1970-BR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Brazil - Multistate Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan
1970-BR)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office with
Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
Thes dounwnt as anstce dstibutn nd may be ud by repents only i the perfonme
Of their offcti dutieL Its contentu may not othrwwe be discios without Word Bnk uthoiation.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
MULTISTATE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 1970-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface ................... ........... **............   i
Evaluation Summary  ........ ........... . .*. ............  ii
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity 1..........................   I
Background 1....     . . ..........*..**    1
Project Objectives and Descriptio n         .           2
Project Design and Organization       .     .           3
Project Implementation .. .         ...............   4
Project Results           ..    .     ...... ...   5
Project Sustainability........................    7
Bank Performance. ............. ..            .....    7
Borrower Performmnce ...... 4......... 0........ .      a
Project Relationship ...........................   9
Consulting Services .......*........* .........   9
Project Documentation and Data .................  10
PART II  COMMENTS OP THE .3ORROWER .........         ........  11
PART III  STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits ..............  41
Project Timetable ............................. .  42
Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements 43
Time Line of Planned and Actual Disbursements 43
This document has a estricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Project Implementation .      ....... * ............  44
Proiect Costs and Financing
Project Costs .............................  45
project Financing ...... *..........*... ..  46
Project Results
Direct Benefits .......... ...........*..          47
Economic Impact .............................  47
Status of Covenants ............. . ............... 48
Use of Bank Resources
Staff Inputs    .......................... 51
Missions .... ....................... 52
ANNEXES
Annex 1 ................ 53



BRAZIL
MULTISTATE WATER SUPPLY AND -EWERAGE PROJECT {LOAN 1970-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Multistate Water
Supply and Sewerage Project in Brazil, for which Loan 1970-BR in the amount of
US$180.0 million was approved on April 21, 1981. The loan was closed on December
31, 1987, three years behind schedule.  It was fully disbursed and the last
disbursement was on Hay 05, 1988.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division,
Country Department I of the Latin America and the Caritbean Regional Office
(Preface, Evaluation Su-mary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's mission of
January, 1990, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan
Agreement; the Loan Assumption Agreement; supervision reports; correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
BRAZIL
MULTISTATE WATER SUPPLY AID SEWERAGE PROJECT (LOAN 1970-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVAILUATION SUEpRY
Obiectives
The overall objective of the Multistate Water Supply and Sewerage
Project was to improve the environment and health conditions in five states and
the Federal District, through the provision of piped water to some 2.5 million
people, and sewerage services to a population of 0.6 million. In addition, the
project was designed as a vehicle to strengthen the sanitation department of BNH
-- especially its capability for appraising investment projects and its control
over the operational and financial performance of the SVCS -- and to improve
institutionally the SWCs.   By delegating to BNH most responsibilities for
selecting sub-projects and supervising their execution, the project would prepare
the way for sector lending. A more specific objective of the project was to
increase water service coverage from 602 in 1980 to 73? in 1984, and sewerage
service levels from 151 in 1980 to about 21? in 1984 in -he project area.
Implementation Experience
The project was implemented over a period of seven years, instead
of four years as planned at appraisal.   Its implementation was affected by
unforseen political, financial and procedural constraints whose elimination
required several project revisions (see Para. 11 and 12, Part I). The mid-term
review carried out in April of 1983 was the most important effort to that end.
On that occasion, the Bank, taking into account Brazil's macroeconomic situation
and the project's outstanding constraints, agreed on a revised investment and
financing plan together with the necessary changes in project description and
allocation of funds with the objective of (i) helping the states that could not
allocate counterpart funds because of their acute financial situation; (ii)
supporting the implementation of a water conservation program; and (iii)
accelerating project implementation. The Central Bank's issuing of Resolutions
831 and 1211, in 1984 and 1986 respectively, limiting lending operations to the
public sector and the liquidation of BNH (the Borrower and implementing agency)
in November, 1986 and its merger with CEF added approximately one and a half year
to the already delayed implementation schedule.
Results
The project was responsible for significant institutional improvement
of the SWCs and the strengthening of BNH's appraisal and supervision
capabilities. The project also helped to improve the performance of 20 out of
the (at the time) 22 SWCs of Brazil through the financing of a water conservation
program that was introduced in the proiect during its mid-term review.
Performance of the SWCs was improved insofar as operating costs were reduced,
revenues increased, and investments in new water production sub-systems were
postponed (see Annex 1).  The main objective of the project -- that is, to
improve the environmental and health conditions in five states and the Federal
District -- was achieved. The project's physical targets were not only met, but



- iii-
surpassed (see Para. 14 and 15, Part I; and Section F, Part III).  Based on
information provided by the SWC8, it is estimated that some 4.8 million people
were given access to piped water, and 0.7 million to sewerage services in the
project area, thus raising coverage to 79? and 32? respectively.
Sustainability
The project has produced significant benefits insofar as new water
supply and sewerage systems were built and existing ones expanded, thus improving
the quality and coverage of related services in a large area of Brazil which had
received very little attention until its inception in 1981. Also, the SWCs8
management and organization were improved as a result of their participation as
project executing agencies and as beneficiaries of technical assistance. During
the first years of project implementation, COSAN had already demonstrated their
ability to appraise projects as well as to supervise their preparation and
implementation by the SWCs. As a result, BNH had a Water and Sewerage Sector
Loan (Loan No.2249-BR) for US$302.8 million approved on March 22, 1983.
Unfortunately, the liquidation of BNH in November of 1986, following an obscure
decision of the Government, resulted in a loss of the sector's momentum.
Clearly, sustainability of project benefits and those of the sector as a whole
is at risk.   To overcome this threat, the Government, through the recently
created Sanitation Secretariat of the Ministry of Social Affairs, needs to focus
an both institutional and policy changes to consolidate and to regain momentum
of the sector.
Findings and Lessons Learned
The main lessons of experience are threefold. First, project mid-
term reviews are important insofar as relevance and attainment of objectives are
checked and required reformulations are promoted accordingly; therefore, the Bank
should carry out mid-term reviews on a regular basis as a means to improve
implementation and help projects attain a higher degree of success. Second, the
Bank should move towards sector lending operations (programmatic lending), given
their higher degree of flexibility to adapt projects to a changing environment.
Third, the losses to the sector that resulted from the haphazard liquidation of
BNH and the subsequent transition to CEF were important to show -- or to confirm
-- that institutions are very sensitive to changes, requiring thought-out
transition plans in order to preserve their integrity and, most importantly,
their policy formulation and implementation capacit:.es.



BRAZIL
MULTISTATE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 1970-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.  Project Identity
- Project Name:  Multistate Water Supply and Sewerage Project
- Loan No.:      1970-BR
- RVP Unit:      Latin America and the Caribbean Region,
Country Department I
- Country:       Brazil
- Sector:        Infrastructure
- Subsector:     Water Supply and Sewerage
B. Project Background
1.          During the sixties, Brazil's accelerating urbanization and the
municipalities' lack of financial and technical means to provide basic sanitation
services prompted the federal and state governments to finance new water and
sewerage systems with budget grants to satisfy the most urgent needs.  Even
though some US$700 million were invested between 1960 and 1970, the situation
was far from satisfactory and deteriora:ing at the end of the  -  iod. Less than
601 of the urban population had pipea water connections, and less tnan 30X
sEwerage services.   Most of the water supply and sewerage services were
concentrated in big urban centers of the South and the Mid Atlantic. Increased
waste water effluents were discharged into water bodies without any treatment.
2.          In 1971, the Government launched, under the aegis of BNH, the
National Sanitation Plan (PLANASA) to help the states develop their own
financially and technically viable organization in the water supply and sewerage
sector and to provide a stable source of financing. PLANASA is a comprehensive
program encompassing the design, financing, construction, and operation of water
supply and sewerage services, sector institutional building at the states, and
the training of SWCs' managerial personnel, under a decentralized system.
3.          PLANASA made financing available to each state that entered the
program.   To achieve entry, a state had to: (i) sign an agreement with BNH
establishing a SWC that would plan and carry out investments on a statewide
basis for municipalities which turned over their concessions to the SWC (PLANASA
constitutes an option for those municipalities running their own water
operations); and (ii) guarantee BNH loans. Further, the state had to pledge 51
of its revenues for PLANASA and establish a state water and sewerage revolving
fund (FAE) to which the state would channel its annual budget contribution for



-2-
sanitation projects. Under this arrangement, the states and BNH each provided
50? of the financing for investment. SWCs were required annually to provide BNH
with a five-year operational and investment program and corresponding financing
plan (Global Feasibility Study -- EVG).
4.          BNH established a basic line of credit for water supply and sewerage
works. Through this line BNH made loans to SWCs (mostly through state banks) to
cover 50? of project costs. Later on, BNH created three other credit lines to
address state financial constraints for allocating counterpart funds: FINEST I
(to help states cover any shortfall of their 50S financing obligation), FINEST
II (to promote extension of water services to small cAnmunities) and FINEST III
(to cover 502 of sub-project costs in small cities).  In addition, financing
included institution building programs --especially for water conservation and
preparation and supervision of projects. The major source of BNH funds was the
Fundo de Garantia por Tempo de Servigo (FGTS), a national pension fund.
5.          Water sector tariff legislation (National Tariff Law -- NTL) approved
in 1978 allows the SWCs to charge tariffs based on the cost of services, and earn
a rate of return of up to 12? on operational investments. The NTL also deals
with tariff structures providing for a progressive tariff system that allows for
cross-subsidies between lower- and higher-income consumers. The law, which is
quite demanding, would permit SWCs to attain a very good financial situation and,
in the medium term, to finance most investments. These objectives were to be
reached by gradual tariff adjustments over the 1980-82 period, and the SWCs were
expected to comply with the requirements of the legislation by 1983.   The
economic crisis that hit Brazil in 1983, and the following sustained high
inflation together with the measures taken by the Government to control it, made
impossible the  full attainment of the objectives  of the law.   However,
substantial achievement was reached by the SWCs with the exception of those of
poor and weak states. There was a continuous follow up by BNH (and the Bank)
on tariffs. BNH received updated tariff proposals q"arterly from all SWCs. More
recently, with responsibility for compliauce with NTL being given to the states,
compliance improved dramatically.
C.  Project Objectives and Description
6.          The overall objective of the Multistate Water Supply and Sewerage
Project was to improve the environment and health conditions in five states and
the Federal District, through the provision of piped water to some 2.5 million
people, and sewerage services to a population of 0.6 million. In addition, the
project was designed as a vehicle to strengthen the sanitation department of BNH
-- esp6cially its capability for appraising investment projects and its control
over the operational and financial performance of the SWCs -- and to improve
institutionally the SWCs.   By delegating to BNH most responsibilities for
selecting sub-projects and supervising their execution, the project would prepare
the way for sector lending. A more specific objective of the project was to
increase water service coverage from 60? in 1980 to 73Z in 1984, and sewerage
service levels from 15? in 1980 to about 212 in 1984 in the project area.
7.          The project consisted of a group of water supply and sewerage sub-
projects to be carried out in the states of Amazonas, Goias, Mato Grosso do Sul,



- 3-
Para, Paraiba and the Federal District over the four-year period 1981-84. More
specifically, it included the following components:
(a) in the five capital cities and the Federal District, the construction
of new water production and treatment systems, and transmission
pipelines, the extension of water distribution systems, including
the installation of some 170,000 cubic meters of new storage
capacity, 2,000 km of pipes, 200,000 new house connections for water,
and 286,000 water meters, and the purchase and installation of
production meters, as well as the implementation of leak detection
and repair programs;
(b) the construction of about 630 km of sewers and the installation of
45,000 sewerage connections in Manaus, Campo Grande, Jolo Pessoa,
Campina Grande, and the Federal District;
(c) the upgrading of existing and the construction of new sewage
treatment plants as well as the provision of final disposal
facilities in the Federal District;
(d) the construction or expansion of water supply systems in
approximately 80 medium-sized cities1;
(e) the construction or expansion of water supply systems in
approximately 65 small communities;
(f) provision of eq';pnent for the operation and maintenance of water
supply and sewerage systems;
(g) consulting services for design and construction supervision; and,
(h) technical assistance to improve COSAN's information system and
project appraisal and supervision capability, and to assist the SWCs
in strengthening personnel management and administration.
D. Proiect Design and Organization
8.          The project was a follow !1p of previous Bank operations in the water
supply and sewerage sector in Brazil. As such, it represented continued Bank
support to the Government's e4fort to address sectGr issues through its ongoing
PLANASA program.   The prot*-ct clearly extended Bank action to a group of
Brazilian states after having participated in projects for Sao Paulo, Minas
Gerais and six other states and identified the sector investment needs for the
area covered as well as the need to address institutional weaknesses of the
participating agencies (BNH/COSAN and the SWCs).  The project states (i.e.,
Amazonas, Goits, Mato Grosso do Sul, Para, Paraiba and the Federal District)
were selected out of a list of twelve which had not yet benefitted from Bank
1 Cities with more than 5,000 people -- excluding state capitals are considered medium-
sized; those with less than 5,000 inhabitants are considered small communities.



-4-
loans. Selection criteria included low service levels as compared with national
avere*ges, amount of proposed investments, size of urban centers, forecasted
financial position and institutional capability of SWCs.
9.           Because of the large number of cities served by each SWC and the
consequent large number of sub-projects subject to review, the project introduced
relatively simple selection criteria to be used by the Borrower during
implementation. These criteria consisted basically of: (a) the selection of the
least-cost alternative; (b) a cut-off criterion based on per capita investment
cost for villages anid small communities; and (c) a cut-off criterion for medium
and large cities based on the average long-term incremental cost (marginal cost
calculated on the basis of the investment program of the project and its
complementary works) and its relation to the tariffs.
10.          BNH -- PLANASA's apex technical institution -- was the implementing
agency while the SWCs were the executing agencies for the project. Large efforts
were concentrated in the project to upgrade BNH's institutional capabilities in
order to keep pace with increased sector responsibility -- that is, operational
support and monitoring of SWCs and direct project preparation and implementation.
BNH was responsible for (i) appraising sub-projects proposed by the SWCs; (ii)
assisting the SWCs to carry out sub-projects by making loans to thb state banks
in respect of approved sub-projects under the same terms and conditions of
PLANASA, (iii) providing technical assistance to SWCs, including training of
their personnel; and (iv) monitoring and supervising the implementation of the
project.   The SWCs were responsible for (i) preparing EVGs annually;  (ii)
preparing feasibility studies and final designs for civil works under the sub-
projects with the assistance of qua'lified consultants; (iii) contracting out the
construction of the works; (iv) project supervision with the assistance of their
respective OT2; and (v) operating and maintaining the facilities and services
included in the sub-projects. The Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) was
hired as a consultant to help BNH carry out the technical assistance program for
strengthening the area of operational control of SWCs by COSAN, and to improve
project appraisal procedures and the supervisory capability of COSAN.
E. Prolect Implementation
11.          The Loan Agreement, which was signed on May 19, 1981, did not become
effective until December 15, 1981 -- six months later than estimated at
appraisal. Some US$6.2 million spent in urgent works, including the expansion
of the water systems for Manaus and Campo Grande, could not be reimbursed by
the Bank through the loan facility for advance contracting and retroactive
financing due to lack of compliance with Bank procurement guidelines. Because
of the delays in design preparation in ∞arA and the Federal District, it is
difficult to determine what was the real cause of initial implementation delays.
When the project became ready for sustained implementation, then grants not
2   Supervision of minor works was carried out by the SWC with its own staff, while
supervision of major works as well as assistance to the SWC was delegated by BNH to the technical
advisors (OT). The OTs for the project states are: CETESB for Amazonas and Mato Grosso do Sul; FEEMA
for Goiis and the Federal District; DNOS for Pard; and SUDENE for Pararba.



- 5-
meeting the Bank's criteria were made to finance sub-projects included in the
project description in four (Amazonas, Paraiba, Mato Grosso do Sul, and the
Federal District) of the six project states.  This resulted in a lower Bank
participation  in the financing of those sub-projects.   Changes  in state
administrations and in the management of the SWCs together with state financial
constraints affected project implementation, particularly in Paralba and Goias;
state counterpart funding was also a constraint on project execution in Mato
Grosso do Sul. Last but not least, two Central Bank Resolutions (831t84 and
1211186) prohibiting credit operations for the public sector and the extinction
of BNH (the Borrower) in November 1986 and its merger with CEF adversely affected
project execution by adding approximately one and a half year to the already
delayed implementation schedule. The project was completed in December of 1987 -
- three years later than planned at appraisal.
12.         To help the SWCs overcome the political, financial and procedural
constraints that were hampering project implementation, BNH and the Bank had to
continuously consider project revisions.  The mid-term review carried out in
April of 1983 was the most important effort to that end. On that occasion, the
Bank, taking into account Brazil's macroeconomic situation and the project's
outstanding constraints, agreed on a revised investment and financing plan
together with the necessary changes in project description and proposals for
reallocation of unused funds with the objective of (i) helping the states that
could not allocate counterpart funds because of their acute financial situation
and (ii) supporting the implementation of a water conservation program.
Following this mid-term review, the Loan Agreement was amended in December, 1983
to: (a) reallocate loan funds among states; (b) include a new project component
for a nation-wide water conservation program; (c) increase loan disbursement
percentages; and (d) include Bank financing of state counterpart (FINEST I) up
to a limit of US$12 million, within the agreed Bank's sharing limits. Schedule
1 of the Loan Agreement was also amended to reflect changes in physical targets.
Though less encompassing, a few other project revisions were carried out which
also resulted in amendments to the Loan Agreement. In April of 1982, the project
description was changed as to extend financing for sub-projects in small
communities in the states of Mato Grosso do Sul and Goias and allow for local
procurement of contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $500,000 and contracts for civil works estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $3,000,000.  On August 13, 1985, a provisional six-month
extension of the closing date to December 31, 1985 was granted, based on a plan
(agreed upon during the Supervision Mission of April-May, 1985) that would allow
full commitment of loan funds by that date and full disbursement by June, 1987.
This change in the closing date was formally introduced in the Loan Agreement
through an amendment dated December 20, 1985. Through another amendment dated
March 25, 1986, the closing date was postponed to December 31, 1986. Finally,
the Loan Assumption Agreement was signed on November 18, 1987 following the
liquidation of BNH and its portfolio assumption by CEF, under which the closing
date was postponed to December 31, 1987.
F. Project Results
13.         The  project  was  responsible  for  significant  institutional
improvements of the SWCs and the strengthening of BNH's appraisal and supervision



-6-
capabilities. The main objective of the project -- that is, to improve the
environment and health conditions in five states and the Federal District -- was
achieved. Based on information provided by the SWCs, it is estimated that some
4.8 million people were given access to piped water, and 0.7 million to sewerage
services in the project area (see Para.6 above).
14.         The project financed the construction and expansion of water supply
systems in 204 medium-sized cities in the states of Amazonas, Goias, Mato Grosso
do Sul, Para and Paraiba, and in 243 small towns in the states of Goias, Mato
Grosso do Sul, Part and Paraiba. The number of medium-sized cities and small
towns covered by the project is well above the appraisal estimate (80 edium-
sized cities and 65 small towns).   This increase in project scope %as made
possible by the reallocation of funds, due to a lower Bank participation in the
financing of some major works in Manaus and Goiania that had resulted from delays
in loan effectiveness and grant financing as well as from a maxi-devaluation
(30Z) of the Cruzeiro in February 1983. The additional storage capacity (168,307
M3) and the expansion of distribution networks (2,241 KM) of the water supply
systems of the six major cities (Belem, Brasilia, Campo Grande. Goiania, Joao
Pessoa, and Manaus) financed under the project were fundamental for improving
the coverage and reliability of those systems. These improvetents allowed some
200,000 houses to be connected to the water supply systems of those six cities,
benefitting a population estimated at 1.2 million.
15.         As established under Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement, master plan
studies of sewage disposal were prepared for the cities of Belem, Campo Grande
and Manaus, albeit with some delays. The master plan study of sewage disposal
for the city of Goiania was not prepared -- because of the urgent need to expand
its sewerage system the SWC decided to give this action priority over the study.
Some 970 kilometers of sewers were constructed in the cities of Brasilia, Campina
Grande, Jolo Pessoa, and Manaus of which 737 kilometers were built in Brasilia
alone. These expansions permitted some 144,000 houses to be connected to the
sewerage systems of those cities, benefiting a population estimated at 720,000.
The sewerage system for the city of Campo Grande could not be financed under the
project due to delays in the preparation of the master plan study of sewage
disposal. The expansion of the two existing sewage treatment plants (activated
sludge process) for Brasilia and their upgrading through the installation of
tertiary treatment facilities to eliminate nutrients in the pond are still under
way, although at an advanced stage.   This investment which is now almost
completed will increase the sewage treatment services to some 550,000 people and
result in total elimination of pollution by sewage discharges in the Parano6
Lake. Unfortunately, due to its high costs the construction of a plant to treat
sewage effluents from Taguatinga and Ceilandia, in Metropolitan Brasilia, was
not possible.
16.         The project helped to improve the performance of 20 out of the (at
the time) 22 SWCs of Brazil through the financing of a water cons-rvation program
that was introduced in the project during its mid-term review. Performance of
the SWCs was improved insofar as operating costs were reduced, revenues
increased, and expansion of existing water systems were postponed. Through this
program the SWCs were able to improve the efficiency of their operations
(including their commercial and management areas) and to buy much needed
equipment for: (i) metering production of bulk water; (ii) detecting leakages



-7-
in the distribution network; (iii) metering consumption; (iv) installing repair
workshops. During the implementation of this program, unaccounted-for water was
reduced from a national average of 502 (in 1982) to 46Z (in 1988), with one
company alone attaining a record reduction of 22 per cent. Poor results were
achieved where investments in the expansion of systems outpaced the effort to
reduce unaccounted-for water. According to estimates made by COSAN, a reduction
ot 1? in unaccounted-for water in the systems operated by the SWCs represents
a savings of approximately US$10 million per year.   Therefore, under the
assumption that a reduction of 0.8? was achieved annually over the five years
of program implementation (1983-87), a total savings of US$120 million was
generated by US$34.7 million of Bank loan funds used in the program. This gives
a ratio of approximately one to three and a half (1:3.5).
G. Project Sustainability
17.         The project has produced significant benefits insofar as new water
supply and sewerage systems were built and existing ones were expanded, improving
the quality and coverage of related services in a large area of Brazil which had
received very little attention until its inception in 1981. Also, the SWCs'
management and organization were strengthened as a result of their participation
as project executing agencies and as beneficiaries of  technical assistance
provided by COSAN and the OTs. During the first years of project implementation,
COSAN had already demonstrated their ability to appraise projects as well as to
supervise their preparation and implementation by the SWCs. As a result, BNH
had a Water and Sewerage Sector Loan (Loan no.2249-BR) for US$302.8 million
approved on March 22, 1983. Unfortunately, the extinction of BNH in November
of 1986, following an obscure decision of the Government, resulted in a loss of
the sector's momentum. Clearly, sustainability of project benefits and those
of the sector as a whole is at risk. To overcome this threat, the Government,
through the recently created Sanitation Secretariat of the Ministry of Social
Affairs, needs to focus on both institutional and policy changes to consolidate
and to regain momentum of the sector. The Ministry of Social Affairs has moved
quickly to: (i) appoint adequately qualified and experienced staff to the
Sanitation Secretariat; (ii) prepare preliminary plans to tackle PLANASA's
weaknesses in addressing poverty and environmental sanitation issues; and (iii)
negotiate with CEF to reestablish sector leadership at the national level.
H. Bank Performance
18.         This project was the ninth Bank-financed operation of the water
supply and sewerage sector in Brazil. Because of the Bank's familiarity with
local sector issues and agencies, the project took only nine months to be
prepared.   In less than one year after its identification the project was
appraised.   During project preparation, Bank participation resulted in the
introduction of a marginal cost approach to the economic evaluation of sub-
projects as well as in recommendations for trimming the proposed investments for
Belem, Joao Pessoa, Campina Grande and brasilia without affecting project
benefits. The methodology for least cost and sub-project economic evaluation
as well as Bank procurement guidelines were explained to about sixty persons from
all project SWCs in a six-hour seminar conducted in Rio by Bank staff.



- 8-
19.         In this project the Bank played a very important role in supporting
BNH establish and operate a monitoring system for compliance by the SWCs with
the revenue covenant and the National Tariff Law. Although the Bank had to
suspend loan disbursements for almost one full year due to the liquidation of
BNH, it helped to maintain project continuity and sector institutions by
negotiating with the Government the Loan Assumption Agreement that was undertaken
by CEF. During project implementation the Bank fielded twenty four supervision
missions. Bank supervision of the project started in May of 1981 -- therefore,
prior to loan effectiveness (12/15/81). This was possible because the Bank was
already carrying out supervision of other operations in the same sector. During
the supervision mission of April, 1983, a project mid-term review was carried
out which resulted in necessary changes in project description and in the
reallocation of project funds with the objective of removing constraints and
accelerating project implementation in view of the many unforseen factors
affecting it (see Para. 11 above). The project's mid-term review was the Bank's
affirmative reaction to the macroeconomic problems and the SWCs' technical and
institutional deficiencies affecting project implementation and attainment of
its objectives. Given the macroeconomic situation, the Bank's support of the
water conservation program (including the rehabilitation of existing facilities)
at the mid-term review was a most sensible and effective decision insofar as it
permitted the reduction of unaccounted-for water and the postponing of major
investments in new water production sub-systems.
20.         Lessons learned:  The principal lessons learned or again confirmed
with the implementation of this project are: (a) project mid-term reviews are
important insofar as relevance and attainment of objectives are checked and
required reformulations are promoted accordingly; therefore, the Bank should
carry  out  mid-term  reviews  on  a  regular  basis  ad a means  to  improve
implementation and help projects attain a higher degree of success; (b) the Bank
should move towards sector lending operations (programmatic lending), given their
higher degree of flexibility to adapt projects to a changing environment; (c)
whenever possible, hold seminars for explaining the economic analysis of sub-
projects and Bank procurement guidelines to the project executing agencies, in
light of their contribution for smoothing out project implementation.
I. Borrower Performance
21.         The Borrower's performance was mixed.  While BNH (COSAN) performed
quite satisfactorily at the beginning of project implementation, its performance
deteriorated over time and reached a critical level during the merger process
with CEF. The economic crisis of the early 1980s, the deterioration of BNH's
financial situation due to a shrinking FGTS and a looming FCVS3, and political
corruption increased by a weak newly-created MDU may help to explain BNH's demise
in late 1986.  There were permanent and extended delays in submitting annual
audit reports and biannual progress reports (many of which were not submitted
at all). During the early stages of project implementation, the undertaking of
3 The FCVS (Fundo de Compensaglo para Variasbes Salariais) was created to absorb BNH's
mortgage loan portfolio shortfalls and was to be coverea by Government transfers to BNH.



- 9-
the technical assistance program to improve COSAN's information system and
project appraisal and supervision capability resulted in the strengthening of
COSAN's grasp of tariff controls as well as management and operational policies
for the sector. Unfortunately, much of this was lost as BNH was merged with CEF.
COSAN was not able to retain most of its personnel with its relocation to CEF's
headquarters in Brasilia.
22.         The SWCs' performance in getting new water supply and sewerage
systems implemented and existing ones expanded (albeit with some delays) was
quite satisfactory, especially considering that they were among the weakest when
project implementation started.  The performance of some SWCs is noteworthy.
COSAMA, COSANPA, and SANESUL built entire water supply systems for Manaus, Belem
and Campo Grande, respectively. SANEAGO built a sewerage system for Goiania,
though using other financing sources. And, CAESB is about to control pollution
in  the  Paranoa  Lake  _hrough  sewage  treatment.    These  are  significant
achievements, indeed.
23.         Lessons learned- The main lessons learned by the Borrower from this
experience are: (a) it was possible to streamline the procedures used for
implementation of PLANASA, gaining in efficiency and quality; (b) the use of
cut-off criteria for evaluating sub-projects simplified the process for selecting
them, speeding up BNH operations while causing SWCs to redesign sub-projects so
as to make them economically and financially viable; (c) CEF and the SWCs should
make a permanent effort to keep a water conservation program in operation, in
view of the highly positive and encouraging results attained with such a program
under this project; (d) the losses to the sector that resulted from the haphazard
liquidation of BNH and the subsequent transition to CEF were important to show -
- or to confirm -- that institutions are very sensi*ive to changes, requiring
thought-out transition plans in order to preserve their integrity and, most
importantly, their policy formulation and implemenitation capacities.
J. Project Relationship
24.         The relative success of this project (Part I, paras. 13-16) is a
result  of the enduring  relationship developed between the Bank and BNH
(especially the COSAN team) and between BNH and the SWCs through the many
operations carried out over the years. These relationships survived the demise
of BNH and COSAN's transfer to CEF and were important to assure project
continuity.  The Bank is highly regarded by the sector in Brazil for having
played an important role in preserving PLANASA and COSAN's structure during the
difficult transi.ion period following the demise of BNH.  The project greatly
benefitted from having had the same officers over its seven years of
implementation, despite Bank organizational changes during that period.
K. Consulting bervices
25.         Engineering consulting services were used for the design of major
water supply and sewerage systems as well as for the mast'- plan studies for
sewerage disposal in the cities of Belem, Campo Grande and Manaus.   The
supervision of major construction works and of materials and equipment furnished



_10-
by contractors under the project was carried out by the OTs (see Footnote 2) on
behalf of BNH. The OTs were also responsible for providing technical assistance
to the SWCs. The performance of consultants and the quality of their services
were considered good by the Bank.
L. Project Documentation and Data
26.         The Loan Agreement for this project included detailed description
of the project (Schedule 1), of procurement procedures (Schedule 3), of sub-
project selection criteria (Schedule 4) and of the obligations of the project
states and project SWCs under Cartas Reversais  (Schedule 5).  'While these
schedules may have been important for assuring that project objectives be
attained under the agreed set of covenants, the very detailed level of the
schedules made them too rigid to accommodate any minor implementation difficulty.
As a consequence, the Loan Agreement had to be amended five times during project
implementation. Amendments to loan agreements usually require a fair amount of
time for the processing of legal papers and should be kept to a minimum so as
to avoid disruptiosxs in project implementation. The Staff Appraisal Report for
this project (especially its annexes 9 and '2 containing projected annual targets
for each SWC) was quite useful for providing the Bank and the Borrower with
monitoring indicators to assess SWCs' project implementation and financial
performance.
27.         Data for the preparation of this PCR was neither consistent nor
readily available because of the present demise of PLANASA at the federal end.
CEF, which succeeded BNH as the project implementing agency, did not have much
processed information. Had BNH prepared biannual progress reports according to
what had been established under the Loan Agreement, most if not all data and
information necessary for the preparation of the PCR would have been available.
Even the EGVs that should have been sent to BNH/CEF annually were missing for
1986 and 1987 -- the years of transition.  Data and information on project
implementation was dispersed throughout the six project SWCs and had not been
gathered in a consistent fashion.   As a consequence, the reports prepared
individually by the SWCs contain data and information that are neither complete
nor readily comparable. CEP hae not made any effort to consolidate the SVCs'
reports into one document to serve as a reference for the PCR. B'nk supervision
missions should in future enforce the timely preparation of progress reports and
of a project completion report by the Borrower so as to avoid the lack of
adequate data and information for preparation of the PCR and evaluation of the
project's results. Also, whenever the project implementing agency is changed,
they should exercise rigorous control over project data bases with the objective
of ensuring their integrity for future re£erence.



- 11-
PART II
COMMENTS OF THE BORROWVE
OF ADSAN 005190   Brasilia, 11 APR 90.
Mr. Emilio Rodriguez
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department 1
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington. DC 20433
Dear Mr. Rodriguez:
The results of the Multistate Water Supply and Sewerage Project
financed under Loan No.1970-BR are quite satisfactory. Although the project
was carried out over a period (1980-88) during which several factors
significantly hampered its implementation, Bank financing of US$180 million was
fundamental for substantially achieving most agreed BNH-Bank project objectives
for the water sector. Moreover, the relationship developed between Bank and
local staff was of utmost importance for improving the level of assistance to
the State Water Companies (SWC). Besides contributing funds for investments in
the sector, the Bank also provided sound guidance for institutional and
operational improvement of the SWCs.
The greatest constraints affecting the implementation of the project
were (i) the National Monetary Council's Resolution 869 (that restricted credit
operations for the public sector as part of macroeconomic adjustments carried
out by the Government) and (ii) the extinction of BNH (the Borrower under several
loan agreements with the Bank) which was exacerbated by extended delays involving
the transfer of the operations portfolio to Caixa Economica Federal (CEF) --
BNH's successor. There were also circumstantial delays in project start up which
later required revisions in project description and resulted in the inclusion
of the national water conservation program as a new project component. This
permitted the acceleration of project implementation.
Documentation of the Project Completion Report (PCR) includes the
reports prepared by each participating SWC according to what had been agreed
upon between CEF, the SWCs and the Bank mission of January, 1990.  It also
includes brief comments by each corresponding regional office of CEF.



-12-
It is important to mention that CEF had difficulty in preparing this
first PCR under the new guidelines, which were presented by the Bank mission of
January, 1990. Such difficulty may have resulted in some deficiencies which CEF
would be willing to review in the shortest time possible, if the Bank so
requests.
The SWCs are being instructed by CEF to take the preparation of this
first PCR as a learning experience that should be used for a timely and more
efficient preparation of the PCR for Loan No.2249-BR upon completion of the
related project.
Cordially.
Irvando Mendonva Pires
Deputy Director of Sanitation
and Urban Development



-13 
Companhia de Saneanento de Amazonas
1. Obiectives
The resources from the Loan-Contract 1970/BR had as an objective, to supplement
the existent resources of the Sanitation Financial System (SFS), as a
contribution to facilitate the execution of the Sanitation National Plan
(PLANASA).
2. Execution
Most of the contracts with resources from Loan-Contract 1970/BR have been
completed.
The partial contracts are the followings
Network expansion - Manaus (326/83): with the available resources, of
170.894 meters that vere planned only 130.000 meters were installed.
Recuperation of Moco-Reservoir - Manaus:  It is functioning, but awaits
resources to proceed with some additional tasks, such as to make it impermeable.
Studies and Projects (CT-0849/87): the executive project for the Expansion Sector
in progress, and should be completed by May 1990.
Regarding bidding and supervision procedures for projects, consultancy work,
supply of materials and equipments, are strictly under World Bank's guidelines.
3. BNHICEF's Performance
After incorporating all functions once performed by BNH, CEF acts simultaneously
as financing agent, establishing guidelines and supervision procedures, so that
all goals planned by PLANASA can be met.
We must emphasize the excellent assessment achieved by the old BNH, and later
by CEF.   Following World Bank's guidelines and procedures  for financing
contracts, both BNH and CEF provided valuable support and efforts, so that this
Company could quickly process financing requests. As a financing agent, BNH/CEF
have always tried to maintain suitable actions to meet the aspirations of this
Company.
4. COSAMA's Performance
COSAMA, as a public enterprise, has administer its resources with the o.4ective
to increase the distribution of treated water to the population of the Amazonas
State.
Despite all efforts from the state and Federal Government, and IBRD, the
available resources are insufficient to supply the increpsing demand from the
population; but the company presents satisfactory performance with its limited
resources.



-14-
Despite the financial difficulties experienced by this Company, we try to keep
our commitment with the financing agent, lenvio do E.V.G." and payments of debt
service at acceptable levels.
5. Institutional Development of COSAMA
The first coordinated efforts of institutional development of Sanitation
Companies began in 1975, with SATECIA (Technical Assistance Services for the
Companies), jointly developed by BNH, OPAS (Pan American Organization for
Health), and the Sanitation Companies.  This program lasted approximately 5
years, and called the attention of the State Sanitation Companies to the
necessity of being institutionally developed.
In 1981, in order to incentivate the pxogram, BNH established the PRODISAN (State
Sanitation Companies Institutional Development Program), which provided the
Companies with more flexibility with lines of credit for this purpose, and
incentivate the Companies to create téieir own programs within regional
peculiarities and priorities.
COSAM& presented its Institutional Development Master Plan (PDDI) in 1985.
COSAMA has acted upon the following entrepreneurial and technical systems and
subsystems: Human Resources Subsystem, Data Processing Subsystem, and Operational
and Commercial System.
In the area of Human Resources Subsystem, the Company has established the
following:
1.    an update of the old plan for wages and salaries;
2.    guidelines for recruitment,  selection, carrier development and
promotions, including the creation of internal and external
competition; and
3.    besides the existing system of promotion based on time-on-the-job
. the Company established a promotion system based on merit,
resulting from periodical evaluation of the staff.
The Data Processing Subsystem has suffered major changes. All services related
to purchase of supplies and Equipments have been computerized; this system is
now linked to the Supply Stock System. The Accounting and Patrimony system have
already been developed and about to be installed; it will also be linked to the
same system of Supplies and Equipment Purchase.
The Commercial system was developed and installed at the Company in 1989.
Especial emphasis has been given to entrepreneurial betterment.   The main
building, where once the Water & Sewerage Department used to function, have been
remodeled and expanded to accommodate the Company's Commercial Superintendency.



-15-
Two buildings have been built for leisure are for the employees; a medical center
was created, with not only basic equipments but also with a modern dentistry
office.
Integrated with these systems, two other systems were createds data input and
operations; both facilitate production control, production of comprehensive
reports, as well as management of the operational system. To computerized these
systems, investments were made with the purchase of several microcomputers and
technological equipment, such as, ports and terminals, printers, etc., in order
to improve administrative activities.
In the area of operational development, despite the absolute lack of resources,
the Company tries to minimize revenue losses, and is continuously searching for
new operational techniques, in order to improve service-delivery standards and
to develop specific training program in the operational areas.
SIPSAP has helped the Company by contributing to increased efficiency in service
delivery. Besides maintenance and rehabilitation projects for the operational
units, SIPSAP provides services such as: macro-measurement, registers and
Pitometry, registers of networks, consumers' registers, micro-measurement, and
especially the Integrated System for service delivery to the public.
In addition to what has been presented, we have financing requests pending at
CEF.   They are aimed at: operational improvement of S.A.A. for the City of
Manaus, macro-measurement projects development, maintenance and rehabilitation
of operational units. short-term budget planning, Human Resources Administration
and  Development,  data  processing,   supplies  administration,   transport
administration, and documents administration.
Experiences Obtained
Along with the relationship among this Company, the old BNH and now CEF, and Bank
of the Amazonas State (BRA), our relationship with suppliers, contractors, and
other firms has improved significantly.  Also, when bidding procedures were
improved, it resulted in faster execution of the projects.
From obtention of resources from the financing agents to completion of the
projects, COSAMA has made all possible efforts to have the whole process done
within established guidelines from the competent authorities, aiming at the well
fare of the population.
7. Conclusions
Considering the scarce resources available for application in the Sanitation
area, the funds obtained from Loan-Contract 1970/BR has help in minimizing the
great deficit in water treatment and sewerage services in the State of Amazonas.



-*'6-
COMPANHIA DE AGUA E ESGOTOS DE BRASILTA
SCS, Edificio CAESB, Q. 4, E1 A, No. 67/97
70300 Brasilia, D.F.
Official Memo No. 006/90 - ASPL
Brasllia, 12 de mario de 1990
Dear Sir (Manager)s
As agreed, please find attached the information that will assist in the
preparation of the PCR of Loan-Contract 1970-BR, prepared by IBRD, 3NB and
Companhias de Saneamento. The information consist of: comparative matrix of
planned and accomplished goals, copies of tables of EVG 1983/88 with historical
data on achievements of CAESB's performance indicators and (dados fisicos) and
financial data, Loan-Contract Requirements 1970-BR and comments on Loan-Contract
1970-BR.
For any further information, please feel free to contact us.
Sincerely,
Delvan de Pinho Tavares
Chief
Advisory Office for Planning and
Coordination
Mr. Jael Antonio da Silva
Manager for Sanitation and Urban Development
Caixa Econ6mica Federal
Attachment



-17-
Attachment
1. Obiective
The loan aimed at suplementing national resources derived from the Sanitation
Financial System (SFS), in order to contribute for the realization of the
National Plan for Sanitation (PLANASA).
2. Program Completion
All tasks planned in the Loan-Contract 1970/BR were completed, some in its full
scope, some partially, with the exception of the construction of Sewerage-
Treatment Station in Taguatinga, Ce.l&ndia, as presented in the Comparative
Matrix of Planned and Accomplished Goals attached.
The partial completion of some projects was caused by the necessity to administer
and establish the priorities for each year of the program completion schedule,
as well as by the insufficient funds to satisfactorily complete all projects
planned. As an example, the Sewerage-Treatment Station in Taguatinga, Ceilandia,
could not be completed because its high cost would drain resources from projects
with higher priority.
The bidding process for projects, services, consultancy work, and supplies &
equipments, was done according to World Bank guidelines, especially in cases
were international bidding was required. The satisfactory conclusion of this
phase should be credited to the good team work between CAESB and the old BNH,
which were, respectively, in charge of the execution and supervision of the
bidding process.
The satisfactory supervision and follow up of projects, services, consultancy
work and supplies & equipments, was possible not only because of the active
participation of FEEMA (technical branch of the old BNH), but also because CAESB
had a technical team with expertise to follow up on larger projects, such as the
first phase of the Rio Descoberto System.
3. BNHICEF
The old BNH, being a central section of the Financial System for Sanitation,
functioned as the financial, normative, and supervisory instrument for the
necessary actions required to meet the goals established by PLANASA.
It is important to note that, this Company (Companhia de Agua e Esgotos de
Brasilia) have always received from this bank (BNH), cooperation and assistance
towards requests for financing and changes in contract schedules that were made
necessary.
In the case of IBRD loans, BNH not only transmitted specific Bank requirements
but also provided guidance, especially in the case of international bidding.
After incorporating all activities once performed by BNH, CEF is trying to keep
and fulfill all obligations firmed by the extinct BNH. It also seeks to give



- 18-
continuity to its line of action in the sanitation sector.
CAESB
As part of the Financial EvStem for Sanitatioi., CAESB is an instrument to promote
basic sanitation programs Cor the Federal District, to execute projects and
engineering work in the sanitation sector; it also functions as the final
borrower of part of the fVnancing contracts, once in the special contracts, the
Federal District Government is the final borrower.
As a promoting agent, this Company has prepared plans and programs for basic
sanitation for the Federal District; it has established itemized priorities for
its activities for 5-year periods, which are annually updated (Global Viability
Study - EVG). Within available funds for the period, CAESB have accomplished
satisfactory levels of completion or its planned projects, with especial emphasis
to higher levels of water supplies and sanitation services delivered to the
community in the Federal District.
As an executing instrument, we can also consider CAESB's performance satisfactory
in all phases of its projects and services provided.  It performed well from
contract elaboration to completion phases, solving the problems occurred in a
timely manner, without compromising quality and functionality of the systems
constructed. To satisfactorily complete its goals, CASSB received assistance
from FEEMA and BNH/CEF, which provided supervision and technical cooperation.
As a final borrower of part of the financing contracts, this Company has being
paying its debt service within established deadlines, without causing bottleneck
to the financing institutions.
5. CAESB Institutional Development
The first coordinated efforts of institutional development of Sanitation
Companies began in 1975, with SATECIA (Technical Assistance Services for the
Companies), jointly developed by BNH, OPAS (Pan American Organization for
Health), and the Sanitatio,n Companies.   This program lasted approximately 5
years, and called the attention of the State Sanitation Companies to the
necessity of being institutionally developed.
In 1981, in order to incentivate the program, BNH established the PRODISAN (State
Sanitation Companies Institutional Development Program), which provided the
Companies with more flexibility with lines of credit for this purpose, and
incentivate the Companies to create their own programs within regional
peculiarities and priorities.
CAESB presented its Institutional Development Master Plan (PDDI) in 1981.
CAESB's main contributions from 1981 to the present time have been in the
following entrepreneurial and technical systems and subfy%-te"s: Human Resources
Subsystem (Subsistema de Recursos Humanos), Data Processiat Sub system (Subsistema
de Processamento de Dados), Commercial and Operation-. System (Sistema
Operacional e Comercial), and Planning System (Sistema de Planejamento).



- 19-
The Human Resources Superintendency (responsible for the Human Resources
Subsystem) have maintain its goals by developing policies, objectives and
programs in order to guarantee staffmembers' professional growth, and to maintain
the  employment  legal  registers  operational  and  trustworthy.    Normative
instruments and guidelines for recruitment, selection, training, benefits, health
insurance, work security and other inherent to personnel-administration functions
have been established.   Actions to maintain the Wages & Salaries Plan have
frequently been developed. The plan was initially established in 1983, and in
1985 and 198t revisions were made, in its structure, in issues regarding
employment and wages.
In 1981, CAESB had only a small center for Data Processing, which functioned
basically as CAESB's representative before the Central Data Processing Unit of
the Federal District Government (CODEPLAN).  In 1981-87, in several stages,
CAESB's center developed to form the Data Processing Superintendency, which now
counts with two divisionss System Development and System Productions.  These
divisions are now responsible for a greater part of services that were once
concentrated at CODEPLAN.   In the short term, the goal is to transfer all
services once processed at CODEPLAN to this superintendency.
The Commercial and Operational Subsystem consist of two main programs: the
Operational Development Program (PDO) and the Development Program for the
Commercial System (SICOC).
Established at CAESB in 1982, the Operational Development Program had the main
projects: Macro-measurement, 'Pitometrial, Micro-measurement, Integrated System
of Services Rendered (SIS), Maintenance Development, Operational Planning and
Control, Cashier (billing and collection of payments), Commercialization,
Consumers' and Businesses' Report (registers). Among these projects, we can
emphasize the successful performance of the Integrated System of Services, which
was developed based on a pilot-project of SANEPAR (Parana's Sanization Company).
SANEPAR resulted in higher level of productivity and quality of services
rendered, reduction of labor costs, and consequently, better public image for
the company and public's satisfaction.
CAESB's Commercial System Development Program was established in 1983, with the
following characteristics: daily meter reading (7) and processing, 30-day cycle
for product sale (water and collection of sewerage), 20-day cycle for
invoicinglbilling (according to most current reading) and rightly pertinent
banking agreements between commercial and financial sectors. SICOC's performance
has been so successful and dynamic in the commercial area that it has become
model for similar systems in other States. Encouraged by PRODISAN's program of
technical cooperation, SICOC's technicians often provide other Sanitation
Companies with technical assistance.
After 1984, CAESB's Planning System has suffered some restructuring, with the
creation of the Coordination and Planning Advisory Committee, under the
supervision of the company's Board of Directors. This Committee consist of the
following Divisions: Planning Coordination, Systems and Methods, Statistics and
Managerial Information. The main purpose of this Committee focus on general
coordination of the planning process for the Company as a whole; thus, it has
its own regulations and guidelines to promote conception, creation, operation,



- 20-
development and maintenance of the Compan7's planning system.
Request for financing from Caixa Econ0mica Federal is already in progress, in
order to develop some Administrative Systems, such as: Human Resources Supply,
Transport, Patrimony, Documents and Data Processing.
We would like to clarify that the information presented in this document refer
to more comprehensive programs developed by the Company as a whole; Nevertheless,
the Company has developed other programs, not less important than the ones
mentioned, aiming at improving operational performance.
Experience Obtained
During the period in question, the lessons learned in different phases of pro4ect
development resulted in improved performance, skills and organization.
As an example, we can mention substantial improvement in the Company's
performance in the following areas: Consultant's Roaster/Registers, Contractual
and Suppliers of Material and Equipment (including selection methods), more
dynamic bidding process (from elaboration of advertisements to selection),
purchasing methods (revenue collection and payments), material and equipment
inspection in receiving areas, follow-up of studies and technical projects in
elaboration phase, project inspection, and procedures regarding receiving
of.......
Conclusion
Before signing the Loan-Contract 1970JBR, the Federal District had a large
deficit in delivering sanitation/sewerage services to the population, and some
deficiency in treatment and water distribution. The cleaning of Paranoa Lake'
pollution was then CAESB's greater challenge.
In the period 1981/87, v.AESB was able to increase its service to the population
in the following sectors:
* water distribution                    478.400 inhabitants
* water treatment                     1.000.000 inhabitants
* collection of sanitary sewerage        900.000 inhabitants
* treatment of sewerage                  27.000 inhabitants
We would like to clarify that in terms of treatment of sewerage, the works of
expansion and betterment of North-South Sewerage Treatment Station project, in
Brasilia, are in their completion phase.   Upon cowpletion, the operational
capacity of sewerage treatment from Paranoa Lake will attend to 550.000
inhabitants.    These stations will provide biologic treatment, in a tertiary
level, with final polimento of sewerage collected from that lake.  In medium
term, this will allow a complete dispollution of Paranoa Lake, which was cause
by discharges of raw sewerage.



- 21-
EMPRESA DE SANEAMENTO DE MATO GROSSO DO SUL
CEF's Covering Letter
1.    The contracts developed at SANESUL under the IBRD program, were very
important given that they allowed the financing of mayor sanitation works in Mato
Grosso do Sul. The works in Production and Distribution of Water in the cities
of Campo Grande and Dourados reached 902 of the population.
2.    The Operational Development Program (PECO?) is also important, since it
facilitated a 'change of conscience" within the Company in relatio_. to
institutionalizing the operational procedures and reducing unaccounted-for water
levels resulting in the postponement of investments in water production.
3.    With relation to Sewerage, the Company still has very low service coverage.
4.    In general, we can conclude that the resources applied by SANESUL have been
closely monitored by CEF, attaining the initial objectives with total completion
of the works.
5.    It is noteworthy that the attainment and maintenance of these results
depend exclusively on the continuation of such financing.
Campo Grande, April 2, 1990
Signed bys
HARIZE LECRUGA DE MORAES BORANGA, Gerente de Nucleo de Saneamento
MARICELKA VILA MAIOR ZAPATA, Chefe de Divisao de Saneamento e Desenv. Urbano



-22-
COMPLETION REPORT PREPARED BY SANESUL
Obiective
The IBRD financing of the project was essential for achieving the goals
stated by the State of Mato Grosso do Sul for the development and implementation,
expansion and improvement of the water supply and sewerage systems, as well as
the development of the administrative and institutional processes of our Company,
allowing us to meet PLANASA's objectives.
Program
Generally speaking, we can ascertain that all the investment programs
financed under Loans 1970-BR and 2249-BR, were accomplished. Those contracts
provided resources for 952 of the communities served by SANESUL, as well as
improvement of water quality, system expansion, reduction of unaccounted-for
water levels, preparation and training of administrative and operational
personnel, making them better suited for their work.
Some major works were financed out of these resources -- especially the
Guariroba complex, which increased the coverage levels of the State capital from
352 to 80X.  The Guariroba complex works consisted of surface water intake,
construction of a raw water pipeline, treated water pipeline, water treatment
station, and the construction of 435 km of a water distribution network, as well
as the upgrading of the existing one, with interconnection and construction of
mains for better distribution, making it possible to service more than 108,750
people regularly besides improving service reliability for already connected
users, solving a chronic problem, and making available to the city a system that
would be capable of increasing at a rate of 0.52 p.a., which would be sufficient
to satisfy the demand until the year 2000.
The water supply system built in Dourados -- the second major urban center
in Mato Grosso do Sul -- is another major center financed by the project. The
old system was unable to serve 902 of the population, which was increasing at
very high rates.
The following works were undertaken in Dourados:
-surface water intake from Rio nouradorq;
-25,000 m of pipelines including both raw and treated water;
-a water treatment station
-improvement of the reservation center CRZ
-extension of 200 m of distribution network of varying diameters
(50 to 200 mm).
With this operational system, it was possible to increase coverage to 902,
and serve more than 50,500 people.
Innumerable other supply problems were solved thanks to the use of these
resources, resulting in the Company having to change its initia'l programs in
order to attend to emergency situations that required urgent action.   For
example, in Tres Lagoas there was a shortcoming of potable (drinking) water and



-23-
it was necessary to increase the storage capacity of the system. Thus, 5 storage
tanks were built making it possible to serve the population, completely
satisfying the existing needs.
As for the works, we can say that the resources were prioritized to our
complete satisfaction -- on one side, the State capital and the State's 3 major
urban centers (Dourados, Corumba and Tres Lagoas), and on the other side, heavy
investments in water supply systems of small communities achieving, with no
exemption, improvement or expansion of the systems, that were designed according
to acceptable standards.
Another important action financed under this project was the water
conservation program, which included a pitometry program, macro and micro-
metering, and improvement in operational equipment, making possible a reduction
in levels of unaccounted-for water and improving all operational areas of the
Company.
In December 1981, the metering level was 24.3? increasing to 51.68Z by
December 1986. A meter repair shop was built, with a pitometry team was put
together and macro-meters were installed at all water intakes.
All these actions made it possible to reduce the unaccounted-for water
level from 53.2? in 1981 to 47.7? in 1986, with a goal of reducing it further
to 20X by 1991.
As for the internal procedures on work supervision, quality of materials,
bidding and physical/financial follow-up of each contract, we can guarantee that
everything was accomplished in the best possible way. We always had BNH's prompt
collaboration and guidance which indicated the precise and correct way to perform
these activities.
The supervision of major works was carried out with the help of CETESB
experts, including quality control areas, materials' specification, bidding,
contracting, manufacture, delivery and assembly.
The perfect operation of the Guariroba complex serves as evidence of the
high level performance of both CETESB and SANESUL's personnel.
Performance of BNHICEF
In relation to the resources provided by IBRD, the responsibility of BNH
(and later of CEF), was to support the necessary activities for the application
of the resources, and the achievement of goals within PLANASA's final objectives.
BNH was also responsible for supervising, guiding and instructing the Company
in all activities directly and indirectly related to the project.
BNHICEF never created any difficulties with regard to the necessary re-
programming of investments. Indeed, it helped the Company to select subprojects
that offered the highest return in the short-term to correctly prepare bidding
documents according to project requirements, thus easing implementation.
The merger of BNH with CEF did not affect project continuity despite



-24-
experiencing the usual initial difficulties of any transition.
Also, BNH/CEF*s good performance in helping the Company made possible to
adjust the project to the macroeconomic changes that took place during its
implementation in such a timely fashion that it was not affected by those
changes.
The Performance of SANESUL
Since 1980, the Company has been pursuing the objectives that set forth
the EVG (Study of Global Viability) with a planning horizon of 5 years.
Based on the EVGs, the Company is able to determine the resources it will
need to implement its investment and operational program.
In some of the special financial operations, the State Government assumes
the position of the borrower.
All this programming ascertains that the level of performance at SANESUL
is very good.
Evidently, some of the works took longer to be completed than was estimated
initially. The Guariroba complex, for example, was not completed within the
forecasted date, because its design had to be changed in order to solve acute
water supply shortages.
Through a very well designed Tariff Plan, that encompasses programs for
hiring and subsequent adjustment of service costs, as well as for the application
of real tariff increases, the Company is able to meet its debt service to pay
off its debt within the established period of time.
Institutional Development
When SANESUL initiated its activities in 1979, it serviced 25 urban
centers, and was under pressure to increase this number in a short period of
time.
The Company's major objective -- i.e., to build new water supply systems -
- was reached. By 1983, it was servicing 68 communities.
During this time, the Company needed to be institutionally strengthened,
since the new operating systems would require a more sophisticated institutional
apparatus.
With the establishment of PRODISAN (Institutional Development Program of
State Sanitary Companies) by the BNH and the Company's production proved, the
Company procured resources to invest in the program.
The areas of Data Processing, Human Resources, Transport, Commercial and
Operational Systems, needed investment in order to improve their performance.
In 1981, SANESUL implemented a Data Processing Team, mainly for the



-25-
acquisition of processing equipment. All the data input, printers, tape unit
(?), paper cutters, and other equipment, were acquired and installed in our own
buildings.
A whole commercial system was developed, with 115 programs including
accounting, being developed, operated and maintained by SANESUL's personnel.
In the commercial area, a census sub-system, invoice and collection, were
developed with real data and carried out by census during the same commercial
system development period.
Today, after 10 years, all these systems and sub-systems are being updated
to the new reality, and therefore, the data base is widely used, and it is the
new census duty to update the existing data.
Under the new Administration, a labor policy was implemented in the area
of Human Resources, through an Estimated Return salary plan (quadro de letacao),
dating all Human Resources Administrative duties from contracting to promotion
through work evaluations.
Besides this, a personnel training program was developed. It establishes
each area's requirements on a yearly basis, for specific training and technical
visits to other sanitary companies in order to interchange specific information.
Transport received considerable investment funds, helping the growing needs
of the Company.
Motorcycles were purchased in order to facilitate the reading of meters,
lists and instructions for installation services; trucks to serve the meter
repair shops at Dourados, Navirai and Campo Grande; vehicle for goods transport
for servicing and controlling the micro-metering.
Big problems could arise in the transport area due to the expansion of the
Company during these years.
SANESAL instituted an operational system which would search for results.
Immediately, the Company developed the Operational Control Administration, whose
main purpose was to coordinate these resources.
Priority was given to the micro-metering project, Pitrometry, macro-
metering, integrated system SIPSAP (Integrated System for Public Service),
maintenance development, operational planning and control, and technical survey,
given their direct implication with the Company's losses.
It is difficult to say which of the above-mentioned programs was more
successful.  They have all had excellent results, so much so, that a global
analysis verifies that losses have significantly diminished, reaching IBRD's
expected level of 20Z.
All these projects were developed in such way as to not bother the users,
specially with regards to micro-metering, which significantly changes the
consumers' customs. The objective was successfully reached.



SIPSAP and otner successful projects -- with all processing systems
developed, operated and processed at SANESUL -- have been working for more than
4 years in the Capital, and are in their implementation phase in more than 3
regions.
The operations system is being developed within the Company, and the two
main projects are:
- micro-metering
- commercial system
Both programs complemented by those already initiated and, through their
already proven experiences, are geared to optimize successful programs.
Other operational system programs that have been successful, such a-
pitometry, maintenance development, technical lists and operationsl planning and
control, will also contribute to the reduction of the Company's loss levels.
As for the sewerage system, there is inefficient service by the State, but
our Company is familiarizing itself with all the technical and executive projects
duly elaborated.
The next step will be the allocation of financial resources to execute the
works that will be beneficial to all the population.  The Company's Plan for
Economic/Financial Recuperation for 198611990 was reached presenting a positive
cash flow by 1989, with an economic mid-intake of 18.2 m /ecolmo. against 20.0
m3/ecolmo. established for the year and mid-tariff of 0.4052 BTN's.
conclusion
The resources obtained by SANESUL together with the IBRD, made the
execution of works possible, basically in the water supply systems, in all the
State locations.
The Company is now serving 972 of the State localities.  The rest are
served by FSESP - Fundacao SESP.
The service level with treated water is 85X, according to the goals
established by the Company, CEF and PLANASA.
This was possible through the contracts' signature and assistance from
BNH/CEF.



-27-
COMPANBIA DE SANEAMENTO DO PARA
01.   Loan Obiectives
The objective of this Loan was to supplement the resources of the
Sanitation Financial System (SFS) in order to carry out the National Sanitary
Plan (PLANASA) in the State of Para.
02. Execution of the Program
All the programmed services and works under Loan 1970-BR were executed.
During program execution, the following priorities were identified, the
improvement of the supply sectors (Utinga, Sao Braz, 30. Sector, Marambaia,
Cidade Nova and Marituba), the cleaning and drainage of Agua Preta and Bolonha
lakes, the sanitary protection of these lakes, and the micro-metering of the
Belem System, that due to insufficient resources, had to limit their performance
to the necessary minimum.
The perfect organization between CONSANPA and BNH, made all bidding and
disbursement processes possible by following that Company's, as well as the World
Bank's, guidelines.
The supply of materials and equipment, and the execution of services and
works were accounted for, and satisfactorily managed, by COSANPA and LEME
ENGENHARIA (specialized firm contracted for this purpose).
03.   BNH/CEF's Performance
The extinct BNH, who was the main organization of the Sanitation Financial
System, together witU  WOSANPA, acted as the financial, normative, fiscal and
monitoring body to carry over PLANASA's goals.
It is important to make clear, respecting the norms and requests of BNH,
that this Company always counted with the Bank's financial support, as well as
it respected all the necessary contractual reprogramming.
The Bank also acted as the organizing body supervising the loans and,
mainly, international biddings.
After CEF absorbed BNH's activities, it tried to keep the contracts that
had been signed by that extinct Company, as well as continue providing continuity
in the sanitary development.
04.   COSANPA's Performance
COSANPA, within the Sanitation Financial System, and as the promoting
agent, implemented the basic sanitary plan, as a Global Viability Study (EVG),
according to BNH's norms.
COSANPA, as the executing agent, obtained satisfactory results in the



- 28-
programmed works, and these works and developed services have greatly improved
the communities' service levels and, therefore, the living standards.
05.   Experiences Obtained
The execution and implementation of the program provided considerable
improvement for the Company's technicians with relation to their knowledge and
practice. We refer to the materials and equipment acquisition bidding process
as well as to the execution of works and services. Moreover, the close contact
with the administrative firm, gave us experience in the study of technical
problems, inspection and collection of materials and equipment, supervision of
the works execution and processings. We also learned how to better relate to
large contractors' firms.
06. Institutional Development at COSANPA
The institutional development at COSANPA helped the implemented programs
in the country during the last 15 years. During the second half of the 70s,
COSANPA was a participant at SATECIA's (Technical Assistance Service to
Companies) program, which was developed by BNH together with OPAS (PanAmerican
Health Organization) and the State Sanitary companies.
PRODISAN's (Institutional Development Program for State Sanitary Companies)
participation started in 1981 and marked the subsequent stage of COSANPA's
process.
During the mentioned periods and up until now, the following managerial
and technical systems and sub-systems were incorporated: Human Resources sub-
system, patrimony sub-system, data processing sub-system, and operational and
planning systems.
In 1981, the elaboration of PDDI (Institutional Development Directive Plan)
was registered.
In 1979, the Charges (Duties) and Salaries' Plan in the Human Resources
areas, was developed; its maintenance activities resulted in its reformation.
The improvement of administration was sought through a training program.
In 1983, the first stage of the Patrimony Project was concluded, enfolding
the permanent assets' control list.
In 1984, we had the first Information Directive Plan for data processing.
Pirometry and micro-metering marked the process for the operational system.
We also cite the implementation of an Internal Audit system, which improved
the managerial system.
07.   Conclusion
The services and works performed under Loan 1970-BR improved considerably



-29-
the service to the community, in what refers to the water supply to Belem,
increasing the service to 1,000,000 people by 301. It was ascertained that the
financial resources were insufficient to reach the desired goal set by PLANASA.
It is important to mention that Belem, having only 71 of its population serviced
by sewerage, had insufficient resources to program that service. We hope, in
the near future, to be able to supply that improvement for the benefit of Belem's
population.



-30-
Saneamento de Goias S.A.
(cover letter)
Goiania, February 13, 1990
Of. DE No. 0274/90
Dr. Sergio Avila
MD. Chief, Sanitation, FAS and
Urban Development
Caixa Economica Federal
Dear Sirs
According to agreements reached at meetings that took place on
January 23 and 24 in the offices of CASSB-F, between representatives of IBRD -
Interamerican Bank for Reconstruction and Development, CEF - Caisa Economica
Federal and State Sanitation Companies, SANEAGO is submitting the pertinent
information for the final report, corresponding to Loan Agreement 1970/81, that
was signed on May 18, 1981, between BIRD and BNHICEF.
Attached to this report are 15 (fifteen) annexes that complement
the information submitted about the program's evolution and implementation.
Annex I - comparison table - Actual Disbursements column, also
contains information on Administrative Costs - CA, and CF - Financial Costs,
including taxes.  Thes; costs were excluded from the Programmed Disbursements
column.
We take this opportunity to reiterate our highest esteem and
consideration.
Sincerely,
Julio Cesar Costa
Director-President
1.    In view of the Final Report for the BIRD x BNH Loan No. 1970181 prepared
by the Company, we have the following points to highlightt
1.1.  GOIANIA'S WATER SUPPLY.
In spite of various changes in the basic concept of the Water Supply Loan
for the City of Goiania, as the SANEGO final report shows, there was
achievement in the production objective 4, 5 m3lsecond necessary for that
period.
The Company's allegation was that later studies carried out by new
administrations, caused the utilization in a definitive manner, and not
transitory, as originally planned for water impounding of the Meia Ponte
River.
1.2. GOIANIA'S WATER SEWERAGE



- 31-
There was no implementation of the Plano Diretor of sanitary sewerage of
the city of Goiania, capital of the State of Goias. The Company alleges
that priority was given to studies and projects and works execution,
because of the city's high population increment verified during this
period, that required more immediate solutions.
There is no treatment station, besides the Anicuns basin, being anticipated
construction of the Sewerage Treatment Station - ETE - 1. At the present
the waste collection is being scattered in natura' to the Meia Ponte
River.
Considering the Brazilian and Latin American actuality, the city of Goiania
can be considered well serviced with Sanitary Sewerage, seemingly being
a population's awareness of this situation, except for the existing
insatisfaction in relation to pollution of the Meia Ponte River resulting
from the untreated sewage disposal.
1.3. WATER SUPPLY - MEDIUM SIZE CITY IN THE COUNTRYSIDE.
The majority of the systems that were planned under this loan were
implemented, consequently the countryside is well serviced with potable
water.
1.4. FINANCIAL BALANCE OF SANEAGO
The Company mentions in its report, the increasing difficulty to attain
a permanent financial balance, such as, administrative disorganization,
institutional problems, etc.
1.5  LETTER FROM SANEAGO TO THE BANK
In reference to the delay in disbursements by BENHICEF, that is referred
to in the Company's *Letter to the Bank' (item 9.1.3), that were caused
in general due to the incompliance in the reimbursements by the financial
Agent and the Borrower, and in some cases failing to accomplish contractual
requirements. It is also noted that the difficulties actually encountered
by SANEAGO, deriving from the non-participation of FAEIGO, caused by the
stoppage of the State's participation quctas in that fund.
On various occasions the Sanitation Company, together with FAEIGO was in
incompliance in its financial returns, consequently aggravating even more
the situation.
Goiania, February 14, 1990
IBRD LOAN 1970181-BR
1. Obiectives
The loan's objectives were to supplement the BNS/SFS resources,
contributing this way to the agilization and viability of the PLANASA-Plano
Nacional de Saneamento (National Sanitation Plan) in Goias.



-32-
2. Evolution and Implementation of the Program
All the works planned under loan 1970181-BR were totally or partially
executed, with the exception of the Sanitary Sewerage Plan that was not
elaborated.
Those that were executed partially, encountered the difficulty of
insufficient resources required for its total execution, combined with the
management of priorities in the period of execution of the program.
In relation with bidding, services, consultancy, management,
supervision and procurement of equipment and material, these were carried out
according to IBRD norms and procedures, and having the SANEAGO team received all
the support and necessary orientation from BNH for the satisfactory performance
of this process.
Concerning supervision/management of works, services, manufacturing
and reception of goods and equipment, there was an effective participation by
SANEAGO'S team that was satisfactorily advised by FEEMA, in its capacity of
technical organ of BNH/CEP.
3. BNH/CEF's Performance
BNH performed in its capacity of central organ of SFS, as a financing
and   normative organ of the actions necessary for the achievement of the
objectives of the Sanitary National Plan PLANASA.
It handled satisfactorily the financing requests formulated by
SANEAGO, and also demonstrated good will and capability in the analyses and
approvals of contractual reprogramming, indicated as necessary by this Company.
It conveniently oriented SANEAGO, especially concerning international
or national bidding, when it concerned IBRD funds.
The Caixa Economica Federal - CEF has attempted thereafter the
incorporation of the activities of the extinct BNH, to give continuity in the
same line of action of that Bank, in the sanit. ion sector.
4. SANEAGO's Activity
SANEAGO has the attributions of proroting agent of the basic
sanitation program of the State of Goias and that of executor of projects and
engineering works of the sanitatiun sector.  It is also the Borrower of the
financing contracts, except for those aimed at supplementing FAE-GO resources
from FA-GO, SUBPROGRAM FINEST, whose Borrower is the State Government.
The basic sanitation plans and programs for the whole State were
elaborated by SANEAGO during this period, including the State of Tocantins,
created from a part of Goias in 1988 and installed on 1/1/89. Priorities for
a period of five years were established, and updated yearly (Global Viability
Study - EVG).



-33-
The financial allocation available for the basic sanitation sector
in the State of Goias during this period were not sufficient to service
completely the demand, although an increase of the indexes of water supply
services   had evolved satisfactorily.  In the meantime, the sanitary sewerage
was rather modest.
SANEAGO's participation in the preparation of studies and projects,
ard execution was permanent, having been successful from the bidding to the
testing, receipt and systems operation.  In this stage, the participation of
technical cooperation organs, such as FEEMA, DNOS and BNH/CEF, appear as of a
decisive nature.
As borrower, SANEAGO together with FAEG-GO attempted to make the
debt service payments to the financing entities, having had in the meantime
renegotiated some contracts's indebtedness, in view of the State Government's
difficulties to integrate in due time some portions that were owed to it at that
time.
5. SANEAGO's Institutional Development
From 1976 that the Sanitation State Companies have strived their
efforts to develop themselves institutionally, when it wa.s created by the then
BNH, the SATECIA program (Technical Assistance Services to the Companies), of
which OPAS (Panamerican Health Organization) also participated.
PRODISAN (Institutional Development Program of the State Sanitary
Companies) was created in 1981 by BNH. Quite flexibly, it allowed the Companies
to elaborate themselves, their own programs and created specific credit lines
for its execution.
SANEAGO made good use of that opportunity -nd developed principally
the following subsystems and systems:
- Human Resources
- Data Processing
- Operational and Commercial Systems
Human Resources - A Human Resources Directorship-DRH, was created
through the State Government's Decree.  By such Decree, the Human Resources
Director is elected by the Company's members through direct election, for a two-
year term.
The DRH will have to be extinct due to the administrative reform
process that SANEAGO is going through, transforming into a Human Resources
Superintendency, linked to the Administration and Finances Directorship.
DRH's has been, through all that time, developing F licies and
programs that aim to ensure their staff's professional growth and maintain the
legal registers of work relations.
At the present time, nominative procedures relating to recruitment



- 34-
and selection, training, health care, and job security, benefits, etc., were
developed.
SANEAGO's Employment and Salary Plan was created on 6/9/86.  We
attach copy of the following documentss
- Staff Rules of SANEAGO;
- Jobs Description Manual;
- Complementary information, amendments, number of employees,
etc.
The administrative reform that SANEAGO is going through, also
extinguished the Administrative and Financial Directorships. The Administration
and Finances Directorship was created, henceforth SANEAGO remaining with the
Presidency  and  three  more  Directorships:    Engineering,  Production  and
Administration and Finances.
Data Processing
SAZNEAGO has been since 1980 mating a great effort to become
independent from CODEG-State of Goias Development Company, in the data processing
sector. In the meantime, that independence would only be feasible as of July
of this year, as stated accordingly in the specific report's annex.
Operational and Commercial System
In SANEAGO That system contains two programs: the PDO - Operational
Development Program, and the Commercial System Development.
The PDO was created in SANEAGO in 1982 and has developed until now
projects of Micrometering, Pitometry, Macrometering (being introduced),
Maintenance  Development,  Planning  and  Operational  Control,  Billing  and
Collection, Commercialization, Consumers Cadastre and Technical Cadastre.
6. Lessons Learnt.
During the project and works development, SANEAGO acquired greater
agility in the various stages that formed part of the works undertaking,
notoriously in what is said about bidding, proposals examination, cadastre of
projectors, works and consultancy lenders, materials and equipment suppliers,
prequalifications, agilization and greater guarantee of the purchases and works
and services execution, materials and equipment inspection, accompanying of
projects and works, studies and technical projects, supervision, tests and
inspection of projects, works and services.
7. Conclusions
During Project execution, SANEAGO achieved a lot in implanting and
enlargement of its water supply systems, according to its comparative tables,
that are attached as annexes.
In terms of Sanitary sewerage, the achievements were more important
in the Capital-Goiania, where the population percentage that was served, varied



-35-
from 341 in 1982 to 552 in December 1989. In the countryside, little was done
for the implanting of new systems of enlargement and betterment of the existing
systems.
Goiania, February 1990
Eng. Luix Antonio Ungarelli
Engineering Director



-36-
Companhia de Agua e Esgotos da Paraiba
(cover letter)
DP/ASPLAN/CAGEPAICARTA N. 192190           Joao Pessoa, April 2, 1990
Mr. Jose Lindoso de Albuquerque Filho
Division Chief
Sanitation and Urban Development Division
DISAN
Caixa Economica Federal
Attached herewith please find the corresponding information to be
used for the elaboration of the Project Completion Report for Loan 1970-BR.
The information consists of:
a) Table demonstrativo de origen and resource application;
b) Copy of charts of EVG 1983/88, with historico de realizacoes, desempenho
indicators, and financial and physical data;
c) Observations about conditions of Loan BIRD/BNE 1970-BR;
d) Comments about the Loan;
e) Annexes.
Sincerely yours,
Eng. Luiz Gonzaga de Miranda Burity
Director-President
LOAN 1970-BR
1. OBJECTIVES
Loan BIRD/CEF 1970-BR's s objectives were to complement the national
resources of the Sanitation Financial System (SFS) and through this achieve the
viability of the Plano Nacional de Saneamento - PLANASA.
2. PROGRAM EXECUTION
a) The Program
In general,  all the works were executed.   The programs that
encountered restrictions were those programs, whose success was dependent not
only on the init lally planned resources, but on a continuous line of credit, that
would allow the Company to turn it irreversible with the establishment of a an
internal culture set up and absorbed by its members. The Loss Control Plan, the
Institutional/Entrepreneurial Development Plan and the Micromeasuring Plan are
amongst these.   Other works were only partially successful due to lack of



- 37-
complementary resources or because of priority diversion of programs of greater
social characteristics.
All the World Bank norms were followed, especially concerning bidding
processes for works, services, procurement of materials and equipment and
consulting services.
We wish to raise the possibility of adjust in the future some
international bidding, that due to its greater complexity, caused significant
delays in some works hindering its completion and reducing supervisior. rigidity.
The supervision and the monitoring of works, services and suppliers,
was quite satisfact,ry, taking into account that the technical team of CAGEPA
has well qualified staff.
b) BNH/CEF Performance
BNH as well as CEF performed together with CAGEPA as financing,
normative and fiscal entities of work generated to achieve the PLANASA goals.
The strive of these entities was of great value, not only to consider
the financing but in obtaining the contracting reprogrAmming that works required
through its whole progress.
Besides the supervising aspect, it is of commending both institutions
performanc^ - (BNH/CEF) of advising and helping CAGEPA in the achievement of its
objectives.
The incorporation of BNH activities by CEF did not jeopardize the
continuity of diverse projects and also the performance of the sanitation sector
as a whole.
2. The CAGEPA
The CAGEPA, with the functions of agent promoting basic sanitation
programs in the State of Paraiba, executing agency of projects and works of
sanitation engineering and borrower of some financing contracts, elaborated the
plans and programs, as well as established the basic priorities, according to
the Global Feasibility Study - (Estudo de Vialibidade Global) - EVG, updated
annually.
The CAGEPA was able to reach satisfactory indexes of execution of
works, not having been greater due to lack of resources in the State, the
Company, and the traditional sector financing agencies.
The performance as an executing agency was satisfactory, taking into
consideration that in all the stages of execution of works, from the contracting
to the conclusion of works and services, they had solutions in due course,
without jeopardizing the quality and performance of established or enlarged
systems.
The financial return have been settled within the anticipated dates,
allowing this way to provide continuity to the established programs, not causing



-38-
any inconvenience to the financing institutions.
3. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
As it happens in all the Sanitation Institutions in the country,
the first effort coordinated for the institutional development was initiated in
1975 with the Program SATECIA (in conjunctions with the BNH and OPAS).  To
achieve a greater agility in the program, PRODISAN was set up (Program of
Institutional Development of State Sanitation Companies) that allowed a greater
mobility to the Institutions with specific credit and respecting the priorities
and peculiarities of each one.
In spite of all the attack to this Company, best results were
attained in the following areas: Commercial, Human Resources and Supplies.
The first program was the Entrepreneurial Development, where diverse
Company's systems were to be taken into considerationicontemplated, more than
by the resource discontinuation, barely successful were: Human Resources with
the development of the Salaries and Jobs Plan, and partially Training.
Also, the data processing system was developed and introduced,
obtaining savings for the Company and ensuring its integration to all the
sectors.
Another large program was PECOPE that contemplated the following
sub-systems:
1. Pitometry
2. Macrometering
3. Sewerage System Cadastre
4. Commercial Cadastre
5. Reduction of unaccounted-for water levels
6. Distribution network improvement
7. Operation Development
8. Development of Maintenance and rehabilitation of operational
units
9. Development of Micrometering
10 Development of quality of materials and equipment.
This program had its actions strategically planned so that some
PDI's (Micro-metering, Pitometry, Macro-metering, Commercial Cadastre and
Reduction of unaccounted-for water) had its activities carried out at a more
accelerated pace that the others, due to the fact that these provided a faster
response to the operational problems of the Company.
That strategy permitted the harmonious development of the program.
For example, in terms of Micro-metering, in general in all the
operational systems, a greater demand for water was achieved characterized by:
1. Reservoir level reaching high quota levels even in peak hours;
2. Extinction, or at least sensible reduction in complaints



-39-
because of lack of water;
3. Permanent existence of pressured water in high elevations
that have been without water for many months;
What turns out to be necessary now, is to give continuity to the
programs, but the lack of resources have slowed down the process and in some
cases the paralyzation is going to be the cause of the apparent need to start
up again in some projects (not very clear).
The request for financing of the 3rd stage of PECOPE and the 2nd
stage of the Entrepreneurial Development Program is being handled by CEF.
It is worth clarifying also that the above mentioned comments refer
to those programs of greater coverage, but other works were developed in diverse
areas of the Company, that addressed its institutional development.
The own experience in dealing with lenders, providers, agilization
of bidding procedures, supervision of works. etc., were and are being of great
value in the Company's development.
4. Conclusion
Today the CAGEPA serves an approximate population of 1,753,235
inhabitants (1987), with 350.647 water connections and 72.602 sewerage
connections.
In 1982 the situation was:
226.385 water connections
35,000 sewerage connections
1.13.925 inhabitants were served, representing an increase of
54,8Z in the water connections and 1002 in those of sewerage.
The low service in the number of sewerage connections, is justified
by the number of the existing sanitary sewerage, 10 against 133 of water.
This report presents various annexes that complement these comments.
We have:
a) Table illustrating the origin and application/use of IBRDICEF
resources;
b) Final Report of works, by system
c) Annex A - Other financing - Conclusions that complement item b;
d) Annex B - Evolution of water connections;
e) Tables of EVG - company's performance.
The final conclusion is of total success of the loan with its



-40-
objectives achieved, being the State of Paraiba with a good water supply service,
having now to return to the necessary expansions, as well as reaching the small
size communities.
It also becomes necessary the construction of systems without
sanitary sewerage.



- 41-
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit               Purpose             Year of         Status
Title                                      Approval
Loan No.1656-BR        Implementation    of   1979          Project Completion
Northeast    Water   National   Sanitation                  Report dated Feb.
Supply and Sewerage    Plan (PLANASA) in the                27. 1987.
States   of   Bahia,                 implementation
Ceara and Pernambuco.
Loan    No.1823-BR   Implementation of of   1980            Project Completion
Southern    States   PLANASA in the States                  Report dated April
Water   Supply   and   of   Parana,   Santa                 27, 1987.
Sewerage               Catarina   and   Rio
Grande do Sul
Loan    No.2249-BR   First   Sector  Loan   1983            Completed    in
Water   Supply   and   benefitting  the  23                 December, 1989.
Sewerage Sector        States    and    the
Territories



-42-
B. Proiect Timetable
Item                        Date                Date             Date
Planned            Revised          Actual
Initial Discussions         06/79                 --           06/04179
Identification              09/79                 --        10120 to 11102179
Preparation                   --                  --               --
Pre-appraisal               04/80                 --         04/25 to 05/23/80
Appraisal                   08180                 --         08/17 to 09/18/80
Post Appraisal              10/80                 --        11/06 to 11/13/80
Loan Negotiations             --                  --         02/23 to 02/27/81
Board Approval                __                  __           04/21/81
Loan Signature                --                  --           05/18/81
Loan Effectiveness          07/81                 --           12/15/81
Loan Closing              06/30/85              06/30/88       06/30/88
Project Completion        12/31/84              12/31/87       12/31/87



-43-
C. Loan Disbursements
1. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year         1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Appraisal Estimate       48.2   118.5   162.6   180.0   180.0   180.0   180.0
Actual                   21.4    40.9    57.1    77.3   114.8   123.4   180.0
Actual as 2 Estimate      452      35S     352     43?      64?     68?    1OOZ
Comments:
(a) Last Disbursement Date: 05111/88 on which a total cumulative disbursement
of US$180.0 million was reached.
(b) In 1987, disbursements were suspended following the liquidation of BNH.
2. Time Line of Planned and Actual Disbursement Schedules
170-
160IS
1SO
140
130-
120 -
1 110          9318                   8S18                  t18
90 
70 
50 -
40-
30
1982      1983       1984       1985       1986       1987       1998
Dabk F.Y.
O   PIorted Dbsb.              +  Aetual OIsb.



-44-
D. Project Implementation
Indicators                                  Appraisal        Actual
Estimate
1) Additional Water Storage Capacity           170,000 M3      168,307 M3
2) Construction of Water Distribution
and Transmission Lines                        2,000 KM        2,241 KM
3) House Connections for Water                 200.000 UN      198,120 UN
4) Installation of Water Meters                286,000 UN      260,456 UN
5) Construction of Sewer Lines                      630 KM         974 KM
6) Sewerage Connections                         45,000 UN      143,419 UN
7) No. of Medium-Sized Cities Benefitted
by the Construction or Expansion of             80             204
Water Supply Systems
8) No. of Small Communities Benefitted
by the Construction or Expansion of             65             243
Water Supply Systems
Comments:
(a) indicators 1, 2, 3, and 4 refer to the water supply systems for the cities
of Belem, Brasilia, Campo Grande, Goiania, Joao Pessoa and Manaus;
(b) indicators 5 and 6 refer to the sewerage systems for the cities of
Brasilia, Campina Grande, Joao Pessoa and Manaus;
(c) indicator 7 refers to cities with more than 5,000 people -- excluding the
state capitals -- in the States of Amazonas, Goi4s, Mato Grosso do Sul,
Part and Paraiba;
(d) indicator 8 refers to towns and villages with less than 5,000 people in
the States of Goias, Mato Grosso do Sul, Par& and Paraiba.



- 45-
E. Proiect Costs and Financing
1. Project Costs (in US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate                Actual(*)
Item                         Local Foreign Total        Local Foreign  Total
Costs Exchange             Costs Exchange
Costs                      Costs
A. State of Amazonas           32.15  14.55  46.70       14.51    6.38   20.89
1. Water Supply             20.55  10.82  31.37
2. Sewerage                  6.78   3.57  10.35
3. Engineering & Others      4.82   0.70   5.52
B. Federal District            71.49  29.95 101.44       36.34   15.99   52.33
1. Water Supply             24.84  11.67  36.51
2. Sewerage                 36.34  17.10  53.44
3. Engineering & Others    10.31   1.18  11.49
C. State of Mato Grosso Sul   54.93  25.27  80.20        70.84   31.18  102.02
1. Water Supply             43.24  22.28  65.52
2. Sewerage                  4.17   2.15   6.32
3. Engineering & Others      7.52   0.84   8.36
D. State of Goias              53.97  24.11  78.08       49.84   21.94   71.78
1. Water Supply             44.82  23.09  67.91
2. Engineering & Others      9.15   1.02  10.17
E. State of Part               58.64  26.81  85.45       58.00   25.53   83.53
1. Water Supply             50.22  25.87  76.09
2. Engineering & Others      8.42   0.94   9.36
F. State of Paraiba            39.23  17.36  56.59       30.66   13.50   44.16
1. Water Supply             26.93  13.88  40.81
2. Sewerage                  5.20   2.68   7.88
3. Engineering & Others      7.10   0.80   7.90
G. T.A. to BNH                  0.39   0.68   1.07        3.16    1.39    4.55
H. Water Conservation Program   --       --     --       63.01   27.73   90.74
I. Contingencies               98.20  40.73 138.93          -       -       -
1. Phys. Contingencies      31.08  13.93  45.01
2. Price Escalation         67.12  26.80  93.92
TOTAL                         409.00 180.00 589.00      326.36  143.64  470.00
(*) Estimated at project completion.



-46-
Comments:
Due to the loss of the accounting system which was in place at BNH,
it was not possible to obtain data on the actual costs of the project.
Therefore, project costs at completion were estimated according to the following:
(a) Actual Total Cost of the project was estimated at US$470 million based on
information taken from the project implementation summary (dated December
17, 1987) of the last supervision mission.  Actual Total Cost of each
component was then estimated from the total cost of *he project and Bank
disbursement figures for each component.
(b) Actual Foreign Exchange Cost figures were estimated at 30.6Z of project
costs (total and for each component), assuming that there was no change
in the foreign exchange cost share of 30.6? estimated at appraisal for the
project as a whole.
(c) Actual Local Cost figures were estimated at 69.4? of the total cost of each
component, assuming that there was no change in the local cost share of
69.42 estimated at appraisal for the project as a whole.
2. ProJect Financing
Planned                   Final
Source               Loan Agreement
US$ million    S         US$ million    X
IBRD                  180.0    30.6             180.0    38.3
State Water Supply    294.5    50.0             170.3    36.2
and Sewerage Re-
volving Funds
BNH                   114.5    19.4             119.7    25.5
TOTAL                 589.0  100.0              470.0   100.0
Comments:
(a) The total project cost was estimated at US$470.0 million duLing the last
supervision mission in October, 1987.
(b) Bank's increased participation in project financing is the result of higher
disbursement rates which were put into effect with the signing, on December



- 47-
2, 1983, of an amendment to the Loan Agreement.
(c) BNH's increased participation in project financing is the result of an
increase in FINEST I source funds to cover shortfalls in state counterpart
funds.
(d) The financing provided by the State Water Supply and Sewerage Revolving
Funds was estimated on the basis of information available on Bank and BNH
disbursements for the project.
F. Prolect Results
1. Direct Benefits
Indicators                             Appraisal      Actual on
Estimate      Closing Date
1. Incremental Population Served
by Water Supply Systems             2.5 million     4.7 million
2. Incremental Population Served
by Sewerage Systems                 0.6 million     0.7 million
3. No. of Medium-Sized Cities Ben-
efitted by the Construction and         80             204
Expansion of Water Supply Syst.
4. No. of Small Towns Benefitted
by the Construction and Expansion       65              243
of Water Supply Systems
2. Economic Impact
Rates of return may be found in the tables of Annex 1.
3. Studies
No studies were financed under this project.



-48-
G. Status of Covenants
Covenant         Subject                           Deadline       Status
Loan Agreement                                      for Compliance
BNH shall cause to be opened
2.02 tc)           and maintained a special ac-   None
2.02 (h)           count in the Account Bank on
terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
2.02 (i) (ii)      Delivery by each water state   Prior    to         1
company and the project state   disburse-
of a Carta Reversal.              ments    of
Bank proce-
eds    for
each   com-
pany
2.02 (j) Sch.4     Compliance with selection cri-   08/31/81          1
4.07 (a) & (b)     teria for subprojects under the
multistate; for all water and   12131181
sewerage projects financed by
BNH
2.05 Sch.3 and    Procurement guidelines.               N.A.          1
Sch.5 (20)
3.03 (b)           BNH shall review with the Gov-   Nov. 30 of        1
ernment and the Bank counter-   each year
part funds required for the
following year.
3.05 and           BNH shall employ qualified con-   Hired prior      1
6.01 (d)           sultants to carry out part G of   to Loan ef-
the project.                      fec tive-
ness
3.07 (c) and       BNH shall furnish the Bank with   No    later      1
Sch.5 B (5)        a progress report prepared by   than  three
each company.                     months  af-
ter    each
semester
3.07 (d)           BNH shall visit at least twice   April    30       1
a year the facilities of each   and Oct. 31
company and furnish a super-   of    each
vision report to the Bank.        year



-49-
3.07 (e) and       BNH shall prepare and furnish   4    months
Sch.5 B (6)        the Bank with a project com-   after Clos-
pletion report.                   ing Date
4.04 (a)           BNH shall have its accounts,   No   latter
financial statements and the   than   four
Consolidated  Project  Account   months  af-
(Section 4.03) for each fiscal   ter the end
year audited by external audi-   of    each
tors  and  shall  furnish  the   year audit-
audit report to the bank.         ed.
4.08 and Sch.5     COSAMA. COSANPA, SANEAGO, and   12131183
9 (a) and (b)      SANESUL shall carry out sewer-
age master plans for the capi-
tal cities under BNH's assis-
tance. BNH shall furnish find-
ings to the Bank.
4.09 and           BNH shall take all actions with   Prior    to
Sch.5 B(15)        respect to the setting of ad-   each  quar-
justment of each company's ra-   ter
tes for its water supply and
sewerage services to comply
each calender year with the
revenue covenant.
4.10               BNH shall employ for COSAN, in    12/31/81
addition to the three staff
members to be employed by the
effective date, four staff
members satisfactory to the
Bank.
6.01 (a) and (b)   Execution and delivery of the   Loan Effec-
'Carta Reversal' on behalf of   tiveness
one of the project states and
of the company operating in
such project state and that
this agreement has been duly
registered by the Central Bank
of Brazil.
6.01 (c)           BNH shall hire three addition-   Loan Effec-
al staff for COSAN                tiveness
Sch.5 B(2)         Each company shall employ qua-   None
lified and experienced consul-
tants.



-50-
Sch.5 BM()         Each company shall establish a   12131181          1
system of monitoring indica-
tors.
Sch.5 B(3)         Each company shall take insur-   None              1
and B(12)          ance with appropriate coverage
Sch.5              Each company shall have  its   No    later         1
B14(a)             accounts and financial state-   than 5 mon-
ments for each fiscal year au-   ths   after
dited by independent auditors   the end of
and furnish through BNH, after   each year.
end of such year, a copy of the
audit report.
Sch.5              Each company shall furnish        No    later      1   (see
B14(b)             through BNH, the company's most   than  April   comments)
recent EVG.                       30 of each
year.
Sch.5              Each company shall prepare an   12/31182           1
B14(c)             inventory and reassessment of
its fixed assets.
Sch.5              Each company  shall put into   12/31182            1
B16                effect a personnel management
system.
Sch.5              Each company shall establish a   12131182          1
317                system analysis unit.
Sch.5              Each company shall install         12131182        2   (see
B18                consumption  meters  to  reach       and         comments)
metering levels of not  less   12131183
than 70Z and 80Z of house con-
nections in cities with popu-
lation of 100,000 or more.



-51-
Sch.5              Each company shall establish   12131182
B19                and adequately staff an inter-
nal audit unit.
Rating:
1 - Full Compliance
2 - Partial Compliance
3 - Non Compliance
Comments:
(a) Due to the uncertainties involving BNH's financing during the period 1984-
87, some EVGs were not formally approved and a few are missing.
(b) Some SWCs did not reach the required metering levels, as is shown in the
tables in Annex 1.
H. Use of Bank Resources
1. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Stage of             Planned            Final              Comments
Project Cycle
Through Appraisal                          28.0
Appraisal through                           2.0
Board Approval
Supervision                                40.9
PCR Preparation                             4.0
TOTAL                                     74*9



-52-
2. Missions
Stage of      Month/  No. of  Week in  Specialization  Performance  Types of
Project Cycle   Year   Persons  Field    RePresented4         Rating5    Problems6
Through Appraisal
Identif.        10179      04     02(*)
Preappr.        04180      03     04
Appraisal       08/80      03     04        EC, EG, FA
Appraisal Through Board Approval
Post Appr.      11/80      02     01        FA(2)
Supervision
Superv.  1      05/81      02     02(*)    EG, FA                1
Superv.  2      09/81      02     03        EG, FA               2         F. T
Superv.  3      09(81      01     02(*)    FA                    -
Superv.  4      11/81      02     02(*)    EG, PA                1           __
Superv.  5      05182      04     03        EG(2), FA(2)         2         M
Superv.  6      12/82      01     02(*)    FA            
Superv.  7      01183      02     03(*)    EG, FA                            --
Superv.  8      04/83      02     03(*)    EG, FA  Hid-Term Review 2    F, M
Superv.  9      07/83      02     03(*)    EG, FA                ---
Superv. 10      11/83      04     02(*)    EG(2), FA(2)          2          F, N
Superv. 11      02/84      03     02(*)    EG, FA(2)             -           --
Superv. 12      04/84      01     03(*)    FA                    -
Superv. 13      06/84      02     02(*)    EG, FA                2         F, M
Superv. 14      10/84      04     03(*)    EG(2), FA(2)          2         F, M
Superv. 15      04/85      03     04(*)    EG(2), FA             2          F, M
Superv. 16      07/85      02     03(*)    EG, PA                2         F, M
Superv. 17      10185      03     03(*)    EG(2), FA             2         M
Superv. 18      01/86      02     02(*)    EG, FA                2         M
Superv. 19      06/86      02     02(*)    EG, FA                ---
Superv. 20      09/86      03     03(*)    EG, FA(2)             2         M
Superv. 21      12/86      03     02(*)    EG, FA(2)             -           --
Superv. 22      01/87      03     02(*)    EG, FA(2)             3         M, F
Superv. 23      10/87      03     02(*)    EG, FA(2)             2         M, F
Superv. 24      10/87      02     04(*)    EG, FA                2         M, F
Completion
PCR Prep.       01/90      02     03(*)    EG, FA
PCR Prep.       04/90      02     03(*)    EG(2)
(*) partial (general superv.of all Water Supply and Sewerage Proj. in Brazil)
4  EG  Engineer; EC - Economist; FA - Financial Analyst.
5  1 = problem free or minor problems; 2 - moderate problems; 3 - major problems.
6  F - Financial; N - Managerial; T - Technical.



- 53 -
BRAZIL
MULTISTATE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 1970-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
A N N E X 1



ANNEX 1
54                             Page 1 of 6
COSAMA - AMAZONAS                                    MONITORING INDICATORS
1981    1982    1988    1984    1986    1986    1987    1988
POPULATION AND POPULATION SERVED
Population-thousand                  802.07  904.00                     1112.71  1190.00 1680.00
Population Served-Water              700.07   757.00                     988.19 1082.00  1490.00
Population S.rv.d-Swerse*             0.61    0.60                       28.01   80.54   82.00
X Served Water                        78.47   80.11   80.17               8.683   90.02   04.80
XServ.d Sewerae                        0.07    0.05    0.07                2.07    2.57    2.08
DEMAND
Conn.ctions-Wt.tr (000)              127.08  140.77                      175.72  186.00  202.00
Sewer Connections (000)                0.10    0.10                        2.99    6.46    5.00
Consumptlon-million ua                89.05   44.29                       48.18   54.00   65.70
Conwumption/Conn MS/Month             25.48   26.22                       22.88   24.19   22.98
X Unaccounted For Water               44.00   54.00   54.10               59.85   62.00   68.14
Production-milIon US                 809.7   96.50                      119.90  141.00  127.00
Per Capita Production-LCD
ADMINISTRATION
Total Employee                      1488.00  1118.00                             1554.00  1593.00
Employee Per 1000 Connect             11.28    7.94                                 8.12    7.70
X Personnel Cost On Total             60.00   59.00                                 0.47    47.S0
X Metered                             82.00             01.76              61.5   49.46   69.70
COSTS
Exchange Rate US81.00 =      98.06   179.89  578.18  1845.88 6204.95   18.66   89.80  848.13
Cost USI/MS Sold                       0.89    0.21                                 0.28
X Increas Operating Costs                       0.08
Total InvsOtment Millon USS                    1.07     1.66    0.00    0.00               16.52
REVENUES
Average Tariff UPC/MS Sold             0.08    0.08    0.00                         0.11    0.01
Average Tariff US$/M8 Sold             0.82    0.21    0.02                         0.90    0.08
X Increase In Tariffs                          -7.61  -91.77                               -96.88
X Rate of Return                       1.04   -0.04
X Operating Ratio                    104.00  105.00                                         88.01
Debt Service Ratio                             -2.80                             -836.72    0.13
X Recelvsbles In BtIlIng                       n27.8     0.00                       0.00    19.62
X Debt/(DobttEqulty)                           54.54   47.29                        0.00   39.13



ANNEX 1
- 55                             Page 2 of 6
CAESO - FEDERAL DISTRICT                             MONITORING INDICATORS
1981    1982    1003    1984    1085    1986    1087    1988
POPULATION AND POPULATION SERVED
Population-thousand        1175.70 1286.90 1858.40 1856.40  1405.90 1687.60  1641.00
Population Served-Water    1121.51  1100.70 1296.10  1295.10 1465.10  1615.50 1509.90
Population Served-Sewerage  585.07   714.00  904.20  904.20 1814.80 1308.40  1484.80
X Served Water               05.30  90.22   05.48   95.40   97.84   96.88    07.50
XServed Swerage              49.70   65.48   66.68   66.6    87.89   809.08    00.46
DEMAND
Conn.ctions-Water (000)     142.09  149.20   152.60  106.20  162.40  170.90  171.90
swor Connections (000)       58.87   78.20   02.60   92.60  112.10  150.40  152.90
Consumption-million MS      102.06  118.40  181.80  181.81   120.90  126.00  125.80
Consumption/Conn US/Month    40.59   81.70   81.10               26.80   27.00   26.00
X Unaccounted For Water      82.57   44.60   a6.60   84.40   48.10   86.60   27.00   21.70
Production-million MS       152.23   186.10  150.60  201.20   16e.40  149.70   151.50
Por Capita Production-LCD
ADMINISTRATION
Total Employees               1094    1,778    1,848    1,848    2,147    2,182   2,050
Employees Per 1000 Connect    5.40     7.07    7.52    0.82    7.82    6.64    6.81
X Personnel Cost On Total    47.19   52.80   46.20   52.54    50.20   68.80   48.80   49.S5
X Metered-
COSTS
Exchange Rate uS81.00 =      08.06  179.39  578.16  1845.86 8204.0s   18.65    80.80  346.13
Cost US$/M3 Sold              0.00   110.77    0.06    0.06    8.11    78.86   115.05  150.00
X Increse Operating Costs             10.41   -7.82   -0.51
Inflation Rate (8)
Total Investment Mlli on US   0.00    18.81   13.17               0.08    0.07      0.09
REVENUES
Average Tariff UPC/MS Sold    0.01    0.01                        0.44    0.01    0.02       0.02
Average Tariff US$/M8 Sold    0.00    0.10    0.00    0.00    8.18    0.08          0.14     0.12
X Increase In Tariffs                  2.62                              -97.66    70.87    19.89
FINANCIAL RATIOS
X Rate of Return              0.95     1.00    2.24               0.50    -2.28     8.88     8.65
X Operating Ratio            09.75    04.40    88.40             99.90   109.80   80.50    90.07
8 Debt Service Ratio          4460   100.88    91.97 -4710.84    80.51  -119.01   100.05
X Receivables in  1ilIIng    14.18     8.18    12.69   17.91    9.62       4.46     8.50
X Debt/(Debt+Equity)         42.50    42.18    80.20    86.07    86.81    85.16    80.02



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 6
- 56 -
SANEAGO - GOIAS                                       MONITORING INDICATORS
1981     1982     1988     1984    18S      1986     1987     1988
POPULATION AND POPULATION SERVED
Population-thousand         2037.08 2142.60  2280.00 2462.60 2699.50 2825.70  8025.70  2891.00
Population Served-Water    1126.55  1251.70  1412.20  1571.50  1738.60  1953.50 2164.80  2085.00
Population Served-Sewerage   825.56   329.70   877.90  431.10   480.50  564.50   718.20   798.90
% Served Water                55.26    68.42    81.94    08.82    66.88    69.18    71.20    72.12
XServed Sewerage              15.98    15.89    16.57    17.51    18.48    19.98   28.74    27.63
DEMAND
Connections-Water (000)      192.89   211.20   229.10   254.60   278.80   816.00   840.60   369.60
Sewer Connections (000)       39.20    42.40    46.80    58.40    61.20    75.70    94.40   103.90
Consumption-million U8        95.28    95.80   107.00   115.60   128.60   186.00   150.00   138.70
Consumption/Conn u8/Month     41.14    87.80    89.14    87.84    87.81    85.86    86.71    91.27
X Unaccounted For Water       85.00   21.00    19.00    20.00    26.00    84.00    80.20   83.10
Production-million M8        118.81   120.00   181.90   148.70   168.90  205.60   214.90   207.20
Per Capita Production-LCD
ADMINISTRATION
Total Employee              1S36.00 2768.00  8188.00  855.00  8788.00 4050.00 4188.00 4270.00
Employeoe  Per 1000 Connect    6.62    10.91    11.68    11.88    10.99    10.84      9.62     9.02
X Personnel Cost On Total    56.90   65.20    66.40    81.80    69.90    79.28   86.78    65.88
U Metered                     28.77    28.18    26.45    27.14    28.19    44.72    48.22
COSTS
Exchange Rate US81.00 a       98.06   179.89  676.16  1845.86  6204.95    18.65    89.30   846.13
Cost US$/MS Sold               0.18     0.19     0.18     0.18     0.01     0.14      0.17     0.00
X Increase Operating Costs             28.62   -88.06    -3.16   -95.46  2426.16    18.01  -100.00
Inflation Rate (X)
Total Investment Million US$
REVENUES
AveraSge Tariff UPC/M8 Sold    0.01     0.02     0.02     0.02     0.01     0.02      0.02     0.83
Average Tariff US8/M8 Sold    0.17      0.20     0.18     0.18     0.06     0.12      0.17     1.98
X Increase in Tariffs                  19.47    -7.52    10.80   -61.68   119.86    87.80  1480.89
FINANCIAL RATIOS
% Rate of Return               2.10     0.20     0.60     2.40    -1.00     5.41      5.61
X Operating Ratio             95.20   101.70   100.20    97.10   118.20   182.59   103.74   102.80
Debt Service Ratio            -0.21    -0.80    -0.08    -0.01    -0.14              -0.08     2.4S
X Receivables In Billing       0.41     0.89     0.87     0.85     0.83    -0.13      1.18     0.84
X Debt/(Debt+Equity)           0.61     0.61     0.68                                 0.81     0.88



ANNEX 1
- 57                                Page 4 of 6
SANESUL - MAT  OROSSO DO SUL                          MONITORIN  INDICATORS
1981     1982     1988     1984     1985     1988     1987     1983
POPULATION AND POULATION SERVED
Population-thousand                  1038.00  1160.00  1160.00                     1508.01  1524.00
Population Served-Water               559.57   772.00   772.00                     1290.03  1268.00
Population Serv.d-Sew.rag             988.28   128.00   126.00                      165.08   187.00
X Served Water                         18.91    866.55     66.                       86.83    82.55
XS.rv.d Swerage                       176.61    16.82    16.82                       12.79    10.89
DEMAND
Connectiion-Water (000)               117.81   141.00  141.00                       220.05   257.00
sewer Connections (000)                19.88    19.00    19.00                       27.04    25.00
CSneumption-millIon MS
Consumption/Conn MS/Month              22.20    19.00    19.00              20.00    18.00    19.00
X Unacoounted For Water                48.16    45.88    45.83              48.00    88.00    30.00
Production-imlllon Us                  61.20    77.00   81.00              108.00    98.00   105.00
Per Capita Production-LCD
ADMINIS'TRATION
Total Employeee                       659.00   855.00   855.00                     1110.00  1231.00
Employee  Per 1000 Connect              6.29     5.84     5.84                        4.49     4.37
X Pereonnel Cost On Total              71.90   48.79   40.71                51.00   44.00   46.00
X Metered
C-OSTS
Exchange Rate USn1.00 0       98.06   179.39   S78.16  1845.86  6204.95    18.66    89.80   346.13
cost US$/MS Sold                        0.28     0.14     0.1S      0.00    0.15      0.18     0.29
X Increase Operating Coete             24.10    -4.22    6.72                                  7.48
Inflation Rate ()                                                219.20   62.86   885.96   933.62
Total Investment Millon USf           88.68    16.09    15.07              22.97    21.79    19.58
REVENUES
Avorage Tariff UPC/M3 Sold              0.02    0.02      0.02               0.02     0.03     0.04
Average Tariff USI/Mg Sold              0.19     0.17     0.18      0.00     0.15     0.21     0.24
X Increaso In Tariffs                           28.57    14.38                       34.80    59.50
FINANCIAL RATIOS
X Rate of Return
X Operating Ratio                     184.80    88.60    80.09             120.00   108.00    82.00
Debt Service Ratio                     -2.06     0.88     0.91              -0.67    -4.02     1.09
% Rocelvable  In B illIng              28.89    85.86    19.72              28.40    26.48    18.46
X Debt/(Debt+Equlty)                   52.54    58.67    54.80              60.74    58.05    59.99



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
- 58 -
COSANPA - PARA                                        MONITORMIN  INDICATORS
1981     1982     1988     1904     1085      1986    108?     1988
POPULATION AND POPULATION SERVED
Population-thousand                  176.09  1912.70  2011.21            2287.88 2422.16  2624.94
Populatlon Served-Water              1118.67  1842.77  1402.87            1699.00  1870.09  1784.69
Population Served-Sewerage             68.11    74.82   187.98             887.42    91.22   122.57
X Served Water                         68.06    70.20    60.75              69.809   560      67.99
XServed Sewerage                        8.86     8.91     9.85              14.75     8.77     4.67
DEMAND
Connections-Water (000)               218.28   281.64  247.44              270.00  247.92   805.28
Sewer Connections (000)                11.60    11.78    11.82              12.77    12.45    18.72
Consumption-mllIon Ms                  88.08   01.19   08.85               111.09   1tA.49   128.02
Consumption/Conn MS/Month              82.47    82.82    88.12              84.29   80.48    88.58
X Unaccounted For Wator                45.92   42.98    86.75               88.08    84.76    50.97
Production-mllIlon Ms                 145.81   155.80   129.11             148.80   175.49  250.98
Per Capita Production-LCD
ADMINISTRATION
Total EmpIoyee                      1198.00  1180.00  1899.00            1899.00  1595.00  1888.00
Employee Per 1000 Connect               5.62     4.06     6.40              4.05      6.18     6.00
X Personnel Cost On Total              19.00    21.85    20.80              18.90   48.85   48.74
X Metered                              80.17    27.82    25.71              22.68             25.74
COSTS
Exchange Rate USS1.00 *               179.89   576.16  1845. U  6204.95    18.65    89.80
cost  S8$/MS Sold                       0.14     0.10     0.10     0.00    0.10       0.15
X Increase Operating Costa                     -11.67    N/A                 0.59
Inflation Rate (U)
Total Investment Million US8           28.94    0.94      4.08              87.71
REVENUES
Average Tariff UPC/M8 Sold              0.02     0.01     0.02              0.01    14.29
Average Taiff USS/U8 Sold               0.22     0.11     0.12              0.09
X Increase In Tariffs                          -49.64     5.00
FINANCIAL RATIOS
U Rate of Return                        6.42     2.00   N/A                N/A
X Operating Ratio                      84.74    91.62    92.94             109.80
Debt Service Ratio                     59.99   68.05    59.98               98.78   -69.80
X Receivables in Billing                9.50    20.46   246.18              14.16     0.00    17.42
X Debt/(Debt*EquIty)                   28.93    0.00    88.85              81.84      0.00    0.76



ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 6
- 59.-
CAGEPA - PARAIB                                      MONITORING INDICATORS
-  - ------              -__       _-_ _-__                  _     _  _  _    _  __-_
1981    1862    1988    1984    1985        1980    1987    1988
POPULATION AND POPULATION SERVED
Population-thousand                 1410.20  1474.60  1518.60  1647.70  1085.90  1086.95 1787.61
Population Served-Water             1102.76  1190.46  1208.0  1808.20  1481.45  1625.90  15688.84
Population Served-S.wrage            206.05  287.08  245.95  267.90   279.11   806.78   864.78
X Served Water                         0.76     0.81     0.80    0.85    0.07       0.90    0.89
XServed Sewerage                       0.14    0.10    0.10    0.17    0.17    0.18    0.20
DEMAND
Connections-Water (000)              282.78   268.22  209.11   267.91   314.88  881.42  337.43
Sewer Connoctions (000)               44.77    52.04    52.16   67.67   61.92    72.08   77.35
Consumption-mil iIon M1                                                                    70.04
Consumptl on/Conn MS/Month                                                                  16.74
X Unaccounted For Water               40.00   40.76    84.01    40.84    42.00    40.28    45.00
Productlon-lillion M1                 89.01    87.02    86.80   102.07   110.11   117.44   128.02
Per Capita Production-LCD
ADMINISTRATWON
Total Employees                     1780.00           1918.00 2060.00 2121.00 2149.00 2291.00
Employees Per 1000 Connect             0.26    0.00    5.98    5.98    5.68    6.88    5.52
X Personnel Cost On Total             71.70   e0.00   52.70   57.80   68.00
X Metered                                      69.22   72.61   88.66   66.00
COSTS
Exchange Rate US$1.00        98.06   179.89  676.16  1845.B8  6204.95   18.05    39.80  840.18
Cost US$/Mg Sold                       0.24    0.16    0.14                0.02    0.26    0.00
X Increase Operating Costs            N/A                8.00
Inflation Rato (X)
Total Investment Million US$           7.46   14.59    7.10
REVENUES
Average Tariff UPC/MS Sold             0.02    0.02    0.02                0.02
Average Tariff US1/MS Sold             0.22    0.15    0.15               22.6U
X Increase In Tariffs                          -5.00   10.58              1/A
FINANCIAL RATIOS
S Rate of Return                      -8.64    8.80    0.77    2.70    1.81
U Operating Ratio                    120.20  119.80  108.50  114.90  106.00
Debt Service Ratio                    -1.24   -1.24   -2.46   -2.06    0.00                 0.00
X Receivables In Billing               0.14    0.11    0.14    0.19    0.22                 0.82
X Debt/(Debt+Equity)                   0.65    0.68    0.51    0.92    0.69                 0.60



