Document of
The World Bank                     FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3003-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE BANCO NACIONAL DE HABITACAO
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
MULTI-STATE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
April 1, 1981
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its eentents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizfaon.|



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1980        March 18, 1981
Currency Unit      =     Cruzeiro (Cr$)             Cr$
US$1               =     Cr$53.25               Cr$73.4
Cr$1               =     US$O.019               US$0.014
ACRONYMS
BNH       -  Banco Nacional de Habitacao
CAESB     -  Companhia de Aguas e Esgotos de Brasilia
CAGEPA    -  Companhia de Aguas e Esgotos da Paraiba
COPASA    -  Companhia do Saneamento de Minas Gerais, S.A.
COSAMA    -  Companhia de Saneamento do Amazonas
COSAN     -  Operations Division of the BNH for the Sanitation Finance System
COSANPA   -  Companhia de Saneamento do Para
FAE       -  Fundo de Agua e Esgotos
FGTS      -  Fundo de Garantia do Tempo de Servico
FINEST    -  BNH's Credit Program for States and Small Communities
ORTN      -  Readjustable National Treasury Bond
PARO      -  Pan-American Health Organization
PLANASA   -  National Sanitation Plan
REFINAG   -  BNH's Line of Credit for Water Supply Projects
REFINESG  -  BNH's Line of Credit for Sewerage Projects
SABESP    -  Companhia de Saneamento Basico do Estado de Sao Paulo
SANEAGO   -  Companhia de Saneamento de Goias, S.A.
SANESUL   -  Empresa de Saneamento de Mato Grosso do Sul
SWCs      -  State Water Companies
UPC       -  Standard Capital Units
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
The exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report (US$1 = ORTN 1/ 0.086)
corresponds to the cruzeiro selling rate as of February 1981.
1/   Readjustable National Treasury Bonds.  The index used to adjust the
principal of these bonds monthly is widely used in Brazil to adjust
other values.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
MULTI-STATE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Banco Nacional da Habitacao (BNH)
Guarantor:              Federative Republic of Brazil
Beneficiaries:          Companhia de Saneamento do Amazonas (COSAMA)
Companhia de Saneamento de Goias (SANEAGO)
Empresa de Saneamento de Mato Grosso do Sul (SANESUL)
Companhia de Saneamento do Para (COSANPA)
Companhia de Agua e Esgotos da Paraiba (CAGEPA)
Companhia de Aguas e Esgotos de Brasilia (CAESB)
Amount:                 US$180 million equivalent
Terms:                  Repayment in 15 years, including three years of
grace at 9.6% interest per annum.
Relending Terms to
Final Beneficiaries:   Repayment in 18 to 30 years, not including one to
four and one-half years of grace, at 2.0% to 5.0%
(2-3% under subprograms in support of small communi-
ties) per annum on the outstanding principal, adjusted
in accordance with the ORTN index, plus various one-time
fees amounting to about 3% of the amount of subloans.
BNH would bear the foreign exchange risk of the loan.
Project Description:   The proposed project would provide piped water to
some 2.5 million people and sewerage services to 0.6
million people in the states of Amazonas, Goias, Mato
Grosso do Sul, Para, Paraiba and the Federal District.
To achieve these targets, the project would include
(i) the improvement and extension of water supply
systems in the five capital cities and the Federal
District, consisting of the construction of water
production and treatment systems and transmission
lines, the extension of distribution systems, including
the installation of 200,000 new house connections for
water, 286,000 water meters and the implementation of
leak detection programs; (ii) the construction of some
630 km of new sewers with 45,000 connections in three
capital cities and in Campina Grande, and the expansion
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- iL -
of sewerage treatment plants in the Federal District;
(iii) the construction or expansion of water supply
systems in 80 medium-sized cities and 65 small
communities; (iv) equipment for the operation and
maintenance of water supply and sewerage systems; and
(v) consulting services for design and supervision, and
technical assistance to BNH and the state water companies
(SWCs). It is estimated that 63% of the final benefi-
ciaries of the water supply improvements and about 10%
of the beneficiaries of the project's sewerage component
would be urban poor whose income is less than one third
the national average income. The project does not
present any special risks.
Estimated Costs:                                       --US$ Million Equivalent--
Local   Foreign   Total    %
Civil Works and Equipment
Water Supply                210.6    107.6    318.2   70.7
Sewerage                     52.5      25.5      78.0   17.3
Engineering                    47.3       5.5      52.8   11.7
Technical Assistance            O.4       0.7       1.1    0.3
Base Cost                310.8    139.3    450.1  100.0
Physical Contingency           31.1      13.9      45.0   10.0
Price Contingency              67.1      26.8      93.9   20.9
Total Contingencies       98.2      40.7    138.9   30.9
Total Project Cost       409.0    180.0    589.0  130.9
Financing Plan:
Bank Loan                       -       180.0    180.0   30.6
State Water Supply and
Sewerage Revolving Funds  294.5                         50.0
BNH                           114.5                        19.4
Total                    409.0    180.0    589.0  100.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                                        ----US$ Million Equivalent----
Bank FY82   1983   1984   1985
Annual                         48.2       70.3   44.1   17.4
Cumulative                     48.2      118.5  162.6  180.0



Rate of Return:         Important benefits stemming from improved health,
in particular lower infant mortality, increased labor
productivity and improved environmental conditions,
are not meaningfully quantifiable. The return on
investment based on incremental costs and revenues --
which may be presumed to lie below the minimum economic
rate of return -- is estimated at 10% for the project
as a whole.
Appraisal RepQrt:       Report No. 3243c-BR, dated April 2, 1981






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE BANCO NACIONAL DE HABITACAO
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A MULTI-STATE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PLOJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Banco Nacional de Habitacao (BNH) with the guarantee of the Federative
Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$180 million to help finance a
Multi-State Water Supply and Sewerage Project. The loan would have a term of
15 years, including 3 years of grace with interest at 9.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (No. 2283a-BR),
dated March 19, 1979, was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 30,
1979. The following discussion and related annex tables are based on the
work of an economic mission that visited Brazil in March 1980 and was updated
in August 1980. The mission's report will be distributed shortly.
3.        The present Government, headed by President Joao Baptista de Oliveira
Figueiredo, took office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. Much of its
attention has had to be devoted to grappling with accelerating inflation and a
deteriorating balance-of-payments situation. Major economic priorities of the
Government include the accelerated growth of agriculture, reduced dependence on
imported petroleum, and continued expansion of manufactured exports. Success
on these fronts is crucial to the solution of the inflation and balance-of-
payments problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of living standards
and a better income distribution.
Economic Performance
4.        Over the past 13 years Brazil has enjoyed remarkable economic growth.
with GDP and income per capita rising at average real rates of about 9% and
6% per year, respectively. During the 1967-1973 period, growth was achieved
with no significant deterioration of the external resource balance, despite
considerable trade liberalization, and there also occurred a gradual decline
in the rate of domestic inflation. Given the heavy dependence of Brazil's
industry and transport system on petroleum, however, over 80% of which was
imported, the quadrupling of oil prices at the end of 1973 resulted in a sharp
deterioration in the nation's terms of trade. Excess aggregate demand and a
succession of bad harvests have, along with increased energy costs, resulted
in increasing balance-of-payments difficulties and the reacceleration of
domestic inflation.
1/   This part is reprinted substantially from the corresponding part of
the President's Report for the Third Urban Transport Project (No. P2989-BR),
dated March 11, 1981.



-2-
5.        Coping with these short-term constraints while responding to
continuing pressures to maintain high growth rates of output and employment
and simultaneously establishing the basis for long-term structural adjustment
has been the central problem of Brazilian economic management during the past
seven years. Considerable success has been achieved in maintaining rapid
growth, and an aggressive and innovative effort has been launched to reduce
energy consumption and substitute domestic energy resources for imported
petroleum. Through 1978, the balance-of-payments pressures were successfully
contained through the continued rapid expansion of exports, particularly of
manufactures, increased import barriers, accelerated import substitution, and
heavy external borrowing, including large additions to international reserves.
6.        Any significant reduction in Brazil's dependence on imported petro-
leum, however, necessarily involves a long gestation period. Meanwhile, the
rapid accumulation of external debt, compression of imports and intensification
of domestic inflationary pressures have been increasing the economy's vulner-
ability to further external shock. That vulnerability is being severely
tested by the additional sharp increases in petroleum prices and international
interest rates that occurred in 1979 and 1980.
7.        Aggregate demand continued to grow in 1979, fueled by rapid monetary
expansion, a large public sector deficit, large wage settlements in the
unionized sectors, and the continued expansion of manufactured exports. Indus-
trial production was up about 7% over the previous year. Agricultural output
suffered a second consecutive year of droughts, floods, and frost but showed
some recovery from the depressed levels of 1978. Overall, GDP growth was
6.4%. High demand, the poor harvest, and increased fuel costs resulted in
a rapid acceleration of inflation which reached 78% by the end of year, the
highest rate since 1964.
8.        Increased petroleum prices, consecutive bad harvests, and a sharp
rise in external borrowing costs also contributed to a progressive deteriora-
tion of Brazil's balance of payments. Despite the continued rapid growth of
manufactured exports, the merchandise trade balance fell from a small surplus
in 1977 to a US$1.0 billion deficit in 1978 and a US$2.7 billion deficit in
1979. The cost of fuel imports alone increased from 1978 to 1979 by 53%, or
US$2.2 billion. Increases in the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR), to
which more than 65% of Brazil's external debt is tied, contributed to raising
gross interest payments abroad from US$3.3 billion in 1978 to US$5.3 billion
in 1979. Consequently, the deficit on current account grew from US$5.9
billion to US$9.7 billion, or from 3.1% to 4.7% of GDP.
9.        With amortization payments totaling US$6.6 billion, gross external
capital requirements in 1979 amounted to US$16.3 billion. Of this amount,
US$3.2 billion was covered by reserve drawdowns, and another US$1.5 billion
was provided by net direct foreign investment. Gross and net foreign borrow-
ings in 1979, including bond issues totaled US$11.6 billion and US$5.0 billion,
respectively. Few difficulties were encountered in attracting the necessary
credits, and an improvement noted in 1978 in spreads and maturities available
to Brazil was sustained in 1979. The drawdown brought international reserves
to US$9.7 billion at the end of 1979, or equivalent to about 6 months of
goods and nonfactor service imports. Gross medium- and long-term debt had
risen to US$49.9 billion, or 24% of GDP.



10.       Measures introduced in April 1979 to slow the inflation and reduce
balance-of-payments pressures met with only temporary success and were followed
by new packages of measures in December 1979 and in January and April 1980. The
most important of the December measures were a 30% devaluation of the cruzeiro,
accompanied by the elimination of some export subsidies and the prior deposit
requirement on imports; increased restrictions on public enterprise investments,
imports and borrowing; selected tax increases; the introduction of a programmed
phase-out of most tax earmarking; a modification of administered credit programs
intended to reduce subsidies; the imposition of direct controls on credit
expansion by the private banking system; and the establishment of ceilings on
monetary correction and exchange rate adjustment during 1980 and the first
half of 1981 in an effort to dampen inflationary expectations.
11.       Nevertheless, the economic momentum continued in 1980, with overall
economic growth exceeding 8%, including an excellent agricultural harvest and
continued rapid industrial expansion. Aggregate demand remained strong,
despite improved fiscal and monetary restraint, and inflation rose to over
110%, as measured by the General Price Index.
12.       On the external side, preliminary estimates are that exports grew by
32% in 1980 as a consequence of the excellent harvest and continued expansion
of manufactured exports despite the slow growth of the world economy. Imports
expanded almost as fast, however, in response to the continued strong growth
of the economy, higher petroleum prices, and some private sector inventory
accumulation early in the year in anticipation of possible tighter import
controls. Despite the rapid growth of industrial output and GDP, the volume
of petroleum imports fell from 1,003 thousand b/d in 1979 to 929 thousand b/d
in 1980 as a result of conservation efforts and domestic energy substitution.
Nevertheless, the trade deficit for the year totaled an estimated US$2.8
billion. External borrowing totaled about US$15 billion (including an
estimated US$3 billion of short-term borrowing), and reserves were drawn
down by an additional US$3.0 billion. Although Brazil was able to obtain the
required US$5-6 billion net external financing, loan terms were tighter.
Total medium- and long-term external debt outstanding at the end of 1980 was
about US$56 billion.
13.       A number of important policy measures have been announced for 1981.
Controls on public expenditures have been further tightened, and monetary
expansion is targeted at 50-60%. In an effort to encourage private savings
and maintain adequate export incentives, monetary correction will be brought
into line with actual inflation, and the exchange rate will again be fully
adjusted for the differential between domestic and international inflation.
Commercial banks have been freed from interest rate controls, interest rates
on official credits have been raised, and price controls are being progressively
relaxed. An increase in the foreign exchange transactions tax on imports from
15 to 25% will further discourage imports. Although the net impact of these
measures may be some short-term increase in inflation, the overall result
should be greater restraint of aggregate demand, a slowdown of economic
activity and reduced pressure on the balance of payments.



-4-
Poverty Programs
14.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has in recent years made serious efforts to relieve
poverty. In addition to general efforts to maintain the growth of employment
and prevent the erosion of real wages, special programs for the Northeast
region have been protected from the present tight fiscal and monetary restraints.
Coverage of the social security program has been expanded and extended to the
rural population. More than 70% of the urban population is now covered by the
social security health care system, and a cash transfer program has been
established for the rural elderly poor. Under this latter system, rural
households headed by persons over 65 years of age are eligible to receive a
monthly income supplement equivalent to US$30, an amount which is almost twice
the average per capita expenditure in the rural Northeast. The urban popula-
tion over age 70 is covered by a similar program. Almost 2 million loans have
been made for housing by the National Housing Bank since 1964. A sites and
services program was established in 1975 to benefit the urban poor more
directly, and this was complemented in 1977 by a program to finance home
improvement and building materials. High priority has also been given to the
extension and improvement of urban water supply. Consequently, some 6 million
households comprising about 30 million people have been connected to public
water supply systems since 1971, increasing the proportion of urban dwellers
who receive such services to 75%.  Efforts have also been made to attack the
poverty-related problems of adult illiteracy and malnutrition. 1/
Future Prospects
15.       Since 1973, Brazil has made major efforts to reduce the drain on the
economy of petroleum imports. Investments in exploration have been accelerated,
and foreign oil companies have been invited to drill under risk contracts with
PETROBRAS, the state oil company. Investments have also been undertaken to
develop the nation's extensive hydroelectric potential, to initiate nuclear
power production, to substitute alcohol for gasoline, and to expand domestic
coal production. Efforts are also being made to induce energy conservation.
While results thus far are encouraging, dependence on imported energy remains
a formidable problem. With oil imports constituting an estimated US$10.2
billion (nearly 45% of Brazil's merchandise imports) in 1980, as compared to
US$700 million (11% of imports) in 1973, the trade-off between growth and
balance-of-payments viability will continue to be a principal preoccupation
of economic decision makers.
16.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must undergo
a period of careful demand management. In addition to the measures already
noted, a number of important institutional reforms are being carried out
to improve fiscal and monetary policy design and implementation. Among these
are the marked improvement of information flows and budgetary control in the
public sector, including the expenditures of the many semi-autonomous agencies
and public enterprises; incorporation into the fiscal budget of several of the
1/   For a more detailed account of these efforts see "The Distribution of
Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979)
and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report" (Report No. 2604-BR, dated
July 13, 1979).



subsidy programs formerly handled outside the budget through the Central Bank;
and reduced earmarking of public revenues. The December 1979 devaluation of
the cruzeiro, the removal of import deposit requirements, and the gradual
freeing of prices and interest rates should help to promote more efficient
resource allocation favorable to both export growth and efficient import
substitution. Although public investments may be constrained by reduced
resource availabilities over the next several years, priority attention will
continue to be given to the development of domestic energy sources, agriculture
and major import-substitution projects.
17.       Growth is expected to average about 5-5.5% per year in 1981-85 as
compared to 11% in 1967-73 and 7.2% in 1973-80. Such a growth rate should be
compatible with a stable current account deficit after 1980 and high, but
declining, debt service ratios. These projections are highly sensitive, how-
ever, to petroleum prices, international interest rates, and the rate of growth
of manufactured exports. The combination of high debt service and a high share
of petroleum in total imports leaves the economy more vulnerable to external
events than it has been for many years, and this situation may be expected to
persist for the next several years.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
18.       With the forecast upward trend of real petroleum prices, Brazil's
resource balance is expected to remain negative until 1984. Interest payments
on the growing external debt will increase throughout the 1981-85 period
despite an expected decline in international interest rates. Thus large
service account deficits will contribute to continuing current account deficits
on the order of US$10-12 billion through 1985. As a proportion of GDP, the
current account deficit is projected to fall steadily from its peak of 5.6% in
1980. This projection assumes that imports grow at a moderate pace through
1985, reflecting continued import substitution, as well as a strengthening of
the overall domestic savings effort. A trade surplus would then appear
beginning in 1983.
19.       Net medium- and long-term borrowing requirements are expected to be
around US$11-12 billion in 1981, and remain in the same range from 1982 to
1985. Annual gross borrowing would be about $19 billion this year and rise to
about $21 billion over the five-year period, with 75-85% obtained as financial
credits from private lenders. Consequently the gross debt service ratio 1/
would decline from about 65% in 1980 to about 47% in 1985 (corresponding net
figures are 62% and 45% respectively).
20.       In summary, after a period of very rapid growth in the late 1960s
and early 1970s, the sharply increased cost of petroleum imports has forced
the nation to moderate its growth expectations and to adapt its economic
structure to the changed terms of trade. This adjustment process was initially
eased by a strong reserve position, a solid image of national creditworthiness,
the aggressive expansion of manufactured exports, and the ample opportunities
for efficient import substitution offered by the large domestic market.
1/   Including both public and private debt.  The figure for public debt
service alone would be substantially lower. For example, in 1979 the
public sector accounted for only 53% of total debt service payments.



- 6 -
Nevertheless, continued heavy dependence on petroleum imports, the resurgence
of domestic inflation, and the rapid accumulation of external debt have left
the economy increasingly vulnerable to further external shocks. The Govern-
ment recognizes the need for careful demand management and for selectivity in
its investment policies emphasizing efficiency in export expansion, import
substitution, employment creation, and poverty alleviation.
21.       The great sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to petroleum
prices and international interest rates will continue to make projections
subject to a wide margin of error. The present scenario also depends heavily
on Brazil's ability to curtail inflation, expand manufactured exports, despite
the slower anticipated growth of the world economy, and on its continued
access to international capital. A major effort is underway to reduce depen-
dence on foreign petroleum, but significant results will not be apparent for
several years. On the other hand, the Brazilian economy remains dynamic,
highly diversified, and resilient. The task of economic management will not
be easy, but policy makers have demonstrated their ability to adjust to
changing circumstances, and recent policy measures should greatly strengthen
their management capacity. Thus, despite the deterioration noted in 1979 and
1980, Brazil remains creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
22.       By January  31, 1981 the Bank had approved 101 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$5,393 million (net of cancellations), of which 55 were not yet
fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per
year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77, US$252 million
in FY78, US$295 million in FY79, and US$318 million in FY80. Disbursements
amounted to US$184 million in the first half of FY81. They are expected to
increase further during the next few years. The total undisbursed amount as
of January 31, 1981 was US$2,682 million. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans as of December 31, 1980 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
23.       Over the FY76-80 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from US$425
to over US$700 million per year. In FY76, ten loans were made totalling
US$498 million; in FY77, seven loans totalling US$425 million; in FY78, nine
loans totalling US$705 million; in FY79, nine loans totalling US$674 million;
and in FY80, seven loans totalling US$695 million were made. So far in FY81,
four loans totalling US$325 million have been approved, US$125 million for a
second power transmission project of ELETROSUL, US$56 million for a second
Ceara rural development project, US$54 million for an electric power system
coordination project, and US$90 million for a third urban transport project.
Work is relatively advanced on loans for the fuel alcohol program, a rural
development project in Piaui, a second agricultural research project, an
integrated regional development program in the northwest, and a multi-state
power distribution project.



-7-
24.       Of Brazil's external public and private debt outstanding and dis-
bursed at the end of 1979, amounting to US$49.9 billion, the Bank held 3.6%.
The Bank's share of the service on this debt in 1979 was 2.0%. In 1980, the
Bank's share in total outstanding debt is expected to fall very slightly,
while its share in total debt service should fall to about 1.8%.
25.       As of December 31, 1980 IFC commitments to Brazil totalled US$544.5
million, of which US$343.9 million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. Of the
balance of US$200.6 million, US$149.9 million represent loans and US$50.7
million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of December 31, 1980 is
given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
26.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Govern-
ment achieve a number of important development objectives which are inter-
dependent and complementary. One important lending objective in Brazil is
to help to intensify the efforts of the Government to identify and develop
projects that will increase the productivity and incomes of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the economic opportunities open to
those groups, and to improve their living conditions. It is to these ends
that the proposed Multi-State Water Supply and Sewerage Project is mainly
directed. Loans for water supply and sewerage projects in the State of Minas
Gerais, in Greater Sao Paulo, in the northeast and in the south, loans for
urban transport in several major cities, a loan for sites and services and
low-cost housing, and a loan for urban development in medium sized cities are
assisting to improve the living conditions of the urban population, particu-
larly of the urban poor. Additional urban development projects are in prepara-
tion including an integrated urban development project for Recife. Previous
loans for nutrition research and development, vocational training, agricultural
research, agricultural extension and polder construction in the lower Sao
Francisco river basin and for integrated rural development in the States of
Rio Grande do Norte, Minas Gerais, Ceara, Paraiba, Bahia, Sergipe and Pernambuco
were designed to assist low-income groups in rural areas. Additional projects
to assist the rural poor are in preparation including several more integrated
rural development projects in the northeast and northwest.
27.       Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil is to support
institutional development and policy reform designed to develop rational
policies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control within
the public sector and help maximize public savings and ensure that they are
used economically through rational selection of investment projects. This
institution-building objective is particularly important in the proposed
project which seeks to improve the operations of BNH, especially its selection,
appraisal and supervision of projects. The proposed operation would also
provide for institution building in the state water companies. Loans for
urban development, electric power, railways, industrial finance, highways,
agricultural research and extension, water supply and sewerage, and rural
development also have important institution-building objectives.



-8-
28.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices in 1974, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy crisis,
this objective was placed in the forefront of the Government's economic
policy. Lending for the electric power sector supports this objective, since
it is based primarily on hydroelectric energy, and its development lessens the
need for petroleum imports. Bank support of fertilizer and petrochemical
projects is assisting Brazil to substitute imports with large-scale efficient
domestic production and aid its balance-of-payments position. Much of the
Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector -- railways, ports and
highways -- is designed to facilitate the smooth and economical flow of
exports. Support of the steel expansion program is helping Brazil to expand
domestic output of a traditional import commodity which can be produced
efficiently in Brazil due to the country's ample supply of high-grade iron ore
and the scale of its internal markets. A similar objective is being achieved
through the VALESUL aluminum project which will use Brazil's abundant hydro-
electric resources and ample bauxite reserves.
29.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain satisfactory growth and achieve its employment creation and regional
development objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is
regarded by the international financial community as an important sign of
confidence in Brazil and encourages others to continue contributing to the
country's development. In some sectors, especially in electric power and
industry, Bank participation is helping Brazil obtain additional resources in
greater amounts and on more favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and
private financial institutions than may otherwise have been provided. Eleven
co-financing operations, for more than US$425 million, have been concluded
since 1976 with private financial institutions and several others are in
preparation, including about US$110 million in private co-financing for the
CEEE power distribution project (Loan No. 1824-BR, approved in March 1980),
US$50 million in private co-financing for the Second Minas Gerais Rural
Development Project (Loan No. 1877-BR, approved in June 1980), and about
US$65 million in private co-financing for the ELETROSUL Second Power
Transmission Project (Loan No. 1895-BR, approved in July 1980).



-9-
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Sector Organization
30.       Municipalities traditionally had responsibility for the provision of
water supply and sewerage services in Brazil. During the sixties, Brazil's
accelerating urbanization. and the poor performance of the municipalities in
providing even minimum services, prompted the federal and state governments to
finance new water and sewerage systems with budget grants to satisfy the most
urgent needs.  In addition, BNH was created in 1964 (para. 51) and assigned
nationwide responsibility for the sector in 1967 (para. 52). Even though some
US$700 million were invested between 1960 and 1970, the situation was far from
satisfactory and deteriorating in 1970. Less than 60% of the urban population
had piped water connections, and less than 30% sewerage services.
31.       In response to the above situation, in 1971, the Government launched
PLANASA -- a nationwide program to finance, promote and coordinate the sector --
under the aegis of BNH. The initial goals of the program were to provide
water by 1980 to 80% and sewerage services to 50% of the urban population.
These goals were revised in 1980 to establish more realistic targets, and the
present targets call for the provision of water to some 5,700 urban communities
-- representing 72% of Brazil's total -- and sewerage services to all urban
centers with populations in excess of 100,000 inhabitants. Further, as part
of the revised plan, the pollution level in selected watersheds would be
reduced to acceptable levels.
32.       The main focus of the PLANASA program has been to provide a stable
source of financing, and to help the states develop their own organization
in the water supply and sewerage sector. To enter the program, a state must
sign an agreement with BNH establishing a statewide water and sewerage company,
draw up a statewide sector investment plan and guarantee BNH loans. The
statewide organization of the program has two major advantages. First, it
makes possible the establishment of statewide tariff structures which permit a
cross-subsidy mechanism within the state. Second, the statewide activities of
the companies allow for significant economies of scale, and financial flexibility.
33.       Roughly one half of the PLANASA program is financed by BNH, and
the other half by the states through revolving water and sewerage funds
(Fundos de Agua e Esgotos -- FAEs). BNH has set up several credit lines to
finance water supply and sewerage projects, some of which would be used
under the project (paras. 61 and 62).
Implementation of PLANASA
34.       The PLANASA program is progressing well, although at a slower pace
than expected. All of Brazil's 22 states have signed agreements under the
program and more than 2,100 municipalities over the entire country have
already benefited from it. BNH has renewed the PLANASA agreements with the
five states, the Federal District and the respective water companies that
would participate in the proposed project. Large efforts have been made
under the program over the past decade. After investing some US$5 billion in



- 10 -
1971-1980, about 74% 1/ of the urban population is now receiving piped water
as compared with less than 60% -- of a smaller urban population -- when the
Government started the program in 1971. It is estimated that PLANASA's water
supply objectives (para. 31) will be met by 1985. Because of the relatively
high costs and more complex building and operating requirements, however,
sewerage service levels have increased only from 30% of the urban population
in 1971 to 34% 1/. It is unlikely that the major cities of Brazil will
receive sewerage services at the levels envisaged by PLANASA before 1990.
35.       In 1980, increased Government restrictions on public enterprise
investments (para. 10) to curtail inflation have also begun to affect BNH.
The Government is expected to authorize increased PLANASA investment levels
in the years to come. BNH and the Government would, in November of each year
until the project's completion, review with the Bank the amount of contribu-
tions it would make in the following year for Bank financed subprojects
(Section 3.03(b) of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.01(c) of the
draft Guarantee Agreement).
36.       In 1975, BNH hired consultants to study the various aspects of water
supply and sewerage tariffs and the administrative responsibilities for the
provision of water supply and sewerage services. As a result of this initia-
tive, the Brazilian Congress approved a tariff law for the sector on May 11,
1978. This legislation allows the SWCs to charge tariffs based on the cost
of service, and earn a rate of return of up to 12% on operational investments.
The legislation provides further that by 1983, the SWCs must generate suffi-
cient revenues to cover operating expenses, depreciation, and debt service.
These objectives would be reached by gradual tariff adjustments over the
1980-82 period, and the SWCs are expected to comply with the requirements
of the legislation by 1983. Average tariffs for 1980 were 100% higher than in
1979 in the eight states benefiting from Bank financing, complying with the
financial covenants of Bank loans. Tariff increases proposed for 1981 in the
states receiving Bank finance, including those six that would benefit under
the proposed project, have been discussed with BNH and the Government, and
approved last December. The agreed tariff increases became effective January
1, 1981 and would help all SWCs financed or proposed to be financed under Bank
loans -- if complemented by additional tariff measures in 1981-83 (para. 58)
-- to achieve the 1983 targets of the new tariff law.
37.       The new legislation also deals with the country's tariff structures.
It establishes four categories of consumers: residential, commercial, indus-
trial, and official, and stipulates a progressive tariff system that allows
for cross-subsidies between lower- and higher-income consumers. Further, it
establishes that tariffs for minimum consumption by low-income consumers
should not exceed 35% of one ORTN for water, and 50% for water and sewerage.
1/   These figures represent, respectively, water service level through house
connections only, and sewerage service level through connections to
central sewerage systems only and, therefore, they are lower than the
corresponding service levels shown for the urban population in the Social
Indicators Data Sheet in Annex I.



- 11 -
These threshold values amount, respectively, to about US$4 and US$6 equivalent
in 1981 dollars. Monthly charges for minimum consumption in the six states
that would participate in the proposed project are well within these limits,
thus assuring that water and sewerage services would be affordable to the
urban poor. Finally, the new legislation assigns to BNH the responsibility
for overseeing the financial performance of the companies operating in the
sector, and recommending tariff adjustments to the Government.
Bank Assistance
38.       The proposed loan to BNH would be the Bank's ninth loan for Brazil's
water supply and sewerage sector, bringing total lending to date for the
sector to US$769 million. In 1971, a loan for water distribution and storage
(757-BR) and another for sewage collection and disposal (758-BR) were made for
Greater Sao Paulo. The original objective of Loan 757-BR to extend water
supply services to 2.4 million people in the municipality of Sao Paulo has
been exceeded. By 1977, water services had been extended to 3.3 million
people. Both projects were completed with a three-year delay and at a cost of
about 30% over the appraisal estimate. Managerial and institutional problems
in the borrowing agencies, as well as delays in contributions of counterpart
funds from the state of Sao Paulo were responsible for this. Project imple-
mentation improved after the three sector agencies were merged into a single
agency -- SABESP -- in 1974, and state contributions were made promptly after
SABESP had signed a PLANASA agreement with BNH and the state government. The
borrower's financial performance was also unsatisfactory, and no significant
change was observed in this respect even after SABESP's creation. However,
Sao Paulo's tariff structure was revised in 1977 and a new tariff law was
adopted in 1978 (para. 36), both of which substantially improved the agency's
finances. A combined Project Performance Audit Report for the two projects
issued in April 1980 states that SABESP brought works under the project to a
successful completion and that after the resolution of initial difficulties
both projects achieved their main objectives.
39.       In 1974, a US$36 million loan was made to BNH (Loan 1009-BR) for
water supply and sewerage subprojects in the state of Minas Gerais. The
project under this loan -- which was fully disbursed recently -- was
the Bank's first experience with a statewide program including many cities
some of which, however, were appraised only during project implementation.
Inadequate feasibility studies and poor subproject appraisals delayed project
completion by almost three years. Financial performance was also short of
original expectations, mainly because several financially viable municipal
water supply companies did not join the state company, COPASA, as originally
expected. Under this project, the Bank's participation significantly contrib-
uted to sector institution building and strengthening BNH. A second loan for
US$40.0 million for Minas Gerais followed in 1976 (Loan 1309-BR). Funds under
this loan are fully committed, and all subprojects are underway. About 40
systems in small communities have been completed to date.



- 12 -
40.        A third Sao Paulo loan (Loan 1525-BR) for US$110 million was
made to BNH in early 1978 to assist in the financing of a large sewage
collection and treatment project for Greater Sao Paulo, which forms part
of a high priority program for water pollution control. Execution of this -
project is proceeding satisfactorily. A US$100 million water supply and
sewerage loan (Loan 1656-BR) was made in February 1979 for the northeast
states of Bahia, Pernambuco and Ceara. Subprojects for the capital cities
have already been approved, and construction is underway, but the project may
be completed with a one-year delay. A loan for US$130 million (Loan 1823-BR)
for the southern states of Parana, Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul was
approved in March 1980. The Bank's most recent loan (Loan 1850-BR) for US$139
million in April 1980 was its eighth for the sector and third for the State of
Minas Gerais. During the past decade the Bank has played a growing role in
Brazil's water supply and sewerage sector, contributing to institution
building, strengthening BNH's regional offices, and helping adopt rational
financial policies, uniform accounting systems and a new tariff law (para. 36).
The timing of the proposed project is critical to continued institution
building within BNH and the participating states, and the provision of safe
water to some 1.2 million urban poor.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin
41.        The project was identified in October 1979, and prepared by BNH and
its consultants. A Bank mission, with BNH's participation, appraised the
project between August 17 and September 18, 1980. A post-appraisal mission
followed in November 1980. The mission's report entitled "Staff Appraisal
Report - Multistate Water Supply and Sewerage Project" dated                   , 1981,
is being circulated separately. Negotiations with the Borrower and Guarantor
were held in Washington from February 23 to 27, 1981. The Brazilian delegation
was led by Mr. Isaac Lima Azevedo, Director of Planning and Research of BNH.
A supplemental project data sheet, including a timetable of key events and a
summary of special conditions, is attached as Annex III.
The Project Area
42.       General.  The project area consists of the Federal District of
Brasilia and five states in the center-west, north and northeast regions,
namely, Mato Grosso do Sul, Goias, Amazonas, Para and Paraiba. The area in
1980 was home to over 15 million people, or 12.6% of the country's population.
Urban population in the five states varies between 31% and 59% of the total,
reaching virtually 100% in the Federal District. Except for the states of
Para and Paraiba, the urban population has grown faster than the national
average of 3.9% per annum, and this trend is expected to continue in the
1980's. The project states are low-income areas in Brazil, some only with
limited potential for growth. The vast project area's share of the nation's
income was only 8% in 1979.



- 13 -
43.       Health conditions, particularly for the poor, are inferior to those
prevailing in more developed states in the southeast and south. For instance,
enteritis and diarrheal diseases -- commonly associated with deficient water
supply and sewerage and a major cause of infant mortality -- are frequent
occurrences in the project area.
44.        Service Levels.  In Amazonas, Para and the Federal District all of
the municipalities have piped water systems, but not in Paraiba, Goias and
Mato Grosso do Sul. In the project area only 60% of the population is served
with water, and some 15% with sewerage, and the PLANASA targets have not been
met. Water service coverages of the SWCs among the urban population vary
between 42% in Mato Grosso do Sul and 80% in the Federal District, and sewerage
connections are either non-existent (Amazonas) or vary up to 16% (Paraiba),
except for the relatively high coverage of 44% in the more modern Federal
District. To speed up the provision of adequate sewerage systems in the
cities of Manaus, Belem, Goiania and Campo Grande, where the lack of adequate
sewerage is most critical, the companies responsible for those cities would
employ consultants with qualifications and on terms and conditions of employ-
ment satisfactory to the Bank to assist in carrying out master waste disposal
studies. Furthermore, the companies would provide to the Bank, not later than
December 31, 1983, the studies and their findings for review and comment
(Section 4.08 and Schedule 5, Section B(9) of the draft Loan Agreement).
45.        The level of metered house connections is generally low in the
project areas, varying between 36% in Goiania and 74% in Campo Grande. As
production metering is also deficient or non-existent in the regions involved,
the unaccounted-for water levels are high, with COSAMA in the state of Amazonas
reporting it as high as 59%. To help the SWCs to deal with these problems and
increase their efficiency, the proposed loan would finance leak detection and
extensive metering programs. In addition, the SWCs would, in each city with a
population of 100,000 or more, expand water metering to cover not less than
70% of house connections by December 31, 1982, and 80% by December 31, 1983,
and maintain such level thereafter (Schedule 5, Section B(18) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Project Objectives and Description
46.        The proposed project would, through the provision of piped water to
some 2.5 million people, and sewerage services to a population of 0.6 million,
improve the environment and health conditions in five states and the Federal
District. In addition, the project would provide institutional improvement in
the SWCs, strengthen BNH's appraisal and supervision capabilities and -- by
delegating to BNH part of the responsibility for selection of subprojects --
prepare the way for future sector lending.
47.        The project consists of a group of water supply and sewerage
subprojects to be carried out in the states of Amazonas, Goias, Mato Grosso
do Sul, Para and Paraiba and the Federal District over the four-year period
1981-84. More specifically, it would include the following components:
(a) in the five capital cities and the Federal District, the
construction of water production and treatment systems, and



- 14 -
transmission pipelines, the extension of water distri ution
systems, including the installation of some 170,000 m of new
storage capacity, 2,000 km of pipes, 200,000 new house con-
nections for water, and 286,000 water meters, and the purchase
and installation of production meters, as well as the implementa-
tion of leak detection and repair programs;
(b) the construction of about 630 km of sewers and the installation
of 45,000 sewerage connections in Manaus, Campo Grande, Joao
Pessoa, Campina Grande and the Federal District;
(c) the upgrading of existing and the construction of new sewage
treatment plants as well as the provision of final disposal
facilities in the Federal District;
(d) the construction or expansion of water supply systems in
approximately 80 medium-sized cities; 1/
(e) the construction or expansion of water supply systems in
approximately 65 small communities; 1/
(f) provision of equipment for the operation and maintenance
of water supply and sewerage systems;
(g) consulting services for design and construction supervision;
and
(h) technical assistance to improve COSAN's information system
and project appraisal and supervision capability, and to
assist the SWCs in strengthening personnel management and
administration.
In the project area, the proposed improvements would increase water service
coverage, from 60% in 1980 to 73% in 1984, and sewerage service levels from
15% in 1980 to about 21% in 1984. Investments made under the proposed loan,
however, would help expand water and sewerage services beyond 1984. With
relatively modest additional investments -- which are expected to be partly
financed by developers and consumers -- water could be piped through house
connections to about 4.6 million people, and sewerage services provided to
some 1 million people during the project's useful life.
1/   Cities with more than 5,000 people -- excluding state capitals -- are
considered medium-sized; those with less than 5,000 inhabitants are
considered small communities.



- 15 -
Subproject Selection
48.       Subproject components have already been selected in the five capital
cities and Brasilia, but not for the medium-sized cities and small communities.
To be eligible for financing from the proposed loan subprojects must (a) be
approved by BNH; (b) have cost estimates not substantially different from those
shown in the global feasibility studies; and (c) represent the least-cost
solution. In addition, water supply subprojects in cities with populations
greater than 50,000 inhabitants should have average tariffs not lower than 75%
of the subproject's average incremental cost (equivalent to an internal rate
of return of 5% or higher). Sewerage subprojects and water supply subprojects
in small- and medium-size cities with populations between 5,000 and 50,000
inhabitants -- not benefiting from economies of scale as do the larger urban
centers -- should have average tariffs not lower than 60% of the subproject's
average incremental cost (equivalent to a positive rate of return). The use
of average incremental cost as a criterion is simple and provides an insight
into the cost structure of proposed water and sewerage improvements. In
communities with less than 5,000 people, the eligibility test would,be that
subprojects cost less than US$180 equivalent per beneficiary in 1980 prices.
Subprojects not meeting the above criteria would qualify for Bank financing
only if strong social and economic justification were provided (Section 3.08
and Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agreement).
49.       Prior Bank approval would be required for all subprojects estimated
to cost over US$8 million equivalent. It is expected that such approval would
be needed for components accounting for about 70% of the project's cost. Sub-
projects costing less than US$8 million equivalent would be reviewed by BNH
and the review made available for ex post review by Bank supervision missions.
This delegation of authority would be a prelude to possible water supply and
sewerage sector lending in the future. By the end of 1981, BNH would apply
the selection criteria agreed for this proposed project to all water supply
and sewerage, projects the agency is financing throughout Brazil (Section 4.07
of the draft Loan Agreement).
The Borrower
50.       The Borrower (BNH) was established in 1964 as a financially and
administratively autonomous institution. Since 1967, it has been under the
overall responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. BNH's main activities
are to finance, through intermediary institutions, low- and medium-income
housing, urban development and sanitation programs. A Board of Directors and
Executive Committee oversee its functions. BNH has eleven regional agencies
to coordinate its activities at the state level. BNH's principal source of
funds is the Fundo de Garantia do Tempo de Servico (FGTS), a national employee
security fund financed by a payroll tax. Other sources include interest and
principal repayments on outstanding loans and interest on national treasury
bonds.   Net receipts of the FGTS increased from US$424.4 million equivalent
in 1971 to US$1.8 billion equivalent in 1979 and total funds available for
investment increased from US$0.7 billion equivalent to US$3.5 billion equivalent
over the same period. BNH's financial position is sound and its resources are
expected to be sufficient to carry out its planned investment program.



- 16 -
51.       In September 1967, BNH established what is now called the Operations
Division for the Sanitation Finance System (COSAN), which is responsible for
water and sewerage activities. COSAN consists of three subdivisions responsible
respectively for (i) the review and approval of the SWCs' water supply and
sewerage investment program, (ii) the supervision of the Technical Supervisory
Agencies (OTs) which are retained for each state by BNH to review designs and
assist in supervision, and (iii) the authorization of disbursements and
monitoring of the SWCs' financial performance. BNH's regional offices, which
are responsible for sector investments in one or more states, also review and
supervise projects at the local level. These offices -- strengthened since
the agency's decentralization in 1976 -- operate under guidelines set by COSAN.
52.       Prior to 1976, the PLANASA program did not develop as expected,
owing to weak organization and management in many of the SWCs, poor engineer-
ing studies, cost overruns, over-optimistic scheduling, and a shortage of
materials and equipment. Excessive centralization of COSAN's activities in
Rio de Janeiro, and the receipt of inadequate information from the SWCs
further delayed project review and approval. To remedy the situation, in
1974, BNH entered into an agreement with the Pan American Health Organization
(PAHO) to provide technical assistance to the SWCs, and in 1976, it issued new
regulations for PLANASA delegating more responsibility and authority for
project implementation to the regional BNH offices. The Southern States Water
Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 1823-BR) includes technical assistance to
COSAN, for which a satisfactory implementation schedule has already been
prepared. BNH staff was responsible for the appraisal of three of the six
SWCs that would benefit from the proposed new project (para. 66). Bank
staff's evaluation of the strengths and weaknesses of the BNH appraisals and
the required revisions to bring them up to Bank standards identified the need
for additional strengthening within COSAN. Therefore, an additional 200
man-months of consultant services have been included for technical assistance
under the proposed operation at an average man-month cost of US$6,500 equiva-
lent. In addition, BNH has approved seven new staff positions to strengthen
COSAN. As conditions of the proposed loan's effectiveness, COSAN would (a)
appoint three of the seven additional staff members, satisfactory to the Bank;
and (b) in order to assist in carrying out the above technical assistance
program, employ consultants whose qualifications and terms of conditions
of employment would be satisfactory to the Bank (Section 6.01(c) and (d) of
the draft Loan Agreement). The remaining four additional staff members would
be appointed by December 31, 1981 (Section 4.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Future sector lending for water and sewerage through BNH would depend on how
quickly BNH can carry out and absorb the above institutional measures and
assistance, and strengthen its appraisal and supervision capability.
53.       Federal grants to SWCs for water supply and sewerage investments
are allocated through BNH. Although declining, grants are still expected
to account for some 5% of sector investments in 1983. Subprojects financed
all or in part with grants have not hitherto been eligible for financing
under Bank loans in the water supply and sewerage sector. In fact, many
of the subprojects supported by grants are to supply water and sanitation
services to some of the poorest urban areas, and are made by the federal



- 17 -
or state governments in order to induce the companies to provide services
in those areas even though their financial returns might be greater from
investments in higher income areas. Under the proposed loan, projects
assisted by grants would be eligible for financing provided at least 70%
of the beneficiaries had an average per capita income of less  han three
times the minimum wage in the respective state (equivalent to the lowest
third of the income scale, i.e., persons in a state of relative poverty)
(Section 2.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
The Beneficiaries
54.       Organization.  The six beneficiaries and executing agencies for
the project would be the Companhia de Saneamento do Amazonas (COSAMA),
Companhia de Saneamento de Goias (SANEAGO), Empresa de Saneamento do Mato
Grosso do Sul (SANESUL), Companhia de Saneamento do Para (COSANPA), the
Companhia de Agua e Esgotos da Paraiba (CAGEPA), and Companhia de Aguas e
Esgotos de Brasilia (CAESB). Each company is owned by the relevant state
and operates under a Board of Directors appointed by the state's governor.
They all have departments for technical operations, administration and finance.
55.       Technical Operations.  SWCs, under guidance from the state govern-
ments, establish the priorities in the water supply and sewerage sector based
on the assessed needs of the various communities. They prepare five-year
global feasibility studies, including financial projections and budgetary
requirements. Planning is done by the companies' own staff with some assistance
from COSAN. Engineering studies and design, as well as supervision of works,
are done through local consultants, whose qualifications and performance are
satisfactory. To afford the Bank an opportunity to monitor the SWCs' invest-
ment and financing plans, each company would, not later than April 30 of each
year until the loan's closing date, provide through BNH to the Bank a copy of
its most recent global feasibility study, including income statements, cash
flow projections, balance sheets and demand projections and investments by
city (Schedule 5, Section B(14)(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
56.       The SWCs' administration, including programming and control proce-
dures, would be further strengthened under the project through the provision of
technical assistance. This would help the SWCs to face the challenge of
handling an increased volume of work in the early 1980s. Technical operations
of existing water and sewerage systems are generally satisfactory. Operating
efficiency, as measured by the companies' ratio of employees to house connec-
tions, has been improving, and this coefficient is expected to vary between 5
and 11 employees per thousand connections in 1981. To help increase their
efficiency, the companies are working on a new personnel management system,
which would define functions, responsibilities and salaries of management and
technical staff, thus providing incentives, enhancing stability and reducing
the high turnover of personnel. Each SWC would adopt, by December 31, 1982, a
new personnel management system which would be satisfactory to BNH (Schedule 5,
Section B(16) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
57.       Financial Operations and Performance.  The companies' commercial
operation -- mainly billing and collecting -- is generally satisfactory,
although the accounts receivables in Goias and the Federal District are
excessive, and are expected to be reduced during project implementation to
about two months' billings. The six beneficiary companies use computerized
accounting systems. Their accounting is generally satisfactory and the
results are available promptly, but the computer reports' format is cumbersome
and not well suited for managerial purposes. To improve the quality and
usefulness of the SWCs' financial reporting, each SWC would, not later than
December 31, 1982, establish a system analysis unit which would be responsible
for the company's computer software (Schedule 5, Section B(17) of the draft
Loan Agreement). Each SWC would retain independent auditors to audit their
financial statements for each fiscal year beginning in 1981, and submit by May
31 of the following year through BNH to the Bank the audited statements and
the auditors' report, including a statement of compliance by each company with
its financial obligations under the proposed loan (Schedule 5, Section B(14)
of the draft Loan Agreement). To strengthen and oversee the SWCs' operations,
each company would also, not later than December 31, 1982, establish, ade-
quately staff      and maintain an internal auditing office satisfactory to the
Bank (Schedule 5, Section B(19) of the draft Loan Agreement).
58.       With efficient management, prompt billing for services and collec-
ting of outstanding bills, the tariff law (para. 36) assures sound financial
performance for the companies. To meet the objectives of the tariff law by
1983 -- as the legislation now requires -- the SWCs will have to implement
gradual tariff increases over 1981-83 in addition to the tariff adjustments
that went into effect on January 1, 1981 (para. 36). The financial projections
prepared for the beneficiary companies during the project's appraisal are
based on adequate tariff adjustments each year during the project's implemen-
tation allowing the SWCs to achieve the law's targets by 1983. To ensure
compliance with the tariff law, each company would take all action necessary
to generate sufficient revenues to cover its operating costs, depreciation
charges and debt service payments by 1983; those SWCs not meeting the require-
ments of the tariff law in 1981 and 1982 would raise tariffs by at least one
third of the gap required to comply with the law in 1981, and by at least
two-thirds in 1982 (Section 4.09 and Schedule 5, Section B(15) of the draft
Loan Agreement). BNH and the Government would take, or authorize, all action
necessary to enable SWCs to comply with the above revenue covenant (Section
4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.02(b) of the draft Guarantee
Agreement).
59.       Because inventories of fixed assets were often incomplete and their
valuation inadequate at the time the SWCs were created, the companies'
financial returns -- although calculated as specified by the law -- are
inaccurate. To correct this, each SWC would reassess the inventory and value
of its fixed assets, and include, not later than December 31, 1982, a revised
valuation of its fixed assets in its financial statements (Schedule 5,
Section B(14)(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
Costs and Financing
60.       The project's cost is expected to come to US$589 million equivalent
including US$180 million, or 30.6% of the total, in foreign exchange, which
the proposed loan would cover. The local component includes 3.4% in taxes.
Costs of the major subprojects were estimated on the basis of unit prices
provided by consultants, and of the remaining subprojects based on unit prices
for similar works. In addition to the proposed loan of US$180 million, BNH
would finance US$114.5 million, or 19.4% of the project's total cost, and the
state revolving funds would provide US$294.5 million representing the remaining
50%. The SWCs and BNH would share the proceeds of the Bank loan as follows:
US$19.3 million for Amazonas, US$31.5 million for Goias, US$31.8 million for
Mato Grosso do Sul, US$34.7 million for Para, US$22.8 million for Paraiba,
US$39.1 million for the Federal District, and US$0.8 million for technical
assistance to COSAN. The Federal and State Governments and BNH would, as
necessary, provide the counterpart funds for carrying out the project (Section
2.01(b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement, and Schedule 5, Section A(1) and
Section 3.03(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Re-lending Terms
61.       Under the project, BNH would make subloans equivalent to US$294.5
million for approved subprojects in the five project states and the Federal
District using its basic lines of credit (REFINAG for water supply, and
REFINESG for sewerage subprojects), as well as its FINEST II and III programs
(Section 3.03(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). REFINAG and REFINESG provide
subloans to the SWCs to cover one-half the cost of subprojects in medium-size
or capital cities, with the other half of the cost being financed from FAE sub-
loans. These subloans are made at interest rates of two to five percent per
annum on the outstanding balance which is readjusted for inflation, for terms
ranging from 18 years (water supply) to 30 years (sewerage) not including
grace periods of one to four and one-half years. BNH's FINEST II credit line
provides funds to a state in the same amount that the state has already passed
on as contributions to the SWCs' water and sewerage subprojects in small
communities. Its FINEST III program matches funds provided by the states to
finance specific water or sewerage subprojects in small communities. The
states -- under both FINEST II and III -- transfer BNH's loan contribution
through the relevant FAE to the beneficiary SWC to finance the approved
subprojects. For small communities the SWCs receive 702 of any subprojects'
costs as grants, and the remaining 30% as loans. The terms and conditions,
including grace periods, of the FINEST II and III credits are essentially the
same as those under BNH's basic credit line, but interest rates are typically
one percentage point lower.



- 20 -
62.       BNH's FINEST credit lines were set up to provide supplemental
finance for urban water and sewerage projects, thus encouraging the mobiliza-
tion of resources at the state level for investments in the sector. The
FINEST I credit -- designed to complement contributions to any water and
sewerage investment by the state in excess of five percent of its revenues --
is financed by BNH alone. FINEST II and III -- as explained above (para. 53) --
are designed to induce the states and the SWCs to step up their investments in
small communities without cutting back on other investments, and both would be
eligible for Bank financing. BNH's amortization periods, reflecting the
useful lives of the subprojects, are considerably longer than the terms of
Bank loans. This, and the factors affecting effective interest rates will
cause the debt service on the Bank loan to exceed the annual service charges
received by BNH. The resulting burden, as well as the exchange rate risk,
would be assumed by BNH, whose financial position is strong enough to absorb
both.
Procurement
63.       Goods and services would be procured under international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines, except that civil works contracts
up to US$3 million equivalent, and equipment purchases up to US$500,000
equivalent may be awarded in accordance with locally advertised competitive
bidding following procedures which have been reviewed by the Bank and are
acceptable. Foreign contractors and suppliers would also be eligible to bid
under local procurement procedures. The Bank would review and give prior
approval of invitations to bid, evaluation of bids, recommendations for award
of contracts and proposed contracts for civil works estimated to cost US$3
million or more, and for equipment contracts costing in excess of US$500,000.
Local bidders under international competitive bidding would be allowed a
margin of preference of 15% of the CIF price or the applicable import duty,
whichever is lower (Section 2.05 and Schedule 3 to the draft Loan Agreement).
It is expected that all civil works would be awarded to local contractors, who
are experienced and qualified, and that the bulk of equipment and materials
purchases would be from local firms or Brazilian subsidiaries of foreign
suppliers.
Disbursements
64.       The loan would be disbursed against the project's actual or estimated
foreign exchange component, except for subproject components financed through
state or federal grants, as follows: (a) 59% of BNH's disbursements under
subloans to SWCs for subprojects in medium-size and capital cities and consul-
tant services; (b) 29.5% of BNH's disbursements under FINEST II subloans to
the states for subprojects in small communities; (c) 59% of BNH's disbursements
under FINEST III subloans to the states in small communities; and (d) 100% of
foreign expenditures and 50% of local expenditures for consultant services to
COSAN; and (e) 29.5% of disbursements by BNH or the project states from grants.
In recognition of the Government's vigorous efforts to contain public investment
expenditures, the percentages disbursed on items (a), (b), (c), and (e) would
be increased from 59% to 72% and from 29.5% to 36% up to December 31, 1982 (or
until US$80 million had been disbursed, whichever came first) with correspond-
ing reductions in the percentages thereafter. In order to reduce the interval



- 21 -
during which BNH would finance the Bank's share of project costs with its own
resources, BNH may request the Bank to make advance payments in dollars from
the loan account into a Special Account to be opened in the Banco Central do
Brasil. BNH would be entitled to make withdrawals in cruzeiros from the
Special Account upon preparation to the Banco Central of statements of expendi-
tures on the project. Conversion from dollars into cruzeiros would be made
at the exchange rate that prevailed on the date the expenditures on the project
were made. Banco Central would forward those statements to the Bank, which
would then replenish the Special Account. Detailed documentation would be
retained by BNH and made available for review by Bank supervision missions.
The loan is expected to be disbursed between mid-1981 and mid-1985 (Sections
2.02 and 4.04(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing
65.        If some of the high priority subprojects to be financed from the
proposed loan would not be contracted until the loan is signed, some 770,000
urban poor would have access to critically needed piped water and sewerage
services with a delay of six months. Given Brazil's stringent foreign exchange
policy at present, it is unlikely that these urgent works would be advanced
unless loan funds were available retroactively. Therefore, advance contracting
up to an amount of US$90 million, equivalent to 15% of the project's cost,
would be allowed for works which would be contracted after January 1, 1981.
Retroactive financing would be allowed for expenditures of up to US$7 million
equivalent for civil works, equipment and materials, incurred after February 1,
1981 (3.9% of the proposed loan) (Section 2.02(c)(i) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Implementation
66.       The SWCs prepared feasibility studies for major subprojects in the
cities of Manaus, Belem, Joao Pessoa and Campina Grande, which were reviewed by
Bank staff during appraisal. Feasibility studies for the main components in
the remaining three large cities were reviewed by BNH and found satisfactory.
Together, these studies represent components whose cost accounts for 78% of
the project's total cost. Final designs for the large cities are being prepared
by consultants commissioned by the SWCs, and it is estimated that about half
of the project's components have already been engineered. Feasibility and
final design studies are also well advanced for the medium-size cities and
small communities. Some 6,000 man-months of consultant services would be
provided under the project to the SWCs at an average man-month cost of US$6,200
for the completion of detailed engineering and also for construction supervision
(para. 52) and technical assistance (para. 56). The bulk of design work is
expected to be completed by the end of 1981. Except for technical assistance to
COSAN (para. 52), foreign consultants are not expected to participate directly.
67.       As pointed out already in paras. 49 and 52, BNH's commitment to take
an increased role in the proposed project's implementation, particularly the
selection, appraisal and supervision of subprojects, would be a key to the
agency's preparation for future Bank sector lending. BNH's success hinges on
how well it will oversee and control the SWCs' activities. Therefore, Bank
supervision missions would focus on COSAN's relationship with the SWCs,
including measures taken to improve their administration and to implement the



- 22 -
technical assistance provided under the project. COSAN would use agreed
monitoring indicators during the project's implementation and supervise each
SWC twice a year, and BNH would submit to the Bank twice a year a report of
the findings, including comments on compliance with Bank covenants and
measures to improve the efficiency of each company (Section 3.07(c) and (d)
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Justification
68.       The economic benefits of water supply and sewerage projects are
difficult to quantify meaningfully in monetary terms. Therefore, rates of
return on investment have been calculated using revenues as a proxy for
minimum economic benefits. However, since revenues derive from admin-
istered tariffs which do not fully reflect the consumers' willingness
to pay -- i.e., exclude consumer surplus -- actual economic benefits are
likely to be higher. For the investments proposed for the capital cities,
which account for 59% of the project's total cost, the rate of return is
13% for the water supply component, and 10% for water and sewerage. The
rate of return for the project as a whole -- including the medium-size
cities and small communities -- is estimated at about 10% for the combined
water and sewerage investments, which may be presumed to lie below the
minimum economic rate of return.
69.       Estimated returns are considered adequate, as all the major project
components so far evaluated represent the least cost solution for each city.
Investments per person served average US$100 per capita, existing average
water tariffs are close (92%) to the average incremental cost of water, and
compliance with the 1978 tariff law -- as agreed with the beneficiary SWCs
(para. 58) -- would yield average tariffs at about the marginal cost. These
parameters are satisfactory. In Campo Grande, the investment per capita in
the least cost solution in US$179, because of expensive water sources, but the
rate of return is satisfactory.
70.       The project would also have an important social impact in the five
state capitals and the Federal District by providing safe water to about
785,000 urban poor whose annual income is less than three times the regional
minimum wage. In mid-1980, this threshold was equivalent to an annual income
of US$550 per head, which is close to one-third of Brazil's current per capita
income, the Bank's definition of the relative poverty line. Some 48,000 urban
poor among the project's beneficiaries would receive sewerage services for the
first time under the proposed project. In general, health conditions and
productivity would improve as a result of these improvements, and the inci-
dence of enteritis and other diarrheal diseases commonly associated with
deficient water supply would diminish.
Risks
71.       Given the simple nature of the works proposed, the experience of
the local construction industry and the consultants currently engaged in
detailed engineering studies, this project does not face any special risk.
The Government's tariff law, together with the recently adopted tariff measures,
demonstrate Brazil's commitment to assure the financial viability of the
SWCs, and adherence to the proposed loan's financial and management covenants
(paras. 52, 56-59) would ensure that each SWC would realize that target.
Intensive Bank supervision efforts would be required to keep to a minimum the
risk that institutional improvements would not be enhanced or that implementa-
tion of works would be delayed.



- 23 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Banco Nacional de
Habitacao (BNH), the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Federative Republic
of Brazil and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
73.       The main features of the draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements are
referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III. The execution
and delivery of an agreement between BNH and one of the project states and
companies incorporating the obligations of the state and the company set
forth in Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement, the appointment by COSAN of
additional staff, satisfactory to the Bank, and the employment by COSAN of
consultants to assist in carrying out its technical assistance program, would
be conditions of the proposed loan's effectiveness. Execution and delivery
of similar agreements would be a condition of disbursement for the projects
in each of the other states.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments                                       by Ernest Stern
April 1, 1981
Washington, D.C.



ANNX I
- 24 -p
SRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SNgrT
RAZIL                         RWEENCt GROUPS (tUIaOTED AVEPrS
LAND AREA (T"OUAND SO. EN)                                                        -? *DST RLCENT  tStIMAT
TOTAL           8512.0
AGRICULTURAL    2067.2                                HOST RCENT             MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCONE
1960  lb   1970 A  ISSTmATE 1b   LATIN AllUCA & CAtS14NKW            EJpoPE
GNP PrR CAPITA (USSI                 320.0       570.0   1690.0                   1562.9                   2749.5
ENERGY CONSUMI1O0  Pr CAJPITA
(xIwORAMS Of COAL EQUIVALENT)     332.0       474.0    794.0                    1055.9                   1641.4
POPULATtON AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,  ID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     71.5        95.2     119.5
L14  POPULATION (PERCrNT Or TOTAL) 46.1         55.9      63.3                    63.4                     53.9
POPULATION PRDJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR ZOO (MILLIONS)                     201.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       345.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS RI&ACNZ                 2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PnR SC. Kt.                        S.0        11.0      14.0                    28.1                     77.2
PZR SQ. IH. AGRICULTURAL tAND     44.0        49.0      56.0                    81.7                    129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCDNT)
0-14 YES.                         63.6        42.6      41.7                    41.4                     30.6
15-44 YRS.                         53.8        54.3      54.9                    54.7                     61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.6        3. 1       3. 4                    3.9                      8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.0         2.9       2.a                     2. 7                     1. S
URBAN                              5.          4.8       4.3                     4. 1                     3. 3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    40.0         38.0      36.0                    34.8                     22.6
CRUDE DEATH LATE (PER TNOUSAND)     11.0         9.0       9.0                     8.9                      6.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2. 6        2.6       2.4                     2. 5                     1. 5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       111.0    203.6
USERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WOMEN)   ..          1.6
8OOD AND NUTRITION
INDE  OF OOS PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         89.0        102.0     112.0                   106.9                    113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENtr OF
REQUIRENTS)                    101.0       104.0    107.2                    107.4                    125.3
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAT)          61.0        62.0      42.7                    63.6                     91.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       34.0        34.0      35.1                    33.7                     59.6
cHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     13.0        10.0       9.0                     8.4                      4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EIPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    57.0        61.0      62.0                    63.1                     $7.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..          ..         *                     66.5                     55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         56.3      77.1                    65.9
URBAN                               ..        77.7      88.8                    80.4
RURAL                               *         29.0      56.6                    44. 0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
oF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               *-        59.9      64.8                    62.3
URSAN                                         8 86. 1   63.7                    79. 4
RURAL                              *-         26.5      31.7                    29.6
POPULATION PER PFTSICLIN          3600.0      1910.0   1700.0                   1849.2                   1030.1
POPULATION PER NUBSING PERSON         ..      3220.0       *-                   1227.5                    929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL aED
TOTAL                            309.0       262.0     253.0                   480. 3                   299. 7
URBAN                               *-          *-
RURAL                              ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PEE HOSPITAL BED          ..         18.0       ..                      ..                      17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5. 1        4.8       4.9
URBAN                              ..          4.6       4.7
RURAL                               *-         5.2       5.3
AVERAGE NSLSBER OF PERSONS PER ROat
TOTAL                              *           1. I
URSAN                               *          1.0 
RURAL                              *-          1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
oF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             38.7        47.6      43.0
URBAN                              ..         75.6      84.9
RURAL                               ..         8.4      19.2



- 25 -                                     ANNB I
page 2
1Am  - SOCUAL UDICAS0  DATA Z=
SZIL                        RWU          0 CUM  (2D AY         S
- MMS? ucA ScT
- M?ST mwr              sIDOu  DCan            Noi     rC=
190~  1970 a~ ISTUU!Z       t ATN AMUZCA   06111216            PUO
ADM=  m0U1(WI ATIOS
RmaD?;      TOTL                 93.0        125.0      0 Oj                    99.7                    105.9
Kw                   97.0       L23.0      09.e                   101.0                    107. 2
FUWALI               93.0       125.0      90.0L                   ".4                     103.0
sucomITs  TOTAL                   11.0        26.0      24. Oil                3s.                       64.0
MALI: 11.0                       26.0      22.01                   33.5                     71. 1
TX""                 10.0        26.0      26.0                    34.7                     94
WOCATIOL u1L. (Z 0f SRcOI  )  19.               17.0.    *7.                     38.2                    2IL
!urrl-TzAC    12o
2sMmT                             33.0        28.0      22.0                    30.5                     29.4
s1co061                           13.0        13.0      11.0                    16.5                     26.1
AULT LIIUC? DATZ (1rr2)            61.0         66.2      75.7                    76.3
IPASUESM CAm PU TeOSAID
POPULTM0S                         7.0        23.0      32.4                     41.0                     64.6
1.6t1 9.EZZWU   M  TleOSAI
IOIUIION                         64.0       124.0      135.0                   245.3                    19.Z
TV KICTIUM PU TB308A1
10or1U06                          17.0       6.0        93.0                    6.2                     113
MSPAI C'DA1L! G901AL
*Mzsr) C?C.AOS YU
ToomD    vo,ur&nat                 34.0.        37.0      39.0                    63.3                     93.0
CIWIA AIUL ATUSDAu  PU CAPM   5.0                1.9       2.6                       ..                     5.7
TOUL. LU01t 10aCZ (TUOUAM0)   22672.9    30057.3   37704.7
trAlg (12CmT)                     17.5        20.4      22.0                   22.2                      30.4
AMcLIURZ (P1RCOT)                 51.9        45. 6     41.0                    37.1                     37.0
130621? (r1CU?)                   14.6        16.3      22.0                    23.3                     29.3
PARTICIlrMO  3AT1 (MUZI)
TOrAL                               32.0        31.6      31.5                    31.3                     40.9
MALI                                32 7       30.3       49.3                   4L.9                      53.9
,iau                                11.2        12.8     13.6                    14.0                     26.2
tC   lle 16333f UTIO                   1.4         1.4       1.4                     1.4                      1.0
mcms  DISIZDTOUl
13351 or 2r1v1n rmoa
cr3sr 3    r3 9 oTrO F ...-IP.      ..         ..
316T15  20 FMNT0  NoMr       Us  60.0         63.3      62.0                     ..
LstU 20 1265T o0 IIWSOL           3.5         3.2       us.
uI3T 40 r1c0  or 0 uswmu          io. a       9.0        9.4
fDISTDIT   ASOLUTZ 102T? Ionl
LmL (US$ PU CAITA)
0315                               ..          ..        .                        ..
LA                                 ..          ..      150.0                   190.6
n         rTrATU IATIWVi 10 r x
1.1932 (MS$ PUL CAPITA)
W3261                              ..          ..      465.0                   474.0
..                                             ..      332.0                   332.3                    305.8
ESTIMATD PopMATU   BU          AuoSmn
P1e01n 103 LUlL (1s4wr)
I. AL                                                                             .
Not crall*ab
,   The go    av-erfs tfr each ludleStmr are pop le _1iou."slht   arieheaec   __ i .  C o're of emtri..
me    the Icators 4_ce oa  _e .bstLIty of data a  is use *C      ora.
vale" otebrwie noted, data for MO0 rer tany yeor betowe  1939 _  1961; tor 1970. beeme"  1969
m  1971; and for tMoC teset laciett. betwe    1974 and 197L
/agcag 1973 primary atd secondary edetism  cower ae group"   7-L4 mA 15-17 Insead of 7-10 and 11-17
ia earlier years; therfore moC react *etaest  are see coarla '.th earlier dacta
Mbae rcear   att of C31 per caita ts for 1979. all other data are as of Aprl. 190.
October. 1960



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Na.C.-   Altho-gh th. date a, draw  tram   --a  *aa- l   judged the  -et authoricotiv   ad rliable. it should also ba  ot.d that th.y may at be late-
na~ti-nllyco..p-rahi  battig of ch. lack at stand rI:1d deinitions 0.4 co...ePt. need b   ifro    otra   0cletn    h   aa    b   a.ea   e.
thela... .. usful to de...Cribe o-dere of nsagotude.  Inloeted.  n   hroein                 eti    ao dbffaricfw enva  coun.triges.               .T.dt
Tb. ratfr.-. 'trooPs  -r  (1) the ea   cce  gop of the aubject coutry and (0) ... coutr  tropbwith .o-lh.t high., ..ru. 1                    acoma than the  -outry group
atth  ebj:o  coutry ( ....pt for 'Capial S.rplus Oil  prrg" .roup ehor  "Piddl    .. moo . oth A,frica Od Kiddl. tEat"                       h' ch -e becasa  at atongr
ealaC  ftro   ftiahitl>.  On tho roornc  gou  date the                  .         oplaio  wighted a1rithetc lean.  for ...h indicator-     sho-  ony    - ent
I ee.t half of the  on.          0ago   h.. data. forth.t Indctr    ic   h   oeeoo   acre  aaone th,   .ic                         adped     Io h. .evallbili'ty of
deco an  Ia tat uniform, cation mus ha ooeord I0 relstit.n  veoge  of  unindicat-r to aothn.c Toev.w                            acoly ...efni Le a iring the  alIo
of  _n  indiat-r at . tin. aaon  th, country an  rfro              -gopo..
LAND0 cOLA  (thouead *q.*)                                                                   rcuaio    0   hreo"o-  Yopultion atriad by ouee  00 oc....iciag p67
Total - Total surf.a.s :r" comp.Ieiean asonn and inland meter.                               aIcoe  qulte ft. a  eica  school at unitveity leve.
Asrcnlura  - egiaisof  grinltrolore  usd nporril  orperanatl  Pooloionn Fr .-rin -Pe Pae    Poulaiondivdedbydd             mhoboyprctlta
for cupo., poat-ro,  akat an  kitohem  grdane o  to lie fallen) 1977 data.                 male and femal  graduat  not..., pa.cticol  -urasa    nd  aaiteat -rena
PomlatontetSonitlRod - total c -n  and   MIts  - I-.I.L"ta   (MataL.
GtNP Pt  CILPITA (USO) - GNP per capita  -antmato  an cret earht price..  C.al-                ubnadrol)ild   by  har  epeati                            of beepig&L bae"
Cuotd by em    bovrlothnbd -a Wrld tank Atloa  (1977-79 baais); 1960,                      availabl. In Public an  Prirot. gn l  n   pocialised toepitaL ad  n
1970. ad  19yg9data.                                                                         hbilitatinncnas   fopial   or  et.bli.h-mt. peomananotly stffed
by st lean  on  pybyici-n  Ft.blioheot. p-LmIdn  prt.eips.llroagda
OI00RY COOSUI)OTIOtt PtR CAPITA - A--I.0  -ocptioo of ecoogaroia  n...gY (ca                   coeaentmle.Srlhsioa.hwvr  nld    alha                                         eia
and lignte,ptrlu,     ntlgS- 0d hydr-, nucloea  and gaathe.al .10-                         ceter  nt, poaanty oaf fed by a physLicia  (but by a medital anisitat.
iricicy) in ILLorm ofca aqiaetpaw topina; 1960. 1970. and 1978                               moran. eddolfa. ac.  wichotri-aitucoatna    rr
dots.                                                                 un~~~~~~~~~~~lIted r..ng  ofadin -foeiliti.e.  Po   tuinba  patpoaa   urban hpi
ATj TICS                                                       1'~~~~~~~~~~ul  lrid  'I0   prncpa   gano   ad eail .1 d  hoepialC.sd  ua
POPVO.ATI00 ANDO VITAL STAISpC
Total Poocl.tio..  Pd-Y-ar (illio ..    A. of July 1; 1960, 1970, so  1979                                ..i.i..or  ooio Ited - Tutsl nIanbe  of T dei.an  to or diaoh-rge
data.    1!           1   f..L11         I...    b     .IClp lt-                            fra. hospitals dioidad hy the o.-b.  of bed..
difwe  dfinitinna o            -o ra  ear affect cepur-bility of data            HUSN
sn cooie;1960, 19)0, and 1978 data.                                            7;ras. Siiae  f Hou..ehol.c"      on   a   onoo    total  uran -ad feMI-
4o7....Prletin                                                                               A ho...ohold coit  ofagruof idvd. roaaelivio    uate.s
IPooletion in1 year b009 - Currat pop  Clio   oro)oction   Cr  band en 1960                sOd their mit male.  A boaodao or lodgor nay or y ant ha i2aldod L.
ctotlpouatinb  aasd se  andthir martality and fortiity C0t55*                          the hbou. hld for staleti     alti  rpc.1
Projctio   parmete. f r srtliny rotwi tomprlo of tbha  la-al  Oe5tJ-           Avese  uahr  faesu  oa  om     c . chob. an   --Io  - Ava..g  ma.
tog lit. anpocency     birth  lraen    Ith coutry'. per cupit. incme                    he o,!f.pro.      prre,I   I   ra  adrrloopidcmotea
level  an  ffnl. Llit  opninr  tbiltetog at 77.5 rare..  The psr-                       d-oslicge.  n-p-oi-ely.  Deellitg. aoolda n-peomaat at-ut-r    n
_tea  arfertiIIty rowe  .1.0 have tbra. lav-l .a.....I   dnin   iuncpied p,rte.
fetiit   stoding toicae-  level and peat famIly plauning par..m....hoes  'o tlectnCiy la-cat of d-.lluno I   totl. ura                              -Ad rual-1
fahcutyi   ha   sindo    f  hn   ieoeinnnao   raity                                   Coarsoion1 d..llins. oith  icray  inliin   qar .w   a  paona-ae
and fattility t oodeo for priwott- p .. pof,a  total. urhn. and  -ur1 donllingsrpcioy
Stitionr  onwltiwn -I I. a wtatiory population thor. Is no growh sinn
the birth rune! 10  qual to the dath rate. and ale  the age etr,ut-  oa-            EDCTO
ooiew  oo_tit.  Thi. Ie oohi-v.  only oftea ftIruity rt.C  dacl:tne to                dicesd Et-o1-an   tMeI
the replacmn   eo   fci   n   wprdnotien rote, when mobgearaton                           rawroho      oa.nl     0 ma=le . .los  tta.....ad   l
ofevs  rplce   fel  -iatly -t to  tetiunory  `erln        iso.eroyllmet'of algaat tho prt.ar  lov   -  pornateas  of 'om"aweoi
eatmatod on the boals of the prolsoted cbarag.ronict.  of tba PoPilotlon                   prinary  chool-.go population.; nrormlly Linld- children agd 6-11
I. the year 2000. an~d the rtof dauline at f-rility ran. to replac-                        yasre hot .djuatd too diff.run   1aethe  ft prtnar  eduutiam; for
an  Ct lvl.r    P1C-L                 o"-T.yI-- m -y: cuiric  with avro  edu...niu  anrollm t ear enoe   100 perwamt
aiza has baa reached.                                        heocodue, sohool- tta. eale ard fanot  - CoM.utd -a abo;   -Wneory
Popul!otion O.e.m                                                                              euainrureat I.a-  fou  year  of apponvo  pronaty Smta
Per so. k.. - td-year Vpop tion pot oq-.0   hilvet.a  (100 he..taras) of                     pro-idan goSr-L-oa Ionl rtah r trining imetttaion   for VWpi
tota  uream.                                                                                cud-Condf.    ,.I  . IIW_lly of 12 to 17 year. o   g;cranodn  noa ow  *--erlTr
coly.                                                                                    Vocatiol onolst(ncand                  eodry       oainl ennaim
Poonton bnSrCtur  (trp         n      Childoa   (0-1A  Yseoe). ,        ngae(10-             include  -hchica1,  indutrial, or cth.r progra  .60g  o-torsim 04pa
lto;16,1970, end 197  data.                                                        Puu-ote   ai      rnr.ad soo=                 ry - Total atudat  enolld ta
PeoleiwnIret  tote (P.rrat) -  .tota  - Asal gootb retm  of nataL  id-                         prmr   n   codr   ensdvddby o.-bmt  ef taawher  in U.a
y      9a50puan 60 t, 196070-h   19070   n  190-9                                      coroouie   eol. t
looms  ar 195-60. 160-70.and 170-9                                                 oapretg.ofttalc.  adult population agd 10 year. ad  ooe..
Cods girth, tot  (orl oou=d  9- Anual lIon bitcho par th .ousn  ofadra
Pprplot int; 1960. 1970   nd1       'wdta.                                             CONSUKP9TION
Crude Death haR.   otiouad    A- -Ioa  do,otha per tbhusad of ad-ot                        P-.-..u  Ce(r thousad towuloci..)- Pse eor.cr  caopr. anta
paa.t H;i60. 1970. n,     96dn.cr Iatin   lss  tha   ioht oaron; aaldss sebulanoa. heaan  and
loose Onoroaction Oat A- Arrag  w.abf daoght.crs o  oanml hn  i                          itn, -ehicina.
ta ooalosPOutiop.iod it oh. apsi-ne  prLsat as-svncoitic  fr-                      hadin cRce..  r  (r- o thousandc      ltir- Allypestof rne.i-er   too  -ed
tiiyrcacaal   fioyr  vrg.  .ndint in 1960. 190   nd17.                                 oucavrgoaa  pbi  prcooedo                             pouaiu; emn"dm  cmli-
Femr PaaOun    Acsotre. An. (thaa fde -t    _In uvbratacPCor                          caod  rctorei  conrisad in  ear  when riectraia  ef -adi. -
'alb,'C=nin  - l..r. loaruwon of marriedZ _vns  _  otte.t..          otg mar.ried           co     i.1aoished 1ic....iot.
wo.ochild-b..rIn&g as  (15-Ac roc)ohus  bIrth-cotrol dovi... tO                    TV R,,osi,;,e (pror~ thousand colta        - TV rec..iver. for b ...dtat to
al  nried on   in sane  _ggou.                                                            o-ool pbli   a   hugdpplto;woue   niaadT    asos
Inda  fPn-       rdcinrtCot I            96-7i OO-- -daofpot capita a--lI                   tweae  Circulotion (ror, thousad cpulon:i..of) Shee  h  oveag  cira]-l
prdcio    fal food coseditlan   Prduto  anlao  se  ad  od  n                       l tirn  do..otod pti- rly to r .c.rdioo9- gaolnm.tft is c-madaed
ia on colnder rat, buai    C..ditios  cove  primar  toda (ag&. ougaoan                     ta ho "daily' i it !aposr  on b-t fou  tines a meg.k
Iostea=  fsgr  whc   ra edbl  and contain nutrients (e.g. cottfn od                      Cinem   An-uI Actf-dicaoa    Yctaca  TC - bend on the 0,.be  of
iaur   nludad).  dflr.ata productIon of  -oh coutry Is band onticksts e.Id dueirho   b  yw.Icld                                         dmsin  to doia-in tonam
nationo   -vrose produce  price  uih,e; 1961-. 1970,. sd 1970 dat.C.d   bl-t.
Per osoica enooly ofouris(osrat of -a.our-ca.s  - Computed fromadmbiecis
a-agy,qlv n  ooafoduplias avilabl. 16 country pr caPita                             inoct FRoCt
per day.   vobllshlaep'plisoampr-W'i.. deetti  production  im -orts les                Tota-.l-tboo rare (thouands) - E ooecalyative P..-o. intludiag
euports. andchngs.  In stuk.  Oa.upieanld    ilfnd   o4,                                 a-d foroe.  0,4  cuplynd hut gocludict hooeioco.1.wtudas..ea
quatItiesue . in fond-  pre onuine  an  Iean  In distribution    5Ut                       nlniaoi   oin.Rcoutiir-o..rt compara.ble;160. 1970 ad
on. oas    bltdby PAO'haed enphsiloicl  ad. for norma  a-ti-                           1978 d.to.
city andheath considering evroa talnPoratu. body v hs. .~                                oaarst       al   ao   oc                   actg    f twoal inr force.
housatald level; 1961-65. 1970, and 1977 data..0Ibn    sOrtg   fttllbrfre  1960 .. 19,70 an,d 19716 da.ta.
Prco Teawl of or.ctni, (scan. orday' - Potaio .conetot fPo, capita                1.nd... - (P.r ...tI - Labor fcr0. In n.ici. co-trntin., enfnrn
oa  epply of tend por day.  Nat supY of food 10 d.fiosd an_br..   o-                   and  eetict,rter nud o.. .. yarcataog  of total labor fort..; 1960.
quiromano  for oIl coutries osahli.hsd by USDA provida for ni.0                          1707  ad 1979 doto.C
al faner  60 gosa  f totn  pootoin p.  day ad 20 gram  of oanIma  .-c            Forciiainht   rrat      oa.nl.adfsas-P iiaieo
,ul.. Pr:ntlo. ofohioh 10 gro   should be animl prni.Th..* .t0                            c vt  rneaecmutda   ca.moeWdtml  lbrfrsa
ards .    oe  than th.sa of 75 gram  of tonal. protin 0d 23 gram  of                     psrecwogee of tonl, aolo   n   al  popolatio   otal           onropmnivaly;
a-Ima  pCoo   o  a              fveae -o the world, propose  hy PFAO in the ThIrd        16.  90 d                 C17  dt.Thear  11' Partiipation rota  redletint
corld ro      oy  1941-6.197  ad 1977 dat.                                               an-a tutr   ttepopulaibon .an  lone nine Crd.  A f-n anti-
Par cato ortoin  unolytram aimal od suan -  rotei  e1pp0  of tOe  d-       Eatesarefrom1atuanlsoute
ri-ed from uinolo ad Puo...i  gr.:dpardy  1961-45. 1970l and f7197   aa                aenolonac   ol      oi   fpplto    ne   5a    0ad0
Child (s.1-A    ool    os(Voa  Sth-uAe) - Annua  daths par tho-asdi                          to thie ntllbrfre
a     4 ru   -  yanre. to childra  in thl  ao  rop; f- or  oe davlopio  cou-
tries dates derived from life tables; 1960. 1970 ne  1977 data..ncrroSno,c
HEALTh                                                           Peroanease of Poivoto~~~~~C Ono-  (both 1rah and ked) - ge-aivd by rinhmet
lit. fanttacv at00mb  rare) -    ..erg  ovebt or yw.nre.of life oaanug                 ..rt.nC.r~ichoat 2  pacn.oo t 'Oprot  ad P-.ea  60 P..oroac
at  htu; 190  17  ond 1;)6 data... .1
tatmuSoneit  hto(ear theno.An   - Atnsal dantha ot infnt  bodat- en. 7O .r              r  Ttt   S
AossCo Sofa Water Cpoocanor  oeit)-tnl urban. and rurl - N,. aslte -ovrny lo-a  lav1 is thoo  Incm   lee"I                                            ewis       iia
ft.or  of' pal   ttl1ra.  n=ua)wt   anoai   cest  sf                                         urtoal  adaquat  dist Pi . .....tiol OOnf-td   qtio-t. L. not
waereu 1l (nncd   treatd srfac  entesor.    untreatd but anotias                     ffordable.
c.n.idn...d a  boint wthin ranea-obla aton   of that h-s.  Inrra   rse                     laa               -..ajet t f or higher ca   flvn   in urban  re
::.ob.              -1t o 000    h.. ~ nsr t ht ao= f.o -. to :.furbf and 
tua     . 6mo  of pap di. (total, urban   and  ural  sevd.7     tht by adncost                                  f-b     .
disposal an p-ooatags at their  roela  o.algoa-a  tenrot  die-                                                            tEoomi  and  noia.1 hate Divione
Posa  my toL-d. the ocaio    n  dispo-I. wiCh or  ithaun ntan-ntono     Analysis ad Proloatina Oeperma
ofthuma   -noet and               beewoe   y       ons Ibrs  ysa  or the.n f                                                              Ottbe_180
pIt privies and etmlar ta llatiboa.



-27-
ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                                               ANNEX I
Page 4
Population:      122.9       (mid-1979)
GNP Per Capita: US$1,687   (1979)
Anouot                          Average Annual Increase (Sh) Sare of GDP at Market Prices (X)
Indicator                                          (million US$ current)                     (Lt cons.ast 1970 prices)                                       tut   prices)
1979                   1965-70      1970-75      1975-80      1980-85             1970      1975     1979      1980b/      19B5
National Account
Gro s domertic producta!                                206,043                     7.7         10.6          6.5          5.4             100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0         100.0
Agricultur                                             19,462                     1.9          5.7          5.3          4.2               8.2       8.7      9.',      9.9         9.4
Industry                                               65.583                     9.2         11.6          7.1          5.6              29.1     32.6      31.8      31.6        31.8
Services                                              87,636                      8.0         10.7          6.4          5.5              43.0     41.3      42. 5     42.6        42.5
Cossumption                                             163,739                     7.7          9.8          5.7          4.8              76.9      78.6      79.5     79.0        76.3
Croa.  inve-tm- nt                                       46,530                     9.4         14.6          5.2          5.4              23.5      25.4      22.6     22.6        22.9
Enperts of goods and SFS                                 15,245                     8.2         11.2          7.3          9.9               6.6       7.4       7.41     7.8         9.7
Imports of goods and NFS                                 19,471                    14.5         17.2          2.8          3.3               7.0      11.4      9.5       9.4         8.9
Gr.es domestic savings                                   42,304                     7.9         12.9          6.1          6.2              23.1      21.4      20.5      21.0        23.7
A-ount                          Average Annual Increase (.  )                   Cunpositios of Merchandise Trade (.5
(million US$ Current)                    (at constant 1970 prices)                              (at current prices)
1979                          1965-70      1970-75      1975-80                   1966     1970      1975      1980b/
Merchandise Trade
Merchandise enperts                                     15,244                           7.8         11.5          6.5                    100.0    100.0    908.0    100.0
Primary                                               6,631                            7.3          8.5        -6.8                      82.9     75.1      61.8      57.9
Ma..fatort-                                            8,613                           7.9         12.2          8.3                     17.1     24.9      38.2      42.1
Merchandise imports                                     17,961                          10.0         13.6          8.3                    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Fcod                                                     985                          -3.8          5.3         24.9                     11.5      4.5       3.0       6.5
Petroleum                                             6,698                            9.3         14.1          8.3                     14.7     11.2      24.5      52.1
Machinery and eqnipssent                               2,242                          22.1         16.8        -15.9                     15.2     21.2      14.0      16.6
Other                                                  8,036                           8.3         12.6         13.5                     58.6     63.1      58.5      24.8
1975      1976       1977       1978       1979
Prices and Teens of Trade
GDP deflator (1970-100)                                 289.6     410.9      584.2      809.2   1,229.6
Emehang. rate (Cr$/005)                                   8.1      10.6       14.1       18.0       26.8
Export price index (1970-100)                           189.0     218.0      266.0      238.5      262.3
Import price iedea (1970-100)                           221.0     227.0      236.0      241.9      295.0
Te.rm  of trade ilden (1970-100)                         85.5      96.0      112.7       98.6       88.6
As 7. of GDP
(at current prtce.) 
1970      1975       1979_
Public Finance (Cantral Governnt)
rurrat revesse                                                    16.6       19.8       20.8
Garremt e*xpenditar.                                              14.4       15.8       17.6
Sssrpl.. (+5 -r deftict ()2.2                                                 4.0        3.2
Capital bxpenditure                                                 2.6       3.8        3.7
Financing (net)                                                   -0.4       +0.2       -0.5
1965-70      1970-75     1975-79
Other Indicators
GNP granth rate (7.5                                                           7.7         10.7          5.8
GNP per capita gro-th rats (.)                                                 4.6          7.7          3.0
Energy coMss_ptiop grasth rate (7.5                                            7.2          7.3          6.5
ICOR                                                                           2.9          3.0          3.9
Marginal savings rate                                                         20.5         25.7         22.7
Imprt elasti.ity                                                              2.2          1.6          0.3
a At m-rket prices; components sre net damestic peaducts expressed at factor cost and
sill met add due to exelasien of depreciation and indirect tames less subsidies.
b/ Estimte
J.anuary 22, 1981



rER
BAlANCE of P4M971.S 10008061. CAPITAL AND0 0887
34111189 08J .1 oorrert prIce.)
Popoletlon          122.9  illIon  (mid-1979)
09p P.r CaPita    USJ1,687 (1979)
1970           1975            1976            2977           1978            1979            1980i/           1981            1982              g793          194
Ieleo,o of P*omaot.
9.0 export. of Aood. cod  -ro - -l.5a3                                .6,702          .6,018          -4,037         -5,99           -9,774       -12,3239             ,550         -11,539         -11,454         -1,530
Export. of good.       (2,739)         (8,600)        (10,128)        (12,659)       (12,639)        115,246)       128,128)          (35,076)        (29,641)        (35,491)       (42,343)
IPor.   of god.                                    (2,507)         (12,20)        (12,393)        (12,023)        (13,683)        17, 951)      f20.t1)           (264253)        (30,030)        (34,277)        (39,33)
K4t feoter 18gm                                       -330          -1,733         -2,189          -0,538         -3,257          -4,740         -7                -7,893          -9,022          10,207         -11,381
(of .6ih itc..r..  ps.auta)                       (-284)        (-1,863)       (-2.091)        (-2,462)        (-3 342)        (-5,261)      (-7,0203           (-6 384)       (-74 90)        (-8694)         (-9,920)
41h  ueso-Ocetor arnloem                              -485         -1,429          -1.574          -1,576         .1.718           -2,327        -2,200            -2,338          -2,331          2,46            -2,538
NMa Iopn. fre                                             21               2               1            -                72              17            134                40              5               50              50
C-rrmot aoootkc (atom                                   -562          -6,700         -6,017          -4, 037         -5,927          9,757        -72.179           -11,510         -11,489         -11,404         -10,480
oi0.t prlie-t  i- t.ettnr7i/                             92             992             959             810            906           2,200          1.202             1.747          1,996           2 .259          2,550
.6LT loan2 -  t                                          767           3,760           5,023          4,631           8,819           4,995          5,A41            12,212         11,910          122233          11,706
Trditlo.1  co.roc                                     (833)        (1.438)         (2.052)         (2,648)         (2,793)         (2,738)       (2,881)           (3.5351         (4,148)         (4.620)         (5, 64)
Pi. nsoal  cdltc                                      (434)         (4,524) 1.,90)                 (6,1210       (11,312)          (8,808)       (9,370)          (16,23          (16 162)        (16 839)        (18,08I)
o.orttccttoo                                         (-632)       (.2,172)        (.3,D09)        1-4,035)       (-5 286)         (46,551)      (-7,800)          (7 4449)        (8,400)         (-9,236)       (.11,545)
ffiraco(Ic  lost. sbhood (ret)                          _               -197             248            -267            358            -599             4            -1,096          -1,434          -1,890          -2,477
006r -crpIal tel.                                       248           1.295           2.627            507             440             .61          1,459
ChatSc  i re_eroc            . .-I .ce )3             I545             950          -2,344           -630         -3,980            3,219          3.4             -1,753            -983          -1,128          -1,299
Ooteroetloo^]  R .1..........           . ,c.e!I_/ I   1,142           6,036          6.544           7,256          11,826           9,688          6,911            8,264           9,247          10,435          11,734
Ecromec  t,oothc of teporte2!                               5.5            3.9             6.3             7,2            10.             6.3           3.6               3.8             3. 7            3. 7           3.6
1974           1975            1976            1977            1978           1i79
Et.-ro l Dmbt
Tot.1 dckt  -uc.-ditg cod dlckorcd                                    17.5796          1.2           28,984          32,224          43,174          49,9041'/
ProkIlo snd pollioly goeoeommmd                                    '97 3974       722.328          15,852         19,218          27,223
OfFiolcI  ooro.                                                   3,276           0,854           4,320           4,612           5,229
0080                                             (8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~171) , 03  (1,287)     (1,413)        (1.615)
Otco r                                                         (2,405)         (2.78)          (3 .13)        (3,199)         (3,614)
Prtvemmmoorrm                                6.118           8~~~~     ~ ~~~~~~~          ~ ~~~~~~~~~~,47  11,3  14,686  21,9914
Priocto  .o.-.ocrc.tced                                             8,182           9,592          11,133          13,006          15.953
Urdib.rmed debt (poblo oolp)                                          2,524           2,380           3.66           4,004           4,535
Crocs DOsbursa.ient
Tote  ..o. 2,dlcboommo      If 6...oc.                                 7,254           592            9032            8,766          14,105          11,54641'
Fob)oo8 endd ob)ol ly gerertced                                    2.937           3,731           4 624           4,620         10,356
OfOlci,)  -op docr20.                                               408             396             368             167             413
(tOT                                                                247             250             173             299             275
Othoc ru)tore 1                                                      1339            1(9            111              92             136
Private   urce             ~2,140                                    2,966           3,972           4,062           9,532
PcioateOnco-,,,onteo Od                                             4,317           2,201           3,408           4,146           3,749
TAo)A dobt ,oTox o poyrmoto                                            3,290          4,035           5,120           6,597           8,628         11,812
(cer0000  (groot)                                                  (1,370)         (1 863)         (2,091)         (2,452)        (3,342)         (5.261)
Rootooror    o ' cF Eoporto..   N50                                       3.8             43. 0           67.4           51.4            64.1            72.6
Porroo- -      ot CNP                                                      3.1             3.3             3.8            4.1             4.7             5.9
O.ooao interest rot r 00  .00 lo..e (0                                  10.6             9.0            8.0             8.3             9,8
7.0             7.8            7.9             8.0             7.7
A oroodo r,o,.,rioy 0) too ne oot                                         10.9             8,7           (0.2            10.1            10 1
O))coo)l ooouro                                                         14.6           18.4            16.3            (6.6            14.1
PF-      sorc                                                             .7             5.8             7.0            9.0             9.6
08rD 0T)tor-l nDOT  7                                                      5.0             5.0             4.5            4.4             3,7             3.6
150Dro,oro!oe                t dd).trt,mo ,t%                             3.4             3.6             2.2l           3.5             1.7             2.
13FD deb itT  To)o/totel dobt omoojor (0)                                  2.4             2.5             3.3            4.0             79              2 0.
9ebt ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~A  0.r oftoc   eb   ootodt
batoooonoo  doc oiot)o  5 yooo.                                                                          90.6
bRt lrl t ler d e withir SO vears ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~.d                                97
dOI Ooo00-02  protio-
In<Ludingedr oanoeo    7d)o      1no-d ...oet  jot. of doa, tlo  gold
O   Id  od Rdo11-  -o-i- dI .dc-I
T9b.oory 1981



-29-                               ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of January 31, 1981)
Amount less
Loan # Year                Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million) 
Forty-eight loans fully disbursed                                 1,558.8
756   1971  Brazil                             Ports                45.0           1.1
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -        Power               125.0          11.0
Itumbiara
924   1973  Brazil                             Agro-Industry        42.3           6.1
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao         Power                81.0          20.7
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1067   1974  Brazil                             Education            23.5          11.7
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal           Railways            175.0          12.4
1075   1975  Brazil                             Roads               110.0          22.7
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                95.0          29.4
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry                60.0          36.1
1153   1975  Brazil                             Agriculture          23.0           8.6
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista         Railways             75.0          17.7
1195   1976  Brazil                             Rural Development  12.0             9.2
1207   1976  Brazil                             Feeder Roads         55.0          42.3
1249   1976  Brazil                             Agriculture          40.0          23.5
1256   1976  Petrobras Fertilizantes            Fertilizer           50.0           0.2
1257   1976  Companhia Paranaense de            Power                46.5           0.3
Energia Eletrica - COPEL
1300    1976  Eletrobras                       Power                 50.0           9.0
1302    1976  Brazil                           Nutrition             19.0          13.2
1309    1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply             40.0          10.3
1317    1976  Brazil                           Agro-Industry         83.0          83.0
1343    1977  ELETROSUL                        Power                 82.0          26.5
1362    1977  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development   42.0            17.1
1406    1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes          Fertilizer            64.0          38.6
1411    1977  Fertilizantes Vale do            Fertilizer            55.0           3.9
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452    1977  Brazil                           Education             32.0          25.2
1488    1977  Brazil                           Rural Development   17.0            13.1
1525    1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sewerage                110.0          95.7
1537    1978  Brazil                           Rural Development   24.0            20.9
1538    1978  ELETROBRAS                       Power                130.0         112.4
1557    1978  Brazil                           Roads                114.0          98.9
1562    1978  COPESUL                          Petrochemicals        85.0          40.8
1563    1978  Brazil                           Urban Transport       88.0          64.1
1568    1978  Brazil                           Agric. Extension   100.0            89.8



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 2
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of January 31, 1981)
Amount less
Loan #  Year               Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1589    1978  Brazil                           Rural Development   37.0            32.1
1654    1979  Banco Nlacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0              84.3
1656    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0               97.6
1660    1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.            Aluminum              98.0          65.0
1714    1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   26.0            24.9
1720    1979  Brazil                           Urban Development   70.0            70.0
1721    1979  COPEL                            Power                109.0         106.6
1728    1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   40.0            38.2
1729    1979  Brazil                           Irrigation            28.0          25.5
1730    1979  Brazil                           Roads                110.0         110.0
1822    1980  Brazil/BNDE                      Pollution Control   58.0            58.0
1823    1980  Banco Nacional
da Habitacao                  Water Supply        130.0         130.0
1824    1980  CEEE                             Power                114.0         114.0
1839    1980  Brazil                           Urban Transport    159.0           159.0
1850 /1 1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply            139.0         139.0
1867 /1 1980  Brazil                           Education            32.0           32.0
1877    1980  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development   63.0            63.0
1895    1980  ELETROSUL                        Power                125.0         125.0
1924 /1 1981  Brazil                           Rural Development   56.0            56.0
1939 /1 1981  ELETROBRAS                       Power                54.0           54.0
Total                                              5,393.1 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                  703.0
Total now outstanding                              4,690.1
Amount sold                           45.8
of which has been repaid            44.6              1.2
Total now held by Bank                             4,688.9
Total undisbursed                                                2,599.7
/1   Not yet effective.
74   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.



ANNEX II
-31-                                                Page 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of January 31, 1981
Fiscal                               Obligor                                    Type of Business         Amount in US$ million
Year                                                                                                   Loans    Equity    Total
1957              Siemens do Brasil Cia. do Eletricidade                    Electrical Equipment       2.00      -         2.00
1958              Olinkraft, S. A. Celulose e Papel                         Pulp and Paper             1.20      -        1.20
1958              D. L. a. Plasticos do Brasil, S. A.                       Automotive Parts           0.45      -        0.45
1958              Willys-Overland do Brasil, S. A.                          Motor Vehicles             2.45      -         2.45
Industria e Co-erclo
1959              Companhia Mineira de Cimlento Portland, S. A.             Cement                     1.20      -         1.20
1959              Champion Celulose, S. A.                                  Pulp                       4.00      -        4.00
1966/1968/1972    Acos Villares, S. A.                                      Steel                      8.00     1.93      9.93
196611969         Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S. A.                       Pulp and Paper             3.78     3.41      7.19
1967/1972         Ultrafertil, S. A. - Industria a Cemercio                 Fertilizers                8.22     3.03     11.25
de Pertilizantes
1969              Petroqulmica Uniao, S. A.                                 Petrochemicals             5.50     2.88      8.38
1970              Poliolefinas, S. A. Industria e Comercio                  Petrochemicals             5.50     2.88      8.38
1971              Oxiteno, S. A. Industria e Comercio                       Petrochemicals             4.60     1.44      6.04
1971              Rio Grande - Companhia de Celulose do Sul                 Pulp                       4.90      -        4.90
1972/1975         Companhie do Cimento Nacional de Minas                    Cement                    29.14     3.20     32.34
1973/19)74/                                        r     OIU                 te                       69        12        81
1977/1981         Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COS}OA               Steel                     76.97    11.22     88.19
1973              Capital Market Development Fund -FUMCAP                   Capital Market             5.00      -        5.00
Development
1973/1978         Empresa de Desenvolvimento do Recursos                    Nickel Mining and         85.00     8.34     93.34
Minerais - CODlMIN, S. A.                                Refining
1974              Industrias Villares, S. A.                                Elevators and              6.00      -        6.00
Industrial Equipment
1974              Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S. A.                         Textiles                  31.00      -       31.00
1975/1979         Capuava Carbonos Industrias Ltd.                          Carbon Black               6.18     1.19      7.37
1975              Oxitemo Nordaste, S. A.                                   Petrochemicals            10.00      -       10.00
1976              Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S. A.            Textiles                   6.45     1.00       7.45
1976/1980         Tecanor S. A. - Textil Catarinense do Nordeste            Textiles                  16.20      -       16.20
1917              FMB S. A. Productos Metalurgicos                          Iron and Aluminua         20.00      -       20.00
Castings
1977              Mineracao Rio do Norte S. A.                              Mining                    15.00      -       15.00
1978              Cisetal Siderurgia S. A.                                  Iron and Steel             7.0     3.0       10.0
1979              Volvo do Brasil Motors  e Veicules S. A.                  Motcr Vehicleas           60.00    5.00      65.00
1980              Nering do Nordeste S. A. - Malbas                         Ready-made Garments        2.00     -         2.00
1980              Dende do Pars S/A - Denpasa - Agricultura,                Palm-Oil                   3.50    1.00       4.50
Indsstria * Comercio de Oelaginosas
1980              Villares Industrias de Base S. A. - VIBASA                Iron and Steel             5.00     -         5.00
1980              PPH - Companhia Industrial de Polipropileon               Chemicals and             15.00    2.00      17.00
Petrochemicals
1980              Deatilaria Cianorte S. A.                                 Chemicals and               -      0.25       0.25
Petrochemicals
1980              Sotave Amazonia Qulmica e Mineral S/A                     Fertilizers               16.00    4.00      20.00
1980              Polilel Patroquimica                                      Chemicals and             15.00    5.00      20.00
Petrochmic.als
1981              Brasilpar                                                 Money and Capital
Markets                          1.50       1.50
Total Gross Commitments                                                           482.24   62.27      544.51
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                            332.82   11.56      343.00
Total Coesitments Sow Held by IFC                                                 149.42   50.71      200.13
Total Undisbursed                                                                  96.22   13.60      109.82



-32-
ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
As of January 31, 1981, there were 49 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
756        Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971;
Effective Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
After long delays, project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Project completion is now expected by April 1981. The financial
condition of the port of Santos has worsened because tariff increases
have not covered increases in costs. Price escalation for civil
works continues to increase the project cost. All of the increase
is in local currency and is being covered by additional allocations
from Brazil's federal port authority, PORTOBRAS. The final disburse-
ment is expected shortly. A project completion report is scheduled
for June 1981.
923        Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is about 75% completed. Major procurement has
been completed. However, commissioning of the generating units is
expected to be delayed about 6 months behind appraisal estimates, due
to geological problems and very heavy rains which delayed construction
of the earthfill dam. The present cost estimate is about 39% over
the appraisal cost estimate, due mainly to a substantial increase in
the size of the transmission works and to an increase in the cost of
civil works.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million were made
during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accordance with
the Loan Agreement. These funds were prepaid by the Government,
reducing the effective loan amount to US$39.3 million. Commitments
under this loan were almost at a standstill as a result of competing
credit lines at subsidized rates and a general slow-down in indus-
trial investments.  The original Closing Date was postponed once--
from December 31, 1978 to June 30, 1979. In view of the slow
disbursement, and the fact that commitments under Loan No. 1317-BR
had not yet started, the Bank decided to allow the Closing Date to
lapse, and has cancelled the amount of US$11,737,035.97, correspond-
ing to the uncommitted balance of Loan No. 924-BR as of June 30,
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 5
1979. The Borrower was permitted to draw down until December 31,
1980 up to the amount of US$16,537,353.30, corresponding to the
amount of Loan No. 924-BR committed as of June 30, 1979 against
approved sub-projects. The undisbursed balance of this amount
has now been cancelled and the financing of the approved subprojects
will be completed under Loan 1317.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. The Closing date was postponed to June 30, 1982 to
allow additional time for equipment deliveries extending into the
latter half of 1981, and thereafter to meet retention payments
on equipment contracts.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Project execution is one year behind schedule mainly because of delays
by the government in providing counterpart financing. Proposals for
some changes in project components and a postponement of the closing
date are being reformulated by the Government.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. Although the financial
situation of the borrower has improved significantly, further
improvement is necessary for it to be able to attain the targets
established in the loan documents.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Roadworks,
detailed engineering studies for road construction and road
rehabilitation are substantially completed. Implementation of
the maintenance program in the states of Minas Gerais and
Rio Grande do Sul is progressing well. Installation of the
72 weighing stations (Phase I) is suffering delays because of
financial constraints imposed by the federal government. The
closing date originally December 31, 1979 has been postponed to
December 31, 1981.



-34-
ANNEX II
Page 6
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The latest cost estimate is US$3,025.0 million,
an increase of about 68% over the appraisal estimate. Savings in
the Bank loan are expected to result from the maxi-devaluation of
the cruzeiro in November 1979. CSN is expected to propose to the
Bank to utilize these savings to finance additional equipment
related to energy conservation. The Project is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1982, about 30 months behind schedule.
Despite operating performance near nominal capacity production levels,
CSN is in a very tight financial situation and reports through
August 1980 showed a continuing deteriorating trend in CSN's
liquidity. CSN's cash flow was well below budget for the same
period. CSN is Dresently unable to meet its financial covenants
in the Bank loan agreement, and this situation is unlikely to be
remedied unless SIDERBRAS provides additional equity funds to
replace short- and long-term borrowing and the Government imple-
ments price increases to bring steel prices more in line with
international prices. Unless these actions are taken further
delays may be expected in the implementation of the project which
remains, however, economically justified.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
December 30, 1983. The latest capital cost estimate is US$1,861.5
million, an increase of about 53% over the appraisal estimate. As
a result of the cruzeiro maxi-devaluation in November 1979, about
US$16 million of the Bank loan will be saved and COSIPA has proposed
that the Bank finance additional energy conservation equipment with
these savings. This matter is under consideration. The Project is
expected to be completed by December 31, 1981, about 30 months behind
schedule but may slip further on account of uncertainty regarding
the availability of sufficient counterpart funds. Despite operating
performance above nominal capacity, the Company's financial outlook
remains critical due to the narrow margin between revenues and
operating costs. COSIPA is presently unable to meet its financial
covenants in the Bank loan agreement, and this situation is un-
likely to improve unless SIDERBRAS provides additional equity funds
to replace short- and long-term borrowing and the Government imple-
ments price increases to bring steel prices more in line with
international steel prices. Despite these difficulties, the project
remains economically justified.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. A series of contract amendments recently
signed by CODEVASF should result in a more rapid progress of
civil works and in accelerated disbursements. The Bank has
agreed to a CODEVASF proposal to replace works previously
planned for certain areas with the rehabilitation of several
flood plain areas which suffered heavily from floods in 1979.
Land acquisition has been carried out in all flood plains but
one, which is to be expropriated in 1981. CODEVASF is taking
steps to improve the maintenance of the channels and pumping
stations in the irrigation system.



-35-
ANNEX II
Page 7
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. FEPASA's operations
continue to improve significantly. Freight traffic has increased 25%
in 1980 compared to 1979. The railway has reduced its operating cost by
12% in real terms in the past year due to reduction in staff and improve-
ment of train operations. FEPASA's financial position, however, continues
to remain weak because of its high debt service. FEPASA and the Sao
Paulo state government are preparing investment and financial plans to
put FEPASA on a sound financial footing. The Bank is monitoring this
process closely.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily
in the areas of extension, credit, applied research, and health,
although one year behind the original schedule. The design of
Phase II, extended project activities to new municipalities,
sharpened the project's focus on the lowest income farmers, and
included new components in the areas of marketing, storage,
support to cooperatives, land services, seed production, and
inland fisheries. Serious droughts in 1979 and 1980, coupled
with delays in the release of funds, have slowed down the imple-
mentation of Phase II.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Fifteen sub-loans involving twelve different
states have been approved, committing the full amount of the loan.
Construction has been completed in two states, Goias and Bahia.
Construction is underway in five additional states, Minas Gerais,
Mato Grosso do Sul, Paraiba, Alagoas and Santa Catarina. Twenty-five
percent of the physical work foreseen under the project, about 1,600
kms, is now completed. Sub-loans are fixed in ORTN terms (Indexed
Accounting System), but the ORTN lost about 40% of its purchasing
power in 1980, and the sub-borrowers (states) are having to finance
all cost overruns. This is causing serious difficulties to the
states. The Bank is reviewing with Government the financial partici-
pation of the involved agencies in order to ease the financial
burden on the states and to maintain the implementation schedule.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Progress in project implementation was steady
during the first half of 1980. However, several restrictions
placed on hiring of new staff, including local consultants, import
restrictions and reductions in the number of staff participating
in either long- or short-term training programs were all made
effective during mid-June 1980. These controls which have been
instituted as part of the government's economic stabilization
program have adversely affected the implementation of this
project. These restrictions have recently been partially waived
for this project, allowing progress in project implementation to
resume.



-36-
ANNEX II
Page 8
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19, 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project completion is expected to be delayed by about 26 months to
June 1981 due to delays in delivery of equipment to be provided by
Brazilian suppliers. Total project cost has increased to US$321
million, which is US$49 million over the appraisal estimate of
US$272 million. All the increase is in local currency and with the
planned increases in local loans and equity commitment the project
has no financing gap. The Loan was fully disbursed as of March 9, 1981.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date:  August 17, 1976; Closing Date:  October 31, 1980.
Major project works were completed on schedule but overall project
completion is about 1 year behind schedule and about 98% completed.
Procurement under the loan has also been completed. The final dis-
bursement was made on February 10, 1981.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981. Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule
because of initial difficulties in obtaining a Government defini-
tion regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement
is now progressing satisfactorily. The agreed targets for connection
of low income households have been widely exceeded. Substantial
improvements in the management of the project companies have been
achieved, particularly in the areas of financial control and planning
of COELBA and CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. An amending Agreement to the Loan and Project
Agreements was signed on January 14, 1981. The major changes in
the project involved the elimination of a credit program for
nutritious foods industries and the incorporation of a program for
the distribution of basic foods to low-income urban families. The
reformulated project should respond better to the Government's
institutional priorities; its progress would be assessed in the
field in late Spring 1981.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date:  January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982. This loan has been fully
committed for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan
area of Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in
the interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in
rural areas of the state. The physical works financed under the
project are about 60% complete. The Closing Date was postponed
to September 30, 1982.



-37-                         ANNEX II
Page 9
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, (Loan No. 924-BR of August 1, 1973,
the undisbursed balance of which was cancelled as of December 31,
1981) commitments for the second loan began only in 1979. However,
the existence of competing credit lines at subsidized rates and
Government's policy of prefixing monetary correction unrelated to
the actual inflation rate have so far rendered the balance of this
loan unusable on the conditions set out in the Loan Agreement.
However, the Government has recently indicated its intention to
follow a revised monetary correction system under which the level
of indexing more nearly reflects the level of inflation and which
is more in line with the conditions of the Loan Agreement. Arrange-
ments for monitoring the adequacy of monetary correction have
recently been agreed with the Government. Accordingly. new commit-
ments under this loan are now being approved, and it is expected
that disbursements can begin shortly.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project is about 95% complete and 100% of
the contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded. Project execution is on schedule.
The Loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the original closing
date of December 31, 1981.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project I:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. This project is progressing satisfactorily
after initial delays. Participation in this project by landless
producers was initially lower than originally envisaged, but
concerted efforts by the state government and the participating
banks have improved this situation markedly.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: May 31, 1982.
Plant buildings and equipment foundations are under construction,
but some delays have been experienced in procurement of imported
equipment which may delay the project completion date by about
fourteen months. Commercial production is now expected to begin
in March 1982. The estimated cost to complete the project is still
in line with the budget estimate. The closing date for this loan
was postponed to May 31, 1982.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project has been physically completed, and
the facilities are being tested and commissioned. The Closing
Date has been postponed to December 31, 1981 to allow for completion
of trial runs before final payments are made on certain equipment
and service contracts.



-38-
ANNEX II
Page 10
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Construction of most training centers is proceeding well. The delay
in the acquisition of suitable sites for hotel schools in Brasilia and
Rio de Janeiro, has compelled the Government to request substitution
of a new hotel school, and of several industrial and commercial
training centers, for these two hotel schools. The requisite amend-
ments to the loan documents are being formalized.
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Agricultural extension has been particularly successful in reach-
ing target farmers, and land purchase has now started for a
first small group of farmers. Agricultural credit has suffered
from shortage of local bank funds. Physical and social infra-
structure is proceeding well, although there are some difficulties
in administering the health component and some delays in carrying
out the water supply program.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. Physical execution of the
project is well advanced, and is expected to be completed in
accordance with the appraisal targets.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
While financial and managerial problems created significant delays
in project implementation over the past two years, the situation has
improved since the recent reorganization of the project administra-
tion. However, the pace of execution of several project components
is still slow.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan
of May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Disbursements were initially delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays. Regarding the sub-project of CEMIG (one of the
three beneficiaries under the Loan), the last supervision mission
found that delay in project execution was now also due to financial
difficulties which originated in low tariff levels that gave CEMIG
a 7.9% rate of return on remuerable investment instead of the
minimum of 10% allowed by Brazilian legislation. All available
funds were channelled to the Emborcacao hydro project which CEMIG
considered its first priority and current expectations are for a
2-year delay in project completion. The sub-projects of CELESC and
ESCELSA have similar problems, and project completion is expected
to be delayed by about two years.



-39-
ANNEX II
Page 11
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Rehabilitation of highways foreseen under the project proceeded
satisfactorily to mid-1980. However, since then works have been
suspended because of financial constraints imposed by the federal
government. Rescheduling of the works is being discussed with the
Government. The maintenance program in the state of Parana is
progressing well. The second phase of the weighing station program
will not begin until the first phase (under Loan 1075-BR) has been
completed and the effects monitored. Project completion could be
delayed by one year.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is proceeding well. Commencement of commer-
cial operations is now expected in October 1982, about 10 months
behind schedule, reflecting the slow start of some of the down-
stream projects. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
presently running about 2% above the original estimate.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress has
varied widely among the five cities involved. The Porto Alegre sub-
project is the furthest advanced.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The executing agency, EMBRATER, continues to work closely with
state/territory agencies to achieve adequate project implementa-
tion. The Project Coordination Unit has been effective, and
project execution proceeded satisfactorily during 1980. Early
local funding delays appear to have been resolved. The Closing
Date has been postponed from December 31, 1982 to June 30, 1984,
in part to allow additional time to achieve planned levels of
incremental staffing, fellowships for staff training, and use
of consultants. Overall, project activities appear to be pro-
ceeding reasonably well.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The pace of project execution is now fairly satisfactory, and federal
funds are being provided punctually. Extension and land titling
services have been improved. At this time, lack of land purchase credit
is the main difficulty in achieving balanced progress of the project.
The quality of feeder roads is not up to standard, but supervision of
construction is being strengthened. The health component is proceeding
smoothly; however, the education and water supply components are far
behind schedule.



-40-
ANNEX II
Page 12
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project:  US$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 9, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Housing targets are being met.
Difficulties are being encountered in meeting the sites and services
targets, and the National Housing Bank is preparing a proposal that
will offer a solution.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 10, 1979, Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. The National Housing Bank has approved the five year
investment program of the project water companies for the period
1980-1984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have also been
approved and construction is underway. However, because of initial
difficulties, the project may be completed with about a one-year
delay.
1660      Valesul Aluminum Project:  US$48.0 million loan of March 7, 1979;
Effective Date: August 6, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding with no major problems, but a delay of
six months and a cost overrun of 10% is expected.
1714      Sergipe Rural Development Project:  US$26.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. Reasonable progress is being made with
most project components. Extension services have come very close
to first year targets and are exceeding second year targets. The
land titling and colonization components are progressing more
slowly, but remedial action is already showing results. The
management of the project has become quite effective, and the
monitoring and evaluation of project results is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1720      Medium-Sized Cities Project:  US$70.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: May 2, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily after a slow start due
to the change in Government.
1721      COPEL Second Power Distribution Proiect:  US$109.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. Project implementation is about six months behind
schedule because the Borrower postponed procurement pending loan
effectiveness. The Borrower is, however, accelerating procure-
ment and the project is expected to be completed on schedule.
1728      Pernambuco Rural Development Project:  US$40.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984. The project's start-up period has been longer
than expected, in part due to continuing deays in the release of
federal funds. Project administration has recently improved but
coordination among the entities involved in its execution is not
yet satisfactory and the project calls for close supervision.
The agency responsible for the village water supply component
has failed to perform adequately and has to be replaced by another
entity. The recommendations of the land tenure study have run
into opposition within the state and their implementation is
uncertain at the moment.



-41-
ANNEX II
Page 13
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986. An acceleration of disbursements should result
from contracts signed for the construction of irrigation and
drainage networks in three flood plain areas. The new CODEVASF
regional directorate has rapidly and competently taken charge of
protection, irrigation and drainage works. There is a continuing
need, however, to strengthen GODEVASF's capacity to supervise
assistance provided by various state and federal agencies, and
to follow-up on the implementation of the rice drying, storage
and processing component.
1730      Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Five sub-projects committing about twenty percent of the loan have
been approved which will benefit the states of Pernambuco, Ceara,
Espiritu Santo, Acre, and Sergipe. Seventeen other sub-project appli-
cations have been received by the National Development Bank (BNDE).
The feasibility studies for eight of these sub-projects are at an
advanced stage of preparation. As for Loan 1207-BR, the implementa-
tion of this project will depend on suitable measures being adopted
to ease the financial burden on the sub-borrowers (states) considering
loss of purchasing power of the ORTN especially in 1980.
1822      Sao Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project:  US$58.0 million loan
of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1823      Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$130.0
million loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983. The project has experienced initial
delays, but two of the three subprojects have now been declared
eligible for disbursement and procurement is now underway.
1824      CEEE Power Distribution Project:  US$114.0 million loan of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: July 15, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1839      Second Urban Transport - Porto Alegre Project: US$159.0 million
loan of June 2, 1980; Effective Date: December 9, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1877      Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Project:  US$63.0 million
loan of September 15, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1895      ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission Project:  US$125.0 million
loan of October 6, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily.



-42-
ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
MULTI-STATE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country
to prepare project:        Approximately one year
(b)  Project prepared by:       BNH, state water companies and consultants
(c) First presentation
to the Bank:               October 1979
(d) Departure of
Appraisal Mission:         August 1980
(e) Completion of
Negotiations:              February 27, 1981
(f) Planned Deadline
for Effectiveness:         July 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Government and BNH to provide, as necessary, counterpart funds for
the project (para. 60) and to review with the Bank annually their
respective contributions to Bank financed water and sewerage projects
(para. 35);
(b) BNH and SWCs to employ consultants with qualifications and on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, (i) to carry out, by
December 31, 1983, waste disposal studies for the cities of Manaus,
Belem, Goiania and Campo Grande (para. 44), and (ii) to assist in
carrying out the COSAN technical assistance program (para. 52);
(c) the SWCs to meter 70% of house connections by December 31, 1982
and 80% by December 31, 1983, and to maintain such level thereafter
in cities with populations exceeding 100,000 (para. 45);



-43-
ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) As conditions of loan effectiveness, COSAN (i) to appoint additional
staff satisfactory to the Bank, and (ii) to employ the consultants
referred to in (b)(ii) above (para. 52), and BNH to enter into
subsidiary agreement with one SWC and one state;
(e) each SWC to provide to the Bank annually global feasibility studies
(para. 55), to adopt by December 31, 1982, a new personnel management
system, satisfactory to BNH (para. 56); to establish by December 31,
1982 a system analysis unit, and to establish and adequately staff
by December 31, 1982 an internal auditing office (para. 57);
(f) each SWC to take all action necessary to generate sufficient
revenues to cover operating costs, depreciation and debt service
by 1983 (with intermediate targets for 1981 and 1982). The Govern-
ment to authorize any measures, including tariff increases, and
BNH to take necessary measures to enable SWCs to comply with the
above covenant (para. 58); and
(g) each SWC to reassess the inventory and value of its fixed assets
and include by December 31, 1982 its revised fixed assets in its
financial statements (para. 59).






5Y. O'''- Ai.1 'tA  * 1 U ''i'>''S'l'  l  40'
B      R A Z I L
Boovi!                                            ~~~~~MULTISTATE WATER SUPPLY
R;G  MAPA9- \AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
3              X              $~~~~~~~~~~~~~E \I gTORY                         I  <> RT O
Manaus                NAE
ZONA                                                                    D~~~~~~~~~~~~~p~~~~~,h~~~~~~d  Fo~~~~~~rtaleza
co                                             p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ P A R AARANIHAO
,  PPtIIARANHAO reresin                     l     RCEARA  /R I oGRA   E    NORTE
f j t                      f i |m {S    S X ?  /  l   -a    .  soo
k                                                  itJ                                                                                                   NA ti z1 AL i ; S iRANDE
0 ~~~~~~~ B~~~~~~CA  P6rto    t                                           2                      ,7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ec~~~ife
RiBriooo            ROND  NIA            j
TERRITOT                                                                                              A   ERGiPE
S  g  Z  u  a _ W +, M l G R V 0 S/ O f G 9 A S 2 f /XMalv                                                                   odor
\    *  t A  S  S  A  S   ,,   Cuiab6       -                   S          -
0         '            RASILLA4V >
JATAt'      il
r p                        MACTO/ IP Ut l O R U  GRO OMIN  A             GERA I S(               5
F A    I F/C,       ~                                                  C- ~po  ae/                             o Belo    /"ESP,JRTO SANTO
0   SUl.  RES LASOAS            ~~~~~~~Horizonte./ ,
QCEAN                                    0                               qr -::(AOD S    PSLA      ULGO                            ict6ria    A  tL  A  NF/C
4ffl                                      o                  O-A f ' 4  _  =  ( Sao Paolo                              O
~~~~ ~~~~~  ~     ~       ~      ~     ~      'o ~~~~~~RiodeJaneiro
i5: =E D; '' )  i otw;:w>^5~>i stiit) NP A R A NA 
-~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~ANTA CATARI A
BRAZI L  ~~~~~~~~~~uJSt,~~~~~~~~~'                                                 'I Oin6 s                ROJECT AREAS
R A Z I L                                     ~I    ~RIVERS
PGRoAN Er D O SU                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
AMWR1C                                                                                                                                      .:STATE _OUNSARIES
P ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                             0~~~~~~~ES  200    400    600



