Page  1
CONFORMED COPY  
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4513-GE 
(Amendment) 
 
Agreement Amending 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Fourth Poverty Reduction Support Operation) 
 
between 
 
GEORGIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated October 3, 2008 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4513-GE 
 
AGREEMENT AMENDING FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated October 3, 2008, entered into between Georgia (the 
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
“Association”). 
 
(A) 
WHEREAS pursuant to a financing agreement dated June 12, 2008, 
between Georgia (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) (the “Financing Agreement”), the Association has 
agreed to extend to the Recipient, a credit in an amount equivalent to thirteen million 
eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,800,000) in support of 
financing the Program as described in the preamble to the Financing Agreement (the 
“Program”) (Credit No. 4403-GE); 
 
(B) 
WHEREAS the Recipient has requested the Association to provide 
supplemental financial assistance in support of the Program to assist the Recipient in 
meeting the increased financing requirements caused by the impact of the recent events in 
early August 2008, for the purpose of sustaining the implementation of the Program, 
mitigating the impact of the crisis on the economy and reducing the risks of deepening 
the economic downturn, by increasing the amount made available under the Financing 
Agreement by an amount equivalent to twenty five million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 25,500,000), to be disbursed in a single tranche upon effectiveness 
of this Amending Agreement; and 
 
(C) 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, among other 
things, of the foregoing to extend such additional assistance to the Recipient upon terms 
and conditions set forth in this Amending Agreement. 
 
NOW THEREFORE the Parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - AMENDMENTS TO THE FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
1.01. 
Article I of the Financing Agreement is amended to read as follows: 
 
“1.01.  The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing 
Agreement) constitute an integral part of the Financing Agreement and this 
Amending Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Amending Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General 
Conditions or in the Appendix to the Financing Agreement, as amended hereby.” 
 
Page  3
2
1.02. 
Section 2.01 of the Financing Agreement is amended to read as follows: 
 
“2.01.  The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement an amount equivalent to 
thirty nine million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 39,300,000) (variously, “Credit” and “Financing”); which includes: (a) an 
original credit in an amount equivalent to thirteen million eight hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,800,000) (the Initial Credit); and (b) a 
Supplemental credit in an amount equivalent to twenty five million five hundred 
thousand (SDR 25,500,000) (the Supplemental Credit).” 
 
1.03. 
Section 2.06 of the Financing Agreement is amended to read as follows: 
 
“2.06.  The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with 
repayment schedule set forth in the Annex 1 to this Amending Agreement.” 
 
1.04. 
Paragraph B and the table under Section II of Schedule 1 to the Financing 
Agreement are hereby revised as follows: 
 
“B. Allocation 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
The Initial Credit of SDR 
13,800,000 shall be withdrawn in a single tranche. The Supplemental 
Credit of SDR 25,500,000 shall be withdrawn in a single tranche upon 
effectiveness of this Amending Agreement.  The allocation of the 
amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
 
Amount of the Initial 
Credit Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
 
Amount of the 
Supplemental Credit 
Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
 
Single Tranche 
13,800,000 
 
25,500,000 
TOTAL  AMOUNT 
13,800,000 
 
25,500,000
”
1.05. 
Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement is hereby revised as indicated in the 
Annex to this Amending Agreement.
 
1.06. 
Section I Definitions under the Appendix to the Financing Agreement is hereby 
amended by adding a new Sub-section 9 which shall read as follows: 
 
“9.  
“Amending Agreement” means the agreement amending the Financing 
Agreement between the Recipient and the Association dated June 12, 2008.” 
 
Page  4
3
1.07. 
Section II Modifications to the General Conditions under the Appendix to the 
Financing Agreement is hereby amended by adding a new Sub-section 8 which 
shall read as follows: 
 
“8.  
Section 3.01(b) is revised to read as follows: 
 
“(b)  
The Commitment Charge shall accrue from date sixty days after the date 
of the Financing Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts are 
withdrawn by the Recipient from the Financing Account or cancelled, provided 
however that the commitment charge on the Supplemental Credit shall accrue 
from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the Amending Agreement.  The 
Commitment Charge shall accrue at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately 
preceding the accrual date and at such other rate as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to this Section.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall 
be applied from the next Payment Date in that year.  The Commitment Charge 
shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.  The 
Commitment Charge shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 
30-day months.” 
 
1.08. 
All other provisions of the Financing Agreement shall remain in full force and 
effect. 
 
ARTICLE II - EFFECTIVE DATE; TERMINATION 
2.01. 
This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory 
to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the execution 
and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Recipient have been 
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action. 
 
2.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 of this 
Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing, on behalf of the Recipient, that this Amending Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the 
Recipient and is legally binding upon the Recipient in accordance with its terms. 
 
2.03. 
This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Association shall dispatch to the Recipient notice of its acceptance of 
the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement. 
 
2.04. 
If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and effect by a date 
ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this Amending 
Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the 
Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.  If this 
Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Page  5
4
Financing Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Amending 
Agreement had not been executed. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed 
in their respective names in Tbilisi, Georgia, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
GEORGIA 
 
By: /s/ Nikoloz Gilauri  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Van Roy Southworth  
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
ANNEX
 
SCHEDULE 2
 
A. 
Repayment Schedule for the Initial Credit 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage) * 
 
On each February 15 and August 15: 
 
commencing August 15, 2018 to and including 
February 15, 2028 
 
5% 
B. 
Repayment Schedule for the Supplemental Credit 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage) * 
 
On each February 15 and August 15: 
 
commencing February 15, 2019 to and including 
August 15, 2028 
 
5% 
________________________ 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, except as 
the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General Conditions.
 
