                                              Documentof
                                           The World Bank


                                     FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                 ReportNo. 45207-GE




                      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                           SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCING DOCUMENT

                                                 FOR A

     PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 25.5 MILLION

                                 (US$40 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                   TO

                                               GEORGIA

                                                  FOR

                THE FOURTHPOVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT OPERATION




                                          September 19, 2008




Poverty Reductionand Economic ManagementUnit
Europe and CentralAsia Region

This document has a restricteddistribution and may be usedby recipientsonly in the performance of their official
duties. Its contentsmay not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

              GEORGIA-GOVERNMENTFISCALYEAR
                        January 1-December 3 1

                      CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
         (ExchangeRate Effective as of September 18,2008)
               Currency Unit                  Lari
                   US$l .oo                   1.41
                Weights and Measures:Metric System

              ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

ADB     Asian Development Bank
CEM     CountryEconomicMemorandum
CPlA    CountryPolicy and InstitutionalAssessment
CPS     CountryPartnership Strategy
EBRD    EuropeanBank for Reconstructionand Development
EC      EuropeanCommission
EDPRP   Economic Development and Poverty ReductionProgram
EIB     EuropeanInvestment Bank
EU      EuropeanUnion
EUSC    EuropeanUnionSatelliteCenter
FDI     ForeignDirect Investment
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GEL     Georgian Lari
GFS     Government Finance Statistics
GNI     Gross National Income
IBRD    InternationalBank for Reconstructionand Development
IDA     InternationalDevelopment Association
IDP     InternallyDisplacedPersons
IFC     InternationalFinance Corporation
IMF     InternationalMonetaryFund
JNA     JointNeeds Assessment
JRC     Joint Research Center of the EuropeanCommission
LEPL    Legal Entitiesof Public Law
LSMS    LeavingStandards MeasurementSurvey
MDF     Municipal Development Fund
MDGs    Millennium Development Goals
MoF     Ministry of Finance
MTEF    MediumTerm ExpenditureFramework
NBG     National Bank of Georgia
OSMRC   Office of the State Minister on ReformCoordination
PHC     PrimaryHealthCare
PIRLS   Progress in InternationalReadingLiteracy Study
PRSP    Poverty ReductionStrategy Paper
PRSO    Poverty ReductionSupport Operation
SDR     Special Drawing Rights
SPA     State ProcurementAgency
TIMSS   Trends in Mathematics and Science
UN      UnitedNations
UNHCR   UnitedNations High Commission for Refugees
us      United States
WBI     World Bank Institute
WTO     World Trade Organization


                   Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
                 Country Director:    Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
                   Sector Director:   Luca Barbone
                  Sector Manager: Kazi Mahbub-AI Matin
              Task Team Leaders: Famk KhadRosalinda Quintanilla



                                    11

                                                        TABLE OFCONTENTS


   I.         BACKGROUND .......................................                            .................................................................................... 1
   I1.        THE IMPACTOF THE CRISIS...................................................................................................................                              2
   I11.       GOVERNMENT'SRESPONSETO THE CRISIS ......................................................................................                                                2

   IV.        BANK GROUPRESPONSE                       ........................................................................................................................       3
   V.         PERFORMANCEUNDERTHEPRSOPROGRAM...................................................................................                                                       5
       A .    Economic Performance..................................................................................................................................                  5
       B.     Poverty and Social ImpactAnalysis...................................                           ....................................................................     7
       C.     Structural Reforms       .....................................................................................................................                   ........8
   VI.        RATIONALEFORTHE PROPOSEDSUPPLEMENTALCREDIT                                                              .........................................................     10
   VI1.       IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS ...............................................................................................                                            12
       A.     Terms of the SupplementalCredit...............................................................................................................                         12
       B.     FiduciaryArrangements............................................................................................................................... 12
       C .    Environmental Aspects ................................................................................................................................ 13
   VI11.      BENEFITSAND RISKS                  ............................................................................................................................       13
       A.     Benefits........................................................................................................................................................       13
       B .    Risks and RiskMitigation............................................................................................................................                   14
   ANNEX 1:SELECTEDECONOMICINDICATORS2005-2009 ..........:.................................................................                                                         15
   ANNEX 2: STATUSOF OUTCOMENONITORABLEINDICATORS OF THE PRSOPROGRAM..................16




The proposed SupplementalCredit was prepared by an IDA team consisting of Afsaneh Sedghi. Bjom Hamso. Arman Vatyan.
Aleksandra Posarac. Guranda Elashvili. HannahKoilpillai. Hilarion Bumeau. Joseph Melitauri. Tamara Sulukhia, Tatyana
Kandelaki. Nino Kutateladze.Nino Moroshkina, Mariam Dolidze. Ghada Youness. Junko Funahashi. Faruk Khan. and Rosalinda
Quintanilla. The team gratefully acknowledgesthe excellent collaboration of the Georgian authorities. developmentpartners. as
well as the support and guidance of Donna Dowsett-Coirolo. Hans Gruss. Van Roy Southworth. Anthony Cholst. Luca Barbone.
Kazi Mahbub-AI Matin. Asad Alam. Ronald Myers. SaumyaMitra, Michael Edwards. and Erika Jorgensen. Sarah Babirye.
Militsa Khoshtaria. and Liberty Alexandra Reposar assistedthe team.




                                                                                ...
                                                                                111

FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                         INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

            PROPOSEDSUPPLEMENTALCREDIT TO GEORGIA FORTHE
                  FOURTHPOVERTYREDUCTION SUPPORT OPERATION

  ~~           ~~~    ~~~




Borrower                    Georgia.

ImplementingAgency          Ministry of Finance

                            IDA credit
FinancingData               IDAterms: 20-year maturity with a 10-year grace period
                            SDR 25.5 million inIDA credit (US$40 million equivalent)


OperationType               The proposedSupplemental Credit will be disbursedinone
                           tranche upon effectiveness

                            The proposed credit will provide supplemental budget support to
                           the Government to help efforts to sustain implementation of the
                            PRSO program in the face of unanticipated budget constraints
                            associated with the August 2008 conflict. The PRSO reform
Main Policy Areas          program focuses on four critical reform pillars: (i)strengthening
                           public sector accountability, efficiency, and transparency; (ii)
                            improving electricity and gas sector services; (iii)improving the
                            environment for private sector development; and (iv) improving
                            social Drotection. education and health care services.

OperationID                 P114167




                                                  iv

                     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION

                PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTALCREDITTO GEORGIAFORTHE
                    FOURTHPOVERTYREDUCTIONSUPPORT OPERATION




                                        I. BACKGROUND

1.       Over the last five years, Georgia has implemented far reaching strategic reforms with
impressive results (see Annexes 1 and 2). After more than a decade of poor performance and
widespread corruption, the peaceful 2003 Rose Revolution ushered in a period marked by
widespread anti-corruption measures and deep structural reforms that have helped to establish
strong mechanisms of accountability and transparency cutting across all areas of government.
The reforms aim at developing a dynamic and competitive private sector as the main engine of
growth, with the state playing a supportive role by providing basic public goods and services. In
parallel, the Government has undertaken complementary reforms to ensure that the population
benefits from growth through improvements in education and health care delivery and the
introduction of a well targeted social safety net to protect the extreme poor. These institutional
and structural reforms are supportedby prudentmacroeconomic policies.

2.       This development strategy, reflected in Georgia's PRSP (known locally as the EDPRP),
have served the country well. Driven by rapidly rising foreign direct investment (FDI) flows of
about $1.5 billion per year, which translated into domestic investment of 28 percent of GDP,
GDP growth averaged 10.5 percent per year over the last three years and reached 12.4 percent in
2007. During the same period, inflation (e-o-p) was on average 8.7 percent per year, though it
accelerated to 11 percent in 2007. Private capital inflows financed the large external current
account deficit while international reserves increased from $881 million in 2006 to $1,361
million in2007, and to $1,550 million by end-July 2008 (or about 2.6 months of imports). At the
same time, external debt declined from 46 percent of GDP in 2003 to 16.7 percent in 2007 (see
Annex 1).

3,       Reforms curbing corruption, tax policy and administration, and trade liberalization have
resulted in impressive increases in revenue collection which have allowed the Government to
start addressing social needs and decades' long neglect of basic infrastructure. Five years ago
Georgia had only seven hours of electricity per day per household; today the country exports
electricity to neighboring countries. In 2005, Georgia ranked in 114`h place in Doing Business;
today Georgia has moved to 15`h place. Five years ago Georgia did not have a targeted social
assistanceprogram; today the program is reaching more than 600,000 beneficiaries.

4.       The PRSO program is the centerpiece of the FY06-09 Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS) of the Bank Group,' and i s closely aligned with Georgia's governance, growth, and
poverty reduction agenda. A Progress Report on the CPS2 was reviewed by the Board in June

' Inthisdocument, the "Bank" meansboththe InternationalBank for Reconstructionand Development (IRBD) and
InternationalDevelopmentAssociation (IDA), and "Bank Group" meansthe IBRD, IDA, and InternationalFinance
Corporation(IFC).
'Country  Partnership Strategy Progress Report For Georgia, FY06-FY09, May 6,2008, Report No. 43354-GE.
The World Bank.

                                                     1

2008.     Georgia's track record in terms of scope and pace o f reforms and significant
improvements inthe CPIA and portfolio performance has beenvery good. As documented inthe
PRSO IV Board package3,performance has exceeded Program targets in many areas (see Annex
2). Reforms have strengthenedpublic finances and increased transparency and accountability for
public resources, electricity and gas sectors are being rapidly modernized, the business
environment has improved substantially, social services and the social safety net have been
improved.


                               11.      THE IMPACT OFTHE CRISIS


5.      Georgia has enjoyed a relatively stable environment for most o f the period since the Rose
Revolution in 2003. However, the country is now experiencing a number of shocks following
the August 2008 conflict, which has resultedinlargematerial lossesand humancosts to Georgia,
and a weakening of consumers' and investors' confidence in the country. In the wake of the
crisis, Georgia experienced a withdrawal of deposits in Lari and U S dollars, a loss in
international reserves, and a sharp increaseincountry risk.

6.      The Georgian authorities took effective measures to safeguard the payment system and
conditions have stabilized since the last week of August. The changes in gross international
reserves have stabilized, net positive deposits have been registered with banks, and the country
risk has stabilized.      While assessments are still ongoing, preliminary estimates indicate
significant losses to agriculture of about 10-15 percent in 2008. Similarly, the tourism sector
representing about $200 million receipts and employing some 25,000 people, may face losses of
60 percent of its receipts in 2008. Damage to public infrastructure is being assessed, and
estimatesare expected inearly October.

7.      The shocks are resulting in a downturn of the economy in 2008 and potentially over the
medium-term as well. The economic downturn and the social impacts are generating additional
budgetary pressures, as tax and non-tax revenues decline and social safety net and other post-
conflict expenditures build up. The impact of the economic downturn on unemployment and
poverty is exacerbated by approximately 130,000 internally displaced people (IDPs) at the peak
of the crisis, of which approximately 30,000 are expected to need long term solutions. These
numbers are in addition to the approximately 220,000 people who became IDPs in the early
1990s in other conflicts following Georgia's independence. Moreover, an estimated 150,000
people living on farms on the agricultural plain north of Gori are now suffering from severe crop
and livestock lossescausedby a cut off of irrigationwater and other conflict-related damage.


                     111.    GOVERNMENT'SRESPONSETO THE CRISIS


8.      The Government o f Georgia has responded quickly to the crisis by taking decisive first
steps to address the needs of IDPs, restore civilian infrastructure, and mitigate the shock to
investor confidence. Working with UN agencies, the International Red Cross, and international

3Cr. 4403-GE, for US22.7m (SDR13.8m), was approved by the Board on May 27,2008 (Report No. 41037-GE)
4Georgia's sovereign bond spread over comparable US treasuries is used as indicative of country risk.

                                                      2

humanitarian NGOs, the Government has found temporary shelter for IDPs in schools,
kindergartens and other public buildings and has been addressing immediate food, water and
sanitation needs for those families who are unable to return to their homes. It is also preparing
plans to winterize temporary shelters for the coming cold season, and is developing longer term
solutions for housing and livelihoods, both for these IDPs and others from the conflicts dating to
the early 1990s. At the same time, the Government is working on interventions to protect the
livelihoods of farmers who live in areas most seriously affected by the conflict. It has also
moved quickly to begin repairs of civilian infrastructure damaged during the conflict.           A
damaged railway bridge affecting regional transport within the South Caucasushas beenrestored,
damage to a port and power transmission line is being repaired, and work is underway to repair
damage to buildings and roads. Finally, the Government and the National Bank of Georgia
(NBG) also took decisive steps during the crisis to stabilize changes in international reserves and
bank deposits and hence mitigate the immediate shock to investor and consumer confidence.

9.      Coordination with International Partners.               The Government has requested
international assistance to deal with the shocks resulting from the conflict. In response, several
teams from the international community arrived in Georgia soon after the crisis began. The
United Nations immediately deployed a United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
(UNHCR) Team to provide assistance to IDPs. Other UN Agencies are fully active in carrying
out relief efforts at the national and local levels. The Joint Research Centre of the European
Commission (JRC) and the European Union Satellite Centre (EUSC) and a team of consultants
for European Commission jointly carried out a rapidpreliminary damage assessment inthe areas
affected by the recent conflict beginning August 25. The IMF prepared a Stand-By Arrangement
for $750 million for 18 months during the mission August 23-September 3, which was approved
by its Board on September 15.

10.     At the request of the Government, IDA is currently leading a Joint Needs Assessment
(JNA) mission including ADB, EIB, EBRD, EC, IFC, and the UNsystem, with a report expected
in early October.     The JNA mission, working closely with the Government and the EC
preliminary assessment team, aims to provide a unified and consolidated view of the country's
recovery and reconstruction needs, whilst maintaining a longer term development perspective.
At the request of the Government, the EC and the US are preparing substantial packages of
financial assistance and a donors' conference i s tentatively planned for mid-October 2008. Many
bilaterals are providing humanitarian aid and have pledged financial assistance. Among the
multilaterals, ADB i s preparing an urgent budget support operation to support sustainability of
the PRSO-assistedreform program (similar to the proposed Supplemental Credit from IDA); and
EBRD, KfW, ADB and IFC are preparing support for the financial sector. The Bank Group's
responseis summarized in Section I V below.


                               IV.      BANKGROUPRESPONSE


11.     ImmediateShort-term

        (i)     The Bank has maintained a constant dialogue with Government authorities since
                the onset of the crisis, fielded an economic mission in August, and at the request


                                                  3

         o f the Government i s leading the multi-donor JNA that was launched on
         September 8.

         With respect to financial assistance, the PRSO IV became effective on August 15
         and credit proceeds o f US$22.7 million equivalent were released on August 18.

         Given the findings o f the IMF and IDA economic missions, the proposed US$40
         million Supplemental Credit for the PRSO IV has been processed on an expedited
         basis (and IDA is coordinating with the ADB which i s also preparing an urgent
         quick disbursing credit o f US$70 million which it will associate with the PRSO
         reform agenda).

         IDA has accelerated processing o f a proposed US$40 million credit for the
         Municipal Development Fund (MDF), which is responsible for construction and
         rehabilitation o f municipal infrastructure, and has included a component for
         emergency rehabilitation works in conflict affected areas.

         IDA is also accelerating preparation o f Additional Financing for the Second East
         West Highway Project which is supporting reconstruction o f the main East West
         Highway; the financing will reconstruct the last remaining un-rehabilitated stretch
         o f highway betweenTbilisi and Gori.

         Finally, IDA i s reviewing possible restructuring and/or additional financing for
         ongoing rural development and irrigation projects, to help address the needs o f
         affected farmers inthe Gori plain.

         With respect to IFC, its immediate efforts are focused on helping to stabilize the
         banking sector. Specifically, it has accelerated processing o f transactions already
         underway to all four client banks, and more than $200 million o f additional
         investments are inthe pipeline, including trade finance, a key product inthe post-
         conflict stage. This i s being done in close coordination with EBRD, which i s also
         focusing on liquidity constraints and stabilization needs o f the banking sector.

12. Remainder of FY09-FY10

   (i)   This is the last year o f Georgia's current Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) and
         discussions on a new CPS for FY10-13 will begin shortly. Support for economic
         and social policy reform, and for infrastructure development are likely to remain
         high priorities, and the IFC is likely to continue to expand its engagement in
         Georgia.

   (ii)  Both a Country Economic Memorandum and Poverty Assessment will be issued
         inmid-FY09, and these should contribute to the CPS dialogue and to preparation
         for a second development policy series (successor to the PRSO) in support o f
         Georgia's future reform and development efforts. Work on the new series will
         begin in a few months' time, with a view to delivering the first operation early in
         FY10.


                                           4

        (iii)     Finally, in Spring 2008 Georgia was declared eligible to initiate IBRD borrowing
                  during FY09, and discussions with the authorities are in progress on possible
                  borrowingfor priority infrastructure needs.

        (iv)      With regard to IFC, besides the above-mentioned efforts to stabilize the banking
                  sector, IFC will be reviewing opportunities for further investment in leasing and
                  microfinance and to reach more vulnerable populations, including IDPs;
                  refocusing an existing advisory program to address the impact of the conflict on
                  SMEs, and intensifying efforts to support the real sector and mobilize private
                  investment in strategic infrastructure projects through advisory services and
                  financing.


                     V.        PERFORMANCEUNDER THE PRSOPROGRAM


A.       Economic Performance

13.      The strong record of reforms in Georgia since the Rose Revolution has led to rapid
economic growth of 10.5 percent during 2005-07. A key driver of this growth has been
substantial inflows of FDI, which amounted to $1.5 billion (15 percent of GDP) in 2007. The
increased FDI has been made possible by strengthening investor confidence resulting from
significant improvements to the business environment. Inflows of FDI and other private capital
fully financed Georgia's external current account deficit of 20 percent of GDP in 2007, which
was expected to narrow to 14 percent of GDP by 2009 as Georgia further developed its export
capacity. Effective public debt management has led to steady improvement in debt burden
indicators, with external public debt declining from 45.6 percent of GDP in 2003 to 17.5 percent
of GDP in 2007. Table 1 presents a synopsis of the record of economic progress in Georgia in
recent years, as well as the impact of the crisis discussedbelow.

                   TABLE1. GEOR :IA: SELECTED ECONOMIC INDICATORS 2005-2009
                                           2005      2006        2007          2008                   2009
                                                                        pre-crisis post-crisis pre-crisis post-crisis
GNI per capita(US$,atlas method)           1,330     1,560      1,990      2,5 10      2,370      3,160       2,830
UnemploymentRate                            13.8       13.6      13.3       12.5        13.9       12.0        14.5
GDP Growth Rate                              9.6        9.4      12.4         9.0         3.5        9.0        4.0
CPI (e.0.p.)                                 6.2        8.8      11.0       10.0          8.O        9.0        8.0
                                                             percent of GDP, except where noted
Revenuesand Grants                          23.3      26.7       29.2       28.5        27.7       26.9        26.0
Tax Revenues                                19.7      22.9       25.8       25.1        24.7       25.0        23.8
Expenditureand Net Lending                  25.1      29.7       34.0       32.4        33.9       29.9        29.8
Current Expenditure                         20.9      24.0       27.0       25.6        27.2       23.9        24.5
Capital Expenditureand Net Lending           4.2        5.7       7.0         6.8        6.7        6.0         5.3
Overall Fiscal Balance                      -2.5       -3.0      -4.7        -4.0       -6.2       -3 .O       -3.8
CurrentAccount Balance                     -10.8     -15.9      -20.0      -16.6       -20.8      -14.0       -18.7
FDI Inflows                                  8.4       13.9      15.2       15.0         9.3       12.0         8.6
Intl Reserves(Mo o f Impts of G&S)           1.3        1.8       2.3         3.2        2.1        3.4         2.6
External Public Debt                        26.6      21.9       17.5       18.5        21.o       18.0        25.9
Source: Georgian authorities, IMF, and Vorld Bank staff estimates




                                                           5

14.     Another key driver o f growth and stability in Georgia since 2004 has been its
strengthening public finances, with tax revenues increasing from 14.1 percent o f GDP (1.2
billion Lari) in 2003 to 25.8 percent o f GDP (4.3 billion Lari) in 2007. This major achievement
has allowed the government to increase social spending by more than 5 percentage points o f
GDP and undertake strategic infrastructure investments which in turn have contributed to the
strong growth performance o f the private sector. As Georgia further improved the efficiency and
effectiveness o f its public expenditures and reduced the tax burden on the economy, the overall
fiscal deficit o f 4.7 percent o f GDP in 2007 was expected to move to a balanced budget in the
mediumterm.

15.     The August events have resulted inshocks to the key drivers o f economic development in
Georgia. These shocks include a weakening in investor and consumer confidence, physical and
infrastructure damage and other infrastructure bottlenecks, increased numbers o f IDPs and other
conflict affected people, an increased demand for liquidity in the banking system, and stress on
Georgia's public finances. Inthe immediate aftermath o f the crisis, the economy experienced an
increase in the demand for dollars and withdrawal o f deposits from the banking system. At the
same time, country risk rose from 465 basis points inAugust 6 to 775 basis points at the peak o f
the crisis. However, conditions have stabilized since the last week o f August. The changes in
gross international reserves have stabilized, net positive deposits have been registered with
banks, and the country risk has stabilized.

16.     A key point o f stress arising from the conflict has been on Georgia's public finances, as
the economic downturn is creating in considerable shortfalls in revenue collection. In order for
the economy to avert a sharper and more prolonged downturn, it i s critical to avoid significant
cuts in public expenditures at exactly the same time that the economy has been hit by a large
shock to investor confidence. This will require budgetary support, as revenue collection falls and
pressures on social and rehabilitation expenditures build up.

17.     However, given the openness and flexibility o f the economy, Georgia i s well positioned
to deal with these temporary shocks. It i s expected to experience a contraction in GDP in the
second half o f 2008 and the first quarter o f 2009, with recovery beginning in the second quarter
o f 2009. As a result, growth i s projected at 3.5 percent in 2008 and 4 percent in 2009, which
represents a significant downturn compared to the pre-crisis projections o f 9 percent growth for
2008-09. Under this scenario, revenue shortfalls compared to pre-crisis projections are estimated
at 540 million Lari for 2008 and 900 million Lari for 2009. With strong international budgetary
support in 2008 and 2009, however, Georgia should be able to maintain levels o f public
expenditures that are above 2007 levels, but nevertheless lower than pre-crisis projections. Given
the need to finance expenditures associated with IDPs, other conflict-affected people and
infrastructure reconstruction, this means that expenditure savings would still have to be identified
from other areas. The overall fiscal deficit would rise temporarily to 6.2 percent o f GDP in 2008
and 3.8 percent o f GDP in 2009, before declining in the medium term. It i s possible that
additional reconstruction related needs may lead to higher expenditures, a higher fiscal deficit,
and additional budgetary financing needs in2009 than currently projected.

18.     Moderate levels of FDI of $ 1.2 billion (9.3 percent o f GDP) in 2008 and $ 1.2 billion
(8.6 percent of GDP) in 2009 are expected, which represent lower levels o f FDIcompared to pre-
crisis projections. As a result, the external current account deficit, which i s expected remain


                                                 6

large at 19-21 percent of GDP during 2008-09, would be financed increasingly by official
transfers compared to pre-crisis projections.    External public debt is expected to rise to 26
percent of GDP in2009 before declining inthe mediumterm. With lower private capital inflows
and reduced availability of credit from the banking sector, inflation is projected at 8 percent for
2008-09. The potential impact of the increased demand for liquidity on the financial sector is
expectedto be mitigated as long as the economy avoids a deeper and more protracted downturn.

19.     The risks to the economy are nonetheless significant.        Without sufficient budgetary
support (especially in the remainder of 2008 and in 2009), the economy could experience a
deeper and more protracted downturn, with substantially greater revenue shortfalls and necessary
public expenditure cuts. This would also raise the risks to the banking sector and be associated
with higher rates of inflation resulting from supply shortages and exchange rate depreciation.
Under such a scenario, capital spending and infrastructure development would be set back by
several years. In addition, poverty and unemployment would rise sharply and with only critical
public expenditure needs being met, the social safety net would be unable to respond to the
pressuresarising from higher unemployment, poverty, and increasednumbers of IDPs. Swift and
sufficient budgetary support from the international community i s essential for Georgia to avert
sucha scenario.

B.      Poverty and SocialImpact Analysis

20.     The reforms in human development areas constitute one of the key pillars of the overall
reform program pursuedby the Government since the Rose Revolution. The PRSO supportedthe
reforms in the human developments sector by focusing on measures to: (i)reduce poverty by
improving implementation and targeting of safety net programs and ensuring minimum
protection against poverty in the old age; (ii)improve equity of access, financing and quality of
general and higher education; and (iii)improve equity and access to essential quality health
services for the poor and vulnerable.

21.     The progress in implementing the reform program has been impressive. In education,
inter alia, a new financing system was introduced, the management of the education system was
decentralized granting increased autonomy to schools, and a wide range of measuresto improve
the quality of education including transparent national examinations and a regular cycle of
national and international assessments was implemented. As a result, the governance,
transparency, accountability and quality of education have improved notably. In health care, a
Medical Assistance Program targeting almost one million poor and vulnerable population was
implemented, the primary health care infrastructure has been improved, a large number of the
primary health care practitioners received additional training, and the institutional and regulatory
environment was enhanced. The success of health care reform i s reflected in improved health
status indicators. In social protection, a targeted social assistance program aimed at the very
poor population was implemented. Currently, more than 400,000 people are receiving regular
monthly income support. The database established for the program i s used to target other
government interventions, including medical assistance for the poor, energy subsidies, and
others. The government has also significantly increased real pensions. The social transfers are
empirically found to play an important role inpoverty reduction inGeorgia.

22.     Official poverty indicators show some improvement during 2005-07. The overall poverty
rate of the Statistics Department has declined from 24.1 in 2005 to 23.3 in 2006 and 21.3 in

                                                 7

2007. However, concerns have arisen about the quality of the data partly related to high turn
over of staff in the Statistics Department. As a cross-check IDA and the Ministry of Health,
Labor and Social Affairs conducted a Living Standards measurement Survey (LSMS) in the Fall
of 2007 and preliminary estimates show an overall poverty rate of 23.6 percent for 2007. A full
Poverty Assessment in FY09 will discuss the differences and suggest strategic policy and
investment options for poverty reduction efforts going forward.

23.     The impact of the crisis on unemployment and poverty is likely to be sizable. It is
estimated that some 30,000 of the 130,000 IDPs (at the peak of the crisis) may not be able to
returnto their homes. And about 150,000 people living inconflict-affected agricultural areas are
facing significant production losses due to the cut off of irrigation water, disruptedharvests and
other damage related to the conflict. Preliminary estimates indicate that unemployment may
increasefrom 13.3 percent in2007 to 15.1 percent in2008 and 17 percent in2009. The effect on
poverty is expected to be more pronounced with poverty increasing by 2 percentage points in
2008 and 3 percentage points in 2009. As a result, pressures on social spending are rising and
the proposed Supplemental Credit aims at addressing these budgetary impacts and helping to
sustain the PRSO achievements inthe social sectors.

C.      Structural Reforms

Pillar I:Strengthening Public Sector Accountability, Efficiency, and Transparency

24.     The PRSO program has supported reforms which have strengthened public finances and
increasedtransparency and accountability for public resources (see Annex 2). The reforms have
included the development of the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), establishment
of a Single Treasury Account, implementation of an accounting reform to support transparency
measures, establishment of clear rules for inter-governmental finances, and strengthening
financial discipline of Legal Entities of Public Law (LEPLs). The government is continuing its
efforts to further improve the results-orientation of the budget and the quality of budget
submissions by spending agencies. In this regard, three pilot ministries were selected for the
submission of more detailed performance indicators for the 2009 budget, with the expectation
that additional spending agencies will be required to submit performance indicators for longer
time frames in subsequent years. The crisis is exerting pressures on relatively new budgetary
planning and execution systems to manage large reallocation of resources across sectors and
ministriesandredefine the investment program.

25.    At the same time, other areas, such as civil service reform did not proceed as originally
expected. However, with a deep redefinition of the functions of the state, the restructuring of
civil service continued to be pursuedina decentralized approach. The enactment of the draft law
on the Chamber of Control has beenpostponed due to the heavy legislative agenda of Parliament
needed to address the crisis. The Government has reiterated its commitment to modernize the
Chamber of Control and enact the draft law once the crisis has subsided. In the meantime, the
Chamber of Control is proceeding with training of staff inmodern techniques of ex-post auditing
which is essential for modernization of the regulatory framework.




                                                 8

Pillar 11:Improving Electricity and Gas Sector Services

26.     The main objective o f reforms in this area has been to move the energy sector towards
efficiency and sustainability (see Annex 2). At the start of the PRSO series, owing to non-
payment, low tariffs, energy theft and pervasive corruption in the sector, the national average of
electricity service per household was 7 hours per day and collection rates were under 40 percent.
Overall, the reforms in the electricity and gas sectors have surpassed what was originally
envisioned in the program. Today, nearly all paying costumers have 24/7 electricity service,
collection rates are above 90 percent, and blackouts are rare. Unmitigated, the shocks and their
impact on the budget may limit several strategic investment o f the Government which could
delay further development of the energy sector.

Pillar 111:Improving the Environmentfor Private Sector Development

27.     The reforms supported by the PRSO program in this area have focused on simplified tax
legislation, strengthened institutional capacity and a streamlined regulatory framework, as well as
reform measures to improve standardization and quality assurance to enhance international
competitiveness (see Annex 2). Together these reforms have resulted in impressive increases in
revenue collection which have allowed the Government to start addressing basic infrastructure
needs which in turn were essential to expand business opportunities. Following major trade
liberalization in 2006, the simple non-weighted import tariff fell from 7.4 percent in 2004 to 0.8
percent in 2007, with more than 91 percent of products facing a zero import tariff, Georgia has
substantially improved its rank among the Doing Business indicators, rising from 114thplace in
2005 to 37'h place in2006 and 18thplace in2007. Reforms have continued and Georgia has been
ranked at 15th place in 2008. Significant improvements in the business environment are also
reflected in an increase in FDI inflows from under $200 million (non-oil pipeline) in 2005 to
$1$5billion in2007.

28.     The private sector is experiencing several shocks. First there has been a sharp increase in
financing costs which in turn are expected to slow down investment and economic growth.
Under this financial stress, companies may find it difficult to service their debts and remain in
business. Many firms are expected to cut their employment bill which tends to be the largest
operational cost. At the same time, with FDI inflows expected to decline in 2008 and the
medium term, further integration into international markets is expected to be slowed down.
Some companies may face relatively large losses in foreign markets and previous investment
may not remain profitable under these circumstances. Avoiding deepening of the economic
downturn by taking a counter-cyclical fiscal stance is expected to mitigate the economic shock on
the private sector.

Pillar IV: Improving Social Protection,Education, and Health care Services

29.     Social Protection.     The PRSO program has supported the Government's efforts to
provide adequate support to the poorest among the population (see Annex 2). To this end, the
Government first cleared arrears inthe pension system and increased the level of pensions (under
PRSO I);   and then introduced a well-designed targeted social assistance program (under PRSO
II), was subsequently expanded (under PRSO I11and PRSO IV).
     which                                                                         While Georgia
previously had several social assistance programs based on status and social circumstances (such


                                                  9

as internally displaced people, veterans, the disabled, orphans, and so on), the poverty benefit
program i s targeted to the extreme poor, measured by household surveys utilizing consumption
data. At present, the program benefits 148,000 households accounting for more than 600,000
beneficiaries. The social protection system is under increasing pressures as economic conditions
deteriorate and number of unemployed and those that lost the meansto sustain their livelihoods.

30.      Education Reform. The PRSO program has supported the Government's efforts to
improve efficiency, transparency, equity of access, and quality of the education system. This has
included adoption of transparent university entry examinations; participation in the Trends in
International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS) and Progress for International Reading
Literacy Study (PIRLS) international assessments; adoption of new laws and regulations which
provide all Georgian schools with a high degree of autonomy; introduction of a per student
financing mechanism; design of accreditation mechanisms; and implementation of quality
control and financial accountability instruments. During PRSO IVYthe focus has been on
improving education finance, developing quality enhancement mechanisms, and modernizing the
management infrastructure in the sector. These reforms are also supported by the IDA'S
investment lending operation in education, and technical assistance is being provided by
development partners. Physical damage from the August events was limited.              However,
unexpected budgetary pressures are emerging from higher demands on the education system.
IDPs were initially sheltered in schooling facilities.  Some have been moved to kindergarten
facilities. Furthermore, new IDPs are also inneed of education services.

31.      Health Care Reform. The PRSO program has supported the Government's efforts to
improve equity and access to essential quality health services, particularly for the poor and
vulnerable. Specifically, the Georgian authorities defined a Basic Benefit Packageof health care
services with universal coverage for all of the population and introduced a Medical Assistance
Program (MAPP) of comprehensive health care services for the poor, with about 700,000
beneficiaries at present. Inparallel, the Government increasedbudgetary allocations to the health
care sector in the MTEF 2007-2010. It also created a Presidential Commission for Health Care
Reform which i s an ambitious effort to better align the number and capacity of hospitals and
primary health care (PHC) facilities with demand patterns, and engage the private sector in
modernizing and operating health infrastructure. The PHC reform implementation was expanded
to Samegrelo, Guria, and Lentekhi regions, and Tbilisi, where a total of 30 primary health clinics
have been rehabilitated and equipped with physicians and trained nurses. While continuing with
the humancapacity building activities, the Government has privatized the ownership of the PHC
clinics under a framework that aims at ensuring access to clinics for all Georgians. The events of
August and the economic downturn are resulting in important pressures on health care reform
derived from additional demands.


           VI.   RATIONALE FORTHE PROPOSEDSUPPLEMENTALCREDIT


32.      The economic and social impact of the crisis is creating higher financing requirements
than were anticipated at the time the PRSO IV was negotiated, as the Government struggles to
cope with decreasing revenues and significant post-conflict expenditure demands. The proposed
Supplemental Credit aims at providing essential budgetary support to help the Georgian


                                                10

authorities mitigate the impact o f the crisis on the economy, reduce the risks o f deepening
economic downturn, and sustain implementation o f the PRSO program.

33.     With regard to the PRSO, for example, the Supplemental Credit will enable the
Government to continue its education reforms, including introduction o f new curricula, teacher
training, training for newly established school boards on their oversight responsibilities, and
introduction o f per capita financing. Similarly, health reforms will stay on track, and the social
protection system which i s being especially subjected to the added strains o f the conflict will be
able to persevere in the efforts to improve effectiveness and targeting. This i s also true o f other
PRSO IV pillars (see Section V above) where, despite very strong Government commitment to
the policy agenda, the absence o f budgetary support, especially during 2008-09, could otherwise
seriously slow momentum.

34.     The proposed Supplemental Credit is consistent with Bank policies which provide for
supplemental financing where a gap in financing jeopardizes a reform program that was
otherwise proceeding on schedule and incompliance with the agreed policy agenda.

                The program is on track and in compliance with provisions of the Financing
                Agreement: The PRSO program i s on track and the Government has made further
                progress in several areas o f the PRSO reform program, and i s in full compliance
                with all covenants.

                The borrower is unable to obtain sufficient funds from other lenders on
                reasonable terms or in a reasonable time:         The Government o f Georgia i s
                working actively with IDA and other international partners in a coordinated
                manner on the JNA, and hopes to be able to mobilize funding commensurate with
                the needs posed by the current situation. However, the budgetary pressures are
                severe and the need to respond to the crisis i s immediate. This i s the first new
                financing for budgetary support (the IMF Standby, approved on September 15,
                2008, i s directed at international reserves accumulation). IDA i s working with
                other multilateral and bilateral donors to avoid fragmentation o f external
                assistance as much as possible.

                The time available is too short to process afurther freestanding IDA credit: The
                use o f a Supplemental Credit option can enable IDA to deliver program support in
                a timely manner to respond to Georgia's urgent financial needs. Timely response
                i s o f essence due to increasing budgetary pressures on the social safety net, IDPs
                and other immediate post conflict needs, and investment in activities to support
                economic recovery and reduce the risks of a deeper economic downturn.

                The borrower is committed to the program and the implementing agencies have
                demonstrated competence in carrying it out: The Government o f Georgia has a
                solid track record o f pursuing prudent macroeconomic policies and in the
                implementation o f deep structural reforms aimed at developing a dynamic
                competitive market economy and reducing poverty.            The Government has
                reiterated its commitment to safeguarding stability and continuation o f structural
                reforms o f the PRSO program.


                                                  11

                          VII.    IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS


A.       Terms of the SupplementalCredit

35.      N o conditions other than those met under PRSO IV save the standard requirement for a
legal opinion will apply to this Supplemental Credit. There will be an overall requirement that
the Government continues to maintain a satisfactory macroeconomic policy framework as was
required under the PRSO IV. The Supplemental Credit will be on IDA terms, with a 20 year
maturity and 10 year grace period. The expected closing date o f the proposed Supplemental
Credit i s March 31, 2009.

B.       FiduciaryArrangements

36.      The proposed Operation is an IDA Supplemental Credit o f SDR 25.5 million (US$40
million equivalent), with proceeds released in a single tranche upon effectiveness.                          The
Supplemental Credit will be subject to ratification by Parliament before it becomes effective.

37.      The proposed Supplemental Credit will be disbursed in U S dollars into the Foreign
Currency Account at the National Bank o f Georgia (NBG). The Borrower shall ensure that upon
deposit o f the proceeds o f the Credit into the said account, an equivalent amount will be credited
in the Borrower's budget management system, ina manner acceptable to IDA, that is: the MoF's
budget account will be credited with the GEL equivalent at the official exchange rate within 30
days o f disbursement. The foreign exchange proceeds o f the proposed PRSO will be sold by the
NBGor heldinreserves, inaccordance with the objectives ofmonetary policy.

38.      The Ministry o f Finance will be responsible for the Operation's administration and for
preparing the withdrawal application, and maintaining the Foreign Currency Account at the NBG
as required.      The Ministry, with the assistance o f the NBG, will maintain records o f all
transactions under the Operation in accordance with sound accounting practices. The NBG will
provide to IDA a confirmation that the amount o f the Operation has been credited to an account
acceptable to the Association (the format o f the confirmation letter should be acceptable to IDA).

39.      Strengtheningpublic finance management system has been central inthe reform program
o f the Government (see Section V-C). The reform program has been informed by findings and
conclusions o f various assessments o f the Georgian public financial management system which
have been incorporated within and indeed are integral to the design o f the PRSO.                '  There has
been significant progress in public finance management as documented in Section V.C of this
document and in the PRSO IV Program Document. Key steps have been implementation of the
Single Treasury Account, adoption o f better accounting practices, development o f an MTEF,
improvementinbudget planning, increased financial discipline of LEPLs, adoption of clear rules
on inter-governmental finances, and increased financial discipline on debt. Overall the public


5These assessments include: Georgia: Country Procurement Assessment (based on OECD-DAC/Worldbank Indicators),
forthcoming 2008; Georgia: Country Financial Accountability Assessment, September 2003. World Bank ReportNo.
28941-GE; Georgia: Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes: Fiscal Transparency Module, October
2003, IMFCountry ReportNo. 031333; Georgia: Country Procurement Assessment Report, June 2002. World Bank
Report No. 26660; Georgia: Public Expenditure Review, November 2003. World Bank Report No. 15779-GE; and
the 2007 Joint World Bank-EuropeanCommissionPEFA Assessment which is currently being finalized.

                                                      12

finance management system has been strengthened significantly and management, sources and
uses of public resources are more transparent, and, hence, accountability has also improved.

40.      Regarding the foreign exchange environment, the IMF conducted safeguards assessments
of the NBG in January 2002 and January 2004. The IMF continued to monitor and report
progress on safeguards during the PRGF program which ended in August 2007. The IMF was
encouraged by the measures taken by the NBG in the areas of financial reporting, internal audit,
and cash managementto strengthen procedures. Insum, the fiduciary environment i s satisfactory
to support this Operation.

C.       EnvironmentalAspects

41.      Policies supported by this Supplemental Credit are not expected to have a significant
environmental effect in Georgia. Reforms to the licensing regime supported by the PRSO
program focused on regulations to improve the business environment and hence did not weaken
institutions and regulations relating to environmental protection. Inthe electricity sector, reforms
were associated with improved collection rates. The Government relied on increasing tariffs and
improving metering and collections, which led to conservation in residential consumption and
did not cause a shift into consumption of dirtier fuels. Inaddition, the Government has provided
informationregarding the regulatory framework in each of the safeguard areas of concern to IDA
and no issues were identified.


                                 VIII. BENEFITSAND RISKS


A.       Benefits

42.      There are several benefits of the proposed credit. First the Supplemental Credit will
provide essential budgetary support to help the Georgian authorities sustain implementation of
the PRSO program during a time when public revenues are falling short and unanticipated post-
conflict expenditure needs have arisen. The largest impact of the budgetary pressures is on the
reforms inthe social sectors. The PRSO has supportedreforms ineducation, healthcare, and the
social safety net. The new IDPs are exerting higher unexpected demands on the education
system, the health care system, and on the social safety net. In addition, the shock to economic
growth and losses in agriculture and tourism are expected to increase the number of people
unemployed and increasethe number of families under the poverty line.

43.      The deterioration of economic conditions is increasing the demands on the targeted social
assistance program and other social benefits, with new IDPs needing education, health care, and
social protection benefits. The education system is also under pressure because many of the new
IDPs were first sheltered in schooling facilities. Families who are not internally displaced but
have lost their harvests or means of livelihoods are also in need of official assistance to re-
establish their means o f livelihoods and avoid falling into poverty. The health care system i s
facing higher demand for services. Furthermore the health care reform program was relying
heavily on a stronger role of the private sector inthe hospital sector which is likely to be affected
by the economic slowdown as the private sector faces higher financing costs and liquidity
constraints.


                                                  13

44.     The additional budgetary support to be provided by the proposed Supplemental Credit
aims at reducing the pressures on the public finance system, including the need to manage a
significant budgetary gap, reallocations across sectors and ministries, and a redefinition of the
investment program and of the Medium-term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) which is being
revised as per the updatedmacroeconomic outlook.

45.     Secondly, the Supplemental Credit and other budgetary support which Georgia is able to
obtain will be important in mitigating the impact of the crisis on the country's private sector-led
economy. During the period o f the PRSO program, and supported by it, the share of the private
sector has increasedto 75 percent, the informal economy declinedto under 30 percent, and FDI
inflyws reached $1.5 billion in 2007. However, the recent crisis has resulted in a sharp increase
in the country risk placing unexpected financial stress on relatively new and fast growing
economic activities includingconstruction, retailing, and banking. The Supplemental Credit will
assist in implementing counter-cyclical fiscal measures to mitigate this stress, including strategic
investments to support economic recovery and job creation.       Finally, the Supplemental Credit
aims at reducing the risks of deepening the economic downturn which could emerge should sharp
cuts inwages and salaries, and public services become necessary.

46.     The IMF Stand-By Arrangement of $750 million for 18 months provides balance of
payments support and help in maintaining investors' confidence. At the same time, preliminary
donor indications of budgetary and investment support have been substantial. However, these
pledges often take time to translate into delivery of resources and the need for budgetary support
i s urgent in the immediate period. Therefore, flexible and timely financing of the type which the
proposed Supplemental Credit can provide, is essential to sustain key pillars of the PRSO
program particularly social protection, health and education services, private sector development,
and improved public financial managementsystems.

B.      Risksand Risk Mitigation

47.     While there are significant downside risks, Georgia's economy is well positioned to
adjust to the shocks of the crisis. External downside risks include: (i)a rekindling of regional
tensions; (ii)a deterioration in the external environment including less than expected economic
performance of main trading partners; and (iii)further increases inenergy and commodity prices.
Domestic risks include: (i)increased internal political tensions; (ii)slower than expected
recovery of investment; and (iii) weakening of the banking sector.

48.     These risks are mitigated by several factors.      First, intense international efforts are
underway both to avoid resurgence of violence in the short-term and to reach and sustain longer-
term solutions to the causes. Second, the deep structural reforms of the last four years have
increased the resilience of the economy to adjust to shocks, as observed previously in 2005 and
2006. Third, the budgetary support proposed through the Supplemental Credit i s part of a
broader stabilization package which includes the IMF and other donors and hence its overall
impact i s expectedto be significant. Aside from budgetary support, donors are also likely to help
the Government to finance immediate rehabilitation needs and to provide long term solutions for
those displaced by the crisis, support for the financial sector, and infrastructure investments
aimed at restoring long term growth and improved reliability of energy and infrustracture
services. The Joint Needs Assessment underway and the donor conference planned in October
will help ensure that funds are coordinated and channeled to highest priority activities.

                                                 14

                 ANNEX 1: SELECTED ECONOMIC INDICATORS 2005-20096

                                             2003      2004       2005      2006        2007     2008p     2009p
 Output and Prices
 GNI per capita (US$,atlas method)            860      1,060     1,330      1,560       1,990     2,370    2,830
 UnemploymentRate                             11.5      12.6      13.8       13.6        13.3       13.9    14.5
 Poverty Rate (World Bank)"'                                                     ..      23.6
 Poverty Rate (Dept of Statistics)"'                    24.6      24.1       23.3        21.3
GDP Growth Rate                               1 1 . 1    5.9        9.6        9.4       12.4        3.5     4.0
CPI (e.0.p.)                                   7.0       7.5        6.2        8.8       11.0        8.0     8.0

 Savingand Investment                                               percent of GDP
 Gross National Saving                         9.4      12.0      14.4         9.7        8.1        2.9     3.5
Gross Domestic Investment                     27.7      28.3      28.6       27.4        28.1      23.7     22.2
  Government                                    1.8      2.4       4.2         5.7        7.0        6.7     5.3
  Private                                     25.9      25.9      24.4       21.7        21.1       17.0    16.9

 Public Financesb'                                                  percent of GDP
 Revenues and Grants                          15.6      22.0      23.3       26.7        29.2      27.7     26.0
Tax Revenues                                  14.1      18.4      19.7       22.9        25.8      24.7     23.8
 Expenditureand Net Lending                   18.3      19.7      25.1       29.7        34.0      33.9     29.8
 Current Expenditure                          16.5      17.3      20.9       24.0        27.0      27.2     24.5
Capital Expenditureand Net Lending              1.8      2.4       4.2         5.7        7.0        6.7     5.3
Overall Fiscal Balance'                       -2.8      -0.3      -2.5        -3.O       -4.7       -6.2    -3.8

 MonetarySector                                  Annual change in percent of initial stock of broad money
Net Foreign Assets                              1.2     40.7      -3.4       26.7       -13.0     -22.4      1.8
Net Domestic Assets                           21.6       1.9      29.8       12.5        62.6      36.0     15.3
  Of which; Credit to Private Sector          17.7      17.4      44.1       39.6        68.1      32.8     18.7
  Of which: Net Claims on the Govt             6.5      -2.9      -7.0      -11.5        -4.5        7.6     0.0
Broad Money                                   22.8      42.6      26.4       39.3        49.6       13.6    17.2

ExternalSector                                            percent of GDP, except where noted
Current Account Balance                       -9.4      -6.8     -10.8      -15.9       -20.0     -20.8    -18.7
 MerchandiseTrade Balance                    -16.0     -17.9     -18.9      -26.0       -28.1     -26.3    -25.2
 MerchandiseExports                           20.8      21.3      23.0       21.5        20.6       18.7    19.7
Merchandise Imports                           36.8      39.2      41.9       47.5        48.7      45.0     44.9
 Workers Remittances                           1.6       4.3       4.0         6.1        6.3        6.2     6.5
FDI Inflows                                    8.4       9.6        8.4      13.9        15.2        9.3     8.6
Intl Reserves(Mo of Impts of G&S)              0.8       1.3        1.3        1.8        2.3        2.1     2.6
External Public Debt dl                       45.6      34.5      26.6       21.9        17.5      21.0     25.9

StructuralIndicators
Doing Business Rank                                                112         37          18        15
EBRD Transition Index   e'                    2.55      2.67      2.83       2.86        2.90
Corruption PerceptionIndex "                   I.8       2.0       2.3         2.8        3.4
Number o f Taxes '                              22       22          8           7           6         6
Simple Average MFN Tariff                      7.6       7.4       6.8         5.6        1.o       0.5
Source:Ministry of Finance, Department for Statistics,National Bank of Georgia, IMF, WB staff estimates
Note: ai Poverty Rates calculatedseparately by WB Poverty Assessment team and by Dept o f Statistics; b/
GFSM1986; c/ cash basis; di Public and Publicly guaranteed debt; eisimple average of all 14 indicators; f/
Transparency International; g/ includes customs duty



62008p and 2009p figures reflect post-crisis estimates; see also text Table 1 on page 5




                                                          15

         9
         b
2$ 2$    s
         C




d
0
3
N

I-    I-
0     O
0     0
2
rs    2
      rs




                   I-
                    z
            w        O
            0       0
            0       N
            N




            In
            0
            0  If
            N

     I-
     O
     0
     N




           0
           z
W    W
0          0
0    0
     0     N
N    N


     Y           .-2

                 v)
                 ti




                 z"
                 Y




           /p
m    vi
0
0    13          m
N                0
             L

                 3
                2
                 M




d
0    d           N
0    0     8     0
N    0     0 L

                        3
                        vi
                        M
                        C.'
                        5
                        2
                        0

                    0
                    b
                    0
                    N
                    -0
                    9




W    W
0
0  0
   0
N   N




s  g
In
I-  N



      $1
v, In         v,    v,
0
0  0          0     0
N  0          0     0
    N         N     N




s
v, s?
W  2                        b
                           sv,
                            P




b
0  0 d b b
0      0 0
N   N0 0 0
       N N




s  s                s     /a
10                  2
W  2
                    3


                            0

                           Y
                           .-e,>
              L
              LE           I
                           e,
                            u
                           b'
                           0
                           ie
                    >
                    0      a
                    R



                 w  EE

                             43
                             0
<    I-
0    O           r-0
0    0
N               0
     N
l               ci
     -0
     8          U
                 L5




                0
                2




                m
        0 %     0
                0       3
                N       2




                m
             L 0




            9



                                                                                                                                                                                                                GEORGIA
                    40E                                                            42E                                                                     44E


              44N
                                                                                                                                                                                       44N               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                                                                                                                          AUTONOMOUS OBLAST (AO) CENTER
                               R U S S I A N                  F E D E R A T I O N                                                                                                                         AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC (ASSR) CENTERS

              To                                                                                                                                                                                          NATIONAL CAPITAL
              Soai                                                                                                                                             GEORGIA                                    RIVERS
                                                  C
                                                            a                                                                                                                                             MAIN ROADS

                          Gagra                                             u                                                                                                                             RAILROADS
                                                                                      c                                                                                                                   AUTONOMOUS OBLAST (AO) BOUNDARY
                                                                                                a
                                           A B K H A Z I A                                                   s                                                                                            AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC (ASSR) BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                Mestia
                                                                                                                     u                                                          To                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                     Suhumi                                                                                                                             Vladikavkaz
                                                                                                                                 s

                                                                                                                                                                                                           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information

                                                  Ochamchira
                                                      K o l k h i d a    Tkvarceli
                                                                                                                                                    M
                                                                                        Dzvari                                                                 o    Mqinvartsveri                          shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                      (5047 m)                             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                     Low                                                                                                  u            Kazbegi             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                              Inguri                                                  Oni                                          n
                                                                        land      Zugdidi                                         Ambrolauri                                                t
                                                                                                                                                               South                                  a
                                                                                                                                        Sachkhere            Ossetia
                                                                                        SenakiTskenisckali           Rioni

                                                                                                                           Tkibuli                                                                          i
                                                                                                                                             Kvirilk
                       Black           Sea                                                                       Kutaisi                                                                                               n
                                                                                                                                                    Ts'khinvali
                                                                                                                                                    Chinvali
                                                                  Poti                                                                                                                            Iori
                                                                                      Rioni           Samtredia                                                                                                                     s
              42N                                                                                                                                                                              Akhmeta                                                                   42N
                                                                                                                                                                     Gori
                                                                                                                                               Khashuri                                                         Telavi
                                                                                      Ozurgeti                                                               Mtkvari(Kura)
                                                                                                                                                                                         Mtskheta
                                                                  Kobuleti                                                                                                                                                      Alazani      Lagodehi


                                                                            AADJJAARRAA                                                                                             T'BLISI                         Gurjaani

                                                        Batumi
                                                                                                               Akhaltsikhe                                                                                         Iori                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Rustavi                                                          Zagatala
                                                                                                                                                                                   Marneuli

                                                                                                                                            Ahalkalaki                                                                                    Tsiteli-
                                                                                                                                                                                Kazreti                                                   Tskaro


                                                                                                                                                 Ninocminda                                                         Mtkvari
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Iori
                                     To
                                   Trabzon                                                                                                                                                                                       (Kura)
                                                                                  T U R K E Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Yevlax               Mingechevir
                  0     20    40   60 Kilometers                                                                                                                                                                                                               Reservoir
NOVEMBER
                                                                                  To                                                                                                                                           A Z E R B A I J A N                             IBRD
                  0   10   20   30   40   50 Miles                              Erzurum                                       To                                    A R M E N I A
                                                                                                                            Erzurum
                                                                                                                                                          To                                                                                                                       33410
                                                                                                                                                       Armavir                             Lake
        2004                                                                                                                                                                              Sevan
             40E                                                                42E                                                                         44E                                                                     46E

