Report No. PIC1470
Project Name                    China-Wanjiazhai Water Transfer Project(@#)
Region                          East Asia and Pacific
Sector                          Water Supply and Sanitation
Project ID                      CNPA36405
Implementing Agencies          Yellow River Diversion Project
Corporation
Shanxi Provincial Government
Contact:     Director Foreign Affairs Dept.
Yellow River Diversion Project Office
2nd Floor Changhe Mansion
49 Jinci Road, Taiyuan,
Shanxi, 030002, P.R. China
Tel:   (0351) 6041241 Ext.2313
Fax: (0351) 6040741
Attn. Mr. Yang Jinsheng
Environmental Category         A
Date Prepared                   September 30, 1996
Projected Appraisal            October 20, 1996
Projected Board Date            June 3, 1997
1.    Country/Sector Background.    Shanxi Province is located in the
northeast of China, with a population of about 30 million people. The
coal resources of this province are the largest in China, over 203
billion tons, and the annual production in 1995 was about 340 million
tons which forms about W of the coal production of the nation. In
addition, the province contains a high concentration of heavy industry
producing aluminum (over 50t of the nation), pig iron (13%), steel and
steel products (7%), cement (3%), sulfuric acid (4%) and chemical
fertilizer. The province also produces about 7% of the nation's
electrical energy and exports about % of the energy produced into the
North China Grid. Despite this level of industrialization, the province
falls within a group of northwestern provinces which are classed as
poor. State Statistical Bureau Surveys (1995) indicate rural incomes
are among the lowest ($1/capita/year) in China.
2.    A major factor in rural poverty and the overriding constraint on
continued industrial development is the shortage of water. In 1993
water demands, calculated on the basis of national quotas, were 9.07 bcm
and increasing at the rate of about 3% per year. However, supplies in
that year were only 5.44 bcm, of which about one bcm was from over-
extraction of groundwater. Thus water demand and supply are out of
balance by a factor of two. According to the Shanxi Water Resources
Report 1993, per capita water consumption in Shanxi was 41% of China's
average, and 29% of the world average. Shortages have adversely affected
most parts and all sectors in the province.
3.    Of the 3.1 million ha of sown area 1.2 million ha are continually
drought affected. As a result yields for grain crops are the sixth



lowest in China.   Irrigation covers about 1.1 million ha or 30% of the
cultivated area.   However only 50% of the irrigated areas have adequate
water supply. The average water application per mu of 230 cum/year is
the lowest in China and only about 50% of the requirements.     Rural
residents consume only 36 l/d, including supplies for public use and
livestock.
4.    Urban residents suffer from water shortages as well.     Compared to
other Chinese cities which average 174 1/day, the three cities to be
supplied by the Wanjiazhai Water Transfer Project (WWTP) (Taiyuan,
Datong, and Shouzhou) consume 95, 80, and 39 respectively. Household
water use averages about 70 1/c/d with many cities falling in the 26 to
40 1/c/d. The levels of consumption are well below the WHO recommended
levels of 100 1/c/d. In these cities, tap water is typically supplied
only three times per day for about one hour each. Pressure is so low
that people living above the third flow never have tap supply. It is
highly probable that such supply conditions invoke a variety of health
problems. Coal miners in the Datong region must bathe in the same water
for a week or more. Even their drinking water is often mixed with pit
drainage water. At present over 10 mcm of mine pit water is recycled
for human consumption. This has caused some health problems to miners.
5.    The province's industrial and mining activity is largely contained
in the three project cities or their vicinities. These sectors have
also been strongly affected by water shortages. Industrial supplies in
1993 were only 58% of estimated requirements. Although industrial
output has continued to grow at modest rates, the time is nearing when
it will be halted without additional water. Recycling is probably
reaching its technical limit:    91% in power generation, 76% in the
chemical industry, 72% in primary metals, 83% for all industries
combined. The comparison of recycling in industry showed that 83% was
recycled in Taiyuan compared with 70% in Beijing, 64% in Shanghai, 40%
in Shenyang, 34% in Guangzhou and 26% in Guiyang. The official target
for Shanxi is for 85.5% by 2000.     Even if achieved, the water savings
will be insignificant with respect to total shortages. Numerous
enterprises must close down several days per month for lack of water.
One large new mine near Shouzhou has failed to open for lack of assured
water supply. Efforts to conserve water can be seen in the pattern of
investments in the industrial sector over the past decade. New
investment has contributed very little to capacity expansion, but has
had a dramatic impact on water productivity.
6.    A solution to the water shortage problem is to divert water from
the Yellow River to those areas of greatest demand and highest
population density in northern Shanxi. Such diversions have been part
of official plans for more than four decades. However diversion of
water from the Yellow River requires high pumping requirements of up to
600 m, and large investments which can only be justified for water
which is used for industry and municipalities. The proposed Wanjiazhai
Water Transfer Project (WWTP) would aim to alleviate the most severe
water supply problems for northern Shanxi. Given the enormous gap
between sustainable local water supplies and projected demand, the WWTP
can fill but a small percentage of the need. But the project has been
conceived to alleviate those shortages which have both the highest
economic return in terms of industrial, mining and energy output, and
-2 -



those shortages which affect the most basic needs of large and rapidly
growing urban populations.
7.    Project Phasing.   The economic and social effect of the water
shortage situation is sufficiently severe in each of the described
project areas to warrant the immediate attention to remedies such as the
project. However, a project of the scope and cost of the full project
is not feasible given the limited financial means of the Province, and
the capacities of local contractors. Thus, the Project needs to be
phased, beginning with the General Main Tunnel (GMT) and either the
North Main Tunnel (NMT) (to Datong and Pingshuo) or the South (SMT)(to
Taiyuan and its environs). The second alternative has been selected for
two reasons. First, Taiyuan has a much larger urban population that
would benefit from the increased household water supplies, and a
slightly greater industrial capacity suffering from shortages than do
the northern areas. Second, there is a much larger irrigation area
around and downstream from Taiyuan that could make immediate use of
treated wastewater to increase farm output and agricultural incomes.
Thus Phase I of the project will first serve Taiyuan beginning about
2002, followed by the northern areas in Phase II.
8.    Project Objectives.   These include: (a) reducing the severe water
supply infrastructure bottlenecks that impede economic growth; (b)
increasing employment and thereby reducing poverty, by eliminating
constraints to development; (c) reducing the distress of the urban
population caused by insufficient and intermittent water supplies, which
are barely enough to meet their basic needs; (d) improving the
environment by ending the overextraction of groundwater and the
subsequent drying of surface streams and land subsidence, and by
treating all waste, so as to reduce water pollution downstream;(e)
creating a system to rationalize water use, by sector, and reducing
water shortages by managing demand.
9.    Project Concept and Design.   The project concept is based on the
Yellow River Basin Master Plan. The master plan recommends that the
most economical option to meet the water needs for north Shanxi would be
a 1.2 bcm/year Wanjiazhai Water Transfer Project. The Wanjiazhai
Hydropower Dam on the Yellow River is presently being constructed by the
Central Government and is expected to be completed by 1998. The Bank's
"Yellow River Investment Planning Study" (Report No. 11146-CHA) also
endorses this transfer project as part of the package of projects which
give the optimum economic investment for the basin during 1995-2020. The
detailed project designs and bid document preparation are being done
jointly by the Tianjin Investigation and Design Institute and
international consultants were appointed in the beginning of May 1996
year to review the designs and undertake specialist design services for
the pumping stations, emergency and regular operation studies, and
automatic controls design for the pumping stations and for canal
regulation.
10.   Project Scope. The project would provide the physical works needed
to transfer water from the Yellow River through a system of tunnels,
aqueduct pipelines and reservoirs. It would also support policy and
institutional reform for economic water pricing and water marketing.
The following components are envisioned:
-3-



(a)   Yellow River Diversion   (YRDPC)
(i)   Work on the GMT would be completed. This would involve
completion of civil works for tunnels all connecting structures such as
aqueducts and siphons, power transmission lines (220 kV, 110 kV, 35 kV),
and transformer stations as well as preparatory work for access roads,
adits and water supply for the SMT;
(ii) Civil works for five pumping stations (two underground
and three above ground) and for pressure tunnels no. 4 and 5 for the
GMT;
(iii)       Construction of all seven tunnels (totaling 98 km),
four aqueducts and the bifurcation structure for the SMT;
(iv) Supply and installation of equipment for all pumping
stations on the GMT and SMT. The supply would include all pumps (6.0-
6.45 m3/second units), motors (10 MW to 12 MW units), controls for the
motors, communications, valves, gates and steel works;
(v)   Construction of connecting works from the end of the SMT
to Taiyuan that will include a headworks at Fen I, a 41 km twin pipeline
(2.4 m diameter each) and a 17.1 km tunnel to the Huyang treatment plant
outside of Taiyuan;
(vi) Resettlement/compensation for all people displaced by the
aqueducts;
(vii)       Environmental management techniques to offset the
negative effects at the construction sites or from any part of the
project;
(viii)      Consultant services to supervise construction,
create a board to review disputes, establish a panel of experts for the
design and construction of underground works and training programs, and
organize an environment/resettlement panel.
(b)   Water Resources Institutional Reform (Implemented   by   Shanxi
Water Conservancy Department (SWCD))
(i)   Two-stage reform of all six water resource institutions
within the Yellow River water delivery area: YRDPC, Fen I, Fen II, Fenhe
Irrigation Bureau, Taiyuan Water Company and Taiyuan Sewerage Bureau.
In Phase I, each would become corporatized, autonomous and financially
independent companies. To ensure financial autonomy, water prices would
be liberalized to obtain the best arrangements within the various
sectors, and trading between sectors of water would be allowed to obtain
the most rational use. In Phase II, the six companies would be placed
within a holding company and reforms would be deepened in each, whereby
assets would be transferred to or purchased by the private sector. For
example, irrigation districts would sell their assets to farmers at
nominal prices.
(c)   Water Pollution Control and Industrial Waste Management
(Implemented by Taiyuan Environmental Protection Bureau (TEPB))
(i)   An environmental master plan for Taiyuan, which would
involve studies on a wastewater permit system, pollution enforcement,
and a phased pollution prevention program;
(ii) An in-plant wastewater monitoring system and effective
pollution permit system, with charges high enough to deter industries
from discharging waste above the standards;
- 4-



(iii)       Training and upgrading Environmental Protection
Bureau (EPB) staff skills to prevent pollution, establish and operate
pollution permit systems and a data base for monitoring water and
wastewater quality;
(iv) A revolving fund to introduce cleaner technology in the
seven main polluting industries (steel, coal, coke, pharmaceuticals,
paper, fertilizer and chemicals).
11.   Project Cost and Financing.   Total project cost is estimated to be
about $1268 million equivalent, including taxes, loan commitment charges
and interest during construction. The estimated foreign exchange
estimates is $486 million. Project financing would be provided as
follows: $838 million from YRDPC derived from Provincial Government
surcharges on coal, electricity and water; $30 million from Italian
Cofinancing and $400 million from the Bank. External financing provides
about 88 percent of the foreign exchange.
12.   Implementation.   The YRDPC and the  SWCD will be responsible for
the overall project implementation. The YRDPC will undertake the
planning, design, procurement activities, mobilization of funds for the
project and SWCD will undertake the establishment of the river basin
commissions. The TEPB will be responsible for the Water Pollution
Control and Industrial Waste Management Component. Shanxi Government
has a high level Leading Group to coordinate the project.
13.   The YRDPC has undertaken a considerable amount of preparatory work
consisting of 114 km of access roads, 62 km of 220 kV and 113 km of 110
kV powerlines, 140 km of telephone lines and has launched contracts for
preparatory works to 16 local contractors and one international
contractor for excavating 21 km of tunnels and tunnel adits.
14.   Project Sustainability. The project is being designed according to
internationally-established procedures. The use of tunnel-boring
machines and segment lining will ensure that the quality of construction
is maintained. n Pumping plants have percent additional capacity to
guarantee continuous operations. A supervisory control and data
acquisition system will be used to manage the whole operation and
optimize energy needs. Further, the use of these state-of-the-art
technology to design the long-distance water transfers will ensure high
reliability for the system. Also, capital and maintenance costs can
easily be covered by the water charges: Prices have already been
increased to sufficient levels, making financial sustainability
reasonably certain. Moreover, the corporatization of all water resource
institutions within the zone of influence of the transferred water will
coordinate water use in the region. Sustainability of the project is
therefore always assured. Lastly the water in the Yellow River will
always be available. The water in the Yellow River is assured 95% to
97% probability of reliability as is the case for all water supply
projects. The water has been allocated in the Yellow River and all
planning of new projects take the allocation into account.
15.   Environmental Aspects. This project is classified as a category    A
project requiring a full environmental impact assessment (EIA). The EIA
was carried out by the Shanxi University Environmental Department (SUED)
and the China Radiation Protection Institute (CRPI) with assistance
- 5 -



from international consultants. An English summary of this report will
be circulated on October 12, 1996 and copies of the complete EIA will be
placed in the files and in the Project Information Center (PIC).
16.   The report not only considered the direct impacts of the project in
the construction areas but also examined the impacts outside the project
areas of: diverting water from the Yellow River on the lower reaches of
the river basin; the diversion dam; and the secondary impacts of waste
water generation and treatment for water supplied to Taiyuan City. The
EIA included an Environmental Action Plan (EAP). The EIA was reviewed
by the Bank and found satisfactory. The project will not impact on any
ecologically sensitive areas since most of the works are underground.
The impact of diverting the water from the Yellow River on the
downstream provinces is minimal since provincial withdrawals of water is
governed by agreed water allocations which were determined in 1986. The
impact of the diversion structure is very positive except for the
reservoir resettlement which is addressed through a resettlement action
plan which is already being implemented. The impact of increasing the
generation of wastewater due to new improved water supply systems will
be offset by new and improved wastewater treatment, 96 percent of all
wastewater will be treated by 2000 and 100 percent by 2010. Water
quality predictions show dramatic improvements in water quality based on
wastewater treatment which is included as complementary works to this
project.
17.   Land Acquisition and Resettlement Aspects.   The project will
require land acquisition and resettlement. A Resettlement Action Plan
(RAP) for the project was submitted and reviewed by the Bank and found
to be acceptable.
18.   About 690 ha of farmland will be acquired affecting some 1,122
persons, resettlement of 16 households (54 persons) and relocation of 22
rural industries. All 54 people have been resettled and farmland
developed and rural industries and livelihood development programs were
completed in 1994. In addition, for the GMT all the land acquisition
(150 ha) has been completed and new land has been procured and a full
livelihood development program has been developed. The diverting dam,
which is not included in this project, requires resettlement of 5,600
people for which a comprehensive resettlement action plan (RAP) has been
developed. The first 500 people have been resettled and surveys reveal
that their new incomes exceed their past incomes by as much as 30
percent.
19.    Program Objective Categories.   The main program objectives
considered are:
(a)   Natural Resource Management:   The project will assist in
stabilizing the greatest regional water deficit in China today, which
has resulted in massive lowering of water tables and depletion of
rivers, some beyond the possibility of recovery. With the physical
deliveries of the project and the tariff and water charge increases,
which are a required part of it, this situation can be stabilized in the
long-term.
(b)   Removing Infrastructure Bottlenecks:   Regional water shortage
- 6 -



is obviously the most severe constraint on both further economic
development and quality of life improvements in Shanxi Province. The
project would significantly assist in breaking that bottleneck.
20.   Project Benefits. This project will generate enormous benefits.
First, 2.85 million urban residents will be relieved of extreme water
shortages: About 20 percent (0.6 million) of these residents are among
the poorest in China, earning less than $0.35/day. The discounted
incremental benefits (in 1996 terms) computed from consumer surpluses
due to increased willingness-to-pay (the indicator used to measure the
economic benefit of increased consumption), amount to 155 million (5.0
percent of the total benefits. Also, about 0.6 million rural residents
will benefit. Second, increased value added to industry due to water
delivered is calculated at over $2.45 billion (75 percent). Last,
agricultural benefits from recycled water amount to $657 million (20
percent). The project will also improve
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Contact Points
WASHINGTON, D.C.
E-Mail:       pic@worldbank.org
Telephone:    (1-202)458-5454
Fax:          (1-202)522-1500
Mail Address:       1818 H Street, N.W.
Room GC1-300
Washington, D.C. 20433, U.S.A
PARIS - EUROPEAN OFFICE
E-Mail:       pparis@worldbank.org
Telephone:    (33-1)40 69 30 26
Fax:          (33-1)40 69 30 69
Mail Address:       66 Avenue d'lena
75116 Paris, France
LONDON OFFICE
E-Mail:       plondon@worldbank.org
Telephone:    (44-171) 930 8511
Fax:          (44-171) 930 8515
Mail Address:       New Zealand House, 15th Floor
Haymarket
London SW1Y 4TE, United Kingdom
TOKYO OFFICE
E-Mail (1):         ptokyo@worldbank.org    (in English)
(2):      pictokyo@ppp.bekkoame.or.jp    (in Japanese)
Telephone:          (81-3) 3201 4929
Fax:                (81-3) 3214 3657
Mail Address:       Kokusai Building, Room 916
1-1, Marunouchi 3-chome
Chiyoda-Ku
Tokyo 100, Japan
- 7-



Note:        Annex is available from the Public Information Center upon
request.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending October , 1996.
- 8 -



