Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4179 CHA
YRDPC Project Agreement
(Wanjiazhai Water Transfer Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SHANXI WANJIAZHAI YELLOW RIVER DIVERSION PROJECT CORPORATION
Dated August 29, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4179 CHA
YRDPC PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 29, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SHANXI WANJIAZHAI YELLOW RIVER DIVERSION PROJECT 
CORPORATION (YRDPC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between PEOPLE’S 
REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount equal to four hundred million dollars ($400,000,000) (the 
Loan) on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on 
condition that YRDPC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set 
forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by the Shanxi Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank 
and Shanxi Province (Shanxi), Shanxi has agreed to relend to YRDPC an amount of the 
Loan (the Subsidiary Loan) on the terms and conditions set forth in the Shanxi Project 
Agreement;
(C)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between Shanxi and 
YRDPC, the Subsidiary Loan will be made available to YRDPC on the terms and conditions 
set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS YRDPC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01.  YRDPC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part 
A of Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, economic, financial, engineering and technical practices, and sound 
health, safety, and environmental standards, and provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
said Part A.
Section 2.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this 
Agreement and except as the Bank and YRDPC shall otherwise agree, YRDPC shall carry 
out Part A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Shanxi Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) YRDPC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement and Part 
A of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, YRDPC shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and YRDPC, a plan for the 
future operation of 
Part A of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
YRDPC on said 
plan.
Section 2.05. YRDPC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, YRDPC shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) YRDPC shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of Part A of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
YRDPC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of the Project, the accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by YRDPC of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of YRDPC
Section 3.01. YRDPC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and water supply 
Page  3
practices and sound health, safety and environmental standards, under the supervision 
of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate 
numbers.
Section 3.02. YRDPC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and water supply practices and sound health, safety and 
environmental standards.
Section 3.03. YRDPC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  YRDPC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
 YRDPC shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each Fiscal Year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited and (B) 
the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agreed, YRDPC shall, 
commencing January 1, 20013, refrain from incurring any debt unless a reasonable 
forecast of the revenues and expenditures of YRDPC shows that the estimated net 
revenues of YRDPC for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred 
shall be at least 1.2 times the estimated debt service requirements of YRDPC in such 
year on all debt of YRDPC including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of YRDPC maturing by its 
terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.  Debt shall 
be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a 
loan contract or agreement or other 
instrument providing for 
such debt or for the modification of its terms of 
payment on 
the date of such contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a 
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee 
has been entered into.
(ii)
The term “net revenues” means the difference between: (A) the sum 
of revenues 
from all sources related to operations and net non-operating 
income; and (B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations 
including administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes, but excluding 
provision for depreciation, other 
non-cash operating charges and interest and 
other charges on debt.
(iii)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between: 
(A) revenues 
from all sources other than those related to operations; and 
(B) expenses, 
including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
Page  4
incurred in the generation of 
revenues in (A) above.
(iv)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
(v)
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by YRDPC 
not earlier 
than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt in 
question, which both 
the Bank and YRDPC accept as reasonable and as 
to which the Bank has notified 
YRDPC of its acceptability, provided 
that no event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or 
may reasonably be expected in the future to have, a 
material adverse 
effect on the financial condition or future operating results 
of 
YRDPC.
(vi)
Whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 
to value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, YRDPC shall earn, 
for each Fiscal Year after the Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 02010, an annual 
return of not less than 2% of the average current net value of YRDPC’s fixed assets in 
operation.
(b)
Before June 30 in each of its fiscal yFiscal Years, YRDPC shall, on the 
basis of forecasts prepared by YRDPC and acceptable to the Bank, review whether it 
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section in respect of 
such year and the next following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the Bank the results 
of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that YRDPC would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for YRDPC’s fiscal years covered by such review, YRDPC shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of 
the structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The annual return shall be calculated by dividing YRDPC’s net 
operating income 
for the fiscal yFiscal Year in question by one half 
of the sum of the current 
net value of YRDPC’s fixed assets in operation 
at the beginning and at the end 
of that fiscal yFiscal Year.
(ii)
The term “net operating income” means total operating revenues 
less total 
operating expenses. The term “total operating 
revenues” means revenues from 
all sources related to operations.  The 
term “total operating expenses” means 
all expenses related to 
operations, including administration, adequate 
maintenance, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for 
depreciation on a straight line basis at a rate of not less than 3% per annum 
of the average current gross value of YRDPC’s fixed assets in operation, or 
other basis acceptable to the Bank, but excluding interest and other 
charges 
on debt.  The average current gross value of YRDPC’s fixed 
assets in 
operations shall be calculated as one half of the sum 
of the gross value of 
YRDPC’s fixed assets in operation at the 
beginning and at the end of the 
Fiscal Year, as valued from time 
to time in accordance with sound and 
consistently maintained 
methods of valuation satisfactory to the Bank.
(iii)
The term “current net value of YRDPC’s fixed assets in operation” 
means the 
gross value of YRDPC’s fixed assets in operation less the 
amount of 
accumulated depreciation, as valued from time 
to time in accordance with sound 
and consistently maintained methods of 
valuation satisfactory to the Bank.
Page  5
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of YRDPC 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify YRDPC thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
For YRDPC:
Shanxi Wanjiazhai Yellow River
Diversion Project Corporation
49 1st Section
Jinci Road
Taiyuan
Shanxi Province
People’s Republic of China
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of  YRDPC may be 
taken or executed by its General Manager or such other person or persons as said 
General Manager shall designate in writing, and YRDPC shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
Page  6
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SHANXI WANJIAZHAI YELLOW RIVER
DIVERSION PROJECT CORPORATION
By /s/ Zhou Wenzhong
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
A.
Project Management
In order to ensure the proper implementation of Part A of the Project, YRDPC 
shall maintain at all times throughout the period of Project implementation, the 
following offices, with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and with qualified 
management and personnel in adequate numbers:
1.
a Project management office to be responsible for the overall coordination and 
supervision of Part A of the Project, including procurement of goods and services and 
monitoring and evaluation of the progress of said Part A; and
2.
an environmental management office to be responsible for coordination and 
supervision of the Environmental Management Plan.
B.
Annual Implementation Program
YRDPC shall prepare, under guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than December 15 of each year, an annualFiscal Year, a program for the 
implementation of Part A of the Project during the following Fiscal Year, together 
with a financing plan therefor, afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with YRDPC on each said program, and thereafter implement said program with due 
diligence and efficiency, taking into account the views of the Bank on the matter.
C.
Construction Oversight
In order to facilitate the proper implementation of Part A of the Project, YRDPC 
shall take the following actions.
1.
Technical Experts Panel
YRDPC shall employ, not later than [September 1, 1997]September 30, 1997 and 
thereafter at all times maintain throughout the period of Project implementation, a 
panel of independent experts whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference 
shall be acceptable to the Bank\02, to be responsible for undertaking periodic reviews 
of the designs and technical specifications for goods and works under Part A of the 
Project and inspections of the construction undertaken under said Part A, and for 
advising on technical issues that may arise during implementation of said Part A.  
YRDPC shall prepare, under guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, 
Page  7
not later than April 15 and October 15 in each Fiscal Year semi-annual reports setting 
forth the findings and recommendations of said panel during the preceding calendar 
semester, together with any revisions to the designs, technical specifications or 
construction indicated by said findings.  YRDPC shall afford the Bank a reasonable 
opportunity to exchange views with YRDPC on each such report, and shall thereafter 
implement the recommendations and introduce the revisions set forth in said report, 
taking into account the views of the Bank on the matter.
2.
Project Engineer
YRDPC shall continue to employ at all times throughout the period of Project 
implementation, an engineer with qualifications, experience and terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank to be responsible for supervision of construction under Part A 
of the Project.
D.
Environmental Management Plan; Resettlement
1.
YRDPC shall carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with an environmental 
management plan acceptable to the Bank.
2.
YRDPC shall take all measures necessary to ensure that all persons displaced as 
a result of the Project shall be resettled in accordance with the Project Resettlement 
Action Plan so as to improve the living standards and productivity of all such 
persons.
3.
To give effect to Sections 1 and 2 of this Part D, YRDPC shall employ, not later 
than September 15, 1997:
(a)
an independent institution acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible for 
monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the Project Resettlement Action Plan; 
and
(b)
an independent panel of experts, whose qualifications, experience and 
terms of reference shall be acceptable to the Bank to be responsible for monitoring 
and evaluating (i) the implementation of the Environmental Management Plan, and (ii) 
the overall impact of implementation of the Project on the environment and on the 
socioeconomic development of persons displaced by the Project.
E.
Institutional Strengthening
YRDPC shall prepare, under guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than June 30, 1999, a program to strengthen the organization and 
management of YRDPC so as to improve its capabilities in respect of operation and 
management of the facilities constructed under Part A of the Project, said program to 
include training programs for staff of YRDPC.  YRDPC shall afford the Bank a 
reasonable opportunity to exchange views with YRDPC on said program, and thereafter 
shall implement said program with due diligence and efficiency, taking into account 
the comments of the Bank on the matter.
F.
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
YRDPC shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Bank, the implementation of Part A of the Project (including the Project Resettlement 
Action Plan and the Environmental Management Plan) and the achievement of its 
objectives.
2.
YRDPC shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank:  (a) annual reports, not later than April 30 of each Fiscal Year 
during the period of Project implementation and for three years following completion 
of Part A of the Project, integrating the results of said monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed during the preceding Fiscal Year and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the continued efficient implementation of said Part A and the 
achievement of its objectives during the then current Fiscal Year; and (b) semiannual 
reports, not later than April 15 and October 15 of each Fiscal Year during the period 
of Project implementation, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed by the institution and the panel referred to respectively in Part 
Page  8
D.3(a) and (b) of this Schedule, and setting out any proposed revisions to the Project 
Resettlement Action Plan or the Environmental Management Plan indicated by said 
monitoring and evaluation activities.
3.
YRDPC shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
YRDPC on each said report, and shall thereafter, promptly implement the 
recommendations and introduce the revisions proposed in said report, taking into 
account the views of the Bank on the matter. 
