                                                 Document of
                                               The World Bank


                                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                              Report No: ICR0000686




                   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                                 (IBRD-41790)


                                                      ON

                                                   A LOAN

                                 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$325 MILLION

                                                      TO

                                   THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA


                                                     FOR

                           THE WANJIAZHAI WATER TRANSFER PROJECT




                                              December 21, 2007


Rural Development, Natural Resources & Environment Sector Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region


   This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
   their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.




                                                     1

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective December 20, 2007)
                           Currency Unit = RMB Yuan
                         RMB Yuan 1.00 = US$0.135
                                US$1.00 = 7.39 RMB Yuan
                                   Fiscal Year
                            January 1 ­ December 31



                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CS      Consumer Surplus
EPB     Environmental Protection Bureau
GMT     General Main Tunnel
GW      Ground Water
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results Report
IP      Implementation progress
ISR     Implementation Status Report
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MVW     Marginal Value of Water
MWR     Ministry of Water Resources
NCP     North China Plain
NPWT    National Programme for Water Transfer
PDO     Project Development Objective
QAG     Quality Assurances Group
SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
SMT     South Main Tunnel
TVEs    Township and Village Enterprises
UFRBC   Upper Fen River Basin Corporation
WWP     Wanjiazhai Water Program
WWTP    Wanjiazhai Water Transfer Project
WTP     Willingness-to-Pay
YRCC    Yellow River Conservancy Commission
YRDPC   Yellow River Diversion Project Corporation



       Vice President               James W. Adams, EAPVP

       Country Director             David R. Dollar, EACCF
       Sector Director              Christian Delvoie, EASSD
       Task Team Leader             Daniel Gunaratnam, EASRD (1995-2002)
                                    Liping Jiang, EASCS (2002-2007)




                                      2

                                                     China

                             Wanjiazhai Water Transfer Project


                       Implementation Completion and Results Report



Datasheet


1.  Project Context, Development Objectives and Design..............................................................4

2.  Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes.............................................................6

3.  Assessment of Outcomes..............................................................................................................9

4.  Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.........................................................................14

5.  Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance....................................................................14

6.  Lessons Learned (both project-specific and of wide general application) ............................16

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ..............................................................................................17

Annex 2. Outputs by Component ......................................................................................................18

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis.....................................................................................20

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............................24

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)..................................................................................25

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any).......................................................25

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR....................................26

Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders.....................................28

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents..........................................................................................28



Maps: IBRD 28136




                                                   3

A. Basic Information

Country:                China                  Project Name:          CN-Wanjiazhai Water
Project ID:             P036405                L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-41790
ICR Date:               04/16/2008             ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                    Borrower:              PRC
Original Total
                        USD 400.0M             Disbursed Amount:      USD 324.6M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
Yellow River Diversion Project Co
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/09/1994     Effectiveness:         11/21/1997         11/21/1997
Appraisal:             10/18/1996     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/03/1997     Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:               06/30/2003         06/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Substantial
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory         Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank            Moderately             Overall Borrower
Performance:            Unsatisfactory         Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators              (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry
                                                                     Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):




                                               i

Problem Project at any                       Quality of           Moderately
                          Yes
time (Yes/No):                               Supervision (QSA):   Unsatisfactory
DO rating before
                          Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                           Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                             6                   4
Sanitation                                                   14                  12
Sewerage                                                     20
Water supply                                                 60                  84


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Land administration and management                         Primary             Primary
Other urban development                                   Secondary          Secondary
Pollution management and environmental health              Primary             Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                         Secondary          Secondary
Water resource management                                  Primary             Primary


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                      At ICR                      At Approval
Vice President:           James W. Adams                 Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:         David R. Dollar                Nicholas C. Hope
Sector Manager:           Magdolna Lovei                 Joseph R. Goldberg
Project Team Leader:      Liping Jiang                   Daniel J. Gunaratnam
ICR Team Leader:          Liping Jiang
ICR Primary Author:       Xueming Liu
                          Ajay Markanday
                          Tao Gu



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objectives (PDOs) defined at appraisal were:
  (a) Reducing the severe infrastructural bottlenecks in water supply that impede
economic growth;
  (b) Increasing employment and incomes by eliminating the paramount constraint to
development;


                                            ii

  (c) Reducing the distress of the urban population caused by insufficient and intermittent
water supplies, which are barely enough to meet their basic needs;
  (d) Improving the environment by ending the over-extraction of groundwater and the
subsequent drying of surface streams and land subsidence, and by treating all waste, so as
to reduce water pollution downstream;
  (e) Creating a system to rationalize water use, by sector, and reducing water shortages
by managing demand; and
  (f) Promoting integrated management and financial independence for water institutions.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
No changes were made to the PDOs.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
                                                 approval         Target       Completion or
                                               documents)         Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Annual Water from the Yellow River shall be supplied to Taiyuan City
Value
quantitative or zero                        320 million cubic                75 million m³
Qualitative)                                meters

Date achieved 01/31/1998                    12/31/2005                       12/31/2006
Comments        The water demand projection was over-estimated in the Staff Appraisal Report
(incl. %        (SAR), based on which works have been constructed. [See Section 3.2.2 ( 23.4
achievement)    percent of original target.)]
Indicator 2 :   Reducing overdraft of groundwater in Taiyuan
Value
quantitative or 644,000 m3 /day             459,000 m3 /day                  563,500 m3 /day
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/31/1998                    12/31/2005                       06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Accounting for 77 percent of the SAR target
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   Corporatization of major water institutions and formation of the Fen River Basin
                Commission to maximize the benefits of the project
                                                                             Corporatization of
                                                                              major water
                                                                              institutions was not

                No changes in               Corporatization of                achieved by the

Value           Institutional arrangement   major water                       Closing Date. The

quantitative or were made for unified       institutions and                  unified Fen River

Qualitative)    water resources             formation of the                  Basin Commission

                management                  unified Fen River                 was established
                                            Basin Commission                 right
                                                                              before the Closing
                                                                              Date.




                                                 iii

Date achieved 01/31/1998                  12/31/2005                         06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        See ICR Main Text Section 3.2.2
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Reducing distress to householders by lack of water supply
Value
quantitative or 45                        88                                 140
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/31/1996                  12/31/2005                         12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The project achieved 159 percent of the SAR target
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                               approval         Revised        Completion or
                                             documents)       Target Values     Target Years
                Yellow river water, local water and groundwater shall be utilized in an economic
Indicator 1 :   and optimal way, and groundwater table shall rise gradually due to closure of
                groundwater wells.
Value                                     Groundwater table                  Groundwater table
(quantitative   Serious overdraft of      in Taiyuan starts to                continues to rise in
or Qualitative) groundwater               rise                                some local areas
Date achieved 01/31/1998                  12/31/2005                         06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        See ICR Main Text Section 3.2.2
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                          IP               Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     12/22/1997       Highly Satisfactory           Satisfactory                       9.00
  2     12/13/1998           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      63.29
  3     06/23/1999           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      86.80
  4     06/28/1999           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      86.80
  5     12/30/1999           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     106.57
  6     12/30/1999           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     106.57
  7     12/30/1999           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     106.57
  8     06/28/2000           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     140.75
  9     12/29/2000           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     188.97
  10    06/26/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     232.45
  11    12/18/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     264.49
  12    06/28/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     272.19



                                               iv

  13  07/01/2002        Satisfactory         Satisfactory      272.19
  14  12/20/2002        Satisfactory         Satisfactory      274.53
  15  06/10/2003        Satisfactory         Satisfactory      275.55
  16  12/16/2003        Satisfactory         Satisfactory      302.42
  17  06/22/2004        Satisfactory         Satisfactory      311.93
  18  12/10/2004        Satisfactory         Satisfactory      313.09
  19  05/30/2005   Moderately Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    314.43
  20  12/30/2005       Unsatisfactory        Satisfactory      318.44
  21  05/31/2006        Satisfactory         Satisfactory      320.59
  22  01/26/2007       Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory    320.59
  23  06/25/2007       Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory    320.59



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                          v

1.       Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1    Context at Appraisal

1.1.1     Country and Sector Background: China's impressive economic performance since 1978
with a growth rate of GDP of 9.5 percent per year has been mainly in the industrial and commercial
sectors and is concentrated in urban areas; as a result, urban water demand has increased by over 500
percent. Available water supplies, however, have met only 20 percent of the increase. By 1995, 400
of China's 514 largest cities suffered water shortages, with 100 of them, located in the North China
Plain (NCP) being characterized as "desperately short" of water. The economic loss caused by these
water shortages is estimated at US$12 billion per year. Water shortages also affected domestic users,
with household consumption in NCP cities averaging between 20 and 50 litres per capita per day
(l/c/d) compared to a minimum requirement of 20 l/c/d. The shortages have also had adverse
environment impacts as local surface water was completely exhausted and groundwater seriously
over-drawn, leading to land subsidence in some cities and salt water intrusion in coastal areas. In
Shanxi Province, the most important economic impacts of the water shortage were observed in the
industrial cities of Taiyuan, Datong and Pingshuo where surface water supplies were virtually non-
existent and ground-water has been over-extracted to a degree leading to land subsidence (of over
three meters in many places. As a result, all sectors and population groups have suffered. The SAR
contended that by the year 2000, water demand in these three areas would outstrip supplies by a factor
of 70 percent, with the gap growing much wider afterwards.

1.1.2    Rationale for Bank Assistance: Consistent with the 1997 Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS), the proposed project supported development efforts focused on: (a) China's poorer interior
provinces; (b) alleviating infrastructural constraints to continued economic development; and (c)
enterprise reform by commercializing operations and, inter alia, introducing rational pricing and
fostering environmental protection for river basins. In this regard, the project was expected to ease
infrastructural constraints in the water supply sector that are now impeding Shanxi's economic and
industrial growth, with consequent effects on employment and poverty alleviation. It was also
expected to relieve periodic municipal water shortages and to improve the environment by reducing
dependency on groundwater resources and introducing modern water treatment facilities. By
supporting the creation of water resource corporations at various levels and commercializing those
operations by enabling them to trade water and set prices at commercial rates, the project was
expected to support enterprise reform. In technology transfer, project tunnels (some of the longest in
the world) would be constructed by double-shielded boring machines and the use of a master
computer-controlled supervisory system would optimize pumping rates to save energy costs.
Although the Bank has assisted in many water resource and irrigation projects in the Yellow River
Basin, the most important lessons for this project were drawn from the Xiaolangdi Multipurpose
Project, Shuikou and Ertan Hydroelectric Projects.

1.2       Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

1.2.1     The project was seen as important for reducing infrastructure bottlenecks (caused by
extreme water shortages), increasing employment and thereby reducing poverty, decreasing human
distress caused by intermittent and limited water supplies, and improving river water quality. The
stated project objectives were:

     a) Reducing the severe infrastructural bottlenecks in water supply that impede economic growth;
     b) Increasing employment and incomes by eliminating the paramount constraint to development;
     c) Reducing the distress of the urban population caused by insufficient and intermittent water
         supplies that are barely enough to meet their basic needs;
     d) Improving the environment by ending the over-extraction of groundwater and the subsequent
         drying up of surface streams and land subsidence, and by treating all waste to reduce water
         pollution downstream;



                                                   4

    e) Creating a system to rationalize water use, by sector, and reducing water shortages by
         managing demand; and
    f) Promoting integrated management and financial independence for water institutions.

1.2.2    The objectives were consistent with the brief description of the project objective in the Loan
Agreement (Schedule 2), which states "The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
expanding the water supply in Taiyuan in a manner designed to ensure sustained economic growth in
an environmentally sound manner and reduce poverty by increasing employment".

1.2.3    Key indicators monitored during implementation were:

Indicator 1: Annual water supply to Taiyuan City
Indicator 2: Reducing the overdraft of groundwater in Taiyuan
Indicator 3: Reducing household water use distress
Indicator 4: Corporatization of major water institutions and formation of the Fen River Basin
Commission.

1.3      Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and Reasons/Justification

No revisions were made in PDOs or the key indicators.

1.4      Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1    The SAR identified the direct primary beneficiaries of the project as: (a) urban households,
through increased water supply for domestic use; (b) workers in factories and mines, through
economic growth and employment; and (c) farmers as indirect beneficiaries through the increased
treated water supply for irrigation.

1.5      Original Components

1.5.1     The project as described in the SAR had three components.

Component 1: Yellow River Diversion Project Corporation (YRDPC) included: (a) the physical
river diversion works (construction of tunnels and water delivery structures and equipment);
(b) resettlement and compensation for households displaced by the construction of aqueducts; (c)
environmental management; and (iv)consultant services.

Component 2: Water Resources Institutional Reform included the reform of all water resources
institutions in the Yellow River delivery area through integrating principal institutions (such as the
YRDPC, Fen-1 and Fen-2, Fenhe Irrigation Bureau and Taiyuan groundwater institutions) into an
Upper Fen River Basin Commission (UFRBC) that would have the responsibility of licensing all
ground and surface water extraction in the Upper Fen Basin, and corporatization of the major water
institutions.

Component 3: Water Pollution Control and Industrial Waste Water Management included:
(a) developing an environment master plan for Taiyuan; (b) training and upgrading the Environmental
Protection Bureau (EPB); and (c) administering a fund for cleaner technologies in major polluting
industries like steel and coke production.

1.5.2     The main causal links envisaged from various activities under project components were to
provide the physical structures needed to transfer water from the Yellow River and support policy and
institutional reform to improve economic water pricing and water marketing. The causal links
between component outputs and PDO outcome are assessed in Section 2.3.




                                                 5

1.6     Revised Components

No changes were made in components during the implementation of the project.

1.7     Other Significant Changes

1.7.1     There were no significant changes in project design, scope, implementation arrangements or
schedule except that a part of the savings made in the use of the Bank loan of US$13.8 million was
used to continue reducing the environment pollution in accordance with the same mechanisms and
procedures set out during project appraisal for the B5 sub-loan sub-component of the project and a
cancellation of US$75 million from the Bank loan as the result of procurement issues. The
cancellation was based on the request from MOF due to the disagreement between Shanxi Province
and the World Bank on the issue of awarding the Lot IV contract for the connecting works.
Afterwards, the province completed the connecting works successfully according to the original
design with its internal funds.


2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

2.1.1   The Quality at Entry of the project is rated as having been "unsatisfactory" for a number of
reasons.

2.1.2   Project design was based on the following background analysis: (a) a strong positive growth
in overall water demand from water-intensive industries in and around Taiyuan City; (b) a dwindling
supply from groundwater; (c) grave environmental (and associated economic) costs related to over-
drafting groundwater, which in the "worst-case scenario" could have led to major soil subsidence in
Taiyuan and the possible need to relocate the city and the industrial base; and (d) the need to ensure
economic efficiency in overall water delivery, markets and pricing. Although the overall rationale
was justified, there were significant weaknesses in the analysis of (a) and (d).

2.1.3   Industrial Water Demand: The underlying SAR assumption of growth in total water
demand was grossly over-estimated. This was the result of:

(a) the high demand projections for water-intensive industries, which did not factor in the (very large)
savings that have resulted from the adoption of more efficient water-saving technologies1; over the
last decade there has been an inverse relationship between the growth in industrial output (GDP) and
overall water demand2 largely resulting from efficiency gains in water use and partly from the move
toward a less water demanding service-based economy; and

(b) savings in water use due to more stringent environmental regulations and enforcement, which have
resulted in the closure of a large number of small and inefficient water-using industries and/or their
consolidation into larger and much more water efficient enterprises. The SAR projections for total
industrial water demand compared to ICR estimates are shown in Table 1, which show large
differences (actual industrial use in 2005 was less than the half the SAR projection for 2000).

              Table 1: Estimated Total Industrial Water Demand Taiyuan (in million m³)

                              2000                    2005*                2010                  2020
 SAR                          382.2                    NA                  565.9                 728.1
 ICR                            -                      177.8               278.8                 467.7



1  This was done despite the implicit awareness in the SAR of rapid improvements in the efficiency of water
   use (SAR, page 7, paragraph 2.8).
2  The SAR claimed the original projections for growth in water demand by government agency were
   "conservative".


                                                    6

 Difference                        -                      -                   287.1                  260.5

Source: SAR Table 7.1, Annex 7 and ICR mission/YRDPC estimates
* Actual use based on Water Resources Department figures.

2.1.4    Efficiency and Pricing: Given the urgent need to avert a potentially disastrous situation, the
fundamental objective of the project should have been to supply diverted water to Taiyuan City as
rapidly as possible to substitute ground water use. Accordingly, diverted water from the Yellow River
should initially have been priced lower than the prevailing price of groundwater as an entry point to
facilitate this critical substitution, and the diversion system should have been operated as a
government regulated water utility. Once this had occurred and the use of groundwater curtailed to
safe and sustainable levels, prices could have been increased gradually to cover O&M costs3. Instead,
the commercialization and full-cost pricing of the project design had exactly the opposite effect where
significantly cheaper4 ground-water continues to be over-exploited, effectively crowding out the
demand for diverted water (Annex 3).

2.1.5    Lessons learned in physical aspects were highly valuable in enabling rapid progress to be
made in procurement, consulting, and construction on schedule to high quality standards. In marked
contrast, however, there were both design and subsequent supervision weaknesses on the Bank's part
                                                                                           5

in ensuring that progress in "hard" infrastructure aspects remained well-synchronized with critical and
equally important institutional and pricing reforms. At appraisal, more attention should have been
given to lessons learned in other Bank projects in the water sector, particularly those involving
institutional reforms, which would have highlighted the importance of longer-term engagement and
commitment.

2.1.6    The rationale for Bank intervention should have been based on a more programmatic and
long-term approach with a matching loan instrument that would have better served the client and the
Bank than the short-term, "projectized" approach that was adopted, given the extremely long-term
vision of the government for the overall Wanjiazhai Water Transfer Programme and its "gradualist"
approach to water sector reforms (Section 3.2.2).

2.1.7    Three factors compromised project design: inadequate gauging of the political commitment of
water administrative department of the government to institutional reform, the complexity of
involving and restructuring multiple water agencies, and highly unrealistic assumptions on the time-
frame required for completing key reforms by the end of the Bank project. This weakness resulted in
virtually no progress being made in institutional reforms up to the original project completion date in
2003. Although overall project design was not unduly complex, the interfaces between components
and their outputs (which was crucial for successful implementation) was very weak (Sections 1.5 &
2.3).

2.1.8    In the SAR, physical, financial, implementation, institutional, environmental and economic
risks were considered. However, with the benefit of hindsight the mitigation measures advocated,
particularly with respect to institutional reform, were over-ambitious and turned out to be unworkable.

2.1.9    The QAG rating for Quality at Entry was "satisfactory" (see Section 5.1).


3  The emphasis in the SAR on full-cost pricing was unworkable not least because of the very significant
   investment costs of diverting water from more than 300 km away and factoring the depreciation of this
   enormous and inordinate cost into water prices. The continued practice of pricing on the basis of full cost
   recovery by the YRDPC, moreover, has led to a bizarre situation where the provincial government (having
   paid for the investment) also provides YRDPC a subsidy for depreciation.
4  The current water resources fee (tax) on ground-water averages is less than 1 Yuan/m3 depending on user,
   whilst the average price of diverted water is 2.5 Yuan/m3.
5  This was notably true of bank supervisions in the early project years, which focused heavily on physical
   achievements, though later supervisions (post-2002) attempted to redress the failure in institutional reforms
   through four loan extensions and agreeing on time-bound plans of action.


                                                     7

2.2      Implementation

2.2.1    In infrastructure aspects, project implementation was highly successful and was completed to
a high standard of quality and on schedule. However, implementation progress in institutional and
pricing aspects was slow and problematic. An opportunity was missed early in implementation to
synchronize institutional aspects with construction, whilst the failure to thoughtfully evaluate and
revise water pricing principles (away from full cost to competitive prices) led to the serious problems
outlined in Section 2.1. The repercussions of these shortcomings significantly compromised outcome.

2.2.2    Implementation efficiency was compromised by serious issues identified in Quality at Entry,
in particular the failure to ensure that different "hard" and "soft" aspects of the project were
coordinated and to implement changes in water tariff pricing when the expected uptake in demand for
transferred water failed to materialize. In addition, in the first three years of project implementation,
supervision missions did not sufficiently address institutional reforms whilst commitment on the
Borrower's side to follow mitigation measures (such as action plans etc) was weak. However, in the
years after the physical works were completed, the Bank team with a new TTL has made great efforts
to refocus on the reform agenda and tried to turn the situation around. The Bank has been flexible by
extending the project four times in order to stay engaged in the dialogue with MOF, Ministry of Water
Resources and the provincial government for policy impact. Despite the great difficulties due to
inadequate political commitment to reform and little leverage the Bank had at the time, the Bank team
continued to field supervision missions and to have dialogue with the various stakeholders for five
years to persistently push forward the institutional and pricing reform. Due to the joint efforts from
MOF, provincial government and the Bank , finally it was encouraging to see that provincial
government took some positive measures on institutional and pricing reform shortly before and after
the project closure, the river basin authority was established and the regulation for integrated water
and environment protection in the basin was cleared by the provincial government right before the
project closure and approved by the Provincial People's Congress shortly after the project closure,
which was a good start to go towards the ultimate goal of the integrated water and environment
management in the basin.

2.2.3    The QAG rating for supervision was "moderately unsatisfactory" (see Section 5.1).

2.3      Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1    M&E design and implementation were weak: Apart from the indicators for PDO (c) and
(d), the M&E design and structure cannot be effectively used in assessing project impact and outcome
(Section 3.2.2). Importantly, no physical targets/year for the volume of water transferred from the
Yellow River was outlined in the SAR, with the only indications coming from assumptions in the
economic analysis that which grossly over-estimated demand. These demand assumptions, moreover,
formed the basis for monitoring in the ISRs. For individual PDOs, the M&E design was inadequate in
the following aspects:

      a) PDO 1: the indicator should have captured incremental water supply directly attributed to the
         project. The efficiency measure (of value-added per m3 of water delivered) was clearly
         outside the projects control;

      b) The same rationale applies to PDO 2, where any impact on employment and incomes cannot
         realistically be attributed to the project alone, especially given the very rapid economic
         growth in China and the upward movement in high tech (service) industries which are not
         water-use intensive;

      c) Indicators for PDOs 3 and 4 were acceptable and relevant;

      d) PDO 5 is vague and ambiguous, which precludes any meaningful assessment; and




                                                    8

     e) Although it is recognized that indicators for PDO 6 were difficult to define, some milestones
         in the complicated process of institutional reform should have been included that could have
         formed the basis of discussion on progress during supervision.

2.3.2    M&E utilization was inadequate because of:

     a) The inadequacy of M&E design of indicators for PDO 1 and 2;

     b) Indicators for PDO 3, 4 and 5 were not effectively used in decision-making as it was known
         early in project implementation that delivery targets were unlikely to be met; and

     c) There were no useful milestones outlined for PDO 6. Had they been included they could have
         been extremely useful as benchmarks for progress on institutional issues.

2.4      Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1    The project triggered OP4.01 Environment Assessment and OP4.12 Involuntary
Resettlement, which were duly complied with in line with Bank procedural requirements. The
fiduciary aspects of project implementation were in accordance with the Bank's Financial
Management (OP10.02), Procurement (OP11.00) and Disbursement (OP12.00) policies.

2.5      Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

2.5.1    The project was part of a large and continuing national water sector development program in
Shanxi Province (Section 3.2.2) for which full development will require at least another ten years.
The Bank was a relatively small co-financier (30 percent of Phase 2 costs) of the program, financed
by the provincial budget. There is therefore no issue of "transition to regular operation" per se. Even
under Phase 2, for example, a number of works are still in progress (e.g., the construction of the
regulation reservoir for the south line).

2.5.2    Furthermore after closure of the Bank-assisted project, the Provincial Government
implemented a number of critical measures (under the August 3, 2007 Provincial Governor's Decree
No. 108). These included time-bound targets (over the next two years) for closure of remaining
ground-water wells and increasing water resources fees for ground-water from October 2007. In
addition, legislation to establish the Upper Fen River Basin Commission and the law on Upper Fen
River Water Conservation and Environmental Protection were reviewed by the Provincial Peoples'
Congress on September 24, 2007.

3.       Assessment of Outcomes

3.1      Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

3.1.1    The fundamental objectives of the wider WWTP program of: (a) reducing environmental and
associated economic risks of over-extraction of ground-water through its substitution with transferred
water; and (b) alleviating structural bottlenecks in water supply in provincial economic growth remain
consistent with the emphasis of sustainable economic growth with sound environment and natural
resource management in the current CAS, in particular under the third thematic pillar of facilitating
environmentally-sustainable development6. The objectives also remain highly relevant to government
priorities related to developing the water sector, general economic growth and sustainable
development.




6  These are reflected in the third thematic pillar in the CAS that aims to facilitate environmentally-sustainable
   development through: (a) strengthening the effectiveness of environmental institutions; (b) improving air
   quality; (c) managing water resources; (d) managing land and natural resources; and (e) protecting global
   environmental commons.


                                                        9

3.1.2   As emphasised in various sections of the ICR, it is important to view Bank assistance in the
context of the government's continuing longer-term national water sector development program. To
address the over-designed capacity of the south line, the government has initiated a number of
remedial measures to expand water transfer coverage to enhance development impact (Section 2.5.2).

3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives

3.2.1   Whilst it is recognized that at appraisal the requirements for the design of the PDO and M&E
indicators were significantly different from current (results-based) requirements, there were severe
weaknesses in the specification of the PDOs and associated performance indicators that make an ex
post evaluation (based on these) incomplete (Section 2.3).

PDO 1: "Reducing the severe infrastructural bottlenecks in water supply that impede economic
growth" for which the indicators are outlined in Table 1, Annex 12 of SAR. The design of indicators
for PDO 1 was flawed. The indicators erroneously assumed a strong (almost linear) positive
correlation between water use and growth in the value of industrial output by sector. This causal
relationship has been proven to be wrong as it failed to take into account the dynamic changes in the
adoption of new technologies, large increases in industry's efficiency of water use (in terms of value
of GDP per m3) and stringent enforcement of environmental laws resulting in the closure of a large
number of small water-intensive township and village enterprises (TVEs). In fact, official statistics
show that whilst industrial output increased by 77 percent between 1993 and 2002, the total annual
water consumption declined by 40 percent (Table 2).

                   Table 2. Industrial Value Growth and Water Consumption by Sector


   Industry             Item                 Unit           1993        2002      Annual Rate of Change
                                                                                           (%)
                        GDP               RMB million      4,524.34   11,964.06             9.2
                 Water consumption         million m3       53.82       45.23              -1.6
                        Water               m3/RMB
  Iron/steel      consumption/GDP            million         1.19       0.38               -9.9
                        GDP               RMB million       506.28    1,252.98              8.6
                 Water consumption         million m3       44.52       53.63               1.7
                        Water               m3/RMB
  Electricity     consumption/GDP            million         8.79       4.28               -6.3
                        GDP               RMB million      1,887.84    946.73              -6.1
                 Water consumption         million m³       24.24       7.37               -10.3
                        Water               m3/ RMB
     Coal         consumption/GDP            million         1.28       0.78               -4.4
                        GDP               RMB million      2,329.08   11,930.29             16
                 Water consumption         million m3       43.88       36.72              -1.6
                        Water               m3/RMB
  Chemical        consumption/GDP            million         1.88       0.31               -15.2
                        GDP               RMB million      7,183.77   11,930.29             5.8
                 Water consumption         million m3       65.48       36.72              -6.2
                        Water               m3/RMB
    Other         consumption/GDP            million         0.91       0.31               -11.4
                        GDP               RMB million     17,223.08   30,575.66             6.6
                 Water consumption         million m3       273.53     164.18              -5.5
                        Water               m3/RMB
     Total        consumption/GDP            million         1.59       0.54               -11.4
 Source: Shanxi Provincial Statistics Bureau.

PDO 2: "Increasing employment and incomes by eliminating the paramount constraint to
development" (SAR, Table 1, Annex 12). PDO 2 is poorly defined and excessively broad. Although
the project may well have contributed to an increase in employment and incomes, the overall growth


                                                  10

in these cannot realistically be attributed to the project alone, especially given very rapid economic
growth in China and the upward movement in high technology (service) industries which are not
labour and water intensive.

PDO 3: "Reducing the distress of the urban population caused by insufficient and intermittent water
supplies, which are barely enough to meet their basic needs" (SAR, Table 1, Annex 12). PDO 3 was
better defined and measurable. Actual water consumption per household per day (140 l/c/d in 2005)
was significantly (60 percent) higher than the SAR target of 88 l/c/d. This has substantially reduced
the distress of insufficient water supplies and improved access to water.

PDO 4: "Improving the environment by ending the over extraction of groundwater and the
subsequent drying of surface streams and land subsidence, and by treating all waste, so as to reduce
water pollution downstream" (SAR, Table 1, Annex 12). In relation to PDO 4 the project has had
noticeable impact in reducing the over-extraction of ground water, though not to the level envisaged
at appraisal. Compared to the total target value of 459,000 m3/day (2005) for total extraction, the
level achieved was 563,500 m3/day. This indicates some 104,500 m3/day were extracted more than the
target, or conversely the project only achieved 77 percent of the SAR target for total extraction. Based
on surveys by the Water Resources Department, in severely over-drafted areas the water-table has
risen by between 7 and 15 meters as a result of the reduction in ground-water over-drafting. However,
the city will still need to use more the Yellow River water to further reduce the extraction to reach the
sustainable use of groundwater. It is difficult to make judgments on the improvements in water quality
as no systematic monitoring has been undertaken.

Both PDO 5 and PDO 6 were intended to introduce key institutional and pricing reforms in the water
sector. PDO 5 was partially achieved as the unified Fen River Basin Commission was established
immediately before the Loan's Closing Date, while the corporatization (commercialization) of water
institutions (PDO 6) had not been accomplished per the design and time-frame set out in the SAR.

3.2.2    Given the limitations of PDO indicator design and bearing in mind that the WWTP is only a
slice of a much larger and continuing government program, the evaluation by component is further
conducted below:

Component 1: Physical Structures under the project were completed on time, to a high standard
and to design capacity. These included: (a) construction of the General Main Tunnel (GMT) and
South Main Tunnel (SMT) to Taiyuan; (b) five pumping stations; (c) seven tunnels and aqueducts;
and (d) bifurcation structures for the SMT. There was a cancellation of US$75 million from the Bank
loan as the result of procurement issues (Section 1.7.1). The standards and quality of construction for
physical structures have been reviewed by the MWR and were found to be either satisfactory or
highly satisfactory (Annex 1, Table 1). However, by the time of the ICR mission some supplementary
works solely financed by the government were still in progress (e.g., the regulation reservoir at the
Huyan water treatment plant).

Component 2: Water Resources Institutional Reform. Progress in key institutional reforms was
difficult and slow, and corporatization of major water institutions was not achieved, which has
adversely affected the benefit of the project. A number of critical measures were taken just before or
after project closure (on June 30, 2007) related to further reduction of ground-water extraction and to
institutional and pricing reforms. These have been sanctioned through the Provincial Governor's
Decree No 108 (issued on August 3, 2007) that sets out time-bound targets (over the next two years)
to close down remaining ground-water wells and raise water resources fees for ground-water from
October 2007. In addition, legislation to establish the Upper Fen River Basin Commission and the law
on Upper Fen River Water Conservation and Environmental Protection were reviewed and approved
by the Provincial Peoples' Congress on 24 September 2007. Although it's still a long way to go to
reach the goal of the integrated river basin water and environment management, these are seen as
extremely important steps in meeting the development objectives of the program which with hindsight



                                                   11

should have been included as key milestones in project design to make it happen much earlier. Given
that these key measures will require at least two years for implementation, it is premature to prejudge
the effect they will have on the outcome of the overall national program.

Component 3: Water Pollution Control and Industrial Waste Management. The project
achieved the following: (a) the preparation of an environmental master plan (2000); (b) an up-grading
of skills in pollution control in the EPB and the establishment of a monitoring system for water and
wastewater quality; and (c) under an US$8 million revolving fund for the introduction of cleaner
technologies, 13 industries received loans amounting to US$8.12 million. By the end of the project,
US$7.99 million had been reimbursed. Based on the success of the sub-loans under the project, a
second revolving fund (from project savings) was established after the Bank-supported project closed.

3.3      Efficiency

3.3.1    At appraisal, the major project benefits were to be derived from: (a) reducing the severe water
distress for domestic consumers in Taiyuan; (b) arresting the grave environmental (and associated
economic) costs related to over-drafting groundwater, which in the worst-case scenario could have led
to major subsidence in Taiyuan and the possible need to relocate the city and its industrial base; and
(c) meeting the growing water demand expected for economic growth. The SAR estimated an
economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of 22 percent with increased urban consumption generating 7
percent of the benefits, industrial consumption 85 percent and irrigation 10 percent.

3.3.2    The economic rate of return for the investment was recalculated following the original SAR
approach and parameters (See Annex 7 SAR), using actual project costs, current prices and the
volume of water delivered. The analysis shows that the project is not economically viable (ERR
0.85% and a negative NPV at an OCC of 12%), which is due to high project costs in relation to severe
under-utilization of designed capacity (some 23%).

3.3.3    The methodology and approach used in the economic analysis at appraisal were not entirely
appropriate and contributed to the over-dimensioned capacity, as outlined in Annex 3. Therefore, the
estimates should be treated with caution. The Government is taking various measures to expand the
coverage of diverted water to improve efficiency of the ongoing national programme. (See Section
3.5.3)

3.3.4    Financial Analysis. The YRDPC should not have been treated as a conventional revenue
generating and profit making entity. In fact, over the last ten years the YRDPC has existed only in
name and is fully financed by the government as a public institution at the same administrative level
as the Water Resources Bureau. As such, financial analysis at both project and entity level is not
applicable (see Annex 3)

3.4      Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

3.4.1    The overall outcome is rated as having been "moderately unsatisfactory" based on the
following assessment. In terms of the achievement of the PDOs, the project:

a) was highly successful in increasing the supply of water for domestic use (PDO 3), which reached
    over 159 percent of the SAR target;

b) was moderately successful in reducing the over-drafting of ground water (PDO 4) where 77
    percent of the SAR target was met;

c) can not be credited for attaining PDO 1, as no causal relationship can be established between
    incremental water supply from the project and economic growth (see section 3.2.1 PDO 1);

d) can not be credited for attaining PDO 2, as it is poorly defined and excessively broad (see section
    3.2.1 PDO 2)




                                                  12

e) partially achieved PDO 5 as the unified Fen River Basin Commission was established right
    before the Loan's Closing Date (but not fully operational yet); and

f) failed to achieve the corporatization (commercialization) of water institutions (PDO 6).


3.4.2 In terms of the relevance of the objectives and the design:

a) The project remains consistent with current Bank assistance strategy and government priorities for
    development of the water sector; and

b) The over-dimensioned capacity of the project is being addressed by the government as part of its
    continuing national programme.

3.4.3     In terms of efficiency, the project is not economically viable given over-designed capacity
and low utilisation. However, in recognition of this the Government is exploring various options for
expanding coverage of diverted water to improve efficiency of the investment in the context of an
ongoing national programme. (See Section 3.5.3)


3.4.4     Based on the Bank's relatively small (time and investment) slice, the ICR team recognizes
that it is inappropriate to extrapolate the rating for the Bank-assisted project to the much larger and
continuing government program, especially as various remedial measures7 (below) are being put in
place by the provincial government (after the closure of the project). These are likely to improve the
outcome of the program significantly, and include:

a)        The Regulations on Water Resources Management and Environment Protection in Mid and
          Upper Fen River Basin (March 2007)8;

b)        Key price reforms, discontinuing full cost pricing in water tariffs;

c)        Expansion of the transferred water delivery to cover peri-urban areas in greater Taiyuan and
          other urban / industrial centres along the line; and

d)        A detailed plan for closure of ground-water wells.

3.5       Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)       Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

3.5.1     The project was not specifically a poverty reduction project. However, there were positive
impacts on poverty through increased supply and accessibility of water for domestic use that directly
benefited the poorer urban households.

(b)       Institutional Change/Strengthening (particularly with reference to impacts on
          longer-term capacity and institutional development)

3.5.2     Institutional aspects of the project are assessed in Sections 2.1 and 2.5 and there are no
additional aspects to be included in this section.

(c)       Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive and negative):

3.5.3     As a result of the over-dimensioned design of the scheme (Section 2.1 and Annex 3), the
government has recently decided to expand the delivery of transferred water to new areas not



7  Measures are outlined in the Provincial Governor's Decree (108), issued on August 4, 2007.
8  The regulation includes 29 clauses on various aspects including responsibility, planning and compensation
   etc.


                                                    13

previously covered (e.g., surrounding peri-urban areas around Taiyuan and other industrial and urban
centres in central Shanxi along the line).

3.6      Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

3.6.1    No beneficiary survey made and no stakeholder workshop was held.


4.       Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

4.1      At the time of the ICR evaluation, the project is considered to have negligible risks associated
with technical, environmental and social aspects.

4.2      The major risks to the attainment of development outcome are related to financial, economic
and institutional aspects, which became evident in the later stages of project implementation,
particularly after the completion of civil works. These risks still remain highly relevant and include:
(a) the incentive pricing of transferred water to replace ground water over-drafting; (b) strict
enforcement of ceilings and limits to underground water mining; and (c) the urgent need to complete
institutional reforms, especially a functioning Upper Fen River Basin Commission to license the
allocation and sale of water from all sources. In addition, the government has recognised that to
achieve greater development and cost-effectiveness (given the over-capacity and very large
investment incurred), it is imperative that the coverage of transferred water be expanded to other parts
of central Shanxi (Section 3.4.2).

4.3      Based on implementation experience the Borrower has gradually internalized key risks and
adopted mitigation measures. The culmination of these measures came in August 2007 (after project
closure) through the Provincial Governor's Decree No 108 which sets out time bound targets to
specifically address the factors above. This represents strong commitment at the highest political level
in the province and is supported by the laws and regulations (Section 3.4).

4.4      Taking into account the above, the overall risk to the development outcome is rated as
moderate.

5.       Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1      Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

5.1.1    Bank performance in ensuring Quality at Entry is rated as having been "unsatisfactory"
(Section 2.1), compared to a QAG review that rated it as "satisfactory". The QAG rating cannot be
further discussed as detailed comments supporting the rating were not made available to the ICR
team, despite several requests.

(b) Quality of Supervision

5.1.2    Overall, the quality of supervision is rated as "moderately satisfactory".

5.1.3    In the early years of project implementation, supervision was heavily focused on delivery and
monitoring of physical aspects of the project, with inadequate attention being given to ensuring that
the project moved forward commensurately with key institutional and pricing reforms. This, coupled
with initial design weaknesses in quality at entry (unrealistic timeframe for reform and not
incorporating triggers and milestones for the process itself), resulted in de linking the "hard" and
"soft" parts of the project; highly satisfactory delivery in infrastructure but unsatisfactory performance
in institutional reforms. This was not fully internalized by the task team until 2002 (when physical
works had largely been completed), after which the team made significant efforts to push the reform


                                                  14

agenda, albeit with little leverage. The decision to extend the project's life and provide supervision
support was instrumental in keeping institutional reforms in the water sector high on the government's
agenda and culminated in the Governor's policy Decree 108 and related legislation that will have
significant impact on long-term development effectiveness of the overall national programme.

5.1.4    In October 2006, the QAG rated the overall quality of supervision as "moderately
unsatisfactory". The Region considered that project supervision should have been rated "moderately
satisfactory" for the following reasons: (a) slow progress in institutional reforms was mainly the result
of weakness in project design (Section 2.1) coupled with a lack of political commitment by
government to the reforms in the initial stages of the project; (b) during the project extension,
supervision missions made significant efforts to push forward the reform agenda which resulted in a
series of positive measures taken by the government just before or after project closure (paragraphs
2.2.2 and 2.5.2). The Bank agreed to extend the project by five and half years to engage the Borrower
in initiating a complicated reform process. The active engagement of the Bank in the latter part of the
project facilitated the formation of the Upper Fen River Basin Corporation (UFRBC) and the passing
of the Provincial Government Decree 108 on August 3, 2008, which will pave the way for future
utilization of the currently-unused carrying capacity of the water delivery system created through the
project. The quality of supervision over the entire project implementation period is rated as
"moderately satisfactory".

(c)      Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

5.1.5    Overall, the Bank's performance is rated as "moderately unsatisfactory" based on the
assessment ratings for quality at entry and supervision outlined above.

5.2      Borrower Performance

(a)      Government Performance

5.2.1    Within the context of a long-term national program, the Government performance is rated as
"moderately satisfactory".

5.2.2    As indicated above (Section 3.4), the government has had a long established commitment to
the National Programme for Water Transfer (NPWT), dating back to the 1960s. The Bank only
became involved in the second phase of the national programme in the mid 1990s as a relatively small
co-financier.

5.2.3    Under the project, the government viewed the Bank as a strategic partner that would bring
wide international expertise and know-how into its large and complex water diversion program. In
technical aspects there was strong commitment and "buy-in" from the government in relation to
design and international best practices in engineering works. Even though the government was also
committed to institutional and pricing reform (on which they followed the Bank's advice), there was
much less appreciation of their complexity and magnitude. This shortcoming was compounded further
by: (a) the absence of a conductive national water sector policy framework on the optimum utilization
of surface and ground-water, water resources fees and taxes; and (b) the emphasis on full
commercialization (in the Bank's business and water-pricing models) which were poorly conceived
and unworkable.

5.2.4    The government, however, remains highly committed to the long-term objectives of the
NPWT, is following a constructive "learning-by-doing" approach with regard to institutional reforms,
and has put in place key policy measures and legislation to ensure long-term development
effectiveness (Sections 3.4.2 and 4).

(b)      Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance



                                                 15

5.2.5    The implementing agency performance is rated as "moderately satisfactory". The main works
and supplementary works have been completed in time with good quality so that it was highly
successful in increasing the supply of water for domestic use (PDO 3), which reached over 159
percent of the SAR target, and was moderately successful in reducing the over-drafting of ground
water (PDO 4) where 77 percent of the SAR target was met. The implementing agency tried its best in
pushing forward the institutional reform, although this task was not in its mandates.

(c)      Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

5.2.6.   The overall Borrower Performance is rated as "moderately satisfactory" based on the above
(a) and (b).

6.       Lessons Learned (both project-specific and of wide general application)

6.1.1    The project design should have considered how to achieve the project development
objectives in the most effective way based on realistic water demand projection. More careful
justification of the investment size should have been undertaken taking into account the water savings
from new technologies and more stringent environmental regulations, and possible policy
interventions to prevent the serious over-design in capacity from happening.

6.1.2    It is important to ensure that the "hard" infrastructure aspects remain coordinated and
synchronized with the equally important "soft" aspects of institutional and pricing reform. This
should have been addressed right from the beginning of the implementation to achieve maximized
project benefits and long-term impact. An opportunity was missed in the early years, which has led to
de-linking of the two aspects and less than satisfactory outcome in institutional reform.

6.1.3    To improve the effectiveness and sustainability of public service delivery, it is clearly
desirable to incorporate elements of cost recovery in the pricing of the utility, though this should
be phased in gradually. Under the project, diverted water from the Yellow River should initially
have been priced lower than the prevailing price of ground-water as an entry point to facilitate this
substitution. Once this had occurred and the use of ground-water had been curtailed to safe and
sustainable levels, prices could then have been increased gradually to cover O&M and (possibly) to
recover some of the investment cost.

6.1.4    The Bank's involvement in institutional reforms in the water sector needs to be
thoughtfully considered, well paced and supported by appropriate loan instrument. This should
have been based on a more programmatic and long term approach rather than short-term projectized
approach. It requires sustained long-term engagement with government (particularly given China's
gradualist approach to reforms), an appropriate loan instrument (e.g., APL or SAL), and well-defined
linkages to sector work and up-stream policy dialogue.

6.1.5    In the institutional set up the Provincial Water Resources Bureau (instead of the
Wanjiazhai Yellow River Diversion Project Corporation) should have been put in charge of the
institutional reforms as per its mandate stipulated in the National Water Law with strong support and
coordination from the Provincial. It is legally responsible and best positioned to lead the proposed
institutional, policy and pricing reform, which deals with large scale water resources administration,
allocation and strategy issues in the province.

6.1.6    Project Development Objectives and related M&E indicators need to be well defined.
Under the project, there were too many PDOs, some of which were overly broad and ambiguous,
whilst a number of the indicators had no causal effect with project impact or had not target value. This
impeded both project supervision and impact evaluation.




                                                  16

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


Project Cost by Component


                                Appraisal Estimate   Actual /Latest
           Components                                  Estimate       Percentage of
                                                                       Appraisal
                                  (US$ million)       (US$ million)

A. Water Transfer                     963.6             994.23           103.2

1. General Main                       256.5             409.48           159.8

2. South main                         296.5             343.94           116.0

3. Automatic Control System            30.1              29.88            99.3

4. Power Transmission Line             16.3              43.63           267.7

5. Administration/Management          132.4              36.42            27.5

6. Connection Works                   231.8             130.87            56.5

B. Institutional Component               7.7               1.84           23.9

C. Environmental Management            10.6                24.4          230.2

1. Project B1                            2.6                1.4           53.8

2. Project B2                            8.0               23.0          287.5

Total Baseline Cost                   981.9            1020.86           104.0

Physical Contingencies                136.5                -               -

Price Contingencies                   169.3                -               -

Total Project Costs                 1287.8                 -               -

Interest During Construction           56.4              42.84            76.0

Commitment Charges                       7.4               8.81          119.1

Total Costs to be Financed          1351.6             1072.10            79.4



Financing

                                   Appraisal         Actual/Latest
         Source of Funds           Estimate            Estimate       Percentage of
                                                                       Appraisal
                                  (US$ million)       (US$ million)
Government                           921.6               747.5             81
IBRD/IDA                             400.0               324.6             82
Loan of Italian Government             30.0                -               -
Total Funds                         1351.6              1072.1             79




                                          17

Annex 2. Outputs by Component


                                       Original    Actual Achieved at Percentage
             Indicator          Unit Target Values Competition Values  of PAD

                                        (PAD)           (ICR)
Output Indicators
A. General Main Tunnels

1. Pressure Tunnels             Km       3.19            3.075           96.4

Tunnel 1                        Km       0.14            0.196          140.0

Tunnel 2                        Km       0.13            0.214          164.6

Tunnel 3                        Km       0.76            0.812          106.8

Tunnel 4                        Km       1.72            1.699           98.8

Tunnel 5                        Km       0.44            0.154           35.0

2. Free Flowing Tunnels         Km      42.26           38.983           92.2

Tunnel 6                        Km       6.61            6.526           98.7

Tunnel 7                        Km       2.67            2.685          100.6

Tunnel 8                        Km      12.19           12.142           99.6

Tunnel 9                        Km       0.21            0.217          103.3

Tunnel 10                       Km       7.38            7.379          100.0

Tunnel 11                       Km      10.01           10.034          100.2

Pumping Station/PS              No.       3                3            100.0

PS (between tunnels 3 & 4)      m3      81900           268117          327.4

PS (between tunnels 4 & 5)      m3      81900           305252          372.7

PS (between tunnels 10 & 11)    m3/s     48.0             48            100.0

Regulation Reservoir            m3     150'000         202'400          134.9

Aqueducts                       No.       4                4            100.0

B. South Main Tunnels
1. Free Flowing Tunnels         Km      106.55          97.429           91.4

Tunnel 1                        Km       0.84            0.866          103.1

Tunnel 2                        Km       1.87            1.892          101.2

Tunnel 3                        Km       4.16            4.185          100.6

Tunnel 4                        Km       6.93            6.882           99.3

Tunnel 5                        Km      26.48           26.425           99.8

Tunnel 6                        Km      14.63           14.583           99.7

Tunnel 7                        Km      42.64           42.569           99.8

Aqueducts                       No.       3                3            100.0

Inverted siphon                 No.       1                1            100.0

Culverts                        No.       2                2            100.0

Pumping Stations                No.       3                2             66.7

C. Connection Works
1. Pipeline                     Km      40.209           42.79          106.4




                                    18

                                                  Original    Actual Achieved at Percentage
                 Indicator                 Unit Target Values Competition Values  of PAD

                                                   (PAD)           (ICR)
 2. Tunnels                                 Km     16.751           21.49          128.3

 Tunnel 1                                   Km     0.447            3.486          779.9

 Tunnel 2                                   Km     1.000            0.958           95.8

 Tunnel 3                                   Km     0.562            0.172           30.6

 Tunnel 4                                   Km     0.725            0.094           13.0

 Tunnel 5                                   Km     0.795            2.470          310.7

 Tunnel 6                                   Km     0.100            0.790          790.0

 Tunnel 7                                   Km     13.122          13.520          103.0

 D. Control System
 Central dispatching and control station    No.      1                1            100.0

 Levels of control system                   No.      3                3            100.0

 E. Plant and Equipment
 1. Pump                                   unit      15              15            100.0

 Pump power/GMT3&SMT12                     MW       10.8             12            111.1

 Unit capacity                             m3/s     6.45             6.45          100.0

 Static lift capacity                       M       142              140            98.6

 Pump power/Third level                    MW       6.3              6.3           100.0

 Unit capacity/Third level                 m3/s     6.45             6.45          100.0

 Static lift capacity/Third level           M        80              76             95.0

 2. Synchronous Motors                     unit      15              15            100.0

 Capacity 6.75MW                           No.       3                3            100.0

 Capacity 12.5MW                           No.      12               12            100.0

* 1.The PAD target is cited from the SAR.




                                               19

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


Introduction

1.       Shanxi Province is located in north eastern China, bounded by the Yellow River to the west
and south. The province has the least water resources per capita in the Yellow River Basin, and is the
second driest province in terms of surface water resources. These are widely scattered among 15 river
basins, which are separated by mountains, making inter basin transfers difficult and expensive. River
flows exhibit a high degree of annual variation, although they are concentrated in the summer. In
most areas, ground-water has been tapped to its limits with serious ecological consequences. In the
province, the most important economic impacts of water shortage are in the northern urban industrial
cities of Taiyuan (the capital and largest city), Datong (the second-largest city and mining centre) and
Pingshuo (a rapidly-growing mining/industrial region). At appraisal, in Taiyuan and Datong surface
water supplies had virtually dried up and ground-water had been over-extracted to a degree leading to
land subsidence of over 3 metres (m) in many places. As a result, all sectors and population groups
were suffering. The SAR anticipated that, by 2000, water demand in these three areas would outstrip
supplies by a factor of 70 percent, with the gap growing much wider afterwards.

2.       It was envisaged that the overall National Program would help alleviate water shortages
through the construction of a water transmission line from the Yellow River at Wanjiazhai Dam to
Taiyuan, and later to Datong and Pingshuo. Given the large scope and significant cost of the water
diversion scheme, the provincial government phased the programme into: (a) the construction of the
dam at Wanjiazhai; (b) the construction of the general main tunnel (GMT) and south main tunnel
(SMT) to Taiyuan; and (c) construction of the north transmission lines to Datong and Pingshuo.

3.       The Bank was a relatively small partner under Phase 2 above (around 30 percent of total
Phase 2 cost of 8.7 billion Yuan). The main focus area for the project was Taiyuan City, which is
located in north-central Shanxi along the Fen River and near abundant raw materials and energy
sources. The city boasts one of the largest concentrations of heavy industry in China. Per capita
water resources were only 51 percent of the provincial and 9 percent of the national average. As a
result of water shortages 50 percent of mines, factories and enterprises periodically remained closed in
Taiyuan. The rationale for the project, presented in the SAR, centred around the impact that large
shortages of water would have on key industrial sectors in and around Taiyuan (such as coal and
electricity) and ecological degradation. It was envisaged that the project would deliver up to 320
million m3 per year in 2002, 900 million m3 by 2010 and 1.2 billion m3 by 2020. These volumes were
considered within the allocations permitted by the Yellow River allocation designated by the State
Council (Chinese Cabinet).


Project Benefits

4.       The major project benefits were derived from: (a) reducing the severe water distress for
domestic consumers in Taiyuan; (b) arresting the grave environmental (and associated economic
costs) related to over-drafting ground-water, which in the "worst-case scenario" could have led to
major subsidence in Taiyuan and the possible need to relocate the city and its industrial base; and (c)
meeting the growing water demand for economic growth.


Methodology and Approach Used in Economic Analysis

5.       Based on the benefit streams outlined above, the SAR used the following methods in
economic analysis: (a) the willingness to pay (WTP) and consumer surplus (CS) approach in deriving
the economic (shadow) price of domestic water use; and (b) input/output models and linear
programming to determine the economic value of water for industrial use. The SAR did not take into



                                                  20

account ecological and environmental externalities in economic analysis. Nevertheless, the economic
rate of return for the investment was recalculated following the original SAR approach and
parameters (See Annex 7 SAR), using actual project costs, current prices and the volume of
water delivered. The analysis shows that the project is not economically viable (ERR 0.85%
and a negative NPV at an OCC of 12%), which is due to high project costs in relation to
severe under-utilization of designed capacity (some 23%). (Excel models attached)

6.       There were significant limitations in the SAR methodologies used and in the overall approach
to economic and financial analysis as outlined below:


Economic Analysis


Economic Valuation of Industrial Water Use Based on Input/Output Models and Linear
Programming

7.       The economic analysis of water for industrial use was based on the calculation of the
marginal value of water (MVW) by sector. After extensive discussion on the I/O model, the SAR
concluded that the input/output model could not determine the MVW and therefore adopted a linear
programming (LP) approach. The implicit assumption in using the LP model to generate the marginal
values of water was that water was the only constraint and, if available, then output could increase and
generate the values in the model. In other words, there are no other constraints such as labor or
industrial capacity which could prevent these results from occurring.

8.       This methodology would have been applicable had the principle of ceteris paribus held. In
reality, the rapid adoption of new technologies and innovations quickly overtook the premise that
water is the controlling factor. Data shows that whilst industrial output value increased by over 75
percent from 1993-2002, total water use declined by 40 percent as a result of the adoption of water
saving technologies and innovations and the strengthening of environmental controls on water
wasting industries (Table 1). The highly over-estimated demand projection based on unrealistic
assumptions for industrial water use has led to the grossly over-designed capacity, which is the most
serious problem in the economic analysis and project design. The current 23% of the installed
capacity or 12% of the total design capacity utilized may increase, but that is likely to require
additional investments which themselves would need to be assessed for the costs and benefits.

                   Table 1: Industrial Value Growth and Water Consumption by Sector

                                                                                        Annual % Rate of
 Industry                Item                    Unit          1993         2002             Change
                         GDP                 RMB million     4,524.34     11,964.06            9.2
                   Water consumption          million m3        53.82         45.23            -1.6
                                               m3/RMB
 Iron/steel     Water consumption/GDP           million          1.19          0.38            -9.9
                         GDP                 RMB million       506.28      1,252.98            8.6
                   Water consumption          million m3        44.52         53.63            1.7
                                               M3/RMB
Electricity     Water consumption/GDP           million          8.79          4.28            -6.3
                         GDP                 RMB million     1,887.84       946.73             -6.1
                   Water consumption          million m3        24.24           7.37          -10.3
                                               m3/RMB
   Coal         Water consumption/GDP           million           1.28          0.78           -4.4
                         GDP                 RMB million     2,329.08     11,930.29            16
                   Water consumption          million m3        43.88         36.72            -1.6
                                               m3/RMB
 Chemical       Water consumption/GDP           million           1.88          0.31          -15.2
  Other1                 GDP                 RMB million     7,183.77     11,930.29            5.8



                                                 21

                  Water consumption            million m3           65.48         36.72       -6.2
                                                m3/RMB
                Water consumption/GDP            million             0.91          0.31      -11.4
                           GDP                 RMB million      17,223.08     3 0,575.66      6.6
                  Water consumption            million m3          273.53        164.18       -5.5
                                                m3/RMB
   Total        Water consumption/GDP            million             1.59          0.54      -11.4
Source: Shanxi Provincial Statistics Bureau.
1Mainly including small scale industries and township and village enterprises (TVEs)

9.       Given the considerable over design in capacity it is obvious that the project cannot be
cost effective as capacity utilization is some 23%. Moreover, more rigorous ex-post cost
effectiveness analysis cannot be undertaken as there were no baseline unit rate norms
established at SAR to compare with. However, if the full capacity of the scheme is eventually
utilized, a reasonable degree of cost-effectiveness would be achieved as (a) it was selected
among numerous alternatives, and (b) the technologies adopted and procurement process
were in keeping with best construction practices at that time. Given the present situation,
where the capacity of the SMT is significantly under-utilized due to over estimated demand
(23% of installed capacity or 12% of total design capacity), it is essential that the coverage
for transferred water be expanded beyond Taiyuan to enhance cost effectiveness. This has
already been recognized by Government and a decision has been made to expand coverage to
peri-urban areas around Taiyuan and other industrial and urban centres in central Shanxi
along the SMT. However, no feasibility studies, investment and business plans have so far
been developed for the expansion, which makes any further economic analysis impossible".


Financial Analysis

10.      The methodology adopted at appraisal for water pricing was based on the following:
(a) obtaining annual capital requirements; (b) determining financing plans; (c) calculating total project
cost by appropriate cost allocations (cost sharing); (d) forming necessary operational and financial
assumptions; and (e) setting up water tariffs based on a minimum debt coverage ratio of 1.2 or a
minimum rate of return on fixed assets in service of 2 percent, whichever gives a greater tariff, to
make the YRDPC financially sustainable and to provide an assurance of cost recovery and debt
repayment. This clearly represents a fully commercialized business model, which was not workable
under the project.

11.      The prima facie rationale for the WWTP was the provision of water for basic needs and
public goods. As such, the YRDPC clearly should not have been treated as a conventional revenue-
generating and profit-making entity and, consequently, the financial analysis at both project and entity
level is not applicable.

12.      In light of this, the business and water-pricing models used at appraisal were not only
inappropriate but in fact impeded the achievement of key PDOs. The practice of pricing on the basis
of full cost recovery advocated at appraisal has led to a bizarre situation where the provincial
government (having paid for the investment) also subsidizes the YRDPC for depreciation.

13.      The correct approach, recognizing the "public good" nature of the project, should have been
to price diverted water lower than the prevailing price of ground-water as an entry point to facilitate
substitution. Once this had occurred and the use of ground-water had been curtailed to safe and
sustainable levels, prices could have been increased gradually to cover O&M costs. By focusing on
commercialization and full cost pricing from the onset, however, the project has had exactly the
opposite effect where significantly cheaper ground-water continues to be over-exploited, effectively
crowding out the demand for diverted water.


                                                  22

14.    The Government has recognized the apparent anomaly of using full cost recovery as the basis
for water pricing and, accordingly, under the Governor's Decree 108, this practice has been abolished.




                                               23

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members


            Names                                Title                 Unit      Responsibility/
                                                                                    Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
Yi Dong                       Sr. Financial Management Specialist     EAPCO
Prem C. Garg                  Director                                 QAG
Zong-Cheng Lin                Sr. Social Development Spec             EASCS
Douglas C. Olson              Lead Water Resource Specialist          LCSEN
Geoffrey Spencer              Sr. Irrigation Engineer                 EASRE
Xiuzhen Zhang                 Program Assistant                       EACCF

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                Stage of Project                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

                Cycle                                  No. of staff (US$ thousands including travel
                                                       weeks        and consultant costs)
                Lending
  FY94                                                                            1.31
  FY95                                                                          174.26
  FY96                                                                          246.60
  FY97                                                                          155.26
  FY98                                                                            3.93
  FY99                                                                            0.00
  FY00                                                                            0.00
  FY01                                                                            0.00
  FY02                                                1                           0.72
  FY03                                                                            0.00
  FY04                                                                            0.00
  FY05                                                                            0.00
  FY06                                                                            0.00
  FY07                                                                            0.00
                              Total:                  1                         582.08
Supervision/ICR
  FY94                                                                            0.00
  FY95                                                                            0.00
  FY96                                                                            0.00
  FY97                                                                            0.00
  FY98                                                                          157.50
  FY99                                                                          102.88
  FY00                                               16                          77.32
  FY01                                                9                          55.50
  FY02                                               28                          77.95
  FY03                                               23                          47.49



                                                  24

 FY04                                     11                   19.10
 FY05                                      9                   11.52
 FY06                                      8                   20.12
 FY07                                     15                   32.74
                        Total:           119                  602.12


Annex 5.  Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

NA


Annex 6.  Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)


NA




                                      25

Annex 7.  Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                  26

27

Annex 8.    Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

NA

Annex 9.    List of Supporting Documents

1. QAG evaluations of Quality at Entry and Supervision
2. Aide-Mémoires and related Annexes prepared by the supervision missions
3. Aide-Mémoire and related Annexes of the ICR mission
4. Government ICR
5. Economic Analysis (Excel files)




                                              28

                                                                                                               112°                                                                               113°
                               RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                                                                                 C H I N A
                                                                                                                              WANJIAZHAI WATER TRANSFER PROJECT
                                                                                 HEILONGJIANG



                          M O N G O L I A
                                                                    L              J I L I N
                                                                  O
                                                                G
                                                             N
                                                           O
                                                         M                 LIAONING
                                                                                         DEM. PEOPLE'S

                                                N  EI                                    REP. OF KOREA
                                                           BEIJING                                                   N E I
                                                                   Beijing
                                                Area         SHI
                                                                   TAINJIN SHI
                                                 of         HEBEI                              REP. OF
                                                map                                            KOREA           M O N G O L                                                                                                  Datong
                                                     SHANXI       SHANDONG        Ye l l o w                                                                                                                                  City
                QINGHAI                NINGXIA                                      S e a

                                GANSU         SHAANXI    HENAN            JIANGSU

                                                                   ANHUI
                                                                                  SHANGHAI SHI

                                                        HUBEI                                  E a s t     40°                                                                                                                         40°
                              SICHUAN
                                                                            ZHEJIANG          C h i n a
          XIZANG
                                                                                               S e a
                                                      HUNAN     JIANGXI

                                      GUIZHOU                            FUJIAN


                        YUNNAN                                                       TAIWAN

                                                           GUANGDONG
                                                GUANGXI
                                                                    HONG KONG, U.K.
                                                                 MACAO, PORT.

                ANMAR             VIET NAM                          South
                     MY      LAO
                          PEOPLE'S                                China Sea
                                                     HAINAN
         THAILAND             DEM.
                              REP.                                                PHILIPPINES

                          Yellow

                                 R.                                                                                                                                                                                        R.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sang-Kan

         Wanjiazhai
                        Dam
                                              Pumping                                                      Pumping
                                              stations                                                     station 1
                                              1 and 2                    Pumping                            2
                                                                         station 3                                Pumping station 2
                                                                                                         3     4
                                                        GENERAL
                                                           MAIN

                                                                                                                           5
                                                                                                                                                        Shuozhou


                                                                                                                                                                                         PROJECT: PHASE I

                                                                                                                                                                                          PIPELINES

                                                                                                                                                                                          PUMPING STATIONS

                                                                                                                                                                                          AQUEDUCTS

                                                                                                                                                                                          TUNNELS (AND NUMBERS)
                                                                                                                                       6                                            7

                                                                                                                                                                                         PHASE II:

                                                                                                                                                 Yangfengkao                              PIPELINES

                                                                                                                                                                                          TUNNELS


                                                                                  SOUTH                                                                                                  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                       39°                                                          MAIN                                                                                                                                               39°
                                                                                                                                                                                         PROVINCE CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL (INSET)

                                                                                                                                                                                         RIVERS
                                                                                                                                       7                                                 EXISTING RESERVOIRS

                                                                                                                                                                                         PROPOSED RESERVOIRS (AFTER 2007)

                                                                                                                                                                                         XIAN (COUNTY) BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                         PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSET)

                                                                                                                                                                              Yuanping



                                                                                                           Proposed
                                                                                                          Shijiazhuang
                                                                                                           Reservoir

                                                                                                                                                                                 Hu-t'o
                                                                                                                                                                                       R.




                                                                                                                                                                                Xinzhou



                                                                                                       R.

                                                                                                    Fen



                                                                                                      Proposed
                                                                                                      Xiajinyou
                                                                                                      Reservoir




                                                                                            Fen I
                                                                                         Reservoir           (pipesConnecting                                                               This map was produced by the
                                                                                                                    2.2-2.4                                                                 Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                             Fen                            The boundaries, colors, denominations
                       38°                                                                                                   works
                                                                                                                            m.diam.)    Proposed                                            and any other information shown on         38°
                                                                                                                                         Fen II                 R.
                                                                                                                                                                                            this map do not imply, on the part of
                                                                                                                                        Reservoir                                           The World Bank Group, any judgment
                                                                                                                                                  Twintunnels                               on the legal status of any territory, or
                                                                                                                                                                                            any endorsement or acceptance of
                                                                                                                              Gujiao                                                        such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                City                                  Taiyuan
                                                                                                                                                                        City
                                                                                                                              CONNECTING                                                  0           10             20             30
                                                                                                                                    WORKS
                                                                                                                                                                                                         KILOMETERS                        IBRD
JUL
   Y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           28136
    1996
                                                                                                                  112°                                                                                    113°

