Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8358
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
FORESTRY PROJECT
(IDA CREDIT 982-UV)
FEBRUARY 6, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department V
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
AVW      Volta Valleys Authority
CCCE     Central Agency for Economic Cooperation (France)
CILSS    Interregional Committee Against Drought in the Sahel
CNRST    Natinal Center for Scientific and Technical Research Operational
Unit of Bobo Dioulasso
CTFT     Tropical Forestry Technical Center
DPET     Provincial Department of the Environment and Tourism
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
FAC      Fund for Aid and Cooperation (France)
r'AO     Food and Agriculture Organization
FED      European Fund for Development
IDA      International Development Agency
'PS      (Institut Polytechnique Superieur)/Polytechnic Institute
(Ouagadougou)
IRD      Rural Development Institute (former IPS)
MET      Ministry of Environment and Tourisism
MFPP     Proiect Preparation Facility
ORD      Regional Development Office
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
UNSO     United Nations Sudano-Sahelian Office
UOBI     Operational Unit of Bobo Dioulasso
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
EXCHANGE RATE
Currency: CFA Franc
At the time of the evaluation             one USS = 210 CFAF
Average rate during project execution    one US$ = 338 CFAF
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
Weight of stere of dry wood from natural stand:        450 Kg
Weight of stere of dry wood from plantation:           580 kg
Stacking coefficients:
Wood from natural forest stand:           0.5
Wood from plantation                      0.6
FISCAL YEARS
IDA                           July 1--June 30
Burkina Faso Government       January 1--December 31



FOR OkCIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
O0t CA iOkterSON&
Op *watMm juhtirn
February 6, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Burkina Faso
Forestry Proiect (Credit 982-UV)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Burkina Faso - Forestry Project (Credit 982-
UV)" prepared by the FAO/Vorld Bank Cooperative Program. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance I
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



BURKINA FASO
FORESTRY PROJECT
(IDA Credit 982 UV)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paze
PREFACE ......                       ..     .     .............
BASIC DATA SHEET  .....................                                    ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY ........ ... *... .............. ...........             v
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.        THE FORESTRY SUBSECTOR .............................    1
Reores#.*......   r....                         ......            1
Inatitutions ...e ....0.......       ............                2
Forestry Projects        o. .......... ......                    3
Forestry Education.....uc............... 99999999999             4
Forestry Research.... ...................                        4
Objectives and Strategies.r.n t e gi.e s ..............          5
II.       PROJECT CONCEPTUALIZATION..........................               7
Origgin*.*........... ..o....o..9...o9..............              7
Preparation ......         .... .     ..................    7
Appraisal and Post-Appraisal .......................    7
Project Objectives...j    e    c    t.i        v    es... ....... ......*   10
Project Description                     .................    10
III.      PROJECT EXECUTION ....999999999.999.999                          13
A.   General Background               ...........    13
Effectiveness and Sta ut - u p                            13
Changes After the Appraisali.....l                        13
B.    Executtion.i........9 ...*s.........oooo.o9o   14
Strengthening of the Forestry Administration..    14
Forestry Opertin r................    16
Adaptive Research. ...... ............ 999999..9   20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS Con-........
Studies and Training       ................... 22
Procurem nt sb en........... ....  23
Project Disbursements                .........  23
Sources of Financing and Disbursements ........... 24
Expenses by Category and Component ............... 24
Costs by Activity ....*........................... 26
(a) Plantations .....                             6
(b) Seedlings .....                               27
Performance of Expatriate Staff,
Entrepreneurs, and Supplierss.................  27
IV.      PROJECT IMPACT ON THE FORESTRY SUBSECTOR ............ 28
Proutondooo....                                   *.o 28
Pavroducetio.......................................... 28
Environment *..*.*****.***..*.**  28 
Technological Progress ............................. 29
Technical Experience of Forestry Staffa.............. 29
V.       BENEFITS A-ND RATE OF RETURN ................... .*. 30
Economic Analysis......                                 31
VI.      INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE ...................           34
Performance of the Project Structures.............   34
Performance of the Forestry Administration ......... 34
Recovery of Costs ..                ...                 34
VII.  SPECIAL PROBLEMS ............. ....................... . 36
Industrial Plantatioas ............ ... .. ... .. ... .....  36
Management of the Natural Forest....*.e*............ 36
Rural Forestry ............... c.............,,=.. 37
VIII.    THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE                                  38
IX.      CONCLUSIONS                                             40
MAPS:    IBRD Nos. 14036R and 14037R



i
BURKINA FASO
FORESTRY PROJECT
(IDA CREDIT 982 UV)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Forestry
Project in Burkina Faso, for wh.ich IDA Credit 982 UV in ..ile amount of
US$14.5 millior was approved on February 12, 1980. The project was jointly
financed with the Norwegian Government which provided a grant of US$4.35
million, of which US$2.25 was utilized. The Credit was closed on September
30, 1986, one year behind Pchedule. US$6.7 million were disbursed and the
portion of the Credit ;'.At had not been disbursed --US$7.8 million -- was
cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
and reviewed by the Agriculture Division of the Sahelian Department, Africa
Region. The PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the
Credit Agreement; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and
the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED). The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower and Cofinancier on August 9,
1989 for comments by October 27, 1989, but none were received.



ii
BURKINA FASO FORESTRY PROJECT
(IDA Credit 982 UV)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
Appraisal   Actual   Actual
Estimate           _   Z
A. Rey Data
Project cost (in millions of US$)                17.50      7.70       44 1/
Amount of Credit (in millions of US$)            14.5       6.70       46
Norwegian Grant (in million of US$)               4.35      2.25       52
Date of credit approval:                                   2/12/80
Date of effectiveness:                            7180     12/31181
Economic rate of return                          16.00          negative
Institutional performance: average
Forestry performance: average
Number of direct beneficiaries   n.a.
Completion                                       12.84     6.86
Credit Closing                                    6.85     9.86
1. 692 in terms of current CFAF owing to the difference in the Aollar
exchange rate.
B. Cumulative Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                        (in millions of US$)
1980                                    1.50          -           0
1981                                    3.90         1.30        33
1982                                    6.40         2.30        36
1983                                    9.20         3.20        35
1V84                                   12.50         4.15        33
1985                                   14.50         4.70        32
1986                                      -          5.80        40
1987                                      -          6.70        46
Total                                  14.50         6.70        56
C. Phvsical Achievements
Maintenance and exploitation
of existing plantations                       1,650       1,200         73
Industrial plantations                         1,600      1i100          69
Management of natural forests                  i,000         400         40
Production and distribution
of seedlings                                  0.3 million 1.5 million 500



D. Data relative to missions
No. of   No. of. Spec.  Perf.           Type of
Dates Persons    DaYS   Pres.  Rating Trend Problem
(1)     (2)    (3)   (4)
Preparatorv Missions
Identificetion         1977      2              FA          -        _     _
Preparation            Feb 78   3          18  FE,F(2)     -         -      -
Evaluation             Oct 78   4                F(3),E    -         -     _
Post-Evaluation        Apr 79   2                F(2)       -        -      -
SupervisorY '71sits
1                 July 80   1           3   FA         1         2     -
2                 Nov 80   2           8    F, FA      1         2     0
3                  July 81   1          8   F          1         1     -
4                 Nov 81    2          8    F, A       1         2     T
5                 May 82    2          24   F, PA      1         2     MP
6                 Nov 82(5) 1          (6)  FA        (6)       (6)   (6)
7                 Feb 83   2          21    F, FA      2         2     MP
8                  Jun 84    1         6    F           2        2     MT
9                  Jun 85    2         6    F, AE      2         2     T
10                 Feb 86    1         (6)   F          (6)      (6)   (6)
11                 Oct 86    1         12    F          (6)      (6)   (6)
(1)  Specialists  Present:   F  -  Forester; A  -  Agronomistt FE  -
Forestry Economist:   PA - Project Analyst; AE - Agronomic Economist; FA -
Financial Analyst
(2)  1 - no problems;  2 - problems of average importance
(3)  1 - improvement; 2 - stationary
(4)  0   various (to be specified);  T - technical;  M - management
(5)  Mission interrupted owing to local reasons.  The report does not seem
to have been presented on the usual forms
(6)  Information not available.
Sftat toputa (St"ff Ub)
lctvlity   78  4  ToIS 76   is  79         s a1  O  u 4 a u    a s 
PM§ IUPCSIS   V  -  -  _      isv lee  -   -  -  -  -          -  -  -  11.1
ApeIeaI   _   -  -    -   -      0    WI .   -  -   -   -     -  -   -    7v
,1@qIhptIs  _  _  _   -  -  -  -  w1,          - -   -    -    -  -  -  19.1
S_Ew l.    -  -  -  -  -  -  -  3.1 U.4 1.1 14.9 4.0 7.6 i..   18.3 P .S
6.9 9.6 9.6  .9 ..0 18.1 IS.$ 14.1 1t.4 11.1 14.0 4.0 7.5 18.0 5.? 1.0 13.



iv
E. Other data concerning the Droject
Borrower                  Republic of Burkina Faso
Executing agency          Ministry of the Environment and Tourism
Fiscal year                1979-1987
Currency                  CFA franc
Exchange rate per US$:
Average for evaluation year         210
Average during project exec.        338
Average for last yr of project      395
Continuation of project activity Project financed by bilateral
aid from Norway



v
BURKINA FASO                                           O
FORESTP.Y PROJECT
(IDA Credit 982 UV)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.01           This forestry project was the first of its kind financed by
the World Bank in Burkina Faso. It was a five year project (1981-86)
designed to help address lovernment's objectives in the forestry sector:
(i) strengthen the Forestry Service so that it could effectively formulate
and implement policies and progrems; (ii) devise appropriate actions to
ensure adequpfce supplies of firewood, building poleA, fruit trees and
fodder for the rural population; (iii) improve the supply of wood for fuel
and construction in the chief urban centers through establishment of tree
plantations; and (iv) improve management of natural forest reserves.
Obiectives
1.02           The project included the following components: (i)
strengthening of the forestry administration; (ii) forestry operations
Include the maintenance of two plantations totaling 1,650 ha near urban
areas, the establishment of a new 1,600 hectare plantation, the management
of 1,000 hectares of village woodlotsl and (iii) studies and training
including a study of rural forestry.  Project activities we.-. concentrated
in the Bobo-Dioulasso region except for the institutional strengthening
component which was spread over eighteen out of a total of thircy
provinces. The total project cost was estimated to 'e US$17.5 .:lllion of
which the IDA credit was to finance US$15.5 million with the remainder
financed by the Government.
Implementation Experience
1.03           The project was appraised in October 1978, post-appraised in
April 1979 and became effective in late December 1980. Project
implementation was hampered by the reorganization and constant staff
changes in the Ministry of the Environment, but most importantly by
Government's delay in providing counterpart funds to cover its share of
operating costs. This was in part due to lower than expected proceeds from
wood sales. Recognizing the Government's inability to provide the amount
of funding estimated at appraisal, the Bank agreed to reduce Government's
share of operating expenses from 45% to 5S and the credit agreement was
amended to this effect in June 1983. However, project disbursements
remained slow and project management worsened. The project was extended by
one year to June 1986, but even then US$7.8 million of the IDA credit was
undisbursed and cancelled.



vi
Results
1.04           The project's principal physical accomplishments weres (1)
construction of offices, which were eventually to house the Forestry
Administration headquarterai (ii) the maintenance and exploitation of 1,100
(instead of target of 1,650) of exis%ing plantations; (iII) planting and
maintenance of 1,200 hectare (instead of 1,600 target) plantation; (Lv)
management of 400 hectares (instead of target 1,000) of natural forests;
end (v) production and distribution of 1.5 million seedlings (five times
the target of 0. million). The only project activities for which an
economic rate of return (ERR) i4as calculated was the industrial plantations
which proved to be unprofitable. An ERR of 16Z was calculated (including
indirect benefits) at appraisal but the re-estimated ERR (direct benefits
only) is negative due to marketing difficulties: the amount of wood sold
was less than estimated at appraisal, the sale price was lower and the
transport costs were higher. Even if the yield of wood per unit area was
doubled, the sale price would need to triple in order for this activity to
b6 profitable. The number of seedlings distributed free to farmers was
much higher than expected, but the impact of this activity is unknown since
there was no monitoring of their survival rate and end use. However,
farmers are now purchasing seedlings which indicates some interest In tree
cultivation. The project did accomplish its objective of strengthening the
Forestry services, but whether this will be long-lasting remains to be
seen.
Sustainability
1.05           Because of the uneven results stated above and the
difficulty to monitor some activities of the project, the sustainability of
the project is questionable.
1.06           If one considers the forestry sector approach and the
objectives assigned to the project during appraisal, the project is a semi-
success. However, experience acquired over the last decade has shown that
only a multisectoral and participatory apprs.ch can generate sclutions to
the problem of natural resource degradation in West Africa. From this
perspective, the project's conception was limited and its impact has been
slight. Through its actions to strengthen the Forestry Administratiorn, it
did provide a building block for the definition of the more comprehensive
approach which is being developed today in Burkina Faso.



BURKINA FASO
FORESTRY PROJECT
(IDA Credit 982 UV)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I  THE FORESTRY SUBSECTOR
Resources
1.01           In 1978, the forestry sector represented about 6.5  of the
GNP (including hunting and fishing) and roughly 9.31 of exports (shes
nuts). However, these figures do not accurately reflect the important
role played by the natural forest covers in addition to supplying wood for
fuel and construction, it meets numerous other elementary needs of the
population (fruit, medication, fodder, and the like).
1.02           Burkina  Faso's  forests  are  characterized  by  bush
vegetation interspersed with limited areas of relatively dease forests.
Five per cent of the country is classified as Guinean woodland with an
anual rainfall of about   1,200 tmn; 85S  is  covered  by  Sudanian
savanna characterized by a relatively low tree canopy occurring in areas
with annual rainfall ranging from 600 to 1,200 mm the remaining 101
is Sahelian shrub savanna that receives less than 600 mm of rain a year.
Of the 27 million ha comprising Burkina Faso's total area, roughly 15
million (or 551) consist of slow-growing natural bush vegetation, about
3.5 million ha of which have been designated as parks, wildlife
sactuaries and forest reserves. Man-made forests, which represented about
6,700 ha in 1978, are planted mainly with fast-growing species such as
eucalyptus, Gmelina arborea, neem and teak. Most of these plantations
are located around Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso. Except for the
Anacardium (cashew) tree project near the latter city, all the plantations
are geared to the production of firewood and wood for construction, and
they  are  located  in the  Sudanian  zone.   Numerous village voodlots
have been planted by schools, youth organizations, and other groups,
but many of them are in wretched condition, primarily due to the lack of
maintenance.
1.03           The country's total needs for firewood in 1978 were
estimated as 4.8 million m3 (2.2 million tons), based on an estimated
annual per capita consumption of 0.7 m3 (315 kg) in the rural areas and
1.2 m3 (540 kg) for each urban dweller. The lower average consumption in
the rural areas is due to extensive use of millet stalks for fuel during
six months of the year. Urban districts accounted for 0.8 million m3 of the
total estimated use of firewood in 1978 and rural areas for 4 million m3.
'Dolotieres' (brewers of sorghum beer) were responsible for 14% of the
total firewood consumption. Only one percent of the aggregate output of
firewood is used in the form of charcoal. Building poles account for
an  additional consumption of 0.5 million m3.   In addition to firewood,
the natural forest cover provides fruit, tree-grown fodder, and reserve
pasturage for stock grazing in the dry season. It also protects the soil
from erosion, a particularly import-ant feature, since as bush fallow the



- 2 -
forest cover regenerates soil fertility as a part of the traditional
shifting cultivation system.
1.04           In  the  relatively  densely  populated  areas,  primarily
in the north central (Mossi) plateau, the cutting of wood for
fuel and construction--in bush fallow and unreserved forest areas
especially--has led to a decline of forest cover, thereby increasing the
danger of destroying the ecoJystems. Mazy other parts of the country are
also beginning to suffer frjnm the rapidly dwindling national sources of
firewood and building poles. The country's need for these products in 1978
represented an annual average cutting rate of 0.30 m3/ha, without counting
its 17 million ha of forestry cover (including bush fallows). In view of
the population growth rate, the amount of depletion will soon reach an
estimated 0.35 m;lha annual average potential production of this cover (cf.
par. 1.03). In short, population pressure is the major factor in the
decline of the forest cover because of the increasing encroachments on the
forest for additional crop and grazing Ld,ad. Unreserved forests areas are
being destroyed at a rate of 50,000 to 100,000 ha/yr as a result of
clearing for farming purposes, overgrazing, and bush fires.
Institutions
1.05           The  responsibility  for forestry-related activities  lies
with the Ministry of Environment and Tourism, which was reorganized in                   -
August 1979 and again by a presidential decree (Kiti) of March 19, 1986. 11
The project was therefore executed largely within the framework of the 1979
structures.
1.06           This ministry included a Director General of Environment 2/
in charge of five departments plus an Administrative and Financial Section.
The Director General's office was also responsible for coordinating the
work of four regional services known as 'Inspections departementales." The
five headquarters departments were: Forestry Management and Reforestation;
National Perks and Wildlife Reserves; Fishing and Fish Culture; Urban
Environment; and Studies and Planning. The last two departments were set
up as a result of the reorganization. A number of semi-autonomous
agencies, including the forestry school at Dinderesso (para. 1.16), report
directly to the Minister.
1.07           The new Director General's office was given responsibility
for formulating policy and monitoring general environmental development as
well as forestry matters in particular. It also served as a liaison agency
with other ministries and institutions with which it worked to establish
land use policy. In doing so, it was supported by the Studies and Planning
Department, whose responsibilities in forestry-related matters included:
(a) data gathering, collection and interpretation; (b) keeping a permanent
forestry inventory; and (c) the preparation, planning and monitoring cf
projects.
1/ For a while, transport also came under this ministry.
2/ A second Director General was responsible for tourism matters.



- 3 -
1.08           The Forestry Management and Reforestation Department  was
made responsible for: (a) protection, management, reforestation and
exploitation of the national forest domains; (b) providing operational
support for the maintenance of a forestry inventory; (c) overseeing the
exploitation of the unreserved forests; and (d) collecting the
wood-cutting tax and other forest-related revenues.
1.09           In 1979 the Ministry had only six A-level professionals,
three of whom were undergoing training abroad. The Departmental
Inspectorships had a staff of 216, whose services were shared by the
Departments of Forestry, Parks and Fishing. Because of its small staff,
particularly at the managerial level, the Forestry Administration could
undertake only modest works, and was unable to carry out most of its
responsibilities. The situation was considerably aggravated by a general
shortage of credit, materials, vehicles and supplies. As a result, the
Forestry Management and Reforestation Department was unable to ensure the
necessary surveillance and protection to prevent unlawful cutting and
clearing of the forests and fires. Except for a very limited collection of
the taxes on firewood, the exploitation of the country's wood resources
was almost totally uncontrolled.
1.10           In the 1986 reorganization, the Office of the Director
General of Environment was replaced by an "Environmental Division" which,
with one "Inspection Generale" and four departments took over all of the
former General Directorate's responsibilities except for Administrative
and Financial Affairs and Studies and Planning, which were assigned at that
time to two other divisions. 3I   The four forestry inspectorships were
eliminated and replaced by 30 departmental directorates of the environment
and tourism (one in each province).
1.11           The Volta Valleys Management Authority (AVV) also plays a
role in the forestry subsector. This autonomous agency of the Planning
Ministry has overall responsibility for the development of those valleys,
in respect to other sectors as well as for forestry. It controls some
16,000 ha of natural forests in the Ouagadougou region, while Forestry
administration is responsible for the rest of the country.
Forestry Proiects
1.12           A considerable number of externally financed forestry
projects are now at different stages of completion or preparation
throughout the country. -    They consist of the creation of vast forestry
plantations, reconstruction of the Dinderesso Forestry School (para.
1.16), village woodlots, and forestry management. The chief donors involved
are: (a) bilateral institutions from West Germany, France (FAC, CCCE), the
Netherlands, Switzerland, the United States and Canada; (b) multilateral
31 A fourth division is responsible for tourism and hotel accommodations.
4/ In 1986, an FAO report listed 29 projects in progress: 21 for the
forestry sector , six for fishing, and two for hunting.



institutions such as FED and UNDP/FAO; and (c) nongovernmental
organisations such as the World Council of Churches, Catholic Assistance,
OXFAM, and AFRICARE.
1.13           Between 1975 and 1977, the first FAO/UNDP forestry project
(UPV/721029) made it possible to plant about 1,650 fast-growing species
(Gmelina, eucalyptus, neem and Cassia) at four different sites, three near
Ouagadougou and the other near Bobo-Dioulasso.   At the end of the project,
these plantations were turned over to the Forestry Directorate for
maintenance (para. 2.02). The chief objective of a second project (UPV-
78/004), which covers three years (1979 through 1981), was to conduct the
necessary baseline studies in order to strengthen the Forestry
Administration.
Forestry Education
1.14           Burkina Faso's forestry staff is classified in four
categories:
A level:    Management level, consisting cf two subgroups:
Al:   Ingenieurs des eaux et forets--those
completing forestry studies equivalent to
university or graduate levels;
A2:   Ingenieurs des travaux--those completing
advanced technical forestry studies;
B level:    Controleurs--intermediate level for forestry
technicians:
C level:    Agents techniques--senior field staff;
D level:    Preposes--junior field staff.
1.15           The Institute for Rural Development, formerly the
Ouagadougou Institut Superieur Polytechique (ISPO) of the University of
Ouagadougou gives university level forestry courses. University training
above the licence level is generally acquired abroad, and it is usually
financed by bilateral aid. The Institute now turns out 15 to 20 foresters
every year (as compared with the first graduating class of three persons).
1.16           The Dinderesso Forestry School--which was financed jointly
by the Government and USAID from 1979 to 1985--trains B, C, and D-level
staff. Its goal is to train 20 B-level (3 years of study), 40-50 C-level
(two-year course), and 50-60 D-level (one-year course) graduates each
year. Thus far, recruitment is based on a competitive examination.
Forestry Research
1.17           All scientific research is conducted under the direction of
the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research. Basic guidelines
are set by the Conseil National de la Recherche Scientifique et Technique



- 5 -
(CNRST), whose chief task is to coordinate research programs. Specific
forestry research programs are conducted by the Centre Technique Forestier
Tropical (CTFT) which was set up in Burkina Faso in 1960 with bilateral aid
from France, and is affiliated with the nation's Institut de Recherches
Biologiques et Technologiques (IRBET).
1.18           The CTFT conducts three large-scale research programs in
Burkina Faso: (a) eucalyptus cultivation and selection of seeds for the
Sahelo-Sudanian region; (b) etudies of various exotic species other than
eucalyptus; and (c) research on local species native to the Sahelian area.
Experiments carried out in the first program have yielded promising results
in species provenance (especially that of E. camaldulensis) and planting
techniques. Most of these programs are carried out in the Ouagadougou area
with a small component at Bobo-Dioulasso.
1.19           Forestry research in Burkina Faso is one of the most active
of all the CILSS countries. However, the means available to
it--particularly in terms of scientific staff--are utterly inadequate for
the overall needs of the forestry sector. Moreover its relations with
Forestry Administration have deteriorated since it is no longer under the
same department, thus seriously impairing its contribution to forestry
development.
Obiectives and Strategies
1.20           The Government's highest priority objective in the forestry
sector at the time of the appraisal was to strengthen the Forestry
Administration, turning it into an effective policy formulating and
executing body so that it could: (a) take stock of the country's forestry
resources and needs for forestry products; (b) define priorities and
objectives; (c) undertake and coordinate projects; (d) maintain adequate
control over production; and (e) produce enough revenue to support forestry
management and other programs in the forestry subsector.
1.21           A second priority was to devise appropriate action in the
rural forestry field to ensure adequate future supplies of firewood,
building poles, fruit trees and fodder for the rural population, who
represent about 90% of the total population and account for 80% of firewood
consumption. As the natural forest cover continues to decline and
the population to increase, the gap between supply and demand is expected
to widen drastically in the near future, even in the regions that are
relatively well endowed with forestry resources. Local wood shortages were
already occurring in many rural areas. It was therefore imperative to
start testing rural forestry actions designed to increase the supply of
wood for fuel and construction with the active participation of the rural
population. Experience has shown that past programs in this field--notably
the establishment of village woodlots and campaigns against brush
fires--had been largely unsuccessful because of the lack of interest on the
part of the local population. In other words, such operations had to be
reformulated (para. 2.10) in such a way as to convince the population to
take part. Quick results could not be expected, but the Government had to
make ongoing emphasis on forest protection and implementation of forestry



- 6-
improvement programs an integral part of its rural development policy in
order to ensure support at the village level.
1.22           The third priority was to Improve ehk  supply of wood for
fuel and construction in the chief urban centers I.y establishing tree
plantations. This would help to: (a) contain the rapid rise in firewood
prices, thus directly benefiting the low-income groups who had no fuel
alternatives; and (b) impede and eventually reverse the decline of natural
forest cover around the towns, and thus prevent further environmental
destruction. Rainfall in the Sudanian zone (800 to 1,200 mm annsually) was
deemed sufficient to secure satisfactory wood output from selected species
of eucalyptus and gmelina, which can yield 5 to 10 m3/ha/year.
1.23           A fourth priority is the management of natural forest
reserves. No modern management techniques were applied in Burkina Faso's
forest reserves, nor are they now, mainly because of a lack of means and
information about forestry techniques to improve the natural stands. The
application of known techniques would have three advantages: (a) it would
substantially improve wood production while still maintaining the forest
cover; (b) it would enable the present trained forestry staff to work more
effectively; and (c) these techniques, if properly applied, would produce
revenue at least equal to the management costs.
1.24           These 1979 objectives have been retargeted at different
times and in various forms since then, but with greater emphasis on
conservation of the forestry heritage. A particular case in point was the
July 15, 1985 declaration of a triple campaign (prevention of fire, abusive
cutting, and straying of livestock), with parallel emphasis placed on fuel
savings (improved stoves) and the possibility of tapping alternative
sources of energy (solar, for example).



- 7 -
II. PROJECT CONCEPTUALIZATION
Oritin
2.01           The Bank conducted a sector study of West African fo estry
in 1974-1975, which covered most of the countries rich in timber. 51
Early in 1976, it was decided to complete the study by a brief report on
the role of forestrv in rehabilitating the countries that had been affected
by serious drought at the start of the 70s. The report dealt with the
major political problems and constraints in the arid and semi-arid zones of
West Africa and identified a number of sectors in which the Bank could have
a beneficial  influence.   It was based largely on the documentation and
conclusions of the CILSS/UISOIFAO Conference held in Dakar in April 1976,
at which eight countries 6- presented their respective forestry programs
and defined the projects for which they sought financing. As a result of
the Conference, the FAO/World Bank sent a first reconnaissance mission to
Burkina Faso, including an observer from the World Bank. It was followed by
a second mission, which drew up the project preparation report.
Preparation
2.02           The  project proposed by the FAO Investment Center included
the following components:
a)  Industrial reforestation (on force account) of 3,200 ha in the
Maro forest reserve 70 km northeast of Bobo-Dioulasso, for the
production of firewood, charcoal, poles, posts, and lumber for
construction.
b)  Rural reforestation (by the villagers) of 320 ha in the Bobo-
Dioulasso ORD region for the production of firewood and building
poles.
c)  Maintenance and protection of 1,649 ha of plantations
established by a UNDPIFAO project. The Forestry Service lacked
the necessary funds for this purpose: at the time of the mission,
part of the planted area had already burned, and the whole area
was at risk.
Appraisal and Post-Appraisal
5/ Cameroon, Zaire, Ghana, Cote d'Ivoire, Central African Republic, Gabon,
Nigeria, and Liberia.
6/ Chad, Cape Verde, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Sudan and Burkina Faso.



- 8 -
2.03           In response to a 7equest from the Government of Burkina
Faso, an IDA appraisal mission - visited the country in October 1978.
After some disagreement with the Planning Ministry, mainly in regard to
various baseline data and the relative importance to be assigned to
institutional strengthening, a post-appraisal mission 81 returned to
Burkina Faso in April 1979. A five-year project was then established an
agreement with the Govermnent. It differs from the one prepared by the
FAO/CP mission, particularly in respect to inclusion of a substantial
"institutional strengthening" component; reduction of the area to be
planted at Maro (1,600 instead of 3,200); and the proposed natural forest
works.
2.04           At the time of the appraisal, the chief problems to be
solved were the followings
i)  the Forestry Administration's crucial lack of trained managerial
staff and nquipment, whence its inability to coordinate and plan
forestry activities and manage the country's forestry assets.
li)  the increasing pressure on the natural stands, particularly given
the need to provide the wood required for fuel and construction.
iii)  the failure of rural forestry operations.
iv)  the lack of baseline data to establish a long-term forestry
policy.
2.05              To solwe these problems, at least in part, the mission
proposed:
a)      For point i) above:
-     The reinforcement of central service staff, with
specialized training of some of the Burkinabe managerial
personnel.
-     The provision and operation of means of transport
-    Assumption of responsibility for  various plantations
that are in danger of disappearing due to the lack of
maintenance and protection.
-    A feasibility study of a national forestry fund.
b)      For point ii):
7/ The mission consisted of Messrs. J. Gorse, C. Bolduc, and T. Winston
from the Bank, plus C. Bailly (consultant).
8/ Messrs. J. Gorse and C. Bolduc.



Establishment of 1,600 ha of rainfed plantations, which
would also serve to train national staff to manage
large-scale operations.
Exploitation of 1,650 ha of existing plantations that were
taken over by the project (cf. point a) above).
Pilot management of 1,000 of natural forest.
c)   For point iii)s
-     An exhaustive study of the operations mounted in this field
and the results they have produced.
-     The implementation of village plantations, using procedures
that take into account previous failures in this field.
d)  For point iv), project participation in studies now being conducted
by FAO (UNDP) on the resources and needs for wood-derived products,
with a view to drafting a summary document.
2.06           Given the local situation, technical assistance was included
in the project (project management, implementation of planting, maintenance
of the material, and forestry research).
2.07           A meeting was held at the Bank on November 16, 1978 upon the
return of the appraisal mission, at which its proposals were discussed and
approved. The following decisions were adopteds
I) The Government of Burkina Faso was to establish budgetary
allocations for strengthening of the central services.
ii)  Since the project had not included a substantial training
component because of the negotiations in progress with USAID for a
second phase of the 'Forestry Development and Training Project'
at Dinderesso, it was important that the Government ensure
financing of that second phase prior to negotiations for the IDA
loan.
iii) If necessary, the loan could cover 90S of the total project cost,
net of taxes.
iv)  Various studies would be undertaken prior to actual startup of the
project thanks to the MFPP, which would also allow a quicker start
on maintenance and protection of existing plantations that were to
be taken ever by the project.
v) Creation of a revolving fund in the amount of US$500,000.



- 10 -
2.08           It was emphasized at the same meeting that the project's
economic justification could not be dissociated from the costs and benefits
of a long-term program for development of the overall forestry sector.
Prolect Obiectives
2.09          Scheduled to take five years, the project's objectives were:
a)   To strengthen the Forestry Administration.
b)   To improve the provision of wood for fuel and construction at
Ouagadougou by new plantations, exploitation of existing
plantations, and pilot administration of 1,000 ha of natural
forest.
c)  To reduce the pressure of the rural population on forestry stands
by developing peasant forestry.
d)   To conduct various studies (para. 3.07 iv) designed to provide a
basis for a lasting forestry policy, particularly the feasibility of a
second phase (para. 3.08 above).
e)   To take part in forestry training.
Prolect Description
2.10           Pursuant  to  the  agreement  issued  by  t:he  Bank's  Board
of Directors, the project consists of the following components:
I) Strengthening of the Forestry Administration through:
-    Assignment of additional staff at the central level.  This
staff, whether forestry or nonforestry, should have a
specialized   knowledge   of   various   fields
(inventory, economics, plantations and land management).
-     Provision  of  means  of  transport  for  the  central  and
outlying  services,  the  operation  of which  would   be
supported by the project.
-     Construction of a building at Ouagadougou to house the
project executive offices, for later use by the service
headquarters of the Forestry Administration.
-     Engagement of an expatriate researcher for a period of five
years who would be responsible for wiorking with the local
structures in conducting a program of project-related
research.                                                                K
ii) Forestry operations, which were to includet



- 11 -
-    Maintenance and protection of 1,650 of plantations
established by the FAOIUNDP project (UPV/721029) near
Ouagadougou (1,100 ha) and Bobo-Dioulasso (540 ha).
-    Rainfed plantation of 1,600 ha in the MARO forest reserve
(60 km north of Bobo-Dioulasso).
-    Pilot management of 1,000 ha in the same forest.
-    Execution of 325 ha of peasant plantations.
iii)     Studies and training.  This component called for:
-    A study of rural forestry based on the initial conclusions
and recommendations of the FAOIUNDP project (UPV/781004).
-     The study of a possible National Forestry Fund, based on
the conclusions of that FAOIUNDP project.
-     A feasibility study of a second phase of the IDA project,
to be conducted in the course of the last two years of the
first phase.
2.11           The project was to be carried out by the Forestry
Administration, with the Director General of the Environment as project
director. Assisted by a financial and administrative advisor (expatriate)
hired for five years, he was directly responsible for the 'Forestry
Administration strengthening" component. 'Forestry Operations" were the
responsibility of the Forestry Management and Reforestation Department, to
be executed either under direct State control (maintenance and exploitqation
of the FAO/UNDP plantations), or through the intermediary of the UOB 9 , a
structure created by the project with headquarters at Bobo-Dioulasso, which
was responsible for all project activities in that rcgion. The UOB was to
be headed by local managers, assisted for a period of five years by two
expatriate experts (silviculture and mechanical engineering).
2.12           The total cost of the project, including contingencies, was
estimated as 3,667 million CFAF (17.5 1979 US$), 2,018 million CFAF of it
in foreign exchange. These figures were net of all identifiable taxes and
fees, and they took into account an estimated price escalation of 23%
throughout the life of the project. The proposed IDA credit of US$14.5
million covered 83% of the net project costs, corresponding to 94X of the
expenses in foreign exchange and 702 of those in local currency. The
Government's contribution was supposed to come from budgetary funds,
possible assistance from the World Food Program (equivalent to 302 of the
wages for labor), and the proceeds from sales of wood resulting from land
clearing.
9/ The title of this "Bureau of Forestry Operations' in the evaluation was
later changed to the "Bobo-Dioulasso Operational Unit: UOB.



- 12 -
2.13           On December 28, 1981, NOrW1 Y contributed US$4,350,000 to the
financing of the project In the form of nonreimbursable aid.  This was to
defr-y the expenses incurred by Burkina Faso on the IDA credit, in a ratio
of 1 to 3.33.



- 13 -
III. PROJECT EXECUTION
A. General Background
Effectiveness and Startup
3.01           The IDA credit was approved on February 12, 1980 and the
credit agreement was signed the following April 7. It was not until
December 31, 1980, however, that the credit was made available to the
Government.
3.02           The credit's effectiveness was subject to the following
conditions:
-   opening of the special project account;
-   reorganization of the Forestry Administration; and
-   recruitment of local staff for key positions, and contracting of
the expatriate administrative and financial advisor.
3.03           Execution of the project was somewhat delayed because of the
difficulties er -untered in hiring the administrative and financial advisor
and the changes that took place within the Ministry of Environment and
Tourism. At the start of the project, the General Secretary of the
Ministry also served as Director. Up to 1983, the project experienced
great financial difficulties because of tardy payment of the counterpart
funds due from the State (para. 3.62). This in turn caused delays in the
planting program which were exacerbated by drought, thus prolonging the
project by a year.   Since the project's conclusion, most of its activities
have been continued thanks to the remaining Norwegian grant financing.
Changes after the angraisal
3.04           Because the Government was unable to furnish the counterpart
funds--the amount of which had been greatly overestimated at the time the
project was appraised--the Bank agreed to reduce the Government's
contribution to the operating expenses (category 4), thereby cutting the
amount from 45% to 51.   This boosted the proportion of project costs
financed by IDA to 891. The Bank planned to cover the additional outlays by
means of a transfer from the "unallocated" item of the costs. The project
credit agreement was amended to that effect in June 1983.
3.05           The slow pace of project execution (para. 3.03) and the low
level of disbursoments led the Bank to propose that the project
disbursement period be extended by one year (terminating on June 30,
1986).  The project accounts were closed on September 30, 1986.  The
portion of the credit that had not been disbursed--US$7.8 million--was
cancelled.



_ 14 -
B. Execution
3.06           The execution of each project component is examined in turn.
Strentthenint of the Forestry Administration
3.07           This component included a number of featuress
-   assignment of additional staff at the central level:
-   provision of consultants' services;
-   construction of buildings to house the technical services
headquarters:
-  purchase of vehicles and various items of equipment for both
central and outlying services, plus defrayal of the corresponding
operating expenses; and
-   the granting of allowances for project staff.  This item, which
is strictly an accounting matter, is not discussed in the present
chapter.
J.08          The assignment of additional staff, to be paid by the state,
included 50 man/years at the engineer level (category A)s 30 man/years at
the construction engineer level (category A2); 23 man/years at the
controller level (category B); and 15 man/years of technical assistants
(category C). In Year 5 of the project, this complement was to consist of
12 A-level, 8 A2-level, 4 B-level, and 3 C-level staff. Irrespective of
their affiliation with forestry, these employees were to be distributed
among the different structures of the General Directorate of Environment
and Tourism as permanent staff members. At the end of 1986, the
headquarters services were performed by 39 Al and A2 level, 13 B-level, 10
C-level, and 4 D-level staff, all of whom were foresters with no special
training. .10/  The achievements are thus very different from those
envisaged, as are the benefits that may be expected from such additions to
the staff.
3.09           The provision of consultants' services was designed to
conduct the research to accompany !he operations planned in the Maro Forest
Reserve. The expert supplied for this purpose by the CTFT was unable to set
up the planned research actlvities, and this resulted in a lack of data on
the techniques for treating natural stands and the growth of the
plantations established at Maro. As a result of that lack, which was
I0/ This situation is the result of hiring graduates turned out by the IRD
at the rate of 15-20 a year. The overall service picture indicates that
the pyramid of cadres is upside down owing to the absence of direct
recruitment at the base and the decrease in levels C and D due to
retirement or promotion--a disturbing prospect for the future.



- 15 -
pointed out by the supervisors in 1985 (report dated 10-05-1985), the
expert's contract was not renewed at the end of his first 3-year stay.
3.10           The  construction  program was  more  important  than  had
been expected. In addition to the building at Somgande to house the
prolect offices (and later the Forestry Administration headquarters) and
various premises at Maro, the project financed the construction of:
-    Quarters for the 'Revolutionary Forestry Brigades," replaced,
pursuant to a decree, by the General Inspectorship of Waters and
Forests which has since been phased out. These buildings (about
250 m2, distributed among four one-story structures) are now
occupied by another MET service
-    Offices and housing for the Provincial Environment Z"partment
(the former Forestry Inspectorship) at Kenedougou, the forestry
stations at Hounde and Dagouma, and the tree nurseries at Hounde,
Kwa, and Oro Dara.
3.11           Located on a 6-ha plot of national land, the building at
Samgande--not counting its annexes (storehouses)--represents a constructed
area of about 600 m2 divided among 16 offices, an air-conditioned
conference hall, and six other facilities. It is completely functional,
and was moreover designed in such a way that a second story can be added.
Full utilization, however, is impeded by the lack of telephone service (the
lines cannot accommodate additional subscribers at present).
3.12           The delay in construction of the above building (scheduled
for Year 1 of the project, :.e., 1981, but not built until 1984) should be
noted. It was due to tardy compilation of the bidding documents; delays
stemming from the procedure for government annexation of the land; and
difficulties in ousting squatters on site.
3.13           Purchase of vehicles and equipment and operating expenses.
At the end of the project .LL this operation accounted for a total of 51
vehicles, plus two half-trailers originally bought to haul away the wood
produced by the UNDPIFAO plantations (para. 3.35). 121 The vehicles were
ttrned over to the Forestry Administration, which divided them between its
headquarters and the 18 Provincial Environment Departments that had the
smallest inventory of equipment (the other 12 were outfitted either by the
government or, as in most cases, by other operations). The project
supplied the fuel (200, and latec 100, liters of gasoline per month for
each 4-wheel vehicle), and ensured maintenance by means of various
procedures.   In return, the Provincial Departments submitted semiannual
reports accounting for the use made of these vehicles.
ll/ Situation as of September 30, 1985, to wit: 11 LV (sedans, station-
wagons and covered vans); 14 LV double-axle (Stoute Toyota), and 20
motorcycles.
121 A third semi-trailer was purchased to transport the output of Maro.



- 16 -
3.14           In addition to the foregoing contributions1 the project
assisted the Forestry Administration by helping to organize the wood
market. The purchase of the semi-trailers was supplemented by the opening
of 26 mini-markets (1 at Bobo-Dioulasso, 25 at Ouagadougou--later reduced
to one and five, respectively). These usually consisted of an enclosed
area with a shack for the manager. Firewood is brought there in bulk and
then cut into steres and faggots, while the lumber is separated into the
different categories of thickness and use.
Forestry Operations
3.15           Maintenance of the FAO/UNDP plantations started in 1979,
thanks to the MFPP.
3.16           The  project  initially  called  for  supplying  the
Forestry Administration with the financial means for maintenance,
exploitation and marketing of the output from the following FAO/UNDP
plantations:
- Ouagadougou region (Provinces of Bazega and Zoundweogo):
reforestation of Kombissiri          approx.     200 ha
reforestation of Dagouma             approx.     430 ha
reforestation of Mobere              approx.     470 ha
Total                                           1,100 ha
- Vicinity of Bobo-Dioulasso (Province of Houet):
reforestation of Dinderesso          approx.     550 ha
3.17           Since the resources of the FAO/UNDP project had been
exhausted by the time this project was appraised, those plantations were in
danger of disappearing (para. 2.02). It was therefore decided to have the
MFPP take them over: the first three have received two maintenance visits
since 1979 (mowing and cleaning of the firebreak), and the one at
Bobo-Dioulasso was serviced in March 1980.
3.18           At the request of the MET, the plantations at Bobo-Dioulasso
were placed under the responsibility of the 'Forestry Development and
Training Project," based at Dinderesso and financed by USAID. They were
returned to the care of the IDA project at the close of the USAID project
in 1985.
3.19           The project has thus had most of the responsibility for the
Ouagadougou plantations, which consist of the following species:



- 17 -
Ha
Eucalyptus camaldulensis, planted in 1975 and 1976           626
Azadirachta indica (neem), planted in 1975                   183
Cassia siamea, planted in 1975                               265
Acacia nilotica, planted in 1976                              25
Rounded total                                       1,100
3.20           At the same time (1981), the project met with financial
problems (para. 3.03), so that only the November 1981 maintenance could be
completed. Since 1982/83, the work has been practically confined to
cleaning of the fire lanes (by hand or with a grtder). Other maintenance
is performed only sporadically.
3.21           Operations started in 1984 at Dagouma.   By the end of 1985,
everything had been cut and marketed at Ouagadougou, except for some of the
faggots from Mobere.   The output of these operations is listed in
paragraph 4.02.
3.22           The works program established for these plantations
includes:
-     Manual cutting of grasses in the parcels to reduce the risk of
fire and the damage it would produce, and to foster the growth
of coppice shoots:
-     annual cleaning of firebreaks:
-     thinning of Eucalyptus coppices after exploitation.
Plans rightly call for substituting Eucalyptus camaldulensis for the Cassia
siamea and Neem, two species that have no prospects under the conditions
prevailing here. Cassia is not suitable for the Sudano-Sahelian zone, and
Neem does not do well in dense stands.
3.23           A visit to these plantations showed that the only work
performad there consists of isolating the coppice shoots in the 1975
parcels at Dagouma and cleaning the firebreaks.
3.24           The fires having been practically avoided thus far, the
project may be considered to have achieved its objective of protecting the
reforested plots in question. Their exploitation, however, should have
been followed up sooner by the thinning of coppices.
3.25           When the USAID project at Bobo-Dioulasso ended, the
Dinderesso plantations were turned over to the Forestry Administration,
which resumed their maintenance and exploitation, with the aid of the
project, as of January 4, 1985. Of the 201 ha of Eucalyptus camaldulensis,
60 were exploited in 1983 and 20 in 1985, and the project exploited 80 ha
in 1985/86. Firebreaks are executed regularly (including internal fire
strips planted with millet). The isolation of shoots, on the other hand,
was not continued. The chief problem with these plantations is that they



- 18 -
are located on fanming soil coveted by the neighboring populations--who
have never accepted the idea of forest reserves and who start the fires
that regularly invade and damage the plantations. The DPET at Houet has
been unable to resolve this problem; the project should have helped to do
80.
3.26           Execution of this subcomponent has therefore not met with
any serious difficulties, other than the problem of fires at Bobo-Dioulasso
and the disappointing sales of brushwood at Mobere.
3.27           Concerning the industrial plantations at Maro, despite the
extended prolect duration, only 1,199 ha were planted instead of the 1,600
scheduled. 131 The reasons for this shortfall are discussed further on.
3.28           The implementation techniques were improved from one crop
year to the next until a cross subsoil stratum was achieved after clearing
(1984 and ensuing years), with a more meticulous selection of land than had
been possible with the indications provided by the soil map drawn to a
scale of 1150,000, established with the help of the MFPP.
3.29           On the other hand:
a) Planting of the parcels was poorly done: only those of 1982
were well planted.
b) It was impossible to maintain the parcels as scheduled, either
for lack of labor at the proper time, or because the necessary
material was not available: as a result, only the 1981, 1985
and 1986 plantations could be cleaned twice in the year following
the planting, and none of the plantations set up over the five
years of the project received two maintenance treatments in the
following year. The lack of maintenance led to a considerable
decline in the production potential of the Eucalyptus
camaldulensis. This species is also greatly affected by the type
of soils a very clear ratio may be seen between the parcels at the
top and bottom of the slope and those on the flatland, which are
distinctly more satisfactory.
3.30           Gmelina arborea is more proms'ing than eucalyptus, but it
has not always received the necessary care: given the local ecological
conditions, planting among low stumps results in a proliferation of shoots
which is a threat to the production of construction lumber if the sprouts
are not removed. This operation was not properly performed except in the
1982 parcels. Pruning, which is just as essential for the production of
building lumber, has yielded fine results. But there has been substantial
cumulative delay, thus jeopardizing the interests of this operation on
numerous parcels.
13/ Similarly, the construction scheduled at Bobo-Dioulasso (offices and
accommodations for executive staff) was not carried out.



- 19 -
3.31           Thinning of the Omelina should start four years after
planting. This was not done on time, but since the growth of the stands
seems to fall substantially short of expectations, the damage may not be
too great.
3.32           On the other hand, it must be emphasized that the
plantations have been well protected against fire (a single fire, of
accidental origin, occurred on a 100-ha area in 1987), and there have been
no problems of animal encroachment.   The only incident of this type
occurred at the experimental parcel planted with local species, which was
invaded twice by grazing game.
3.33           In short, although planting of the stands could be said to
have been highly satisfactory in the face of the difficulties encountered
(cf. para. 4.34), those same problems prevented the necessary maintenance
and improvement. Furthermore, only a few bits and pieces of cartography
were produced.
3.34           The major stumbling blocks were the followings
-   the lack of adequate material at the time when it was needed
(particularly in the 1981 and 1986 crop years);
-   the shortage of labor for maintenance work (all years);
-   the dearth of financial means (1983 and 1984 crop years';
-   frequent drought; and
-   the lack of technical staff for improvement operations: the
isolation of coppice shoots, pruning, and thinning.
3.35           The problems with the sale of the wood produced by land
clearing was one of the causes of the project's financial difficulties
(para. 3.56) up to 1983.   It was due to the very great dilemma of
transport--which had clearly been underestimated at the time the project
was evaluated--between the production sites and the market. The poor
condition of the road from Maro to Bobo Dioulasso (60 km) quickly dissuaded
the private transporters from playing their planned role in the marketing
of wood from the project.
3.36           As a result, this function had to be performed by the
project starting in the 1982183 cycle, when a charrina component was added.
Project agents were sent to the IDA forestry project at Mali for a training
period, after which they began to produce charcoal at Maro by using the
Casamance pit-and-stacking technique. Considering the local conditions,
the results were excellent (weighted yield of 23Z).
3.37           The aggregate output was taken to Bobo-Dioulasso, at first
in trucks from the work site and later by a semi-trailer (1985). By the end
of the project, all of the stock had been sold, but the operation still
posted a financial loss (para. 6.01).



- 20 -
Adagtive Research
3.38           Responsibility for conducting forestry research in the
context of the project was entrusted to the MET with the aid of a technical
assistant, who was in turn helped by support missions from his headquarters
(the CTFT). The MET laid out the programs based on suggestions from the
CTFT and, in certain cases, established the procedures. These programs
were to consist, on the one hand, of research in connection with the
planting and, on the other, techniques for treating the natural stands that
could be used for the management of such forests.
3.39           The research on the planting component was to focus on the
production and improvement of planting stock, tree nursery techniques, and
monitoring of the plantations. At the end of the project, the situation
was the follow4ngs
a) Tests that failed, were not conducted, or proved unsatisfactoryt
-    fertilization of Omelina arboreal
-   comparative testing of Gmelina arborea provenance;
-   tree nursery studies;
-    follow-up on the plantations: incomplete use of the planting
mechanism and sporadically conducted observations.
b) Tests conducted but not exploited:
-    inventories.
c) Tests conducted and exploited:
-   phosphorus fertilization of Eucalyptus camaldulensis: results were
not significant;
-   soil preparation:  this test revealed the economic expediency  of
subsoil crossing techniques. 14!
d) Tests in progress:
-   growth in local species (test plot and root-measuring tapes).
14/ Within the space of two years, the growth in circumference of parcels
where subsoiling had been crossed was one third greater than that of
parcels with simple subsoiling. Since the extra cost was 18,000 CFAF per
ha, additional production of 6 m3 is enough to make the operation show a
profit. This has been accomplished, even with plantations that produce
only 5 m3/ha/year.



- 21 -
3.40           Research on techniques for treating natural stands were to
be conductod in the context of the pilot management of a 1,000 ha plot,
which was then reduced to 400 ha. Preliminary studies were made there, and
three experimental protocols were implemented.
3.41           The following preliminary studies were made:
-    Experimental inventory of 71 ha of tree savanna and 40 ha of
bush savanna.
-   C arts of plant formations in the 400 ha selected.
-   Selection of representative trees for the growth rate studies
(placement and bimonthly reading of root measuring tapes): 91
trees representing 42 different species were selected.
3.42           The study protocols were the following:                                     -
a) Determination of the best season for cutting each species
(cutting was performed at three-month intervals).
b)  Study of the production of coppice (four rotations, featuring
intervals of 5, 10, 15, and 20 years were examined).
c) Comparative study of different types of fires:
- early annual fires;
- early fires after two years of protection:
- late fires.
These fires were to be lighted in both exploited and
unexploited parcels.
3.43           A site with integral protection was to be managed.  The
three mechanisms were put into place in 1984, including roads, firebreaks,
placards and labeling of trees. Inept performance, followed by the
departure of the expert in charge of these mechanisms (para. 3.09), led to
poor surveillance and inadequate follow-up on them. Part of the parcels
caught fire after the cutting, and a second fire ruined tests a) and b) in
1987. It is thus unlikely that these tests will produce reliable results.
3.44           Furthermore, the results of the studies cited in para. 3.41                i_
were neither analyzed nor interpreted, although they represent a valuable
collection of data.   The project could therefore be considered to have
failed entirely insofar as silvicultural treatment of natural stands-an
item of paramount importance to the management of these stands--is
concerned.
3.4;,         Rural afforestation.  The project called for the plants
produced in its tree nurseries to suffice for planting 325 ha. The



- 22 -
following table compares the forecast and the actual production (figures
in thousands of seedlings)t
Crop Year
1980181  1981182  1982183  1983184  1984185  1985/86  Total
Forecast        -        50        75       100      100       -       325
Actual         150      200       150       125      390     450    1,465
3.46           The  species that is by far most in demand is Eucalyptus
camaldulensis because of its use for building poles and posts: next, and
listed in varying order depending on the nurseries, come Gmelina arborea,
Cassia Slamea, and teak. The only fruit tree grown in the nurseries--the
mango (grafting of which has started)--is much lower on the list.
3.47           These seedlings were grown in four nurseries (Maro, managed
by the project; and Kwa, iounde and Orodara, managed by the DPET).
Although the production costs vary considerably--depending on the species,
the nurseries, and t.he year--the project appears to have accomplished much
more than the or1,iral objectives set for this component.
3.48           While performance in the production of plants was excellent,
it is considerably more difficult to evaluate the use to which it has been
put. Responsibility for distributing and planting the seedlings, like
monitoring of the plantations, was assigned to the Forestry Service. To
date, the agency has not sent a single report on the use made of the
plants, their survival rate, the maintenance treatment given, and the
protection they have received against fire and livestock encroacbment.
The several recent plantations that have been visited and found to be in
highly satisfactory condition, can only provide an indication of the
operation's quantitative success.
3.49           In terms of quality, the project appears to have helped
instill an interest in tree cultivation in the local customs.   The
project nurseries now have customers who are willing to pay 75 CFAF for an
Acacia abida, 125 'FAF for a Terminalia mantali, and 150 CFAF for a grafted
mango tree. Given the distribution of seedlings stimulated by the project,
it has undoubtedly contributed to this new attitude in regard to trees.
Studies and Trainina
3.50           The project has provided very substantial logistical support
for the studies conducted by FAO in the context of its project UPV/781004.
It has not, however, been able to carry out any of its own scheduled
studies.
i) The study on rural forestry was in fact to be based on the
findings of the FAO studies, but the date when the summary of



- 23 -
those studies was to be ready did not allow time for coniducting
the one on rural forestry.
il) The same is true of the contemplated study of a National Forestry
Fund. In any event, such a fund was established on
August 24, 1987; but the means available to it (see Arnex 3) and
the fact that it is an open Treasury account keep it from being
optimally effective.
iii) The feasibility study of a second phase of the project, which
should have been started in 1983, has not been nade,
mainly because the authorities of Burkina Faso have evinced less
and less interest in borrowing to finance a forestry project.
3.51           The project called for overseas study grants  for levels A
and B. Since the second stage of the USAID project at Dinderesso included
a training cycle for the B level (water and forest inspectors), the project
did not need to finance those studies. On the other hand, five foresters
were sent to Katibougou (Mali) for a four-year course. The firet trainees
were due to return in mid-1988, at which time they would start eight. months
of practical training in Burkina Faso--in  principle,  in conjunction with
the project or, at least, with expenses defrayed by the project.
3.52           At the end of the second stage of the USAID project at
Dinderesso, the school found itself abruptly deprived of a substantial
portion of its income. Assistance was then requested from the IDA project
until additional financing would become available. An 'emergency fund" of
15 million CFAF waR released to allow the school to continue operating. At
the request of the government, the project released an additional 60
million CFAF for the construction of two buildings (classrooms and
dormitories for about 40 students).
Procurement
3.53           A spot check was made of procurement procedures each year in
the course of the audit. Contracts were let in accordance with the terms
of the Credit Agreement, and an examination of those procedures elicited
no specific observations.
Proiect Disbursements
3.54           In current terms, the expenditures incurred up to September
30, 1986--the closing date for the IDA project--amounted to some 2.6
billion CFAF. Despite the one-year extension, actual outlays represented
only 68Z of the forecast amount in current CFA francs after deducting the
project receipts.
3.55           The difference between the anticipated and actual figures is
due in part to the dollar exchange rate, which was low at the time of the
evaluation (when one dollar was equal to 210 CFAF) but remained at a high
level throughout almost the entire life of the project (average 338 CFAF).



- 24 -
Sources of Financint and Disbursements
3.56           IDA was to finance 832 of the costs, with FAO providing 3Z
(for the expatriate staff of the Department of Studies and Planning) and
the Burkina Faso Government 14%. Because of the serious problems of the
state treasury--which threatened to stop the project, and delayed the first
payment of the counterpart funding until February of 1983--the credit
agreement was amended to reduce the government's contribution (see
paragraph 4.04).
3.57           Disbursements of the credit started six months later than
expected and continued until 1987, but were much smaller than scheduled,
particularly in the first few years. When the accounts were closed, only
US$6.7 million (i.e., 46% of the IDA credit) had been expended.
3.58           Starting in  1981, Norway's participation in financing of
the project (para. 2.13) had begun.  This participation was used te
reimburse IDA for 302 (i.e. in a ratio of 1 to 3133) of the expenses made
by the Government against the IDA credit.
d            Expenses bv Categ_ory and Component
3.59           An examination of the expenses by category shows the
pri.ncipal differences between the forecast and the actual outlays for the
project.
Utilization of the IDA Credit, by Cost Category
Cateaorv                           Credit       Used          Not      Used
...... (in US$000) .....          (2)
Vehicles and material                2,200       1,643         557      25
Construction & infrastructure        1,200         370         830      69
Operating costs:
-  Strengthening of For. Admin.   3,900        1,211       2,689     69
-  Forestry operations             1,500       1,751 -'   (251)    (17)
Experts and consultants              2,300         928       1,372      60
Studies and training                   600          44         556      93
Audits                                  80          76           4       5
Project preparation                    520         518           2       -
Permanent advance                      500         132 16/     368      74
Unallocated                          1,700           0       1.700    100
Total                          14,500      6,673        7,827     54
15/ The proportion of expenses financed by IDA was increased from 551 to
952 as of June 1983.
16/ Difference in the exchange rate between the payment in 1981 and the
recapitulation in 1987.



- 25 -
3.60           The foregoing table calls for the following comments:
a) There was no need to use the "unallocated" item due to the
favorable situation of the exchange rates.
b) The 'studies and training' category is almost intact because the
studies anticipated were not conducted.
c) The allocations for construction, infrastructure and operation
of the Forestry Administration were not utilized because the
offices at Bobo-Dioulasso were not built, and the salaries and
allowances of local staff had been overestimated.
d) The cost of the expatriate consultants and experts was lower
than anticipated, since the duration of their contracts was
shortened.
e) The only category in which expenses exceeded the forecast is the
opersting cost of the forestry activities. This was due to the
change in the percentage of expenses financed by IDA.
3.61           To provide a clear comparison of the expenses by component
and by year, the figures were converted to constan; 1979 terms, using
coefficients based on the consumer price index. 17   The results are
summarized below.
Comparison of Expenses (constant 1979 prices)
Component                                        Amount Used
(Z of Forecast Amt.)
Strenatheninf of Forestry Administration                     54
Infrastructure                                               123
Equipment                                                    106
Technical Assistance                                          50
Operation                                                     41
Forestry work                                                 71
Infrastructure                                               31
Equipment                                                     90
Technical Assistance                                          58
Operation                                                     76
Studies and Training 1                                        29
Total                                                         61
1. Including audits
17/ In accordance with IMF International Statistics, February 1988.



- 26 -
3.62           Since the project started in 1981, the expenses of that year
have been compared with the forecast for Year 0 of the project in the
evaluation report. Although almost 80S of the MFPP funds were used--and
due in part to the lack of counterpart funding--the rate of disbursement in
the first two years of the project was slower than scheduled. The amount
used for forestry work in Year 2, on the other hand, was considerably
greater than the forecast figure. From the standpoint of components, that
of the forestry work was completed, particularly in terms of equipment.
The funds earmarked for infrastructure and equipment to strengthen the
Forestry Administration were not sufficient, but only half of the amount
assigned to technical assistance and operating costs was used.
Costs by Activity
3.63           The project accounting system provides an indication of the
real cost of the operations. Those of the Maro plantations and the
production of seedlings are of particular interest.
(a) Plantations                                                                       m
3.64           The cost per hectare of carrying out the plantation work
varies significantly from one year to the next, especially in terms of the
number of hectares planted (economies of scale), even though the operations
at the start of the project involved more work. The consistently most
Important cost item was for machinery and tractors: without depreciation,
this amounted to an average 40X of the total cost (+ 272 with the
depreciation allowance). Labor, on the other hand, costs an average of
only 152 of the total, and the seedlings account for 25X, excluding
depreciation.
3.65           To facilitate comparison with the amounts in the appraisal
report, all the costs have been converted to constant 1987 terms.  The
figures listed below show that the average actual cost is not too different
from the forecast, although there are important variations.
Year                   Expenditures                          Forecast
Excluding         With               Excluding        With
Depreciation                        Depreciation
~~.*.*....... ( F      / a ...*......... ......o...........(CA/a
1981         371,840              455,810
1982         212,900              309,340
1983         221,640              340,840
1984         282,470              383,000
1985         136,910              178.180
1986         307,490              372.190
Average      255,540              339,890         230,200 1      303,710 1
1. Based on the figures in Table X of the evaluation report, excluding
expenses of forestry exploitation and maintenance.



- 27 -
3.66           These figures represent the direct costs of the forestry
work.  To estimate the indirect costs, the expenses of the project
management office and the Bobo-Dioulasso Operating Unit were divided in
accordance with their share of the forestry plantation work; with 322 of
the outlays for the project office and 64Z for the UOB, the indirect costs
per hectare are on the order of 327,000 CFAF. This practically doubles the
cost of preparing the plantations, thus making it even more difficult for
them to show a profit.
3.67           Another item not included in the direct cost figures shown
above is the expense of maintaining the plantations. The figures available
for the Maro plantations range from 10,000 CFAF to 46,000 CFAF/ha/year,
with an average of 25,000 CFAF.
(b) Seedlings
3.68           The production cost for seedlings varies widely, depending
on the nursery.  The average costs of the Maro nursery are three times
higher than those of the one at Kwa.  In this context it is interesting to
note that labor accounts for almost 702 of the costs at Kwa and only 352 at              a
Maro, where much more extensive use was made of machinery, particularly in
the first few years of the project, and mechanical 3prinkling equipment is
used. The cost of production at Maro has dropped over the years as the
use of labor and the volume of production have increased. In constant
1987 terms, the average cost per unit for producing the seedlings ranged
from 26 CFAF at Kwa and 74 CFAF at Maro. When the indirect costs of the
project management office and the UOB--estimated in the same way as those
of the plantations--are added to the direct costs, the average cost of
production for all of the nurseries is 42 CFAF per seedling.
Performance of the expatriate staff, entrepreneurs, and suppliers
3.69           With the exception of the researcher provided by the CRFT
(para. 3.09), the services performed by the expatriates, both under
contract and as consultants, were satisfactory. The administrative and
financial counselor was particularly efficient in setting up procedures for
the project. This input also facilitated the work of producing the audit
reports, which are excellent.
3.70           There is no particular comment to be made regarding the
enterprise responsible for building the office premises. The services of
the Societe Buyers were disappointing: the materials furnished at the start
of the project were very expensive and in many cases not suitable for their
intended purpose.



- 28 -
IV. PROJECT IMPACT ON THE FORESTRY SUBSECTOR
Production
4.01           The project's production comes from two sources:  (1) the
mobilization of resources that already exist; and (2) the creation of new
resources.
4.02           Preexisting resources are mobilized through:
I)  The  exploitation  of  the  FAO/UNDP  plantations  (1,100  ha),
the production of which has been es,.ablished at around 17,500
steres and 27,000 poles, forks and end stakes.
iI)  Sale of the products from  land cleared  by the project for the
rainfed plantations at Maro and from the protocols for the study
of natural forest management. Some of the products consisted of
charcoal.
4.03           The lack of follow-up on the completed plantations makes it
particularly hard to evaluate the anticipated output from the plantations.
Assuming the coppicing of the Omelina parcela to be feasible, the
production of the Maro plantations for the next 50 years would probably be
as follow:s
Eucalyptus
Firewood (steres)                                  26,820
Poles (units)                                     601,750
Posts (units)                                     104,125
Gmelina arborea
Firewood                                           61,200
Lumber (sawn, m3)                                  43,200
Teak
Firewood (sterts)                                   2,610
Building poles (units) l                           20,300
Posts (units) 2                                     8,700
Stakes (units) 3                                   17,400
1. 10-12 cm in diameter
2. 13-17 cm in diameter
3. Greater than 17 cm in diameter
Environment
4.04           The project's impact on the environment comes from two of
its components: (i) institutional strengthening; and (ii) the rural
afforestation.



- 29 -
4.05           The DPET was to submit semiannual reports on the use of the
vehicles received from the project in the context of institutional
strengthening. A reading of those reports reveals the following points:
a)  In manr cases, the IDA vehicle is the only one to which the
service had access (in certain particularly impoverished provinces
the vehicle was frequently requisitioned for purposes which the
regular users considered at times to be abusive).
b)  The foregoing procedure allowed the various departments to carry
out their routine functions: polica duty, surveillance of the
forestry reserves, and sundry meetings.
c)  Having thus been rendered mobile, the Forestry Administration was
able to perform its assigned quota of functions in carrying out
the government's new forestry policy (eliciting public awareness,
showing films, training peasant foresters, conducting the "three
campaigns," and the like).
d)   Lastly, the trucks were used mainly to set up and stock nurseries
and to transport and distribute plants, while monitoring of the                I
plantations could be performed with ligbt vehicles.
4.06           In the districts where it operated, the project helped to
improve the environment by promoting the plantations that were established,
either by individuals or by various groups: the fact that the
plants--including tree seedlings--are beginning to be purchased by private
individuals seems to attest to the success of these endeavors (para. 3.49).
Technological Progress
4.07           The project cannot be said to have accomplished everything
it might have done in regard to silviculture of exotic species.   In some
instances it showed the technical (pruning) and economic validity of
certain techniques (such as the cross subsoil technique, for example,
which has already been used in the Gonse plantations); but some of the
problems of maintaining and improving the plantations remain unsolveds
thinning, the number and nature of maintenance operations (lack of
concomitant research). No progress was made in respect to the treatment of
natural forests. The "Casamance" charring process, on the other hand, may
be considered, from the local standpoint, as an instance of technological
progress.
Technical Experience of Forestry Staff
4.08           Thanks to the project and partly to its detriment owing to
the excessive changes, a goodly number of Burkina Faso's foresters were
gi,vn an opportunity to deal with problems they would not have faced 'n the
ordinary course of events: in particular, management of a large mechanized
work site, the marketing of forestry products (including the production of
charcoal), and certain aspects of the forestry research component
(management). This type of "on-the-job training' should be considered as
one of the especially positive features of the project.



- 30 -
V. BENEFITS AND RATE OF RETURN
5.01           The exploitation of wood from the land clearing process Was
scheduled for the first year of the project, but in practice the sale
thereof did not start until the third year. This was due to problems with
marketings 60 km of bad road separate the project area from the nearest
market (which is Bobo-Dioulasso), and there is no shortage of wood in that
area. The cost of exploiting the wood was much higher than the selling
price, even without the expense of crosscutting nd clearing, which had to
be performed in any case to prepare the land.  -8!  According to the audit,
the costs of exploiting and transporting wood in the fourth year were:
Total cost          Cost
283.242 faRRots   per faguot
.  .   .  (CFAF) . . .
Timber cutting + clearing of parcels            p.m.              p.m.
Bundling (labor)                             4,865,343            17.2
Transport from Maro to Bobo (150 km RT)
Project trucks                            8,811,388            40.7
Transporters                              2,716,523
Supplies and misc.                        1.467.389            5.2
Total                                       17.860,643            63.1
5.02           The cost of the transport component is determinant, but was
not considered to be significant since the vehicles used were not adapted
for hauling wood. The Bank therefore authorized the purchase of three
semi-trailers, one of which was for Maro, but they were not delivered
until almost the end of the IDA financing. This meant that the tally of
costs for exploiting the wood was not repeated to see whether the operation
no longer posted a loss when this alternative means of transport was used.
5.03           Because  the  transport  expenses  were  so  high,  the
project examined the possibility of producing charcoal at the site. A
mission of technicians was sent to Mali to view the testing of
large-scale carbonization. Maro charcoal did not sell well at
Bobo-Dioulasso, and the cost of exploitation was from 1,300 to 1,800 CFAF
per 40 kg sack, which was higher than the selling price (1,250 CFAF/sack).
5.04           Figures for the amount of wood sold are not available except
for the UOB, and those records do not start until September 1984.  They
show that most of the wood was sol. in the form of faggots, although the
revenue from charcoal sales was slightly higher in 1986. It was not until
January 1987 that the project began to market poles and small
products.  Total income  from  sales  of  wood  is  well  below  the
181 The project selling price for faggots was 40 CFAF/unit, while the
official rate was 50 CFAF.



- 31 -
forecast figure in the appraisal report, as may be seen in the table
that follows:
Revenue from Sale of Wood
(in thousands of constant 1979 CFAF)
Year                Forecast             Actual        Cumulative Difference
1981                 11,220                     -               (11,220)
1982                 28,815                2,713                (37,322)
1983                 28,815                   215               (65,922)
1984                 85,993                 5,463              (146,452)
1985                175,994                36,936              (285,510)
1986                -------            -   59,425              (226,085)
Total               330,837             104,752                (226,085)
5.05           The differences are explained particularly by (i) the
underestimation of marketing difficulties when the project appraisal was
conducted; (ii) the amount of wood sold, which was also less than forecast,
and the low prices, which rose very little by the course of the project.
5.06           Prior to 1985, firewood selling prices were noe fixed.  They
were tentatively set at the following levels by a circular 1i9 in June of
that year:
CFAF
Price set for wholesalers-transporters by timber
cutters throughout the territory                           1,610/stere
Price to retailers in the centers of Ouagadougou, Bobo-
Dioulasso, Koudougou, Ouahigouya, Banfora                  3,645/stere
Retail price to consumer                                       120/faggot
5.07           These  are  actually  recommended  prices;   but  the
provincial departments of the Ministry of the Environment and Tourism and
the Ministry of Commerce and Consumer Supplies   in each province can agree
on a different price scale  adapted  to their own needs.   The  prices
indicated above are the ones in effect in Ouagadougoul in Bobo-Dioulasso,
however, the price per stere is on the order of 3,000 CFAF and the faggots
have been sold at 60 CFAF since June 1985. The project has always set its
prices at 10 CFAF below the official level to facilitate the sale of its
output.
Economic Analysis
5.08           Given the difficulty of attributing quantifiable  benefits
to other project activities, the economic analysis is confined to
the plantations. At the time of the evaluation, the economic rate of return
19/ Circular No. 000 570/CAPRO/M/ET.



- 32 -
on this  component  was  estimated  as  16%.   This  figure was  arrived
at by factoring in the direct and indirect benefits with the cost
of the plantations. The direct benefits (692) were to come from the sale
of woods but they were distinctly underestimated in comparison with the
plantations' real productivity once in operation, and the volume of
clearance wood actually available. The indirect benefits (31%) were to
be produced by substituting plantation wood for part of the wood from
natural forests, which would result int (i) a reduction of the average cost
of transporting wood to the cities; (ii) a higher tree crop yield owing to
the improvement of bush fallow: and (iii) restocking of the forest
stands  around  Bobo- Dioulasso.   Since  no data  are  available  on
these indirect benefits, the economic analysis is limited to the costs and
direct benefits resulting from the plantations.
5.09           The inherent costs of the plantations were drawn from the
audits, the preliminary accounts for 1986/87, and the budget for
1987.    The  most important items are the investment in machinery and the
work of establishing and maintaining the plantations.   Those  figures
are taken from the analytical accounts. Only part of the expenses of
the project executing office and the UOB are chargeable to the plantations
(cf. para. 4.65). The cost figures have been converted to constant 1987
terms, j ing conversion factors derived from price indicators for Burkina
Faso. 287   The economic values were then computed by multiplying the
portion of expenses in local currency by a conversion factor of 0.8, except
for labor, which was given an economic value equivalent to one third
of  its  financial  value,   in order to reflect its real value in the
project area. The analysis covers a period of 30 years. In the first few
years, those benefits correspond to actual sales, converted to constant
1987 terms. Accordingly, the benefits represent the stumpage value,
based  on  the following actual prices:
Product                                   CFAF Price
Poles                                        500/unit
Posts                                       1,450/unit
Firewood                                    1,500/stere
Construction wood                          5,000/m3
Wood for sawing (teak)                     20,000/m3                    r
Not taken into account were the benefits resulting from coppicing of the
Gmelina arborea parcels. proposed for silvicultural reasons: for purposes
of simplification, these benefits were estimated as covering the expense of
isolating the coppice shoots and the clearing which must be performed after
that operation.
5.10           The findings of the analysis are disappointing, although
they were not unexpected. The net benefits of the plantations are negative
for 18 of the 30 years, thus posting a negative rate of return
(-8%). An increase in the price of wood, or less conservative production
estimates could perhaps be justified; but even with twice the yield, the
201 International Financial Statistics, IMF, February 1988.



- 33 -
prices would have to be tripled  to  cover  the  expenses.   The
conclusion is obvious: industrial plantations of this sort are not
profitable in Burkina Faso under present conditions.
I
r
.



- 34 -
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
Performance of the Project Structures
6.01           The  project  executing  office  has  shown  evidence  of
repeated negligence.   As  noted  in the  supervisory  reports,  the
procedures for inviting suppliers to bid were not conducted with the
necessary diligence. Similarly, the feasibility study for a second phase
has not yet been started and at the present time, neither the report on
activities from October 1, 1986 through September 30, 1987, nor the final
report on the project, has been drafted.
6.02           By contrast,  the  accounting service for the project has
been excellent and a considerable amount of work has been performed by the
UOB, despite numerous difficulties.
Performance of the Forestry Administration
K
6.03           Although  strengthening  of  the  central  services  more
than accomplished the project objectives, the staff that was hired has
neither the specialized training nor the profiles specified (para. 3.08).
6.04           The MET  has  apparently  not  been  sufficiently  firm  in
its dealings with the project managers to persuade them to produce the
planned documents (para. 6.01).
Recovery of costs
6.05           Project revenue from the sale of clearing wood fell
considerably short of the forecast level, although it sufficed to cover the
government's counterpart expenses in the last few years of the IDA
financing. It is too soon to tell yet what benefits were produced
by exploitation of the plantations created by the project, a.though
preliminary estimates of productivity are below the amounts projected.
6.06           The third and last source of income identified in the
project evaluation report was an increase in collection of the felling
taxes and fees for cutting permits, thanks to strengthening of the
Forestry Administration by the project. At the time, the fee for the
cutting permit vtas 40 CFAF per stere--and had been since 1935--and it was
estimated that the authorities were collecting about 20Z of the amounts
owed. With the strengthened Forestry Administration, it was hoped to
boost the recovery rate to 752. Furthermore, the fee was raised to 300
CFAF/stere in 1982 and, at  the  same  time,   wholesalers/transporters
were required to pay 300 CFAF/day per vehicle for the requisite
registrry  fee.   Nevertheless,  the collection  of  taxes  has  not
improved: on the contrary, a recent study estimates the recovery rate as



- 35 -
132. 21/ It would seem that the government has on several occasions
dissuaded the project supervisory missions from taking an interest in this
matter.
6.07           Another possible source of income might have been the sale
of the plants produced in the project nurseries. But the policy of
cost-free distribution to the peasants prevailed until the end of the
disbursement period, and the proceeds--on the rare occasions when plants
were sold--did not find their way into the project coffers. That
situation has changed somewhat in recent years and while a policy for
recovery of the production costs is not yet in place, the sale of
the seedlings is no longer an exceptional occasion, even though the payment
for those plants still does not always accrue  to the  project.   The
selling price is established by the provincial departments of the
ministries.
211 The forestry sector's contribution to Burkina Faso's economy. Report
on the socioeconomic aspects, Ouedraogo Gueda Jacques, October 1987.



- 36 -
VII. SPECIAL PROBLEMS
Industrial Plantations
7.01           At the start, the chief objective of the plantations planned
at Maro was the production of wood for fuel and construction. Experience
has shown that despite an apparently acceptable amount of rainfall (usually
on the order of 1,200 mm in 5 months) and appropriate
implementation techniques, these plantations are not profitable (para.
5.10).
7.02           The reasons for this situation are (i) lower productivity
than anticipated. due in part to the poor quality of plant material
availables (ii) production costs that result in prices considerably higher
than the market level: and (iii) selling difficulties due to both the
nature of, and the distance to, the market (Bobo-Dioulasso).
7.03           Two  categories  of  lessons  may  be  drawn  from  this.
On the financial and economic side, it is obvious that industr.Lal
plantations should not be undertaken in an economic context such as that of
Burkina Faso and an ecological framework such as that of Bobo-Dioulasso,
and this is all the more true for an even harsher envirorment. From the
technical angle, the results could unquestionably have been improved by:
a)   A more appropriate choice of planting sites: a soil chart drawn
to a scale of 1!50,000, no matter how efficiently it is used,
is of very little help in this regard. A summary soil study,
but one that identifies the toposequences, plus detail work
performed in limited areas with forestry staff that have been
trained in cartography of the most suitable soils, would
assuredly have afforded a more realistic assessment of the
plantations' potential.
b) A close link to research on the choice of the best provenance
(comparative tests to be conducted if necessary).
c) A precise knowledge of the market and the consequent
possibility of adapting scheduled production to it: in the
present case, it would have doubtless been expedient to
remember that Burkina imports all of its saw timber and
produces as much as it can of its needs for building poles,
and to consider firewood simply as a subproduct.
Manatement of the natural forest
7.04           The experiments with silvicultural treatment of natural
stands that were conducted by the project have been a failure. The chief
cause is the lack of technical assistance responsible for such experiments,
but also the  failure  of  these  responsible  for  the  project   to
recognize the technical importance of such tests. Had they given these
trials the same attention that they devoted to the plantations, the fires
would not have caused the amount of damage described earlier (para. 3.43).



- 37 -
7.05           Despite  this  setback,  it  is  still  necessary  to
pursue  the research  on  techniques  for  treatment  of  Burkina  Faso's
natural stands. Efforts must also continue on improved management of fire
(control of fire in the early stages is the most reliable solution) and on
techniques for the recovery, care, and exploitation of natural
forests. Those concern should go beyond the production of wood to
encompass pasture management and conservation of flora and fauna.
7.06           Improved  techniques  for  the  protection  and  management
of natural  forests  will  be  put  into  effect  within  a  framework  of
spatial management that assigns priority to preservation of these
areas. Such management can be conceived and accomplished only by
enlisting the participation of traditional users of these spaces.
Accordingly, it cannot be envisaged on a large scale except in the
framework of global rural land management.
Rural forestry
7.07           If we include under this heading all of the  activities that
develop the role of the tree in the production systems of cropped areas,
then the project's contribution will assur!dly have been positive, albeit
very limited.  It has in fact been confir;d to producing and distributing a
large number of seedlings.
7.08           Rural forestry in Burkina Faso has now gone beyond the stage
of creating village woodlots: at present it deals with various ways of
using trees as part of the agricultural production systems in ways that
have yet to be developed (creation of wooded parks, live hedges,
windbreaks, and the like).
7.09           Such  techniques for making use of  trees  in cultivated
areas should in the future be considered as some of the tools for
intensifying production systems. This intensification can be achieved only
in conjunction with a plan for management of village lands that
has been conceived and is carried out with the participation of the local
populations concerned. Such land use plans should be comprehensive,
placing particular emphasis on all of the social and legal problems posed
by the utilization of trees in production systems.



- 38 -
VIII. THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE
8.01           The Bank conducted a thorough analysis of the problems and
priorities of the forestry subsector and the resultant project was entirely
appropriate: some of the changes made in it were necessary to adapt to
changing conditions after appraisal. All of the project's components were
adequate, and the fact that certain of them were not completed should not
be attributed to errors of conception.
8.02           The Bank nevertheless greatly overestimated the potential
growth of the tree stands: although the lack of data makes it impossible
to cite an exact figure, it is obvious that the average output will be far
lower than the anticipated 7.6 m3/ha/year.
8.3            MET executing capacity.   The Bank overestimated the
government's cofinancing capacity, and this  was the cause of the serious
financial crisis experienced by the project in 1981/82 and 1982/83. It was
also overly optimistic about the efficiency of the DGE in respect to
preparation of the bidding docunents for construction and materials.
8.04           With the exception of the recruitment of technical
assistants for the UOB and payment of its contribution, the borrower
complied with the terms of the credit in timely fashion.
8.05           Supervision.  The number of supervision visits was
sufficient to ensure adequate implementation of the project (conducted on
11 occasions between July 19, 1980 and November 24, 1986.)
8.06           These supervisory visits should have enabled the Bank to
take stock of the government's needs and constraints, which fluctuated in
much the same manner as its political and administrative structures.
Given those circumstances, the best was made of the different situations
that arose.
8.07           The supervision reports, however, do not seem to have
attached sufficient importance to management of the natural forest,
nor to have adequately emphasized the failure to follow up on the plants
that had been distributed. Neither do they mention the following points:
i)   Lack of effective project management since 1983 (para. 6.01).
ii)  The  substantial  delay  in  the  operations  for  isolation  of
coppice shoots (para. 3.30), a sector that--particularly in the
case of Gmelina--puts the production of wood for construction
purposes at great risk.
iii)  The  futility, for production purposes, of simply mowing  the
grass in the Eucalyptus parcels: whether for production or
protection purposes, mechanized work, performed with light
machinery,  is  both  more  effective  and  less  arduous   (the
question of employing labor does not arise, since it is in
short supply in this region).



- 39 -
8.08           The working relations between the Bank, the MET and the
project team were excellent. Up to September 30, 1985, the periodic
reports were submitted  at  regular  intervals.   Thereafter,  they  were
limited to the financial statements and reports from the UOB.



- 40 -
IX. CONCLUSIONS
9.01           The conclusions to be drawn from this project are of two
types, depending on the criteria used to judge its impact. If one
considers the forestry sector approach and the objectives assigned to the
project during preparation and appraisal, the project is a semi-success.
However, if one considers the current approach to the problem of natural
resource degradation in Burkina, then this project has had only a very
limited impact.
9.02           At the time of its appraisal, the project was part of a
sectoral strategy and was supposed to help the forestry sector achieve the
following goals: strengthening of the forestry administration, development
of rural forestry, improved supply of wood to cities and protection of
natural stands. The project's response to these goals is made up of
positive and negative aspects in approximately equal measure. On the
institutional level, it increased the effectiveness of the forestry service
considerably by making its central and external services operational, thus
allowing them to fulfill their role in the preparation and implementation
of other projects. On a technical lei-el, the project's positive
contributions were: the mastery of certain forestry techniques (e.g., mass
production of seedlings for rural forestry, establishment and maintenance
of industrial plantations), training of forestry personnel in these
techniques, and the participation in high-quality studies of the national
fuelwood supply. The project's negative aspects were: its failure to
monitor the use of seedlings distributed to farmers, the poor marketing of
the project's products, and the absence of results in the silviculture of
natural stands. Finally, from an economic standpoint, the project's rate
of return is negative if the calculation only takes into account the
production of wood, the price of which does not justify the creation of
industrial plantations.
9.03           Experience acquired over the last decade has shown that only
a multisectoral and participatory approach can solve the problem of natural
resource degradation in the Sahelian and Sudanian zones of West Africa.
Indeed, the sectoral approaches employed by the government administra ion
have been shown to be ineffective and costly because, on the one hand  they
treat only a part of the problem and, on the other, they do not foster
actual popular participation in the implementation of operations.
9.04           In such a context, the project was confined to strengthening
the forestry service and applying only some of the useful techniques of
natural resource management, namely rural forestry and industrial
plantations. The project confirmed that these latter techniques are not
appropriate for the economical production of firewood and that they can be
used only for the production of timber and construction wood, under
ecological conditions that are unfortunately rare in Burkina Faso. The
project also neglected the techniques necessary for the management of
natural stands. Limited as it was to sectoral contributions, the project
did not touch on the social and legal problems associated with rural
forestry, nor did it deal with the problems of multisectoral and integrated
management of sylvo-pastoral areas.



... . - -  ...o.  . ,                _  . |   *       ^   j     r;s \ AL GE R I A
AM.*                       I -   NICE
BURKINA FASO                                                                       _*- -.
FORESTRY PROJECT / PROJET FORESTIER                                                                                            !(                                                                             [  *OLIALNGERtt
| ~~~~~~s  A    'Ht F  ,I> 
~~~~~~.-  f> t-                                          r r s- wsr
!~~~~ \P X oilTAO  _      @  ... ,- .m
ro Son<>_;vfI- >.                                                                                                                                                                            N  IWM Gw E- .Ro
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0                                                                                                   0    V  G A N D
ro~~~~
M . A                                                 fr .A.Xr.jO +;rNswnrB IV                                                                                                                                               N'
N >8 .....  OM.  > \ " ; ~~'" ---- "' 't ............................L..  R HOA                          AN   A i              TO    G O  G
,A  .060 . .O E T   RO.SE VE
-GPAR R[\   |   \     O FOREfSTID FI UA RESERVE S           PRrALA VELGOAMIA
z < | . % < 5-v6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Atl  AORETCtASEI sR5 5a RE^SsE5RaVEvSs5 CHEZ PAUE                                                                   CF111 E ER
w                         9.12'              2               \          >     /     >     /                               SA-OPIE°fHctrTS^rNlozsLiA"NL^sLtEsSovE""EssN"Ll:MPrIAs L EL SLSCW<LopVEITOFIC B0EJNATI
o             ~~~CuTE              4~  D'IVOI RE                                     .\                                                                                         __FR^ONENR,ERS INTf RNATIONALES
_  _  _ I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _I__ _ _ _ _ _ _IE



ol                             ~        ~        ~~~~~~rDIA  <
NALGEIAA
-MAURITANIA  ML       lC
BURKINA FASO
FORESTRY PRO)JECT / PROJET FORESTIER                                                                                                                                                         N 5R'.
S A H F I _               ASL
{J JE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -                                                                            f; ,r GHA AiT OG  
VI            iw O
14'                                                           7QO
z   <  ' A   ' J U_ANIG 14~ t           ARR5F*DC E-'AN T R  E   O F               =                                                    -.CVDS.
*                         ~~~~~~~~~~KAA
YA~~~   .~~~    NO0R                  I        BOGAND.        \iA.RWS
IS. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~BS
o                                                                                           MAR\ FORE-HST-S RNSERVE                         PRIMARY GRAELROAS
_rC8TE   o  D  IYRI REM.TE SE OEPARREEMEFIS
SZ  ZONE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EERAIOA ORSRE
COTE  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    UIVUIIU ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     r..    .BE                                                 
OUEST~~~~                                            ~-



:~~~~~~~~~ r                       -. _             To O6dougou,}5                 TrS "* 0r*o 0*0 D'r  W*d r; The Wna e8*  4% eSCAn    nV 'on UJ* conrnn rcu C'
MALI.                             NISraERn i0y6                                                         w ~ n O  -WV "OO 0080   ftC ,
M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 MG l                            Id.'3*|G     '  S CO~DJt 0' 10, nenOfla e.n, enoOnuro', ant  4:00*0.0 8,.a 04004n -E -A  NJ 
BURKINA FASO                                                                                                                            N
_Ouagodougeou                                                                                                                    N
-.   GHANA         ro'1            O
c&ra 0'IVOIRS  1,
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/~~~~~
I~~~~~~~~~~
I adonba
113gr1                                                                                                                _~~\~:<gll'30'1
/ ,r               ,             S                       , /                            BURKINA FASO
FORESTRY PROJECT
<  );   \N         tW    +g1PROJET FORESTIER
N, %%N \   ss     [\SMoro  Forest Reserve
--                                  \                                  ___\Ns _ 1\ Foret Classee de Moro
--:  ssiameso .I                                           B .iBobo Kari                    Main all-weather road
l~~O,grossiamenso   / I    \              C'~~tI                                Route principale permnanien
II^D°r°:Slomenso  / \/                                        Secondory all-weather road
'8  '8"  I I     '.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I ~~Route secondaire perman'ente
"N,/    /  X    /  I                                                   ___ Tracks
I  /    '~~~~~~~~~  / ~~~~Piste automobile
1   l       /     V                                          _____ Paths
Piste pidtons
".   I,,                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railway
-- ---                  Kofila                                                         Chemin de fer
fl20 ------ --1-                                                                                      Rivers                     n20
/'\\  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Contours in meters
360 -    Courbes de niveou en metres
/              A
I-  i   s  |  /   I       \           3-50            °'  '  '  '               KltoMftes0  5  10                  1       1
I  //   'DKILOMETERS
/  I *, ~~~~~~~~    /  \ ~~~3S0                                                                                            10       i
DECEMBER 1989



