Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY   FILE Copy
Report No. P-2690-UV
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
. TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
FOR A
FORESTRY PROJECT
January 21, 1980
This docuneut hbs a  tbied distibuton and may be used by reipients ony in the perfonmace ofd
their dkid duties. Its conents may nd otherwise be dislosed without World Bank authorition.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                    CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                             CFAF 210
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 m3  (natural forest firewood)         2 steres    - 450 kg
1 m3  (plantation firewood)             1.67 steres - 583 kg
ABBREVIATIONS
AVV    -    Volta Valley Authority (Autorite pour l'Amenagement
des Vallees des Voltas)
CCCE   -    Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
FAC    -    Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FAO    -    Food and Agriculture Organization
FED    -    Fonds Europeen de Developpement
ISPO   -    Institut Superieur Polytechnique de Ouagadougou
ORD    -    Regional Development Agency
UNDP   -    United Nations Development Programme
USAID  -    United States Agency for International Development
WFP    -    World Food Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
FORESTRY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Upper Volta
Amount:            US$14.5 million
Terms:             Standard
Prolect            The proposed project provides a comprehensive program to
Description:      strenthen the operational capacity of the Forestry Admini-
stration with staff and equipment to carry out its assigned
functions of protecting, developing and, exploiting the
country's forest resources, within the framework of the
national forestry plan. The project would also establish
1,600 ha of rainfed tree plantations and 325 ha of rural
woodlots in the Bobo-Dioulasso area, manage on a pilot
basis 1000 ha of natural forest in the Maro reserve and
maintain previously established rainfed tree plantations.
The project would finance (a) civil works for the Forestry
Administration and Maro reserve; (b) vehicles and equipment;
(c) personnel, office, vehicle and equipment operating
costs; (d) expert services to advise the Forestry Admini-
stration, to implement and monitor the forestry operations
under the project and to carry out studies; and (e) field
training and fellowships. The immediate benefits of the
project would be those identified with the strengthening
of the Forestry Administration through the acquisition of
the material means and expertise to manage the national
forest resources, to design and develop large tree planta-
tions, to implement natural forest management schemes, to
stimulate rural forestry through the promotion of more
efficient wood uses. Over the longer term, benefits to
the population would result from increased firewood
availability and from savings through lower consumption of
fuel wood. The project faces no special risks.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs: Total project costs are estimated at US$17.5 million, exclud-
ing identifiable taxes and duties and net of revenues from
project wood sales. Costs are summarized in the following
table:
Local     Foreign      Total
----------US$'000--------
Strengthening of the Forestry Department        3.2         3.8         7.0
Forestry Operations
Rainfed Tree Plantation                    2.1         2.8         4.9
Natural Forest Management                  0.3         0.3         0.6
Maintenance FAO/UNDP Plantations           0.6         0.2         0.8
Rural Woodlots                             0.1         0.1         0.2
Studies and Training                            0.2         0.4         0.6
Base Cost Estimates                        6.5         7.6        14.1
(Less Revenues from Wood Sales)           (0.7)        -_( 0.7)
5.8        7.6        13.4
Contingencies                              2.1         2.0        4.1
Total Project Costs                   7.9         9.6       17.5
Financing Plan:                        Total       IDA      FAO/UNDP       Gov't.
Foreign          9.6       9.0          0.6           -
Local            7.9       5.5           -           2.4
Total       17.5       14.5          0.6          2.4
%          100         83            3           14
Estimated IDA
Disbursements:   FY1980    FY1981    FY1982    FY1983    FY1984    FY1985
…-----------------------US$'000…
Annual        1,500     2,400      2,500     2,800       3,300      2,000
Cumulative   1,500      3,900      6,400     9,200      12,500    14,500
Rate of Return:   28 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 2382-UV, December 27, 1979



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA FOR A FORESTRY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Upper Volta in an amount equivalent
to US$14.5 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a forestry project.
The United Nations Development Programme will provide a technical assistance
grant of US$0.6 million to be implemented by the Food and Agriculture Organiza-
tion.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum; Upper Volta"
(2146-UV) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 14, 1979.
Information from that report is incorporated in the paragraphs which follow.
Annex I contains country data.
Socio-Economic Background
3.        With a per capita GNP of US$160 in 1978, Upper Volta is one of
the poorest African countries and is classified among the 29 "least developed
countries" by the United Nations. The economy is overwhelmingly rural,
with agriculture and livestock providing a livelihood for over 80 percent of
the population. The constraints to development of the economy include extreme
variability of rainfall, generally poor soils few exploitable minerals, long
distances to the nearest seaports, uneven population distribution with regard
to available land resources, a shortage of skilled manpower, and limited
potential for industrialization. From 1974-78, growth of real GDP stagnated
as the agriculture and livestock sectors recuperated slowly from the effects
of the drought of 1973/74, and a domestic inflation rate of 12 percent, fueled
by agricultural supply shortages and high import prices, erased nominal
increases in national output. As a consequence, per capita income actually
declined during much of the decade. Performance of GDP shows signs of improv-
ing in 1979, and with population growth projected to decline from 1.6 percent
to 1.0 percent in the 1980s, a more favorable rate of increase in per capita
income may be anticipated.
4.        Almost two-thirds of the population is concentrated on the Mossi
plateau, comprising one-third of the arable land. Agricultural production on
the plateau rarely exceeds subsistence requirements.  The resulting pressure
of population on the limited area under cultivation has prompted some 250,000
people, or roughly 20 percent of the male labor force, to migrate annually to
neighboring countries for seasonal employment. Internal spontaneous migration
to less densely inhabited areas has been on the rise in recent years. A 4
percent annual increase in urbanization also accounts for much of the popula-
tion movement within the country, accelerated by the extreme deprivation
arising from drought in the rural areas.



- 2 -
5.        The generally low productivity of the primary sector is indicated by
its relatively small contribution to GDP - averaging 40 percent from 1974 to
1978 - relative to the share of agricultural employment. The secondary sector
contributed about 15 percent to domestic output in the same period and the
tertiary sector, 36 percent, of which 10 percent is attributed to Government.
The greater part of the industrial sector's share of national income is still
accounted for by traditional small scale production, although modern manufactur-
ing output is expanding rapidly with the aid of fiscal incentives and protection.
About 50,000 persons, or about 2 percent of the economically active population,
is engaged in salaried employment. Consumption typically absorbs 95 to 100
percent of GDP, implying that fixed investment which averages about one
quarter of GDP annually, must be met by foreign inflows. The resource gap has
remained steady at about 25 percent of GDP over the past five years, being
financed mainly by emigrants' remittance and aid transfers.
Recent Developments
6.        The most serious setback to the economy of Upper Volta in recent
years was the prolonged drought, culminating in 1973, which severely curtailed
agricultural and livestock production. A recurrence of bad weather in 1976/77
and continued emigration of young farmers contributed to a slow recovery by
the primary sector. Real growth in government services, commerce, construction
and industry averaged a healthy 6 percent over the 1974-78 period, however.
7.        A combination of unfavorable developments has led to a rapid deterio-
ration of the trade balance since 1972. From 13.0 billion CFAF (US$51.5
million) in 1972, the trade deficit more than doubled to 30.5 billion CFAF
(US$142.3 million) in 1975, again reflecting the effect of drought on food
production and on exports the latter consisting almost entirely of agricultural
and livestock products. Additional factors enlarging the deficit included
unusual credit expansion and rising domestic investment, which enhanced demand
for imports, while steep increases were felt in the prices of fuel and other
imports. Until 1975, however, private transfers, including particularly
workers' remittances, and increasing aid flows kept the overall balance of
payments in surplus. Since 1975, balance of payments deficits of 1 or 2
billion CFAF have been recorded annually, as a result of growing consumption
spending, Government's policy of encouraging private investment, and a decline
in the inflow of official grants in real terms.
8.        During the period 1968-74, the Government generated large budget
surpluses through its pursuit of conservative fiscal policies. A sizeable
surplus of 3.1 billion CFAF (US$12.9 million) appeared in the overall budget
in 1974, leading the Government's accumulated cash balances to rise to 9.3
billion CFAF (US$38.7 million). However, this trend was reversed in 1975 when
the border conflict with Mali and rising expenditure on personnel led to a
deficit of 3.7 billion CFAF (US$17.3 million). Despite a doubling of govern-
ment current revenues from about 16 billion CFAF (US$74.7 million) in 1975 to
31 billion CFAF (US$140.9 million) in 1978, an overall budget deficit of at
least CFAF 2 billion (US$9.1 million) has appeared each year since 1976. This
imbalance has resulted from a slowdown in trade receipts, public sector wage
increases, extraordinary expenditures associated with the parliamentary
elections in 1978, and an effort to clear accumulated payment arrears by the
Treasury.



9.        To accelerate development through public sector investments,
the Government established the Caisse Nationale des Depots et Investissements
(CNDI) in January 1975. CNDI mobilizes savings from public and private bodies
and channels them into public infrastructure projects and other economically
and financially profitable undertakings. Although the CNDI initially aimed at
annual commitments of around CFAF 3.0 billion, commitments fell below CFAF 1.0
billion (US$4.5 million) during the agency's 1978/79 fiscal year. The decline
in lending activity is largely a result of the Government's efforts to reduce
credit expansion as a means of controlling the growth of imports.
Foreign Aid
10.       In the years after 1972, the trade and services deficit in the
balance of payments was increasingly financed by external assistance. Official
grants rose from 8.4 billion CFAF (US$33.3 million) in 1972 to 20.8 billion
CFAF (US$97.2 million) in 1975, while concessionary loans also rose sharply.
Private transfers (mainly emigrants' remittances and pensions paid by France)
and private capital inflows also rose, but at a slower rate: in 1972 these
inflows were as important as aid flows, but by 1975 were only about half as
large. In 1976 and 1977, official grants fell below the 1975 level in nominal
terms, and only slightly exceeded it in 1978. Principal foreign donors are
France, FED, Canada, Germany, USA, the Association and the UNDP, with most
aid in the form of grants. New donors include several of the Arab countries.
Development Policies and Prospects
11.       Since most of the potential for economic development in the medium
and long term lies in the agricultural sector, emphasis should be put on
increasing agricultural productivity in the rural sector and on improving
support services. An important component of the country's long-term develop-
ment strategy is to redistribute population from the Mossi plateau, which is
relatively poorly endowed with respect to rainfall and soil quality, to more
fertile and relatively underpopulated zones in the southwestern part of the
country. At the same time, the improvement of production, land fertility and
general living conditions in the region of greatest population density through
financing agricultural development projects and research will also receive
special attention.
12.       The absence of trained manpower at all levels is a principal factor
which has limited the success of development projects. The training of local
personnel, the development of local training expertise and the provision of
scholarships to enable those in positions of responsibility to upgrade their
skills will be receiving increased attention.
13.       National investment planning in Upper Volta is largely a process
of compiling development projects for donor financing. The Second Five Year
Development Plan (1972-76) proposed an outlay of 63.2 billion CFAF (US$269.1
million). While continuing to give high priority to investments in infra-
structure, it placed greater emphasis than the First Development Plan on
agricultural and rural development. The Plan also accorded somewhat greater
importance to the "modern" sector, consisting mainly of industry, organized
commerce and communications. The Plan depended very largely on external
assistance as its source of financing.



- 4 -
Although Plan expenditures exceeded forecasts, physical implementation was
much slower, the difference being explained by the steep rise in prices and
investment costs from 1973 onwards. Progress towards the realization of the
modest growth objectives was affected by the prevalence of drought during the
first three years of the Plan. The Third Development Plan, which has just
been published, envisages a total investment of CFAF 354 billion (US$1.6
billion) over the 1977/81 period. The Plan aims to progressively satisfy the
basic needs of the population and gradually to modernize the economy; this is
to be achieved by developing agriculture and water resources, with infra-
structure and the industrial sector as the next highest priorities.
14.       Foreign capital and technical assistance will continue to play a
vital role in the development of Upper Volta for some time to come. In view
of the country's poverty and limited growth potential, it will be appropriate
for external lending agencies to provide assistance on highly concessionary
terms and to finance a high proportion of project costs, including a substan-
tial amount of local costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
15.       To date, the Bank Group's contribution to Upper Volta's development
has consisted of eighteen IDA projects totalling US$108.6 million of which
US$78.6 million has been disbursed as of November 30, 1979. Experience with
ongoing projects has generally been satisfactory, though a shortage of personnel
and local funds has resulted in delays in implementation in several cases.
Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and IFC investments as of
November 30, 1979 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       The Bank Group's strategy in Upper Volta is dictated by the extreme
poverty of the country, its limited trained manpower and the need to raise
productivity in agriculture and livestock, on which the bulk of the population
depends for a livelihood. Basic infrastructure, necessary to the economy,
is being developed with the assistance of IDA projects for road construction
and upgrading, and in telecommunications. Association lending, in line with
Government priorities, is primarily directed to projects in agricultural,
education and rural area improvements, with emphasis given to improvements
encouraging movement of people away from the over-populated and ecologically
disadvantaged central plateau to the southwest, where conditions are much
better. Ongoing projects in this area include a livestock project and two
integrated rural development projects. The Banfora - Bobo Dioulasso -
Hounde road constructed under the Third Highway project provides the most
important transport link in this region of substantial agricultural potential.
17.       The main objectives of future Bank Group lending are:  (a) promoting
agricultural development so as to help the country attain a greater degree of
food self-sufficiency, rehabilitate poor and overexploited soils, facilitate
the movement of the rural population from the Mossi Plateau to the Southwest
and help with their integration into their new environment; (b) strengthening
infrastructure facilities; (c) promoting the training of skilled technicians



at all levels; and (d) mobilizing resources from other donors through co-
financing. In keeping with the above objectives, future lending includes a
small pilot rice project, a third telecommunications project, a highway
maintenance project, an integrated rural development project for the
Koudougou ORD, a follow up project for the Bougouriba ORD and a Third Rural
Development Fund Project.
18.       Upper Volta's external public debt amounted to US$337.3 million at
the end of 1978 (including an undisbursed amount of US$146.6 million), with
about 33 percent held by the Association. The debt service ratio (amortization
and interest to exports of goods and services) was 6.2 percent in 1978; this
is not likely to increase significantly over the next several years as most of
the loans to Upper Volta have been accorded on concessionary terms.
PART III - THE FORESTRY SUBSECTOR
Background
19.       Of the country's total area of about 27 million ha, some 15 million
ha (or 55 percent) are covered by slow-growing natural bush vegetation classi-
fied as 5 percent Guinean woodland, 85 percent Sudanian savanna, and 10
percent Sahelian shrub savanna. Of this area, about 3.5 million ha have
been designated as park, wildlife and forest reserves. Man-made forests cover
only about 6,700 ha, and are planted mainly with fast-growing species such as
Eucalyptus. The cutting of firewood and building poles in the bush fallow and
unreserved forest areas has led to a decline of forest cover with a rising
danger of ecological destruction.  Many areas of the country are beginning to
suffer from rapid decline of natural wood supplies. The country's total
firewood and building pole requirements will soon reach the estimated
0.35 m3/ha annual average potential production of the country's forest
cover, given the population growth rates prevailing in Upper Volta.
Sectoral Organization
20.       In Upper Volta the responsibility for overseeing forestry-related
activities falls under the Ministry of Environment and Tourism.  The Ministry
was reorganized in August 1979 to include a newly-created post of Director-
General of Environment under whose office have been grouped the five Depart-
ments locat   at headquarters plus a new section dealing with Administration
and Finance. The Director-General's office is also responsible for coordinat-
ing the activities of the four regional units called "Inspections Departmentales".
A number of semi-autonomous agencies including the Dinderesso Forestry School
and the Centre Technique Forestier Tropical also fall under the Ministry and
answer directly to the Minister.  The Ministry    currently employs only six A
1/   Due to the number of separate administrative and support units dealing
with the forestry sub-sector, and unless specifically stated, the term
Forestry Administration will be used throughout this report to include
the Director-General's Office, the headquarters Departments and the
regional units, acting in their forestry-related capacity.



level professionals (university graduates) of whom three are undergoing
training abroad. There are 216 additional staff in the various forestry
districts whose services are shared among the Ministry's three field depart-
ments (Forestry, Parks and Fishing).
21.       The two departments directly responsible for forestry operations are
the Forestry Management and Reforestation Department and the Studies and
Planning Department. The Forestry Management and Reforestation Department's
responsibilities include: (a) protection, management, reforestation and
exploitation of the national forest domain; (b) provision of operational
support in the maintenance of forest inventory (c) monitoring the exploitation
of unreserved forests; and (d) collection of wood cutting fees and other
related resources. The Studies and Planning Department would define forestry
policy and prepare implementation plans for forestry management, production,
and marketing, and for the expansion of forest resources.
22.       Because of staffing deficiencies and insufficient allocation of
funds, materials, vehicles and operating supplies, the Forestry Administra-
tion is capable of undertaking only modest activities and is unable to
fulfill most of its responsibilities. There is little or no forestry plan-
ning, no inventory, and management of field operations is generally weak. As
a result the Forestry Management and Reforestation Department is unable to
provide the necessary surveillance and protection to the forest against
poaching encroachment or fires. Aside from taxes collected on firewood, the
exploitation of the country's wood resources is almost totally uncontrolled.
23.       Also involved in the forestry subsector is the Volta Valley
Authority (AVV), an autonomous agency responsible for carrying out resettle-
ment on lands cleared of riverblindness. The AVV holds exclusive development
jurisdiction over the valleys of the Volta rivers and over about 16,000 ha of
natural forest land in the vicinity of Ouagadougou. Even though AVV is
presently undertaking a forestry project financed by the French Caisse Centrale
de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), there is little interaction between itself
and the Forestry Administration. AVV management is at present unwilling to
allow the Forestry Administration any involvement in forestry development
within the area under AVV's jurisdiction until such time as the Department has
developed more operational capability. Government has agreed that an annual
review of coordination between AVV and Forestry Department operations would be
carried out (Section 4.03 of the Credit Agreement).
Ongoing Activities
24.       A considerable number of forestry-related activities financed by
external aid agencies are at various stages of completion or preparation
throughout the country. These projects include development of large-scale
tree plantations, forestry education, and rural forestry woodlots. The organi-
zations involved include: (a) bilateral agencies of the Federal Republic of
Germany, France, the Netherlands, Switzerland, USA and Canada; (b) multi-
lateral agencies such as FED and FAO/UNDP; and (c) non-governmental agencies



-7-
such as the World Council of Churches, the Catholic Relief Organization, Oxfam
and Africare. While some projects are being implemented in close contact with
the Forestry Administration there is currently little coordination or assist-
ance being provided to these agencies by the Forestry Administration either in
design or in implementation of projects.
25.       In 1975-77 the first FAO/UNDP forestry project (UPV/72/029) planted
about 1650 ha of fast-growing tree species on four plantation sites, three of
which are near Ouagadougou and the other near Bobo Dioulasso. This project is
now completed and the plantations have been turned over to the Forestry
Administration for maintenance.  A second project (UPV/78/004) has been
recently negotiated with the Government. Its cost is estimated at US$634,000
for about 106 man-months of technical assistance (including about 27 man-
months of short-term consultants) to be spread over a 3-year period from 1979
to 1981. Technical experts' services and studies for the Forestry Administra-
tion to be carried out under this second FAO/UNDP project will be coordinated
with those of the proposed IDA project as noted in paragraphs 33 and 39.
Training and Research
26.       University training in forestry is given at the recently created
University of Ouagadougou faculty of rural engineering, Institut Superieur
Polytechnique de Ouagadougou (ISPO). Part of an ongoing USAID-assisted
education project would strengthen ISPO so as to increase the combined
output of A-level graduates in agriculture, livestock or forestry. Another
USAID assisted forestry education project, would rehabilitate and expand the
Dinderesso forestry school to train C and D level staff. There are presently
no facilities in Upper Volta to train B level forestry staff. Training abroad
is now seen as the only alternative for the next few years. However, the
USAID Dinderesso project has been designed to eventually include B level
training, possibly in a second phase.
27.       Three major research programs are currently being carried out in
Upper Volta by France's Centre Technique Forestier Tropical (CTFT), namely:
(a) eucalyptus sylviculture and seed selection in the Sahelo-Sudanian zone;
(b) studies on various exotic species other than eucalyptus; and (c) research
on local species in the Sahelian zone. These programs are being implemented
mostly around the Ouagadougou area with a small component near Bobo Dioulasso.
The major problems faced by forestry research in Upper Volta are a shortage of
qualified local staff at all levels and a lack of operational means.
Sectoral Development Policy
28.       The Government's highest priority in the forestry subsector is to
strengthen the Forestry Administration so that it is capable of operating as
an effective policy formulating and executing body   which could take stock of
the country's forestry resources and needs for forestry products; define
priorities and objectives; undertake and coordinate projects; maintain
adequate control over production; and generate revenues to support forestry
development. A second priority is to devise appropriate actions in the rural



- 8 -
forestry field and to ensure adequate future supplies of firewood, building
poles, fruit trees and livestock fodder for the rural population who
account for 90 percent of the population and over 80 percent of firewood
consumption. The third priority is to increase the supply of firewood and
building poles to the main urban centers through the establishment of tree
plantations. This would help to: (a) contain the rapid rise of firewood
prices, which will be directly beneficial to the lower income urban groups
who have no fuel alternative; and (b) contain, and eventually remedy, the
decline of the natural forest cover around the towns, thus preventing
further environmental destruction. A fourth priority is the management of
natural forest reserves. Finally, because there is evidence of increasing
shortages of firewood, Government is giving high priority to conservation
measures and encouragement of more efficient wood usage (e.g. by construct-
ing more efficient wood stoves which can reduce by half the amount of wood
needed for daily cooking as well as to finding economic means to tap alter-
native energy sources such as solar energy).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
29.       The proposed project was identified in February/March 1977 follow-
ing a request by Government. The project was prepared by the FAO/Bank
Cooperative Program in 1978 and appraised by an IDA mission in October 1978.
A post appraisal mission to evaluate the institution strengthening component
visited Upper Volta in April 1979. Negotiations for the proposed credit were
held in Washington from November 20 to 23. The Upper Volta delegation was
led by H.E. Arouna Traore, Minister of Higher Education and Scientific
Research. Annex III contains supplementary project data. The Staff Appraisal
Report No. 2382-UV is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objectives
30.       The main objective of the project would be to strengthen the
operational capability of the Forestry Administration with staff and equipment
to carry out its assigned functions of protecting, developing and exploiting
the country's forest reserves and to undertake large-scale forestry development
in the future. The project would support a five-year program to strengthen
the Forestry Administration, establish pilot forestry operations in the area
of Bobo-Dioulasso, and maintain rainfed tree plantations established in
1975-77 under an UNDP/FAO financed project. In addition, the project would
provide for complementary studies and training.
Project Area
31.       While the institution strengthening component of this project
would be carried out at the Forestry Administration's headquarters in
Ouagadougou, the project's main forestry operations, the establishment of a
rainfed tree plantation and the management of a section of natural forest,
would be carried out in the 50,000 ha Maro forest reserve, 50-100 km northeast
of Bobo Dioulasso. The reserve is located in the southern part of the Sudanian



- 9 -
savannah zone. The climate is characterized by a seven-month dry season and
a five-month rainy season. Much of the area is considered unsuitable for
cropping. The Maro reserve is relatively flat and easily accessible by
all-weather roads. It has been estimated that at least 30 percent of the
reserve would be suitable for the planting of fast growing trees species.
I
32.       The urban area of Bobo Dioulasso where forestry products resulting
from the project would be sold has about 130,000 inhabitants and is growing
at a rate of 5 percent per year. Firewood is by far the major fuel for food
preparation. Current consumption of wood is estimated at 150,000 m3 per year
with a growth rate equal to that of population growth rate. The per capita
consumption of 540 kg/year is purchased at an average price of CFAF 10 per kg.
Yearly per capita expenditure on firewood for a typical low income household
may represent as much as 30 percent of its income.
Project Description
33.       The proposed project, to be carried out over five years, would be
the first Association financed forestry project in Upper Volta and represent
the first phase of a development program whose duration would be defined
largely as a result of studies to be carried out under the project. The
proposed project would consist of the following three principal elements:
(a)  strengthening of the Forestry Administration by financing
technical assistance, offices, vehicles, equipment and
operating expenditures;
(b)  forestry operations:  establishment of 1,600 ha of rainfed
tree plantation in the Maro forest reserve; management on
an experimental basis of 1,000 ha of natural forest in the
Maro forest reserve; maintenance of 1,650 ha of rainfed
tree plantation established under the UNDP/FAO project and;
establishment of about 325 ha of rural woodlots within
the area of the Bobo Dioulasso ORD; and
(c)  studies and training:  studies would be carried out to
(i) identify options in the field of rural forestry develop-
ment; (ii) determine the viability of a National Forestry
Fund; and (iii) examine the possibility of a follow-up
project. Funds would also be provided to allow staff to
attend specialized training in forestry schools located
abroad, to attend seminars, to visit successful forestry
projects and to undergo in-service training.
34.       Strengthening of the Forestry Administration.  The Forestry Admini-
stration, which has recently been reorganized, would be strengthened through
provision of additional staff and consultant services, construction of a
technical services headquarters, purchase of vehicles and equipment, and the
provision of related operating funds. Local professional and technical staff
at headquarters in Ouagadougou would be increased from 2 to 35, including 20
A-level professionals, compared to two   presently in position.  Fourteen of



- 10 -
these professionals would be foresters, the others being economists, engineers
and accountants. The remaining staff would comprise B and C-level foresters
and various technical and support staff. In addition, seven internationally
recruited specialists would be appointed to assist in such fields as forestry
engineering, general administration, forest inventory, photo interpretation,
marketing statistics and research. The proposed project would finance 16.5
man years of technical expert services for the institution strengthening
component, of which 6.5 man years would be provided by FAO/UNDP under their
second forestry project. Special emphasis would be given to on the job
training for Voltaics who would gradually take over all of the above positions
during the project period. Field operations would be strengthened through the
purchase of vehicles, equipment and provision of related operation funds.
35.       Rainfed Tree Plantation.  The objective of this component would
be to develop a technical package for the establishment of forestry planta-
tions in significant blocks sited close to urban townships. This would
provide a sustainable source of firewood and building poles for the urban
population and thereby relieve pressure on natural bush wood supplies. A
1,600 ha plantation would be established in the Maro forest reserve which is
50-100 km northeast of Bobo Dioulasso. It would be planted 75 percent with
gmelina, 20 percent with eucalyptus, and 5 percent with teak. Works would
be carried out under force account by the Forestry Administration which, for
this purpose, would receive additional machinery and equipment under the
project. The work program would include establishing a nursery, clearing
and destumping, subsoil ripping to improve the water holding capacity of the
soil, planting, and for two years after planting, two weedings per year.
Simultaneously, and also on force account, 25 km of access roads, plantation
tracks and firebreaks would be constructed by the Forestry Administration and
accommodations for workers and supervisory staff would be built. Land
preparation would be carried out with machinery rather than manual labor as
this method has demonstrated better survival and faster growth rates for
saplings. Moreover, labor-intensive methods would involve costly transport
and accommodations to house workers from other parts of the country. With
the methods used, about 85 mandays of labor input would be required over
three years to establish I ha of rainfed tree plantation.
36.       Maintenance of UNDP/FAO Tree Plantations.  These plantations are
currently threatened by fires, weed encroachment and poaching because mainte-
nance and protection are lacking. Funds would therefore be provided under
the project to finance the necessary vehicles, equipment, staff and operating
expenditures for firebreak maintenance, weeding and policing. A first phase
of this program was financed under an advance from the Project Preparation
Facility.
37.       Natural Forest Management.  The management of 1,000 ha of natural
forest would be undertaken on an experimental basis in the Maro forest reserve.
Better natural regeneration and regrowth are expected to result from protec-
tive measures against encroachments and bushfires, intermediate and regenera-
tion cuttings, complementary seeding, harrowing and weeding. The application
of these techniques would be preceded by the setting up of a working plan
including a forestry inventory, site location, the marking of trees and the
construction of roads, tracks and firebreaks. It is estimated that about 34
mandays of labor input would be required over three years to manage 1 ha of
natural forest.



- 11 -
38.       Rural Woodlots.  About 325 ha of family or village woodlots would
be established within the area of the Bobo Dioulasso ORD. As a first stage
the nursery would provide only shade, fodder and fruit tree saplings which
are most demanded by villagers. Plantings would be promoted in family
compounds rather than in communal (village) woodlots. Training would
be provided for extension workers on rural afforestation techniques and
possible approaches to encouraging the participation of rural people.
39.       Studies.  A rural forestry study would focus on the economic effects
of deforestation, adequate methods to control and combat bushfires, and means
of educating and motivating the rural population towards the protection and
conservation of the forest and bush fallow. This study would also include
surveys and evaluations of past and ongoing studies and projects dealing with
(i) the use of wood burning stoves, (ii) better and more efficient uses of
wood (promotion of charcoal, wood treatment methods, etc.), and (iii) incen-
tives to induce rural populations to participate in rural forestry programs.
A National Forestry Fund study based on the results of the studies carried out
under the FAO/UNDP project would evaluate the economic and financial viability
of creating such a fund; establish criteria and parameters to be used in the
selection of projects to be financed by the Fund and procedures for procure-
ment of goods and services required by forestry projects; define the terms of
the relationship of the Fund within the Forestry Administration; and outline
specific administrative and accounting procedures to be used by the Fund. A
feasibility study for a second phase forestry project which would be carried
out in the last two years of the proposed project would take into account the
results of the above studies. It is expected that 25 man-months of consultant
services would be needed to implement the three stidies. All studies would be
carried out by consultants with qualifications and experience whose appoint-
ments would be on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association (Section
3.02 of the Credit Agreement).
40.       Training.  Major immediate training needs for Upper Voltan Forestry
Personnel would be met through implementation of two USAID assisted education
projects. Funds would be provided under the proposed project for some fellow-
ships abroad, attendance at seminars, and visits to ongoing forestry projects.
The Studies and Planning Department of the Forestry Administration would be
responsible for forecasting long-term staff needs, for evaluating training
facilities and requirements, and for formulating recommendations on training
to be included in the design of a second phase project.
Project Organization and Implementation
41.       Execution of the project would be carried out by the recently
reorganized Forestry Administration under the Director-General of Environment
as Project Manager. The latter would be directly responsible for the imple-
mentation of the project's institution strengthening component. He would be
assisted by an internationally recruited Finance and Administration Advisor
who would also be responsible for managing and controlling the project's
financial and procurement matters. With the reorganization, the Director-
General has been given the responsibility for the coordination of forestry
policy and for ensuring the liaison on forestry matters with outside agencies.



- 12 -
The implementation of forestry operations components of the project would be
the responsibility of the Forestry Management and Reforestation Department. A
Project Operations Unit would be set up in Bobo-Dioulasso under its own
manager. The project components to be included under the Bobo-Dioulasso
operations unit would be: the Maro plantation, the Maro natural forest
management experiment and the village woodlot component. The FAO/UNDP planta-
tion main tenance component would be carried out by the Forest Management
Division of the Department. The Studies and Planning Department would be
responsible for awarding the consultancy contracts and for supervising the
studies and surveys to be carried out under the project, and for proposing
means to implement their conclusions and recommendations.
42.       The recently reorganized Forestry Administration under the office
of the Director-General of Environment would have two departments directly
involved in forestry operations of the proposed project: (a) a Department
of Studies and Planning responsible for defining and proposing means to
implement the Borrower's forestry policy and; (b) a Forestry Management and
Reforestation Department which operates through a Forestry Management Division
responsible for protecting forests and executing policies related to exploiting
forestry reserves and marketing of forestry products, and a Reforestation
Division responsible for implementing and coordinating forestry projects. The
reorganization of the Forestry Administration to include an office of the
Director-General, departments and divisions would be completed as a condition
of Credit Effectiveness (Section 5.01(c) of the Credit Agreement).
43.       To implement the proposed IDA project a total of four expatriates
would be recruited and employed on terms and conditions and with qualifica-
tions and experience acceptable to the Association (Section 3.02 of the Credit
Agreement). Two would be appointed as headquarters staff of the office of the
Director-General and the Studies and Planning Department, and two as staff
of the Project Operations Unit at Maro (Bobo Dioulasso). The Finance and
Administration Advisor to the Director-General of Environment would be
appointed for the duration of the project to assist in implementing the
institution strengthening component of the project, in monitoring the project
as a whole and in supervising the projects finances and procurement. The
other expatriate staff member would be a research specialist. The two expat-
riates at Maro would be a forestry specialist and a mechanical engineer.
During the five years of the project period, fifteen Upper Voltan forestry
engineers would be recruited to fill an estimated thirteen positions in the
Department and two in the field. This number includes three positions which
would be filled by counterparts who would eventually replace the expatriate
specialists. Furthermore, about six senior positions (A level equivalent)
within the Administration would be filled by graduates in fields other than
forestry (e.g. economist, financial analyst, marketing specialist, etc.).
All key Voltaic staff and the Finance and Administration Advisor would be
appointed as a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01 (a) of the
Credit Agreement).
44.       To accelerate project implementation, preliminary project works were
begun in 1979,financed by an advance of US$520,000 from the project prepara-
tion facility. Works financed include: (a) a pedological study of the
Maro forest reserve; (b) an aerial survey of the Maro reserve; (c) maintenance
and protection of the FAO/UNDP plantations; (d) support costs for FAO/UNDP
studies; and (e) a financial consultant.



- 13 -
lIonitoring and Evaluation
45.      T-he Studies and Planning Department would be responsible for moni-
toring and evaluating project performance. The Departnent would prepare a
project completion report which would assess to what extent the project has
contributed to improving wood supply and to increasing revenue potential of
the forest, providing the Forestry Administration with a degree of financial
autonomy.  The scope and format of monitoring and evaluation quarterly reports
and the project completion report would be discussed and reviewed during
Association supervision missions.
Cost Estimates and Financing
46.       The cost of the project is estimated at US$17.5 million excluding
all identifiable taxes and duties on imported items and net of revenues from
project wood sales. Of this amount US$9.6 rimillion or 55 percent would be
foreign exchange costs. Go-vernment has indicated its willingness to exempt
the project from all identifiable taxes and duties. Detailed cost estimates
appear in the credit and project summary. Base cost estimates are calculated
using prices and quotations obtained during appraisal at the end of 1978 and
revised in mid-1979 and adjusted for price increases to end-1979. 'Total proj-
ect costs also include physical contingencies equal to 10 percent of estimated
base costs for civil works and buildings, vehicles and equipment, operating
costs and seasonal labor. The overall allowance for expected price increases
is about 23 percent of oase costs plus physical contingencies. The average
cost of consultants' services are US$10,500 per man-month. The average costs
for technical assistance staff are estimated at US$100,000 per man-year of
which about US$60,000 represents salary and related benefits. Costs for
experts services are based on previous experience in the West Africa Region.
47.       The proposed IDA credit of US$14.5 million would finance 83 percent
of net project costs comprising 94 percent of the foreign exchange cost and 70
percent of the local cost. An FAO/UTDP technical assistance grant of US$0.6
million would finance the balance of foreign exchange, or 3 percent of total
net costs.  The Government of Upper Volta would contribute US$2.4 million (14
percent of total net costs) of whiich US$600,000 is expected to be provided in
food aid through the World Food Program (IFP). In the absence of such assis-
tance, the Government would have to cover the equivalent cost from its own
funds.
Project Special Account
48.       Because the Government would have difficulty in pre-financing
project expenditures to be reirmbursed under the IDA credit, a revolving fund
of US$0.5 million, financed as an advance from the credit would be established
in a project bank account to be opened in a commercial bank, controlled by the
Director-General's Office and operated under terms and conditions acceptable
to tne Association.  -she Association would replenish the account upon receipt
of evidence of disbursements from the revolving fund for allowable expenditures.
SLiouici any disbursements be made from the revolving fund which are not accept-
aole to the Association, the Government would deposit the corresponding amount
in tute fund accouLnt (Sections 2.02(d), (e) and (f) of the Credit Agreement).
'le opening of thLe project Special Account would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 5.01(b) of the Credit Agreement).



- 14 -
Procurement and Disbursement
49.       Contracts for major items of machinery, vehicles and equipment above
US$100,000, aggregating about US$1.0 million, would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed a preference of 15 percent or
the applicable level of import duties, whichever is the lower. Purchases of
minor items of equipment (such as agricultural equipment, chain saws, mis-
cellaneous vehicles and tools) are too disparate in nature and in timing to be
suitable for ICB; such purchases would be grouped by like items in packages up
to US$100,000 whenever possible. Contracts for less than US$100,000 but for
more than US$25,000 would be procured on the basis of competitive bidding
procedures advertised locally while contracts for less than US$25,000 would be
procured by direct competitive shopping. The total of such procurement could
not exceed US$1.5 million. Because of their location and small size, contracts
for offices, houses and workshops (US$1.3 million) would not be attractive to
international contractors and would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally. Services of expatriates and consultants valued at
US$2.9 million would be obtained in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association. Expatriate staff and consultants to be financed by FAO/UNDP,
for a total of US$0.6 million, would be recruited in accordance with FAO
procedures. Remaining project costs (US$10.2 million) would not be suitable
for competitive bidding and would involve: (a) wages an allowances, (b)
operating costs of machinery, equipment, vehicles and offices, and (c) scholar-
ships and training.
50.       The IDA Credit would be disbursed against:  100 percent for civil
works, vehicles, machinery, equipment, technical assistance, audits, training
and operating costs of the institution strengthening component of the project
(US$10.3 million), and 55 percent for operating costs of the forestry opera-
tions component of the project (US$1.5 million). US$500,000 would be deposited
in the Project Special account upon credit effectiveness. Up to US$520,000
would be used to refund the advance from the Project Preparation Facility.
Unallocated funds amount to US$1.7 million. Applications for credit withdrawal
would be fully documented for civil works, vehicles and equipment, technical
assistance, training and audits. Certificates of expenditure would be required
for disbursement against local wage expenditures and operating costs, and
documentation supporting these certificates would not be submitted to the
Association, but be retained for inspection by Association supervision
missions.
Accounting and Audits
51.       The Forestry Administration would keep separate accounts for the
project in accordance with accepted accounting practices. The accounting
system would be prepared by a financial consultant prior to project iiaple-
mentation and financed by the Project Preparation Facility. The accounts
would be kept by the Department's accountants who would be supervised by the
Finance and Administration Advisor. Budgets for project expenditures would be
submitted to the Treasury twice yearly for approval. All project accounts
would be audited annually by independent auditors mutually acceptable to the
Association and Government and the Association credit would finance the audit
fees. Audited accounts would be submitted to the Association within six months
after the close of the Government fiscal year and include statements on
whether or not Association funds had been used for their intended purpose iid
on the adequacy of the accounting system and internal controls (Sections
4.02(a) and (b) of the Credit Agreement).



- 15 -
Financial Implications
52.       Major sources of incremental income from the project, would result:
(a) from proceeds of wood sales from clearing the Maro rainfed tree plantation,
(b) from wood produced at the plantations and the natural forest management
site, and (c) from increased collection of wood-cutting taxes. During project
implementation the major source of income would derive from clearing the
plantation site. Revenues from wood sales would be used to offset some of
the project costs. All revenues from sale of wood by the project would be
collected by the Project Operations Unit and deposited in a special account in
a commercial bank in Bobo Dioulasso to finance project forestry operations
(Section 3.05 of the Credit Agreement). For the five years following the
project (1985-89), recurrent costs related to project operations and replace-
ment costs of equipment would total an estimated US$4.0 million. These costs
would be compensated by incremental revenues from the project totalling US$4.1
million related to forestry operations and increased collection of wood-cutting
taxes. From 1990 onwards, project revenues would adequately cover related
operating expenditures.
Project Benefits
53.       While benefits from a forestry project usually take many years to
materialize, some of the impact of the proposed project would be felt almost
from the start. One of the primary beneficiaries would be the Forestry
Administration, which would be strengthened by the provision of material
means and technical expertise. This reinforcement would result in improved
efficiency, which in turn would bring about increased revenues from wood
cutting-tax collection as well as improved protection of the forest through
better supervision and enforcement of regulations. The project would also
enable the Forestry Administration to manage and coordinate activities in the
forestry subsector, exercise needed controls where none or few now exist, and
stimulate public awareness of the need to preserve and expand, the country's
forest resources. Finally, the Forestry Administration would benefit from
increased skills and expertise in designing and developing large tree planta-
tions, in implementing natural forest management schemes, and in promoting
rural forestry action. Moreover, the strengthening of the Forestry Admini-
stration would likely act as a stimulus for further forestry investment and
would have a favorable influence over external agencies concerned with the
problems related to deforestation and desertification in West African count-
ries. Over the longer term, the people of Upper Volta would be the ultimate
beneficiaries of the project. Those living in urban areas would benefit from
the improved availability of firewood supplies grown on nearby tree planta-
tions. In the country as a whole, the population would benefit from the
coordinated efforts to bring about the development and production of adequate
and efficient cooking stoves and, possibly, of alternative fuels. In the
rural areas, the reduced rate of exploitation and improved conservation of the
natural forest cover would benefit agriculture through a reduction of soil
degradation and erosion, and improved supplies of animal fodder.
54.       The economic effects of lower firewood consumption and the develop-
ment of additional sources of supplies can best be measured through the
project's impact on slowing down the rate of deforestation. This is done by



- 16 -
quantifying the difference in the standing volume of trees under two sets of
assumptions: (a) with the proposed project; (b) without it. Without the
strengthening of the Forestry Administration, there would be little in terms
of rational and coordinated effort to deai with rapid deforestation. WJith the
project, however, considerable effort and investment would be mobilized to
provide the population with alternative sources of forest products and to
help reduce consumption through more efficient product utilization. This
would include the gradual reduction in per capita firewood consumption, the
substitution of industrial plantations as a source of firewood for urban
consumption and the containment of natural forest cover destruction. Cal-
culating benefits along these lines would give a rate of return for the
project of 28 percent. The economic viability of the rainfed tree plantation
component, taken by itself, would have special significance because its
success would provide a logical solution to the firewood and building pole
supply problem of the large urban centers. Ihile such plantations are rela-
tively expensive in terms of establishment (US$1000/ha) and supervision costs,
they have distinct advantages in terms of relative production, yielding 5 to
10 times more than the natural forest and 2 to 3 times more than the rural
woodlot. This particular plantation would have the added advantage of provid-
ing an important experimental and training ground for Forestry Administration
personnel. Including agricultural and environmental benefits from a reduction
in premature cuttings in the bush fallow and unreser-ved forest area near
Bobo-Dioulasso, the rate of return of this component would be about 16 per-
cent. Sensitivity analysis was carried out to determine to what degree the
project's most important variables are likely to affect its return. The
results show that the overall project is largely insensitive to adverse
variations in the individual assumptions within a reasonable range.
Project Risks
55.       There are no unusual risks to this project.  The establishnent of a
strong Forestry Administration would be new in Upper Volta, but the coLmprehen-
sive technical assistance provided under the project for strengthening,
organizing and managing this institution should reduce the risk of unsatis-
factory project implementation. The technical aspects of the industrial
rainfed plantation are well known and the promoted species have proved
themaselves to be well adapted to local conditions and to gi-ve satisfactory
yields. The results of the natural forest management and rural woodlot
component are however inherently uncertain, given their experimental nature.
An additional uncertainty affecting the project's cash flow concerns the
timing of the sale of wood produced from clearing the Haro plantations and
that of the implementation of revised cutting tax laws.
PAR. V - LEGAL IINSTRUIENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Upper
Volta and the Association and the Reco-mmendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of AgreemLent of the Association
are being distributed to tihe Executive Directors separately.



- 17 -
57.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Conditions of effectiveness would be (a) that the Forestry
Administration be reorganized; (b) that all Upper Voltan key staff and the
Finance and Administration Advisor of the Forestry Administration be in post;
and (c) that the Project Special Account be opened (paras. 42, 43 and 48).
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by
Attachments                                Ernest Stern
Washington, D.C.
January 21, 1980



- 18-                                                  Annex 1
TABLE 39.                                          Page  1  of  5
UPPER VOLTA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SPEFT
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
UPPER VOLTA
LAND AREA (TllOtlSAND SQ. K.)                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             274.2                                                     SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
ACRICULTURAL      191.3                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    50.0         70.0     110.0             223.6      182.9        432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         5.0        13.0       20.0             86.7        88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                          4.3          5.4        6.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  9.0           11.3      12.1             13.6        15.0         24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         16.0        20.0       23.0             18.4        46.8         42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       23.0         28.0      33.0             53.6       254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           41.6        43.0       43.0             44.4        43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                          55.1         54.0       54.0             52.7        53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.3         3.0        3.0              2.8         2.9          3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.6          2.1       2.2              2.6         2.4          2.7
URBAN                                 ,,         4.5        4.6              5.8         4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRTH BATE (PER THOUSAND)       49.6        49.6       48.5             46.9        44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       32.7        28.9       25.8             20.6        19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..          3.2       3.2              3.1         2.9          3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..          ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..         ..              2.5        14.6         14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)               85.9        100.0      90.2             94.2        96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    85.0         78.0       78.0             90.1        92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           66.0         66.0       59.2             55.2        50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..        16.2 It   15.2              17.1        13.9         17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         ..           ..         ..              ..          ..          7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    32.2          35.5       38.0             43.7        45.8         53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            182.0          ..         ..            138.4       102.7         82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        12.0       25.0             22.4        26.4         31.1
URBAN                                 ..        35.0       50.0             66.3        63.5        68.5
RURAL                                 ..        10.0       23.0             10.4        14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         4.0        4.0             23.9        16.1         37.5
URBAN                                 ..        49.0       47.0             70.3        65.9         69.5
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..             14.2         3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          100000.0     92760.0   57130.0           21757.5    13432.7       9359.2
POPULATION PER NbRSING PERSON      4370.0 /a   4230.0    4030.0             3473.8      6983.3      2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1810.0 /A   1670.0         ..            645.4      1157.6        786.5
URBAN                                 ..       300.0         ..            172.9       183.3        278.4
RURAL                                 *-      2580.0         ..           1292.6      1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..        ..             19.2        19.5         19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                7.5 /h       ..         ..              4.9         5.2
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..              5.0         4.8
RURAI.                                ..          ..         ..              4.7         5.3
AVERAGE NURSER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..        ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..               ..         1.8          2.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELFCIRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           *.        .-               ..        25.9         28.3
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..              ..         8.7         10.3



- 19 -
Annex 1
TABLE 3A                                          Page  2  of  5
U1PPR VOLTA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
UPPER VOLTA
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NMX  HIG'HER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   -CCOKE       INCOME
1960 lb     1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb      REGION /c  .ROUP /d   GROUP Le
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROILMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                  3.0        13.0      14.0             52.1       62.9        75.8
FEMALE                5.0         9.0      11.0             37.6       45.9        67.9
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  0.5         1.0       2.0              8.0       14.4        17.7
FEMALE                0.3         1.0       1.0              5.0        8.8        12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 21.0        15.0       16.0             7.2        6.6         7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           47.0        44.0      46.0             43.2       38.5        34.3
SECONDARY                         20.0        23.0      20.0             22.8       19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        7.0          ..         ..            20.3       36.7        63.7
CONSUMPT ION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAKD
POPULATION                         0.4         !.0       1.5              3.9        3.1         7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THiOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.0        16.0      17.0             40.1       31.1        71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.1 /h      1.0        ..              2.2        2.8        14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..         0.4       0.3              3.9        6.0        16.3
CINEMA  N1hNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..       0.2        ..              1.2        1.4         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LAROR FORCE (IEiOUSANDS)    2500.0      3000.0    3300.0
FEMALE (PERC£INT)                 4'.3        46.6      46.4             32.6       24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             92.0        87.0      83.4             73.3       60.7        54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 5.4         8.5        ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               57.7        55.7      54.3             42.0       39.8        37.8
MALE                                60.9        59.5      58.4             54.8       53.3        50.3
FEMALE                              54.5        51.9      50.2             27.3       19.6        20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.8         0.8        ..              1.2        1.3         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVAPE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..             25.7       20.3        19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..        ..             55.1       45.1        48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..              5.8        5.7         5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEEOLDS     ..          ..        ..             14.5       16.8        15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED AB'OL"TE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CA-PITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     108.0            108.8       88.5       155.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      53.0             74.1       71.9        97.9
EST IMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..            124.4      100.8       143.7
RURAL                               ..          ..      30.0             59.6       42.0        87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELCW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      35.0             26.8       46.0        22.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      39.0             47.6       48.0        36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
IIOTES
la   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-veighted geometric mans, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the mogt populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
Lb    Unless otberwise .oted. data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Host Recent Estirate, between 1973 and 1977.
Ic    Africa South of Sahara;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita, 1976);  Le  Lower Middle Income
{5281-550 per capita.i,1976);  /f  1972;- /R  1963;  ,/h  1964.
September 1978



- 20 -                                                                           AnniexI
SEPINlION  OP. ICIA   ItiA~'RSPage   3   of 5
icai.    Th.  duse  grot   ;  verage    c  ehidctraepo latlcn-.eighted goe.-~,lc  0ev,eslsin   h  extremevue  of the  ~d ic-t-  -d c. oron
poplatd cunty I. ech  rou.    Cvea          'of.rontie  amc    1hndica:t-rs deeD naalblt   f  aaadI   o   nfc                                   ut o luo  v  ita
gop"  verag    fry  Capta   drplo  Oil pEpotrs ad  ndctrofaestoater adccreta disposl   ho sin.ico   itoutnoap0c    c
aixPla POPulation-eighted geo.etricman  witout the ex.ulusion of encaso                 aoa
1.150AREA (thousand.sq. 1cm)                                                                 Populotion re, hIsItal _bed -it             yoandrrl-  cpop_coo  ttal
Tota!l - Total surIface area comprising land area adInland waters,                             urban  ad rurall) divided by un,,,i, respective number o  hospital noc
Agricu1tural -  ostrcn  esI.,          eo  arclrlae  used tmorrly                              aaial   In pbi   n   rvt   eea   cdnoiledcnau   r 
or parmassestly for crops. paatures.  raket adkichengadesor to                              habiliaonc rses             oyrl    r   saluvnspcae:cr~.r
lie fallose                                                                                 at least o.e physician.  Entabliehe..nis prcnid±f r9          oipiycoc"a
,N? IEII r~~LIA_,~Vlll    CII par t.,J,. ..care    re nticldd    Rural hospitals,h.-,bo                                             re !*nciue  ely.-th ar I
is~o  ER CIIIA  'is) - IP pe  capta etis-tes at current macbet prices,              alcenesntpraetynafdb      hsca 1(hut lya  eic-                                 
osloulatad by sane conversino method as World ianb  tlas (1971-77 basis):    siatant.  nurse, midwIfe, etc.) which offer in-pattevt -uccodetio,  c
1960, 1970, and 1971 data.                                                                  provide a limited range of mdjIca   facilities.
KNERGY CONSUM!PTIOII Pit CAPITA - A ..ual consuaPtivr. of coomaccial ecergy                   JPros, hospitalspdvie  b" ch  nooche-b of bdn           ii.t.o
(theaal aedletignity),i petrleogratura gas and hydro-, nuclear aod gao-
rharual electricity)  In lcilngcans of c~~~~~~oal equivalent per capita.     HOUSINGS
Aver,,e sine of hous.ehold (parsons per houeld    Itotl, urban, an  r-ral-
POPLAIOS  AS  ITA  SATSTICS                                                             A household consists of a groupofidiiuasor share living  crot
Total populationn  mid-yot.      illo2-  so   ul   ;I  not available,                         and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or nay not he Inci uded  -
average of two ed-year estimate; igi. 1970, ad1977 data,                      the household for atatistloalprpss    Statistical defivuitiona cc h ..e.
Urban pop.labion losron ofr        oal   iatio of urnan to total popula-                      hold vary.
rips,; different definitiona, of urban aresa may affect comparability                    Avearee number of persons per room - total.. urbr. ard rural - Averug,i our-
of datta  mn  icoti                                                                         bar of parsann  per room in all, urban, and rura  occupied cnn...ntlcr-
.St                                                                                    dwellings, respectively.  D-celioga exclude non-p-rnae-t  tr-etur,-
Per  ms. ho. -Mid-year population per sqccare kilon,et.r (100 hectares)                      unoccupied parts
of total area.                                                                            Access to electricity (pwrcent,ofdul_ ngs   -to! ,urb.., and coccI 
Per sq. ho. agriculture land - Computed as above for egricultural land                       Coniventional dwellings wts  1eoctricity in living .uartors as yorcntaceg
only.                                                                                       of total, urban, end rural ds-olliog. r-npe-ti-e1-
Population age stru,ctur (percent) - Childrsn (0-l4 years), workcing-age,
(15-64 years),adrtrd(5 yars and ovr  as percentagea of mid-                            EDU'CATION
year population.                                                                        Adlusted erlletratios
Fopulation growth rate (percent) -  otal  an   rbn-Compound annual                          Primary school -total, and fe.ale - Total and feaeenrolli..ot uP all  S-c
grow th rates of total and urban mid-year' pepu.lationa for 1950-60.                        at the primary level an percentages of r-pecti-eh  primay uho-g
1960-70.hand 1970-75.                                                                       populations; normeally includes children. af-  f-ii yea rs but adj-ntoc s
Crude birt  rare _(per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand Of                         different lengths of primary education; for ...ontrien with uiesleo
mid-ysr population; tan-year arithmetic averagastending in 19640 and                        cation enrollment may exceed lOi perosor  iec.  -om  pupils are hb.l cc
1970 and-five- Yea  average ending in 1975 for moo  recent esatimaste,                      above the official school ago.
Crude death rate (par thousand) - Annu al deathe per thousand of old-                       Sectondary school - total. and female1  - Co-puted as shove; secod-rY 05
year population; ten-year arith-stic ave rages endintg int1960 and 1970                     tioe requires at leant four peers of apprnved primtacy inutrccticcc; p
andfi's -ps   avera..ge ending in 1975 for nos  recen est.9imate.                           vide    .. enral vocational,  or toucher trinin  iosvruci.  for ,uill'
Gross reproduction r-ate - Average numb.r of daughters a  omn_ ill bear                       usuallYaof 12 to 17 years of age;corres:pndence Iousesar  geo..olly
In her nrmal1 teproduct ive per iod if siat.eperiences pr.esent age-                        excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year avarages ending in 1960.                     Vocational enrollment (per c..t of secon.dary) - vocational Ina.titution-  in-
1970, and 19 75.                                                                            clude technical. industrial, or other prograos which operateiceednl
Family planning ..  ....potr., .-nu.l (thousnds) - Annul number of                            or as departments of secondary institutions.
aceptors of bIrth-control devices under  unspicea of national family                   FPsiI-teac.har ratio - prituary, and ..cond..y - Total studnts enrolled  in
plannin  programi,                                                                          primay and ascondary levals divided by numbers mfteachers in the corre-
,amilyoanie-  ar  f2erc.nrofaa.rried wmn  -percentage of                                       papodi.g l.vela.
married women of child-hearing  Age (i5-h4 years) whc 'ae birtn-cntrro1                 Adult literacy rata_'p.rcert) - Literate adu1tt (able to read and -aito) a
devices to aImarried woe  in same age group.                                                a percentage of total adult population aged 11 years and over
FOODc 1.4 NU'TRITION                                                                      CONSWTlfrIi
Index of food production pr cpita  (t9P10ifOO0) - tnd.n number of per                    Pasaenjr oars (n-  thous...d P.  caio)-Passenger cars compriseero  cr
capita annuapl p-odcotio  ofal  food comoitIe.                                            seatInglSs than eight persons; e-1.udeonabulances, hearse.ad. Ilitor
Pa    aItae ly of calories (mercent of -e,,ire....ts) - Computed Pro,                   vehicle..
smargyclMo taquivaldnt of net food nupplies  valbein. country per capita                 Radio receivers fper th-usad Pocola-ico   - All typos of -eoaiver  fcc radio
por day.  Ava'Ilable supplies c..prise doneastic production, imports less                broadcosts to g,eneralPulic. per thouna.nd of population; ecue    ocvu
e"Ports, and changes in stock.  U1tSapls   xcueaia  fe,eds                                rcivsin .ountries and in Years  hnrgarro   o   ai    escni
quantities u. adinfo  poesn,od lose  in distribution.  Re-                                effect; date for recen t years ma  not  e cpomprable simoe most cou-tri-
qairemants Wer   estiated by Plbased o   'ysoxIc   needs for nor-                        abolished licens.ing.
mel activitY ad health cxnadciS environmetal ter,paratare.  body                        TV receivers (per thruscod p,pul.tic.) - TVveivs  for bA.n.dI.st t, gecor-
weights. age and sex distrisbutionsn of population., and allnwing 10 par-                   public per thousan d population;  -oolde   nlcese  T  racaiwurs in  or
cent forwst&      thousehold level,                                                         trie   n   nyaswe  regisrtinof TV sets  a  i   ffe.
Prcit   uply of protein (arm. per day) - P-otein  -xt.en of per                    Nesepr   iru ato   (ur thosad population) - Sosth a. eag.                        co.u
Capita net supply of food per day.  Ntsppyo   ood is defined as                             ti.ns  of "diygeneral interest newspaper", defined as aperiodical 0 i-
above.  Requirements for all countr~a  esalseryUD   roiefrcto   eoed prina.rilv to recording general new.    lv Iis co_idec-  to
aminimum  allowance of 60 grama of totalPt oteIn per day and 20 grams                     be 'daily" if it appears at least four timen a            kee.
of  nimal and puiss pr-ta-c  of which II goarts should be urinal protein.               Cinema enual attendanca per rapir t,po.y ner - Pased cn the  -bcohe  of roict,
Theseistandards are loer than those of 75 grams. of total protein and                       sold during the year. including ' adn nsl          to drie-ccicomua..u.
23 grams of ani`al protein ax an average for the world, propose.d by                        -nits.
FAQis teTird World Pond.Su.rvey.
Pe   aits protein supply from aima  and pulse -Protein supply of food                itqLOYSfENT
derived fromaiasan   ussi  grans perdY.                                                 Totallaor. force(thouancds) - Eoo..o.ically active persons, i.cludino7r,e
Child (&ges 1-4) mortalit, raten       e   hoad   -  nuldeaths per thous-                     force.   n  uep;.yed but occluding b-s-eiv-, st-dents, etc.  De~ ,i-
and in age group i-i pears, to children in this ag. grouip..tic.. in various c..uxtries ace not comparable.
Femal   'percent) - Pen.ale labor f-rce as percentage of -tota  labor  r
HEALTH                                                                                      A_iutr    pren)-lbrfrein farming, forestry,  -ostiof and  i-_
Life expec tacy at bir~th (veer) -_k Average numbr.xf Years of life                           aso percentage of total labor force
reann  at birth  uallyrfive-pear y avrae  ening in 1960. 1970.                      Industro (percent) - labrfrei   iig    oo  oIn    austrrca
an;d 19175.                                                                                  eIectIityr, wtr adgsa    cetage of                        '.h.,lbo  force
Ina tmotality rats (per thousan.d) -Annual deaths of infants under                     Patcptosaonpret      ttl    ae   r  fecui. - Tota., male  un
one- year of agtaper t.housand1 liv  bicrhts.                                                female.labor fvrce as percontagn- of their r-pc-etive populatiucc-
Acces  to safe watr(ecentofpomuI.tio) - total, urban, and rural -Th:eseae1 ,ajse    atrpto  cure-  reflectinou-s
Numiber of pexple (total, urban. axd runal) with r..as..bile anco..e to                     ot_ot.reof thepPcItio             ndI-vn  tine  trend.
safe Water supply Cincludo  cre,atd surface waters or untreated hot                      Economic depende-v r-tfo - Ratio of yopulati-n.vo  15 and 6I and  -0c
uncontanloated water such as that from protected boreholes. syrInge,                        the labor forte in age group of 11-60.cos
end esnita ry wells) as percentagas of their respective populations.
In an urban araa a public fruntain or st.ndpost looated nout tore                      INCOME riITRIBPIONS
than 200 meters from a hou.  maybe considerda  biccg withIn r..-                         percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) receivd byri -
enonble acces  of a th.t hous. :: In   rl arsras reasc-ble access would                     percent, richest 20 percent. pooeest 20 percent, and pecer-t hi p--.'t
imply that the housewif: ormemtbers c Ifthe household do not have to                        of households.
spend a disproportlot  pac.t of tha da  infetching the family's
atert ned.POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Acros  ye  ocrota di.py...   (p-roe.ro   outon - total, urban.  an                         Etinatad absolute portcc  incom    ee   11$prcpia-ro
rural -N-ub.r of poofle (totai.  -rban, and rural ) sacdb  eueaAicuute poverty i--re leve  in that ie--v  1c-rI1 ct
difsposal as percentages of their rasp-cti-e populatiuns.  Ecreta                           estirtionally adeq..te dirt pis enerol   o-food  -e',i-rc 
dispsalmayiroadoth,colect onad dispcsal, with or without                           effurdab
or the:u   fpt  rva   n  stbla-  Intia ns.                                                  Relative p-,vty  -Ivoev  1c-e  Ishut Inc--  leve  los  tbov or    .
Pooclatln_;or2hylcian -Population dIiAdd by number of practicing                       pe .cpita  esnlinc-e of thC- outry.
ph-xi-oa.. qualifiod from a redicelsvo  a t onboersity Ien-l.                                                                            1-iarOhloo    elw£crvIcr.  lvlcrcct     h
Populat i__esrnrifpso- Popolatmnn divided by nhoofPercent of ;puan burbo  ard rural) -h. ,ro OSithe- '1b,lut,
Practicing sale and to..ato grad-wae torso,  p-actical mc.sea   and                         "etiePore  w hiIcce_er isfrrate.
Eco....ic and Sca   oac
fox....ic Ana lysi   s   rrelo    )srnr



- 21 -
Annex I
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - UPPER VOLTA- GNP PER CAPITA
IN 1978: US$ 160
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978
'US$ MILLION            X
GNP at Market Prices                                906.4             100.0
Gross Domestic Investment                           215.5              23.8
Gross National Savings                               32.3                3.6
Current Account Balance                             183.2              20.2
Exports of Goods, NFS                               123.6              13.6
Imports of Goods, NFS                               356.8              39.4
OUTPUT AND ECONOMICALLY ACTIVE POPULATION IN 1977
Value Added         Economically Active Populatio-
uS$ million    % _(____) _
Agriculture                                         243.2      40.5         2772         84.0
Industry                                            107.4      17.9          363        11.0
Services                                            250.2      41.6          165          5.0
Total                                               600.8    100.0          3300        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government
EFAF billion                  % of GDP
1977        1978           1977       1978B
Budget Revenues                                  28.6         31.2           17.0       16.7
Budget Expenditures                             -26.5        -30.1         -15.8      -16.1
Budget Surplus or Deficit                         2.1          1.1            1.2        0.6
Net Treasury Operations                         -6.0          -2.9           -3.6       -1.6
Overall Balance                                 -3.9          -1.8           -2.4       -1.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                       1974    1975      1976     1977      1978
(CFAF billion at end of year)
Money and Quasi Money                          17.53   24.32    31.4       35.58    42.52
Bank credit to Public Sector                   -9.27   -4.90    -6.95    -7.74    -3.29
Bank credit to Private Sector                  15.38   21.59    32.41    45.75    54.81
PERCENTAGES OR INDEX NUMBERS
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP              15.3    19.2      22.7      21.2     22.8
Low-income Price Index (1958   100)           182.4   219.2    186.9    265.8    286.9
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                                    20.2    -14.7       42.2      7.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector                           47.2    -41.8    -11.3       57.5
Bank credit to Private Sector                          40.4      50.1      41.2     19.8
x| Provisicnal  -   ../  Not available  -  ./  not applicable
Januarv 1980



- 22 -                             Annex I
Page 5 of 5
COUNTRY DATE - UPPER VOLTA
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
(In millions of current US$)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS               1976    1977x   1978    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
Exports of Goods, NFS             97.1    104.9   123.6
Imports of Goods, NFS            249.0    292.7   356.8
Resource Gap (deficit   -)    -151.9   -187.8  -233.2   (Average of 1974 - 77)
z
Workers' Remittances (net)        48.6     54.7    67.7   Livestock          14.5      31.0
Other Factor Payments (net)        1.9    -14.7    -9.1   Cotton            14.8       31.6
Net Transfers                     -1.4      -5.7    -8.6   Oilseeds          12.5      26.7
Balance on Current Accounts   -102.8   -153.5  -183.2   all other            5.0       10.7
total            46.8
Direct Foreign Investment (net)  2.5        6.9    13.2   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31 1978
Official Capital Grants           71.2     77.6   100.0
Net MLT Borrowings                14.5     38.8    36.4   Public Debt, incl.
guaranteed         337.3
Disbursements                    (15.3)   (40.0)  (38.2)  Non-guaranteed Private
Repayment                        (iO.8)   (-1.2)  (-1.8)           Debt
Total outstanding and
disbursed          190.7
Other items 1/
Change in Reserves (increase-)  10.3       20.8    -2.3
Fuel and related materials         4.3      9.4    35.9   DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978/  2/
Public Debt incl.
Imports, c.i.f.                                           gaate
guaranteed          .
of which: Petroleum      11.0      18.0    29.1   Non-guaranteed private
debt
Exports                                            Total outstanding and
of which: Petroleum       -         -       -             disbursed            6.2
IBRD/IDA LENDING November 1979
Outstanding and
Disbursed               78.6
Undisbursed                30.0
Outstanding incl.
Rate of Exchange                                              undisbursed             108.6
1971:   US$1.00 = CFAF 277.03
1972:   US$1.00 - CFAF 252.21
1973:   US$1.00 - CFAF 222.70
1974:   US$1.00 - CFAF 240.50
1975:   US$1.00 = CFAF 214.32
1976:   US$1.00 = CFAF 245.00
1977:   US$1.00 - CFAF 245.00
1978:   US$1.00 - CFAF 220.00
1/  Including errors and omissions  -  2/  ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and non
x    preliminary         ..  not available   factor services.
n-, appl-cable
T      .'1 7  -1 ' ' ' 



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UPPER VOLTA
A.   Statement of IDA Credits (as of November 30, 1979)
(US$ million)
(less cancellations)
Number   Year     Borrower          Purpose          IDA         Undisbursed
Six Credits fully disbursed                         18.5
430-UV   1973   Republic of   Education              2.9              0.5
Upper Volta
316-2-UW 1974   Republic of   Roads                  1.3              0.0 /b
Upper Volta
496-UV   1974   Republic of   Bougouriba Agricul-  8.0                0.8
Upper Volta   tural Development
557-UV   1975   Republic of   Livestock Develop-   6.0                3.4
Upper Volta   ment Project
579-UV   1975   Republic of   Rural Roads            7.5              3.8
Upper Volta
640-UV   1976   Republic of   Rural Development    9.4                5.1
Upper Volta   Fund II
653-UV   1976   Republic of   Roads III             20.0              0.4
Upper Volta
706-UV   1977   Republic of   West Volta             3.6              2.0
Upper Volta   Agricultural
Development
744-UV   1977   Republic of   Railway                5.2              3.5
Upper Volta
759-UV   1977   Republic of   Small & Medium         4.0              3.5
Upper Volta   Scale Enterprise
766-UV   1978   Republic of   Urban Development    8.2                7.3
Upper Volta
956-UV   1979   Republic of   Second Education    14.0                 - /c
Upper Volta
TOTAL                                         108.6             30.0
of which has been repaid                       -
TOTAL now held by IDA /a                      108.6
TOTAL undisbursed                                               30.0
/a   Prior to exchange adjustment of US$0.2 million.
/b   US$42,261.03.
/c   Signed, but not yet effective.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1979).
Amount in US$ millions
Year    Obligator      Type Business       Loan     Equity           Total
1978    Sovoplas          Plastic           .41      .13              .54
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 316:    Road Project.  US$4.15 Million Credit of June 26. 1972 (As
amended on March 25, 1974); Effective Date: December 31, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project originally comprised: (a) the reconstruction of the
Solenzo-Koudougou (70 km) and Hounde-Bereba (27 km) roads, and (b) feasibility
studies for about 400 km of primary roads, and engineering of those sections
found to have the highest priority. Due to currency realignment and to cost
overruns on the road construction part of the project, the dollar cost of the
project increased. Consequently, to enable project completion, on March 25,
1974, the Association approved an increase in the amount of the credit from
US$2.8 million to US$4.15 million. Construction of the Solenzo-Koudougou
road began in March 1974 and is now completed. Construction of the Hounde-
Bereba road was deleted from the project as cotton production did not inerit
the construction of a ginnery at Hounde and without the ginnery there was
no justification for the road. These funds were reallocated to finance
drainage works and contracts have been awarded. Construction should be com-
pleted by May 1980. Regarding part (b), out of four proposed roads only
two, from Banfora to Bobo-Dioulasso and from Bobo-Dioulasso to Hounde (a total
of 190 km) were selected for feasibility studies as these were the only roads
which showed a preliminary acceptable rate of return. Construction of these
roads is ongoing under the Third Highway project (Cr. 653-UV) on the basis of
these completed engineering and feasibility studies.
Credit 430:    Education ProJect.  US$2.85 Million Credit of
September 28, 1973; Effective Date: June 27, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project was designed to improve the quality and enlarge the
scope of rural education in the ORDs of Dedougou, Koudougou, and Kaya. The
project originally provided for: (a) the construction and equipping of 40
centers, and the equipping of 80 existing centers for the training of young
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors on the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
farmers (CFJAs); (b) the organization, equipping, and servicing of 150 post-
school cooperative groups for young farmers over 18 years of age; (c) the
creation of three rural development training centers; (d) the provision of
science laboratories for 21 secondary schools; and (e) related and support-
ing technical assistance for project implementation. Physical implementation
of the project is almost completed and the credit funds are expected to be
fully disbursed by June 30, 1980, about six months behind schedule.
Implementation of the project was delayed by start-up management difficulties,
shortages of critical materials and the slow work of the small local building
contractors responsible for construction of 10 science laboratories. The
Ministry of Public Works is taking action to ensure completion of these
laboratories. The innovative rural education component has experienced good
local participation and is making reasonable progress.
Credit 496:    Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project.  US$8.0 Million
Credit of July 19, 1974; Effective Date: July 18, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project, to be carried out over a five year period, aims to
develop the natural and human resources of the Bougouriba ORD. While infra-
structure improvements (roads and wells) have shown good progress, the impact
of the project on the major cash crop, cotton, has been well below projections
due to a slow build-up of services and farmers' emphasis on food crops.
Food crop production however has increased more than expected. The project
has started implementation of the Training and Visit extension system. A
follow-up project is expected to be appraised in February 1980 with interim
financing being provided by on EEC Special Action Credit currently being
processed.
Credit 557:    Livestock Development Project.  US$9.0 Million Credit of
June 18, 1975; Effective Date: November 24, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting cattle production in the Dedougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso ORDs through group ranch activities, the improvement of vete-
rinary services, livestock marketing and processing facilities and the
provision of technical assistance and training. The veterinary program is
continuing with success and the civil works program is nearing completion; the
method of slaughter must be discussed with community dealers to enable opening
of the newly completed abattoir. However, the modified group ranch component,
is proceeding in line with its revised implementation schedule. Currently the
incidence of tsetse at the rouch sites is being closely observed.
Credit 579:    Rural Roads Project.  US$7.5 Million Credit of August 13,
1975; Effective Date: February 11, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project, to be carried out over four years, provides for the
improvement with subsequent maintenance of 1,200 km of rural roads and main-
tenance of 2,100 km of additional rural roads, strengthening of the road
organization and procurement of highway equipment, an evaluation study of
impact and effectiveness of road components included in agricultural develop-
ment projects financed by the Association over the last five years. Road



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
improvement works started five months behind schedule, in April 1977.
Following an eighteen month delay in project start up, the rate of project
implementation now matches appraisal estimates: one third of the improvement
program has been completed and annual light maintenance now matches appraisal
estimates. Bridge and culvert construction will be carried out by force
account due to lack of satisfactory response from local bidders. The 1979-80
work program has not yet been reviewed by the Technical Committee responsible,
which could lead to serious problems in execution.
Credit 640:    Rural Development Fund II Project.  US$9.4 Million Cre4it
of June 21, 1976; Effective Date: January 24, 1977i
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project will be carried out over five years (1976-80) and will
provide a line of credit to the Rural Development Fund for investment in
small-scale rural projects, the main purpose of which would be to increase
crop production and improve village water supplies. Program activities will
include: bottomland development (2,700 ha); erosion control works (9,200 ha);
small-scale irrigation and improved bottomland development (500 ha); con-
struction of 520 wells, 180 tubewells, 400 village warehouses and 20 village
centers; provision of medium-term credit for agricultural equipment, US$0.5
million equivalent; and provision for unidentified projects. The project is
well managed and is making good progress in implementation of all its com-
ponents. Design improvements at bottomlands and erosion sites, and more
emphasis on agricultural follow-up will ensure higher quality and increased
farmer response, though quantitative targets estimated at appraisal may not be
reached.
Credit 653:    Third Hiahway Project.  US$20 Million Credit of July 15, 1976;
Effective Date: December 15, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of: (a) reconstruction of the Banfora-Bobo-
Dioulasso-Hounde road (183 km); (b) procurement of vehicle weight control
and traffic counting equipment; (c) road maintenance study; (d) preinvestment
study of the Ouagadougou-Kaya-Dori road; (e) technical assistance to the
Department of Transport (DOT); and (f) technical assistance to the domestic
contracting industry. The Bobo-Dioulasso-Hounde section was completed
in June 1978 and the Bobo-Dioulasso Banfora section in May 1979. Offers for
vehicle weight control and traffic counting equipment have been approved.
BCEOM has completed the Road Maintenance Study which is being reviewed.
Arrangements for providing technical assistance to domestic contractors
have not been finalized. In view of a project cost overrun due to currency
realignments and the need to reconstruct four bridges, initially not included
in the project supplementary finance of US$3.5 million from the EEC Special
Action Account was approved.



- 27 7
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit 706:    West Volta Agricultural Development Project.  US$3.6 Million
Credit of May 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project will strengthen the ORDs of Bobo-Dioulasso and Dedougou
through provision of technical assistance and equipment; establish a Financial
and Administrative Unit for project and accounting and financial control;
finance a ginnery and training facilities for project extension workers;
support an annual extension program; develop low cost irrigation schemes;
implement a pilot settlement project and a pilot women's project. Production
and yield increases are slightly ahead of appraisal estimates. The Training
and Visit Extension system is being introduced. An EEC Special Action Credit
is being processed which will financed cost overruns for the Dedougou ginnery,
medium term agricultural credit and a financing shortfall due to international
currency realignments.
Credit 744:    Regional Railway Project in the_Ivory Coast and Upper Volta
US$5.2 Million Credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
December 20, 1978; ClosinR Date:_.December 31, 1980
The project finances priority items of the 1978-1979 portion of
the Regie Abidjan-Niger's 1977-1982 investment plan. It includes track
allignment and renewal of track material in the Ivory Coast; track improvement
in Upper Volta; procurement of locomotives; freight cars and track maintenance
equipment, provision of training facilities and consulting services for
technical training and management improvement and to carry out feasibility
studies. Major contracts for civil works have been awarded and works began in
November. The consultant supervised training program is operating effectively.
RAN's management is presently reviewing its investment program in consultation
with the Bank.
Credit 759:    Artisan, Small and Medium Scale Enterprise Project.  US$4.0
Million of January 12, 1978; Effective Date: July 11, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project provides a line of credit to the National Development
Bank (BND) for small and medium scale enterprises; technical assistance,
project preparation and follow-up and training for the National Center for
the Promotion of Rural Artisans (CNPAR) and the Organization for the Promotion
of Upper Voltan Enterprises (OPEV); technical assistance to the BND; a study
on industrial incentives; and a training program at the Department of External
Debt at the Treasury. Overall implementation has been slow, however, progress
is now being made with the three institutions. Technical assistance provided
the BND has made considerable progress in stabilizing its financial position
implement new organizational structure and procedures, improve loan recovery
tighten credit approval and bring accounts up to date. The CNPAR has had
difficulties due to the slow start up in the urban project, but will redirect
its efforts to assisting rural artisans until the project is more advanced.
OPEV activities are fully staffed, training is underway and follow-up service
is operationa.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit 766:    Urban Development Project US$8.2 Million of March 23, 1978;
Effective Date: February 2, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project consists of upgrading of approximately 7,000 plots in
Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso; 1,100 serviced lots in Bobo-Dioulasso; in
Ouagadougou water supply facilities for an additional 2,500 families not
living in areas to be upgraded; housing construction and improvement loans;
community facilities social services and technical assistance to the munici-
palities of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso and the Department of town planning.
Project design modifications substituting a regularized grid layout for
existing patterns with simple realignment have been discussed with Government.
An area of 50 ha will apply the new layout on a pilot basis with subsequent
upgrading to proceed in phases.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of l
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
FORESTRY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 8 months
(b)  Agency that prepared the project:  FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank: March 1977
Date of first Bank mission to consider the project:
February 1978
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission: October 2, 1978
Date of departure of post-Appraisal Mission: April 7, 1979
(e) Date of completion of Negotiations: November 23, 1979
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: May 30, 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III- Special Conditions
(i) AVV and the Forestry Administration would review their
respective forestry operations on an annual basis
(para. 23);
(ii) All revenues generated from the sale of wood by the project
would be collected by the Project Operations Unit and deposited
in an account to be opened in a commercial bank in Bobo
Dioulasso to be used to cover project costs (para. 52); and
(iii) As conditions of effectiveness:
(a)  The newly created Director-General's Office, Forestry
Management and Reforestation Department and Studies
and Planning Department will be fully operational
(para. 42);
(b) All key Upper Voltan staff and the Finance and
Administration Advisor of the Forestry Administra-
tion will be appointed (para. 43); and
(c) The Special Account will be opened (para. 48).






1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
4- 2' G - 1- '- . FFSHRUE  r  \   \  A L G E R  I A
PaNIS NOR                LEIAGER
. _ a J _ t~~~~~~~~~~~~AURITANIA                                                    >_ .> 
UPPER VOLTA                                                                          .tNtUAI'                                                                                                  OR-
FORESTRY PROJECT / PROJET FORESTIER                                                                                                                                                                        SICItCU III                 NIGERIA,I
j                      ~~~~~S A, f"H /FIZ,g                   >4CA>,1                                                      ,,
ns -tp Ah- been preprd Up db,m
W-ld B.kAtT atft eRlstI-y fUr
Ih. -onn-nc of the red-r of
_0. Ibso'h,,e reIp,la t w\,C.RI °  tto-hed
14'                                                                                                                                                                                                                         The d-,i-sli-o Ued and tR.
6tt MopRi iX .,, t t pX _ %> budtw; anosn on tAg mw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dofdareashe/ o t,nma
do -- oply. -U the pa, of the
1odgo-n on the legal - saten
0  p  g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ay Ieoopgapedre,o
'1 \N-°  R D  °                                                                                                         .1 7\   #  >  /    *_  0 2t O eptgnEU of SUCh b-od.-n
T< S -=                                                         COR                                                                                                             N    I  G    E   R
M  A  L  I                                                                              IIT  S<i;                                                                          
T.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
2                                                                                                         W                                           X   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\. i
/ 4 f   Xf 9\s - t\n   ;  2                 /           i                       To rUmY                       rO Temeb                        /                             v~~~DO  L~
/          FDUAGA N AO G OG                    DIAFAIDl
BO    0-   .0          t N    S.         MOG \ 
-12'                                                                                                              S5/~APKONE'
<i9X/   }/     /                       \     J                         F        BOBO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UH-UDIULASSO REGIONAL REVELGPMENT DFFICEr____ PRIMARY PAGED ROADS
J   b   \      O                         \   11                         |      j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N ORDE ROBD-DIOULASSO                ROUTES PRINCIPALES REVETUES
r.3    ,  E   d   \   .                      \ RAH                                   A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERET CLASEET REB VUR                 ROUTES PRINCIPALEU NUN REVETUEU
Q     M _.-._ \^                8ATIET1  IM                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PARCS. FGRETS CLASSEES ET RESERVES UE EAUNE  EGEMIN RE FER
t    S   J           \~~~~~~~~~T R euse             2                                          IN MILMTR                                          LOMMITNEBSODESATOEVPARTEMENT5                                     |n_U
KOATETS                                                                                                              AS~~~~~~~~~~T
<,,_ \ ° '7 W/ FV 3tZ3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PREEIPITATIONS ANNUELLES MOYENNES EN MILLIMETRES                                    B        EIGA  EEL;MINTE DESIE OROUNAIEW
IT V   O    RMYANGA\.  C  O   A   S >   *  \FRONTIERE5 NTERNATIONAES                                                                        o
DMLA             4'                                  \3-                                                                                     °'                                                            I'         .3L3
r  (MMUGOU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T



