Document of
The World Bank   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2382-UV
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FORESTRY PROJECT
December 27, 1979
Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Agriculture IV Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =    CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                  CFAF 210
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(metric system)
1 m3 (natural forest firewood)    =    2 steres  =  450 kg
1 m3  (plantation firewood)              1.67 steres  =  583 kg
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY
AVV     -   Autorite pour l'Amenagement des Vallees des Voltas
CCCE    -   Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CTFT    -   Centre Technique Forestier Tropical
FAC     -   Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FAO     -   Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FED     -   Fonds Europeen de Developpement
ISPO    -   Institut Superieur Polytechnique de Ouagadougou
ORD     -   Organisme Regional de Developpement
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Program
USAID   -   United States Agency for International Development
VITA    -   Volunteers in Technical Assistance
WFP     -   World Food Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FORESTRY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    SECTORAL BACKGROUND  ..................................                      1
A.  Project Background  .....*............     ......  *...........          1
B*  The Rural Sector ................ .           .    .       ....a         1
C.  The Forestry Subsector ................ .  ..... ..... .                 2
Resources ............ ..................................          2
Institutions ..................................................   4
Forestry Projects ..... ........ ..... ...........                5
Forestry Education . . ........ . ...  ............... .          6
Forestry Research  *           ............................        7
Objectives and Strategies ..eu...................                  7
fI.    TUE PROJECT AREA ....................                 .. ose.........        8
Introduction ............... .00...................................   8
Climate, Topography and Soils ....................                    9
Urban Population and Wood Consumption                ............     9
Wood Trade and Processing                 ........................   10
III.    THE PROJECT                       i*l...........................            il
A.  Brief Description ...               . . . .  ............................. .  il
B.  Detailed Project Description ............ .. ..........                12
Strengthening of the Forestry Administration ..                  12
Forestry Operations  ................      .............         13
Studies and Training .s. ... .... .......  ..  ...... .          14
C.  Project Cost Estimates and Financing    ..............                 17
Cost Estimates ............ .....................................  17
Proposed Financing                ............................   18
D.   Procurement and Disbursement    ......................                20
E.  Accounts, Audits and Reports ......................                    21
IV.   ORGANIZATION,  STAFFING AND IMPLEMENTATION ..........              ...       22
A.  Organization .... 0...... ........a........... O......................  22
Studies and Planning Department    ...............               23
Forestry Management and Reforestation
Department .................. .....        O...........................  23
B.  Staffing ......................................................        24
This staff appraisal report is based on the findings of an IDA mission which
visited Upper Volta in October 1978, compr4ising Messrs. J. Gorse, C. Bolduc,
T. Winston (IDA), and C. Bailly (Consultant). Additional findings of a post-
appraisal mission in April 1979, comprising Messrs C. Bolduc and J. Gorse,
have been incorporated in this report.
Thbi document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rocipients only in the performance
of their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
C.  Project Implementation   ........................    25
V.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND INCOME ................    27
A. Production.. ....................... . ......           27
B. Markets ................. ..........                    28
C. Prices .o. .. .........................    28
D.     Income  ........................................................  29
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ............................    30
A.  Project Beneficiaries     .................. . .....    30
B. Economic Analysis . ...... .         ................. . .... .    31
C.    Sensitivity  Analysis   ........ . . .   ....................... ....  .  33
D.     Other  Risks  ...............................................o.... .  35
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .................    35
ANNEX TABLES
I.  Total Project Costs per Category of Expenditure and per
Component
II.  Total Project Costs per Component and per Year
III.   Total Project Costs per Category of Expenditure and per Year
IV.  Total Costs per Component and per Year
1.  Strengthening of the Forestry Administration
2.  Rainfed Tree Plantation
3.  Natural Forest Management
4.  FAO/UNDP Tree Plantations Maintenance
5.  Rural Woodlots
6.  Studies and Training
V.  1.  Supervisory Staff Requirements
2.  Project Related Incremental Staff
VI.   Seasonal Labor Costs
VII.   Civil Servant Salaries
VIII.   Total Wood Production
IX.  Sales of Project Wood Production
X.  Rainfed Tree Plantation - per hectare costs and benefits
XI.  Natural Forest Management - per hectare costs and benefits



- iii -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
XII.   Detailed Financing Plan
XIII.   Schedule of Disbursements
XIV.   Illustrative Government Cash Flow
XV.   Economic Analysis
1.   Reduced Exploitation of Unreserved Forest
2.   Rainfed Tree Plantation
ANNEX CHARTS
I.   Organigram - Forestry Administration
MAPS
Forest Cover, Forest Reserves and Parks - Upper Volta (IBRD 14036)
Maro Forest Reserve (IBRD 14037)






UPPER VOLTA
FORESTRY PROJECT
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      Following the severe droughts of the early 1970s, a conference of
aid-providing countries, development agencies and representatives of the six
Sahelian countries was held in 1976 to examine the possibilities for forestry
development in the Sahel. During this conference, participants submitted a
list of proposals for forestry projects. An FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program mission visited Niger, Mali and Upper Volta in February/March 1977
and concluded that a forestry project in each of these countries would be
justified if priority were given to:
(a) arresting the desertification taking place around the
main urban areas as a result of exploitation of natural
bush supplies for firewood, and establishing rainfed and/or
irrigated plantations close to main towns to alleviate the
situation;
(b) assisting rural forestry activities aimed at greater
involvement of villagers in reforestation and protection
programs;
(c) improving the management and protection of natural forests; and
(d) strengthening forestry institutions.
1.02      A pilot and technical assistance forestry project in Niger and a
forestry project in Mali were subsequently prepared, appraised and approved
by the Board on May 16, 1978 and March 6, 1979, respectively. For Upper Volta,
a project preparation report was prepared by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program and submitted to the Bank in July 1978.  Project appraisal took place
in October 1978, followed by a post-appraisal mission in April 1979.
B. The Rural Sector
1.03      Upper Volta has a total area of 274,200 km2 and a population of
nearly 6 million (22 persons per km2), growing at an annual rate of about 2%
but with an urban growth rate of 5%. About 90% of the population depend on
agriculture, livestock and forestry for their livelihood. Per capita income
is US$118 (1977 est.), which classifies the country as one of the 25 poorest
in the world. For the period 1974-77, GNP growth in real terms averaged 5-5.5%
per year. Agriculture contributes about 35% to the GNP, livestock 11.6% and
forestry (including hunting and fishing) 6.5%.



1.04      In the north central plateau, where the population of Upper Volta is
concentrated, agricultural production (mainly foodcrops) barely exceeds the
subsistence level, despite many attempts during the past 15 years to increase
production. The main constraints to development in this part of the country
are poor soils, low and erratic rainfall, and soil erosion due to excessive
human and livestock pressures on the land. In the west and southwest, with
more favorable ecoclimatic conditions and a lower population density, agricul-
ture is more diversified. In this region the main constraints to development
are poor soils and the presence of riverblindness. Upper Volta's basic food
crops are millet, sorghum and maize; in some areas, rice, sweet potato,
groundnuts and sesame are cultivated and sheanuts are also collected. Cotton
is the major cash crop.
1.05      The livestock sector contributes about 25% of the country's export
earnings and is of vital importance to the economy. But this subsector faces
serious constraints, mainly recurrent droughts, overgrazing, insufficient
watering facilities and the growing competition of foodcrops. IDA has been
assisting livestock development in the southwestern part of the country since
1976 (Credit 557-UV for US$9.0 million).
1.06      In addition, there are three ongoing IDA-assisted agricultural
projects: Bougouriba I (Credit 496-UV) for US$8.0 million, and West Volta
Agricultural Development (Credit 706-UV) for US$3.6 million, both located in
the southwestern part of the country, and the Second Rural Development Fund
project (Credit 640-UV) for US$9.4 million, largely concentrated on the Mossi
Plateau.
1.07      The Government's strategy for the rural sector gives priority to:
(a) stepping up migration from the densely populated and
relatively infertile north central plateau to areas
in the west and southwest which have low population
densities and good agricultural potential;
(b) developing rainfed agriculture by promoting improved
farm practices while integrating cropping and livestock
activities; and
(c) gradually increasing the development of irrigated
agriculture.
C. The Forestry Subsector
Resources
1.08      The forests of Upper Volta are characterized by bush vegetation with
some limited areas of relatively dense forests. Five percent is classified as
Guinean woodland with an annual rainfall of about 1,200 mm; 85% is classified
as Sudanian savanna characterized by a relatively low tree canopy occurring



in areas with an annual rainfall between 600 and 1,200 mm; and 10% is classi-
fied as Sahelian shrub savanna occurring in areas with an annual rainfall of
less than 600 mm. Of Upper Volta's total area of about 27 million ha, some
15 million ha (or 55%) are covered by slow-growing natural bush vegetation.
Of this, about 3.5 million ha have been designated as park, wildlife and
forest reserves. Man-made forests cover only about 6,700 ha planted mainly
with fast-growing eucalyptus, gmelina arborea, neem and teak. Most of these
forests are located around Ouagadougou and Bobo Dioulasso. Except for the
anacardium (cashew) tree project located near Bobo Dioulasso, all plantations
are geared towards producing firewood and building poles and are located in
the Sudanian zone. Numerous village woodlots have been planted by schools,
youth organizations and other groups; however many of these woodlots are in
poor condition, mainly due to lack of maintenance.
1.09      The forestry sector accounts for about 6.5% of GNP (including hunt-
ing and fishing) and for about 9.3% of exports (sheanuts). However, these
figures do not adequately reflect the important role played by the natural
forest cover and bush in supplying firewood, building poles and other minor
forest products to meet the population's basic needs. The 1978 total fire-
wood requirements for Upper Volta are estimated at 4.8 million m3 (2.2
million tons) based on an estimated yearly average consumption of 0.7 m3
(315 kg) per person in the rural areas and 1.2 m per person (540 kg) in the
urban areas. The lower average consumption in the rural areas is due to the
extensive use of millet stalks as fuel during six months of the year. Of the
country's total estimated consumption of firewood in 1978, 0.8 million m3
were consumed in urban areas and 4.0 million m3 in rural areas. Wood con-
sumption by "dolotieres" (sorghum beer brewers) is estimated at 14% of total
firewood consumption.  Only about 1% of the total firewood production is con-
sumed as charcoal, and building poles represent an additional 0.5 million m3.
In addition to firewood, the natural forest cover provides fruit, tree fodder
and dry-weather grazing reserves for livestock, and protects against soil
erosion; most important, as bush fallow it also regenerates soil fertility
under the traditional shifting cultivation system.
1.10      In the relatively high population zones, especially in the north
central (Mossi) plateau, the cutting of firewood and building poles, especially
in the bush fallow and unreserved forest areas, has led to a decline of forest
cover wîth a rising danger of ecological destruction. Furthermore, many other
areas of the country are beginning to suffer from the rapid decline of natural
supplies of firewood and building poles. The country's 1978 total firewood
and building pole requirements correspond to an annual average cutting rate
of 0.30 m3/ha over its 17 million ha of forest cover (including bush fallows)
and will soon reach the estimated 0.35 m3/ha annual average potential pro-
duction of this caver, given the population growth rates prevailing in Upper
Volta (para 1.03). A further contributing factor to the decline of the
forest cover, also resulting from population pressure, is the growing en-
croachments upon the forest for additional crop and grazing land. The
rate of destruction of the unreserved forest areas due to agricultural en-
croachment, overgrazing and bushfires is estimated at 50,000 to 100,000 ha per
year.



Institutions
1.11      In Upper Volta the rzsponsibility for cversseing forestry-related
activities falls under the Ministry of Environent and Tourism (Chart I).  The
Ministry was reorganlzed in August Y979 to iniclJud a nexily-created post of
Director-General of Environment under uhraose office have been grouped the five
Departments located at headquarters plus a net^r section dealing with Admini-
stration and Finance. The Director-General's office is also responsible for
coordinating the activities of the four reagional units called "Inspections
Departmentales".  The five Departments at headquarters comprise: Forestry
Management and Reforestation; National Parks and U^Jildlife Reserves; Fishing
and Fish Culture; Urban Environment; and Studies and Planning0 The last two
Departments, Urban Environment and Studies End Planning, were created as a
result of the reorganization. A number of semi°autonomous agencies including
the Dinderesso Forestry School (para 1.20), the Centre Technique Forestier
Tropical (CTFT) (para 1.22), and others dealing with touristic activities,
also fall under the Minîstry and answer directly to the Minister.
1.12      The new Director-Generai's Office is responsible for formulating
policy and overseeing development in general environment as well as forestry
matters. It also provides liaison and collaboration with other ministries and
agencies in the formulation of land use policy. It is supported in this
regard by the new Studies and Planning department whose responsibilities in
forestry-related matters include: (a) data gathering, collection and inter-
pretation; (b) upkeep of forest inventory; and (c) project preparation,
planning and monitoring.
1.13      The Forestry Management and Reforestation Department retains most of
the operating functions of the former Department by the same name and is
responsible for: (a) protection, management, reforestation and exploitation
of the national forest domain; (b) providing operational support in the
maintenance of forest inventory; (c) monitoring the exploitation of the
unreserved forests; and (d) collecting the wood-cutting tax and other related
revenues.
1.14      There are currently only six Alevel professionals within the
Ministry dealing specifically with forestry, of whom three are undergoing
training abroad. There are 216 staff ini the regional units whose services are
shared among the three field Departments (Forestry, Parks and Fishing).
Because of its small staff, particularly at the professional level, the
Forestry Admlnistration 1/ is capable of undertaking only modest assignments
and is unable to fulfill most of its responsibil'ties. There is little or no
forestry planning and no inventory, and management of field operations
is generally weak.  The situation is considerably worsened by an altogether
i/  Due to the number of separate administ:rztive and support units dealing
fuîth the forestry sub-sector, and -unless specifically stated, the term
Forestry Adminictration wili be used throughout this report to include
the D-rectorç-Genera1's Office, the headquarters Departments and the
regional units, acting in thelz forestry-reiated capacity (see para 1.11).



- 5 -
insufficient allocation of resources: funds, materials, vehicles and oper-
ating supplies. As a result the Forestry Management and Reforestation Depart-
ment is unable to provide the necessary surveillance and protection to the
forest against poaching, encroachment or fires and, except for firewood tax
collection, the exploitation of the country's wood resources is almost totally
uncontrolled.
1.15      Also involved in the forestry sub-sector is the "Autorite pour
l'Amenagement des Vallees des Voltas (AVW)".  This autonomous agency of the
Planning Ministry holds exclusive development jurisdiction, in forestry as
well as other sectors, over the valleys of the Volta Rivers. It controls
about 16,000 ha of natural forest land in the vicinity of Ouagadougou, while
the Forestry Administration has responsibility for the rest of the country.          V
Even though the AVV is presently undertaking a forestry project financed by
the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), there has been
little interaction between AVV and the Forestry Administration. AVV manage-
ment has been unwilling to allow the Forestry Administration any involvement
in forestry development within the area under_AÀY3's jurisdiction until such
time as the Administration has developed more operational capability.
Forestry Projects
1.16      A considerable number of forestry-related activities financed
by external agencies are at various stages of completion or preparation
throughout the country. These projects include the development of large-scale
tree plantations, rebuilding of the Dinderesso Forestry School (para. 1.20),
rural forestry woodlots, and establishment of a national seed multiplication
unit (also meant to supply other Sahelian countries). The organizations
involved include (a) bilateral agencies from the Federal Republic of Germany,
France (FAC, CCCE), the Netherlands, Switzerland, USA and Canada; (b) multila-
teral agencies such as FED and FAO/UNDP; and (c) non-governmental agencies
such as the World Council of Churches, the Catholic Relief Organization, Oxfam
and Africare. While some projects are being implemented in close contact with
the Forestry Administration (e.g. the German project), there is little coordi-
nation or assistance being provided to these agencies by the Forestry Admini-
stration either in designing or implementing projects.
1.17      In 1975-77 the first FAO/UNDP forestry project (UPV/72/029) planted
about 1,650 ha of fast-growing tree species (gmelina, eucalyptus, neem and
cassia) on four plantation sites, three of which (67% of the hectarage) are
near Ouagadougou and the other is near Bobo Dioulasso. This project is now
completed and the plantations have been turned over to the Forestry Department
for maintenance (para. 3.07). A second project (UPV/78/004) has been recently
negotiated with the Government.  Its cost is estimated at US$634,000 for about
106 man-months of technical assistance (including about 27 man-months of con-
sultants) to be spread over a 3-year period from 1979 to 1981. The objectives
and implementation of this second FAO/UNDP project vill be closely linked with
those of the proposed IDA project (para. 3.04) and will be concerned mostly
with carrying out basic studies needed to strengthen the Foresty Administration.



-6-
Forestry Education
1.18       In Upper Volta, forestry staff are classified into four categories:
Level A:  Management level, divided into two subgroups:
Ai: (Ingenieurs des Eaux et Forets) for those completing
forestry studies equivalent to or beyond the university
graduate level;
A2: (Ingenieurs des Travaux) for those completing advanced
technical forestry studies;
Level B:  (Controleurs) intermediate level for forestry technicians;
Level C:  (Agents techniques) for senior field staff;
Level D:  (Preposes) for junior field staff.
1.19      University training in forestry is given at the recently (1973)
created University of Ouagadougou faculty of rural engineering (Institut
Superieur Polytechnique de Ouagadougou-ISPO). Post-graduate training is
usually done overseas, normally financed under bilateral assistance. Of
the first class of 20 students graduating from ISPO in 1979, three chose
forestry. It is expected that the current stimulus being given to forestry
in Upper Volta will encourage students to opt for this sub-sector; additional
encouragement would be provided under the project (paras 3.02 (c) and 3.12).
Part of an ongoing US$15.5 million USAID-assisted education project aims to
strengthen ISPO so as to increase the combined output of Al-level graduates
in agriculture, livestock or forestry from 20 to 25 per year. Strong emphasis
will be placed on improving the quality of the courses offered by the Institute
and strengthening it8 teaching staff.
1.20      Another USAID-assisted forestry education project, estimated to
cost US$7.4 million and started in 1979, aims at rehabilitating and expanding
the Dinderesso Forestry School, by replacing the existing dilapidated facili-
ties, to train C and D-level staff. Under the project, the school will
provide forestry students with theoretical as well as practical training, the
latter in an adjacent forest reserve area, and produce an output of 30 D-level
and 10 C-level field staff per year. D-level training will be done over one
year and C-level over two years.
1.21      There are presently no facilities in Upper Volta specifically
designed to train B-level staff. Currently such staff are being trained
in the Ivory Coast and Mali and at various European schools. The Bouake
forestry school in the Ivory Coast is being expanded and is scheduled to be
partly operational in 1979 and fully so in 1980. However, training of B-level
staff outside the country might only be needed for another four to five years
since the above-mentioned USAID project is designed to eventually include
B-level training at the Dinderesso Forestry School, possibly in a second
phase.



7-
Forestry Research
1.22      In Upper Volta, overall scientific research receives its basic
orientation from the National Research Council (Conseil National de la
Recherche Scientifique et Technique-CNRST), whose main task is to coordinate
the activ4ties and programs defined by specialized sector groups or committees.
The forestry subsector falls under the "Comite Specialise de la Recherche
Agronomique."   Specific forestry research programs, under the administrative
responsibility of the Forestry Administration, are carried out by the French
"Centre Technique Forestier Tropical (CTFT)", which has been operating in
Upper Volta since 1960 under French bilateral aid. On a smaller scale,
excellent botanical research has been conducted in the past by the "Centre
Voltaique de Recherche Scientifique (CVRS)", which falls under the Ministry
of Higher Education.
1.23      Three major research programs are being carried out in Upper Volta
by the CTFT: (a) eucalyptus sylviculture and seed selection for the Sahelo-
Sudanian zone, (b) studies on various exotic species other than eucalyptus,
and (c) research on local species in the Sahelian zone. Experiments carried
out under the first program have shown promising results in species provenance
(especially with E. camaldulensis) and planting techniques. These programs
are being implemented mostly around the Ouagadougou area, with a small com-
ponent in Bobo Dioulasso. CTFT staff includes one research forester and three
technicians, all expatriates.
1.24      The major problems faced by forestry research in Upper Volta are
a shortage of qualified local staff at all levels and a lack of operational
means such as funds, equipment and facilities.
Objectives and Strategies
1.25      The Government's objective of the highest priority in Upper Volta's
forestry sector is to strengthen the Forestry Administration in order to turn
it into an effective policy formulating and executing body so that it can (a)
take stock of the country's forestry resources and needs for forestry products,
(b) define priorities and objectives, (c) undertake and coordinate projects,
(d) maintain adequate control over production, and (e) generate revenues to
support forestry management and other programs in the sub-sector.
1.26      A second priority is to devise appropriate actions in the rural
forestry field and to ensure adequate future supplies of firewood, building
pales, fruit trees and fodder for the rural population, who represent about
90% of the total population and account for over 80% of firewood consumption.
As the natural forest cover continues to decline and the population to increase,
it is expected that within 10 to 15 years a disequilibrium between demand and
natural supplies will become acute even in the regions which are relatively
well endowed with forest resources.  Local wood shortages are already occur-
ing in many rural areas. It is therefore imperative to start testing rural
forestry actions such as increasing the supply of firewood and building poles
close to villages with the active participation of the rural population.
Experience shows that past programs in this field, notably the establishment



-8-
x tof village woodlots and the prevention of bush fires, have been largely
1Lnsuccessful because of disinterest on the part of the local population.
Such actions have therefore to be reformulated (para. 3.10) with a view to
providing sufficient incentive to the population to participate. Rapid
results cannot be anticipated but steady emphasis on continued attempts to
mobilize support at the village level for forest protection and improvement
programs must become an integral part of the Government's rural development
policy.
1.27      The third priority is to improve the supply of firewood and building
poles for the main urban centers through the establishment of tree plantations.
This would help to (a) contain the rapid rise in firewood prices and thus would
directly benefit the lower-income urban groups, who have no fuel alternatives,
and (b) contain and eventually remedy the decline of the natural forest cover
around the towns, thus preventing further environmental destruction. Rainfall
in the Sudanian zone (800 to 1,200 mm annually) îs sufficient to provide sat-
isfactory wood yields for selected species with gmelina and eucalyptus yielding
5-10 m3/ha/year.
1.28      A fourth priority is the management of natural forest reserves.
No modern management techniques are presently applied in Upper Volta's forest
reserves, mainly because of a lack of means. The application of known tech-
niques would have three distinct advantages: (a) it would substantially
improve wood production while still maintaining the forest cover, (b) it
would put the present trained forestry staff to more effective work, and
(c) if properly managed, it would produce revenue from sale of wood and
wood products at least equal to the management costs.
1.29      Despite the efforts which the proposed and other projects represent
in an attempt to counter the destruction of the forest cover, there is evi-
dence to suggest that there may be increasing shortages of firewood (Project
File Annex II.2).  Hence, the Government gives high priority to conservation
measures and to encourage more efficient wood usage (e.g., by constructing
stoves that ean reduce by half the amount of wood needed for daily cooking)
as well as finding economic means to tap alternative energy sources such as
solar energy.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Introduction
2.01      While the institution-building component of the project would
be carried out at the Forestry Administration's headquarters in Ouagadougou,
the project's main forestry operations--the establishment of a rainfed tree
plantation and the management of a section of natural forest--would be carried
out in the 50,000 ha Maro forest reserve, 50-100 km northeast of Bobo Dioulasso
(Map). Although Ouagadougou, with a larger population, is located in a more
deforested area, the decision to locate this first-phase project near Bobo



Dioulasso was taken because (a) most of the forestable land around Ouagadougou
is under the jurisdiction of the AVV (para 1.15), which will only agree, at
this stage, to let the Forestry Administration undertake any forestry operation
on its assigned territory when the latter has acquired a certain degree of
operational capability; (b) better utilization of the Maro forest reserve is
not only desirable in itself but would provide an approprie -e vehicle for
institution building such as by providing staff with on-the-job training,
practical experience in plantation establishment and modern forest management
methods; (c) out of a total of 12 projects financed by external agencies and
AVV since 1972, covering a total of 5,000 ha of new plantation, ten (4,000 ha)
have been near Ouagadougou while there have been only two (1,000 ha) near Bobo
Dioulasso; and (d) given the current market and supply situation in Bobo
Dioulasso, there should be no difficulty in selling off wood derived from
plantation clearing and harvesting.
Climate, Topography and Soils
2.02      The Maro forest reserve is located in the southern part of the
Sudanian savanna zone (para. 1.08). The climate of the area is characterized
by a seven-month dry season and a five-month rainy season (June-October) with
annual rainfall averaging 1,180 mm. Much of the area and about half of
soils are considered unsuitable for cropping. The Maro forest reserve is
relatively flat and easily accessible by all-weather roads. A survey of
vegetation is being carried out by an ongoing FAO/UNDP project (No. UPV/72/029),
and results are expected to be available in 1979. A survey of soils, includ-
ing aerial photos of the forest reserve, would be carried out in 1979 under
the Project Preparation Facility (para. 3.18). Without prejudging the con-
clusions of these surveys, it can safely be estimated that at least 30% of the
Maro forest reserve would be suitable for the planting of fast-growing tree
species and that land availability problems are therefore unlikely to arise.
Urban Population and Wood Consumption
2.03      The Bobo Dioulasso urban area, where the project's wood production
would be sold, covers about 40 km2, has a population of about 130,000, growing
at a rate of 5% per year. Firewood is by far the major fuel for food prepara-
tion, and current consumption is estimated at 150,000 m3 per year, growing at
about the same rate as the population. The per capita consumption of about
540 kg/year (1.2 m3), which is typical of urban areas in Upper Volta, is pur-
chased at an average price of about CFAF 10/kg. Thus, firewood consumption
represents an annual expenditure of about CFAF 5,400 (US$25) per capita.
On the basis of the national per capita income of about CFAF 25,900 (US$118)
per year (per capita income data for Bobo Dioulasso is not available), this
yearly per capita expenditure on firewood represents about 21% of income.
This magnitude has been confirmed in an independent study, conducted in 1976,
which estimated that 20-30% of family income in urban centers is spent on
firewood.



- 10 -
Wood Trade and Processing
2.04      Since no major study of wood marketing has been carried out in the
Bobo Dioulasso area as has been done for Ouagadougou, a brief survey was con-
ducted by the appraisal mission to determine major patterns of wood market-
ing, consumption and prices. In Bobo Dioulasso, practically all the wood
is taken into the city by truck. This is in contrast with Ouagadougou,
where in addition to heavy trucks (average load 3-4 tons) which transport
about 80% of the volume, there is considerable participation of pickup trucks
(1.2 t), donkey carts (0.3 t) and bicycle (0.03 t).  Bobo Dioulasso trucks may
travel as far as 100 km to pick up their load. Wood is either purchased at
roadside from farmers or the truck owners take along their own woodcutters.
Cost of wood at this stage is about CFAF 560/m3. Wood transport by truck is
more economical than by other means, and is also easier for the Forestry
Administration to control. This is reflected in the Administration's record
of revenues from cutting permits paid by the transporter (about CFAF 80/m2):
these revenues are significantly larger in Bobo Dioulasso than in Ouagadougou.
2.05      On the other hand, if wood transport by truck is quite suitable
for hauling from the forest, it is not as efficient when used to transport
wood for resale in the city. Unlike Ouagadougou, Bobo Dioulasso has no
central wood market where whole truck loads are delivered. Instead, wood
is sold to neighborhood dealers in amounts of various sizes for recutting and
resale, or it is cut and packaged by the truck owner for door to door distribu-
tion. As a result, the overall average resale price is slightly higher in
Bobo Dioulasso (CFAF 10/kg) than in Ouagadougou (CFAF 8/kg in markets, CFAF
10/kg elsewhere).
2.06      Except for construction poles, Upper Volta produces only very small
quantities of lumber. Most of the country's needs are imported from Mali,
Ghana and the Ivory Coast, the latter being by far the largest source.
Imported species include niangon, samba (or obeche) and bete. There is only
one small operational sawmill in Upper Volta, at Banfora near Bobo Dioulasso,
with an annual output of about 1,000 m3.
2.07      Charcoal, which is more efficient than wood as a source of heat
and much cheaper to transport, is not widely used. In Bobo Dioulasso, small
supplies are available largely as a by-product of wood burned to prepare
"dolo," a sorghum beer. Some charcoal is also prepared in the bush in pits,
and is usually carried to town in bags and by bicycle. Charcoal is used
mainly by trades people (e.g. in laundries and coffee houses) and some well-off
families. Current price for charcoal is estimated at about CFAF 25/kg, which
puts it out of the reach of most people. Moreover, the promotion of char-
coal as a house fuel is not timely because its use requires a special stove.
Although there have been many plans to encourage the use of such stoves,
none are as yet available commercially that are cheap enough and suitable
for accommodating traditional methods of food preparation (para. 3.10).
2.08      The same situation prevails in the case of wood burning stoves,
which are not used in Upper Volta. Traditional cooking is done over open
fires with the pot supported by three stones. This method results in very



- il -
low efficiencies (below 10%) and a very high relative consumption of energy
(3 to 5 times the energy used for cooking in developed countries). It is
widely recognized that wood consumption would decrease considerably with the
adoption of economical, readily available and efficient wood-burning stoves.
Several wood-stove projects, sponsored by the German aid program or by such
agencies as VITA, are being prepared or under way to find a solution to this
problem (para. 3.10).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Brief Description
3.01      The proposed project would be the first IDA-financed forestry
project in Upper Volta. It would be carried out over a period of five years
and would be the first phase of an assistance program whose duration would be
defined largely as a result of studies to be carried out under the project.
Its main purpose is to help the Government meet its major forestry objectives
(paras 1.25 - 1.29). This would be done by strengthening its central policy
making and implementing organization and by providing it with the means to
control and manage the existing forestry reserves and develop operational
capabilities to enable it to undertake large-scale forestry develàpment in
the future.
3.02      The project would consist of three principal components:
(a)  Strengthening of the Forestry Administration by financing
technical assistance, offices, vehicles, equipment and
operating expenditures.
(b)  Forestry operations
(i) establishment of 1,600 ha of rainfed tree plantation
in the Maro forest reserve;
(ii) management, on an experimental basis, of a further
1,000 ha of natural forest in the Maro forest reserve;
(iii) maintenance of 1,650 ha of rainfed tree plantations
established between 1975 and 1977 under the UNDP/FAO project
UV/72/029 (1,110 ha in the Ouagadougou area, and 540 ha
in the Bobo Dioulasso area); and
(iv) establishment of about 325 ha of rural woodlots within the
area of the Bobo Dioulasso regional development agency
(Organisme Regional de Developpement - ORD).
(c) Studies and training. Studies would be carried out to (i) deter-
mine the viability of a National Forestry Fund, (ii) investigate
options in the field of rural forestry, and (iii) examine the



- 12 -
possibility of a follow-up project. Funds would also be pro-
vided to allow A and B level staff to aquire specialized training
in forestry establishments located in Upper Volta or the Ivory
Coast and to attract local university graduates to a career in
forestry.
B. Detailed Project Description
StrengtheninR of the Forestry Administration
3.03      The Forestry Administration, which has recently been reorganized
(paras 1.11 to 1.13) would be strengthened through additional staff, provision
of consultant services, construction of a technical services headquarters,
purchase of vehicles and equipment, and provision of related operating funds
and staff project allowances. During the five-year project period, local
professional and technical staff at the headquarters in Ouagadougou would be
increased from 2 to 35 (Annex V.2). This headquarters staff would include 20
A-level professionals (compared with the present 2), of whom 14 would be
foresters and the others would be economists, accountants, etc.; the remainder
would comprise B and C-level foresters and various technical and support
staff. The Forestry Administration would be further strengthened by the
appointment of seven internationally recruited staff, representing a total of
about 18.5 man-years 1/, including 16 man-years during the five years corres-
ponding to the IDA-financed project and 2.5 man-years during the year preceding
project implementation. Of the total 18.5 man-years, 10 would be provided by
the IDA project, 6.5 by the FAO project (paras 1.17 and 3.04), and 2 by the
ongoing German forestry project (para. 1.16). These specialists would be
appointed to assist in such fields as general administration and finance,
forest inventory, photointerpretation, forestry economics and research.
Further support would be provided through the hiring of consultants to carry
out various studies (para. 3.10). In the terms of reference of expatriate
staff and throughout project implementation, special emphasis would be given
to the training of Voltaic staff who would gradually take over the expatriate
positions during the project period (Annex V.2). Field operations of the
Forestry Administration would be strengthened through the purchase of vehicles,
equipment and provision of related operating funds.
3.04      The recently implemented second FAO/UNDP forestry project in Upper
Volta (UPV/78/004) will carry out a number of key tasks contributing to the
strengthening of the Forestry Administration and particularly to the newly-
created Studies and Planning Department (para. 4.03). In the initial stages,
the FAO/UNDP project staff (see above) would constitute the Studies and
Planning Department's first core. They would eventually be replaced by
Voltaics in the course of the IDA-financed project (Annex Table V.2). The
studies to be carried out under the FAO project would provide background
information as well as guidelines which would serve as a basis for future
forestry development in Upper Volta. They would aim essentially at
(a) providing a preliminary analysis and estimate of the country's forest
1/   Excluding the two field work specialists (10 man-years) (para. 3.06).



- 13 -
reuources as well as a full survey of forestry related activities, (b) esti-
mating demand for forestry products, (c) identifying and evaluating the use
of alternative energy sources, (d) reviewing marketing facilities and distri-
bution networks for forest products, and (e) identifying options for develop-
ment.
Forestry Operations
3.05      Rainfed Tree Plantation (Project File Annex III Tables 4 to 12, 16
to 18). The objective of this component is to develop a technical package for
the establishment of forestry plantations in significant blocks sited close to
urban towuships, These will provide a sustainable source of firewood for the
urban population and thereby relieve pressure on natural bush wood supplies.
A 1600 ha plantation would be established in the Maro forest reserve. Given
the known soil types and rainfall conditions of the area, the plantation would
be planted with species which have been amply experimented and have given very
satisfactory results, namely: gmelina (75%), eucalyptus (20%) and teak (5%).
Plantation work would be carried out on force account in order to provide
the Administration with much needed trained manpower and technical experience
in setting up plantations. For this purpose, the Administration would receive
additional machinery and equipment under the project (Project File Annex
III.17). The work program would include the establishment of a nursery,
clearing and destumping, subsoil ripping to improve the water holding capacity
of the soil, planting and, for two years after planting, two weedings per
year. Simultaneously, also on force account and for the same purpose, 25 km
of access roads, all plantation tracks and firebreaks would be constructed by
the Forestry Administration and accommodations for workers and supervisory
staff built. Wood recovered from the clearing and destumping of the natural
forest would be cut, sorted and transported to Bobo Dioulasso for sale.
3.06      Plantation establishment would have to be done during the rainy
season, as only six weeks per year are suitable for the planting of seedlings.
Experience to date has demonstrated better survival and faster growth rates
when land preparation has been carried out with machinery rather than manual
labor 1/. This rationale is reinforced by the low availability of manpower
around the plantation sites; moreover, during the rainy season, few workers
are available due to peak labor requirements for cropping. Thus labor in-
tensive methods would involve costly transport and accommodations to house
workers from other parts of the country. With the methods used, about 85
mandays of labor input would be required over the three years to establish
1 ha of rainfed tree plantation (Table VI). In addition, due to the lack of
1/   While land preparation costs would be roughly the same, at about
US$1,000/ha, yields would vary greatly whether land preparation is done
mechanically or manually. Depending on site, yield from mechanically
prepared land would vary from about 5 to 10 m3/ha/yr, while only half
those results could be expected from manually prepared land. This would
be due largely to the deep subsoiling and ploughing possible under
mechanical preparation which result in better water retention and weed
control.



- 14 -
experienced Voltaic professionals in the technical field, the implementation
of this and the natural forest management (para. 3.08) components of the
project would require the appointment of 2 internationally recruited ex-
patriates for a total of 10 man-years.
3.07      Maintenance of FAO/UNDP Tree Plantations (para 1.17) (Project File
Annex III Tables 20 and 21). These plantations are currently threatened by
fires, weed encroachment and poaching because of lack of maintenance and
protection. Funds would therefore be provided under the project to finance
the necessary vehicles, equipment, staff and operating expenditures for
firebreak maintenance, weeding and policing. A first phase of this program
(Project File Annex II.6) would be carried out prior to project implementation
and would be financed under the Project Preparation Facility (para. 3.18).
3.08      Natural Forest Management (Project File Annex III Tables 13 to 15).
The management of 1,000 ha of natural forest would be undertaken on an experi-
mental basis in the Maro forest reserve. Better natural regeneration and
regrowth are expected to result from protective measures against encroachments
and bushfires, intermediate and regerieration cuttings, complementary seeding,
harrowing and weeding. The application of these techniques would be preceded
by the setting up of a working plan including site location, a forestry
inventory, the marking of trees and the construction of roads, tracks and
firebreaks. Promising results have been obtained with these techniques in
Nigeria, in areas of similar rainfall pattern to that around Bobo Dioulasso,
with sustained yields increasing from 0.5 m3/ha/year to 1.0 m3/ha/year.
It is estimated that about 34 mandays of labor input would be required over
three years to manage 1 ha of natural forest.
3.09      Rural Woodlots (Project File Annex III.22).  About 325 ha of family
or village woodlots would be established within the area of the Bobo Dioulasso
Forestry District. Seedlings would be provided from the nursery established
for the Maro rainfed tree plantation component. To avoid the poor results
previously obtained by efforts of this nature, the nursery would (a) as a
first stage, provide only shade, fodder and fruit tree seedlings which are
in most demand by villagers; and (b) promote plantings in family compounds
rather than in communal (village) woodlots. Simultaneously, a detailed survey
would be undertaken under the project on rural forestry possibilities (para.
3.10(a)) and the results of this survey would be taken into account during
project implementation as they became available. Field training would be
provided for forestry field agents on rural afforestation techniques and
possible approaches to encouraging the participation of rural people. This
training would be provided by supervisory staff of the project's rainfed tree
plantation and natural forest management components.
Studies and Training
3.10      Three studies would be financed under the IDA-assisted project,
namely:
(a)  A Rural Forestry study, which would be based on the preliminary
findings and recommendations of the FAO studies (para. 3.04),
and would:



- 15 -
(i) carry out, as a matter of urgency, a national survey and
evaluation of past and ongoing studies and projects
dealing with the use of wood burning stoves. The results
and conclusions of this survey would serve as a basis for
Government to (a) undertake action, in the course of the
project, through the initiative of a strengthened Forestry
Administration and with the cooperation of the ORD's
extension facilities and various home economics and
women's groups, to promote the use of wood stoves built
from locally available materials, and (b) undertake
action towards the mass production of adequate wood
burning instruments suitable to the population;
(ii) focus on the economic effects of deforestation: starting
from selected geographic areas, the study would establish
an historical record of deforestation with resulting decline
of agricultural productivity and effects on agricultural
income; determine patterns of fuel consumption and degree of
household dependence on various cooking fuels, including
animal and crop residues; determine degree of dependence
of cropping patterns on use of animal and crop residues
and quantify effects of their use or non-use on agricul-
tural output; assess degree of dependence of livestock
on forest grazing, and effects on livestock output of
non-availability of tree-fodder and crop residues;
establish historical evidence of deteriorating stream
flows and dam sedimentation due to deforestation and
effects on agricultural output;
(iii) investigate adequate means and methods to control and
combat bushfires and would draw up long term policy
proposals for implementation and enforcement, including
the revision of existing bushfire laws; the study would
also seek ways and means of educating and motivating
the rural population towards the protection and con-
servation of the forest and bush fallow;
(iv) include a survey and comparative evaluation of past and
ongoing studies and projects dealing with (1) better
and more efficient uses of wood (promotion of charcoal,
wood treatment methods, etc.); and (2) motivational
techniques, educational methods and incentives to induce
the rural population to participate in rural forestry
programs.  The results would serve as basis of recom-
mendations to Government for implementation or for further
research; and
(v)  prepare recommendations for an expanded rural forestry
component in a second-phase forestry project.



16 -
(b)  A National ForestrX Fund study (para. 4.06).  Based on the
results of the studies carried out under the FAO project
(para. 3.04), this study would:
(i) demonstrate the economic and financial viability of
creating a National Forestry Fund whose resources
would be based on the revenues generated from the
exploitation of the forest. Its purpose would be
to finance projects aimed at acquiring, building
and maintaining productive assets which would
render the management of the forestry sector
financially self-sufficient;
(ii) establish criteria and parameters to be used in the
selection of projects to be financed by the Fund;
(iii) establish procedures to be used for the procurement
of goods and services required to implement projects;
(iv)  define the terms of the relationship of the Fund within
the Forestry Administration, determine the legal impli-
cations of its establishment on the basis of existing
laws and regulations and specify the particular legislative
requirements needed for its creation; and
(v) outline the specific administrative and accounting
procedures to be used by the Fund.
(c)  A feasibility study for a second phase forestry project which
would be carried out in the last two years of the project
taking into account the results of the above studies.
3.11      It is expected that 25 man-months of consultant services would be
needed to implement the above studies.  Other items of expenditure to be
financed under this component include necessary vehicles and operating costs.
Detailed terms of reference for the above studies would be prepared during
project implementation, as background data and information will depend to a
large extent on the results and recommendations of the FAO studies to be
undertaken in the early stages of the project and which should be completed
by mid-1981.
3.12      Traîning. With the implementation of the two USAID assisted educa-
tion projects totalling US$22.9 million (paras 1.19 and 1.20), most immediate
traîning needs for Voltaic forestry personnel will be met. Hence, there is no
major forestry training component in this project, except some scholarships
for A and Bdlevel staff to acquire specialized training. In addition, the
newly crated Studles and Planning Department, which would be responsible for
forecasting long-term staff needs (para. 4.03), would evaluate training
facilities and requirements, including the possibility of creating a scholar-
ship fundD and x^oJUld formulate recommendations that would be included in the
design of a secon&dphase project (para. 3.10(c)).



- 17 -
C.  £&oJect Cost Estimates and Financing
Cost Estimates
3.13      The cost of the project is estimated at US$17.5 million, of which
US$9.6 million are foreign exchange costs. Costs are net of revenue from
project wood sales, which have been deducted.  The estimates are summarized
below and detailed in Tables I-IV of the Annex.
Summary of Net Prolect Costs
% of
Baseline
Local   Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign Total    Costs
----CFAF Million-----  ----US$ Million----
I. StrenRthening of the
Forestry Department
Infrastructure               26.9     40.3      67.2   0.1    0.2       0.3
Equipment                    15.0    135.4    150.4   0.1    0.6        0.7
Supervisory staff           208.9      -       208.9   1.0      -       1.0
Staff allowances            157.5      -       157.5   0.8      -       0.8
Expatriates & consultants   -        396.3    396.3    -        1.9     1.9
Operating costs             240.8    240.7    481.5   1.2    1.1        2.3
Subtotals               649.1    812.7  1,461.8   3.2    3.8         7.0      52
II. Forestry Operations
(a) Rainfed Tree
Plantation           441.4    590.0  1,031.4   2.1    2.8        4.9
(b) FAO/UNDP Tree
Plantation
maintenance           138.5      31.9    170.4   0.6    0.2        0.8
(c) Natural forest
management              71.3     66.7    138.0   0.3    0.3        0.6
(d) Rural Woodlots          20.6      16.0      36.6   0.1    0.1       0.2
Subtotals               671.8    704.6  1,376.4   3.1    3.4         6.5
Less: Revenues from
project wood
sales /1            (154.8)       -    (154.8) (0.7)    -        (0-7)
Subtotals               517.0    704.6  1,221.6   2.4    3.4         5.8      43
III. Studies and Training /2   54.4        76.7    131.1   0.2    0.4       0.6        5
Baseline costs           1,220.5  1,594.0  2,814.5   5.8    7.6    13.4         100
Contingencies              429.2    423.6    852.8   2.1    2.0        4.1
Total project costs  1,649.7  2,017.6  3,667.3   7.9    9.6    17.5
/1 Annex Table IX.
/2  Including about US$0.2 (CFAF 44.1) million for training (para. 3.12).



- 18 -
3.14      Project costs have been calculated net of all identifiable taxes
and duties. The Government has expressed its intention to exempt the project
from duties and taxes. Base cost estimates are based on prices and quotations
obtained during appraisal at the end of 1978, revised in mid-1979, at which
time local wages and salaries had undergone an increase varying from 10 to
20%, and adjusted for price increases to end-1979. Total costs include
physical contingencies equal to 10% of estimated base costs for civil works
and buildings, vehicles and equipment, operating costs and seasonal labor.
The allowance for expected price increases over the five years of the project
is about 23% of base costs plus physical contingencies.  This is calculated on
the basis of expected annual price increases over the project implementation
period for civil works, buildings, vehicles, equipment, technical assistance,
operating costs, unskilled labor, skilled labor and local supervisory staff of
9% for 1980, 8% for 1981 and 7% thereafter.
3.15      The average costs of consultant services are estimated at US$10,500
per man-month (including benefits and subsistence). The project's total con-
sultant requirements are estimated at 25 man-months. The average costs of
expatriates are estimated at US$100,000 per man-year of which about US$61,000
represent salary and related benefits.
Proposed Financing
3.16      The proposed IDA credit of US$14.5 million would finance 83% of
net project costs of US$17.5 million to cover 94% of foreign exchange costs,
or US$9.0 million, and 70% of local costs, or US$5.5 million. The FAO/UNDP
grant of about US$0.6 million would finance the balance of the foreign
exchange, or 3% of total net cost.  The Government of Upper Volta would cover
the remaining US$2.4 million or 14% of total net costs.  A summary of the
proposed project financing is shown below and details are at Table XII.
Summary of Proiosed Financing
(including contingencies)
Total     IDA       FAO/UNDP   Govt.
          ---US$ million-- ----
I.   Strengthening of Forestry Department
Foreign exchange costs                     4.9       4.3        0.6        -
Local costs                                4.1       2.8         -        1.3
II. Forestry Operations
Foreign exchange costs                     4.2       4.2         -         -
Local costs                                3.5       2.4         -         1.1
III. Studies and Training
Foreign exchange costs                     0.5       0.5         -         -
Local costs                                0.3       0.3         -         -
Total                                     17.5      14.5        0.6       2.4
Percentage                               100        83          3        14



- 19 -
3.17      The combined IDA and FAO/UNDP contributions would finance a total of
US$15.1 million, or 86% of total net project costs of US$17.5 million. This
amount would cover 100% of all project foreign exchange costs of US$9.6
million, and US$5.5 million, or 70% of local costs of US$7.9 million. The IDA
Credit of US$14.5 million would be applied to finance civil works, forestry
operations, vehicles and equipment, related operating costs, project staff
allowances, technical assistance and training (see para. 3.21 for details).
The FAO/UNDP grant of about US$0.6 million would cover strictly technical
assistance to the Forestry Administration (para. 3.04). The main portion of
the Government's contribution of US$2.4 million would go to cover the salaries
of civil servants recruited during the project (para. 4.11). The other
element counted as part of the Government's contribution would be World Food
Program (WFP) assistance for which the project is considered eligible. This
assistance, for an equivalent of US$0.6 million, would cover about 30% of the
wages of laborers hired for the project's forestry operations. Government has
requested WFP assistance. However, in the absence of such assistance the
Government would have to cover the cost equivalent from its own funds.
3.18      Proiect Preparation Facility.  To accelerate project implementa-
tion scheduled to commence in 1980, some preliminary project works are being
undertaken in 1979 and early 1980. Therefore, the Government has applied for
an advance from the Project Preparation Facility of US$520,000, which IDA has
agreed to make available. This amount, which may be withdrawn before May 31,
1980, under conditions satisfactory to IDA, is meant to finance: (a) a
pedological study of the Maro forest reserve, (b) an aerial photo survey of
the same forest, (c) maintenance and protection of the FAO/UNDP plantations,
(d) cover the material, equipment and related operating costs of the FAO/UNDP
studies, and (e) the cost of a financial consultant.
3.19      Prolect Revolving Fund.  Because the Government may have difficulty
in pre-financing expenditures to be reimbursed under the IDA credit, a revolv-
ing fund of US$0.5 million, financed as an advance from the credit, would be
established in a project bank account; this account would be opened and
controlled by the Director-General's Office in a commercial bank for project
purposes and operated under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. It would
be managed by the Director-General and the Finance and Administration Advisor
(para. 4.01), whose combined signatures would be required to effect with-
drawals. They would also provide IDA with quarterly reports of withdrawals
from and deposits into the account. IDA would replenish the account upon
receipt of evidence of disbursements from the revolving fund for allowable
expenditures.  Should any disbursements be made from the revolving fund which
are not acceptable to IDA, the Government would deposit the corresponding
amount in the fund account. Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations. The opening of the project bank account would be a condition of
Credit effectiveness.



- 20 -
D.   Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
3.20      Contracts for major items of machinery, vehicles and equipment above
US$100,000, aggregating about US$1.0 million, would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed a preference of 15% or the
applicable level of import duties, whichever is the lower. Certain minor
items of equipment (such as agricultural equipment, chain saws, miscellaneous
vehicles and tools) are too disparate in nature and in timing to be suitable
for ICB. Such purchases would be grouped by like items in packages up to
US$100,000 whenever possible; contracts for less than US$100,000 but for
more than US$25,000 would be procured on the basis of competitive bidding
procedures advertised locally while contracts for less than US$25,000 would
be procured by direct competitive shopping. The total of such procurement
would not exceed US$1.5 million. Because of their location and small size,
contracts for offices, houses and workshops (US$1.3 million) would not be
attractive to international contractors and would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally. Services of expatriate staff and
consultants valued at US$2.9 million would be obtained in accordance with
procedures acceptable to IDA. Expatriate staff and consultants to be financed
by FAO/UNDP, for a total of US$0.6 million, would be recruited in accordance
with FAO procedures. Remaining project costs (US$10.2 million) would not be
suitable for competitive bidding and would involve: (a) wages and allowances,
(b) operating costs of machinery, equipment, vehicles and offices, and
(c) scholarships and training.
Disbursement
3.21      The IDA Credit of US$14.5 million would be disbursed over five years
under the following categories:
Category I     -  100% of costs of vehicles, machinery, tools and
equipment, totalling US$2.2 million;
Category II    -  100% of offices, houses and buildings, including
furnishings, totalling US$1.2 million;
Category III   -  100% of operating costs of the institution strengthening
component of the project including fuel, lubricants
and spares for vehicles, office operating supplies and
equipment, house and building rentals and staff allow-
ances, totalling US$3.9 million;
Category IV    -  55% of operating costs of the forestry operations
components of the project including fuel, lubricants
and spares for heavy equipment and vehicles, planting
materials and agricultural inputs, office operating
supplies and equipment, house and building rentals
and wages for seasonal and skilled labor, totalling
US$1.5 million;



- 21 -
Category V     -  100% of costs of expatriate staff, totalling
US$2.3 million;
Category VI    -  100% of costs of studies and training, totalling
US$0.6 million;
Category VII   -  100% of audit fees of project accounts, totalling
US$80,000;
Category VIII  -  refunding of advance for project preparation,
totalling US$520,000;
Category IX    -  initial deposit in special account, totalling
US$500,000; and
Category X     -  unallocated estimated at US$1.7 million.
3.22      Applications for credit withdrawal would be fully documented except
for applications under Categories III and IV which would be against certified
statements of expenditures whose supporting documentation would be retained
for inspection in the course of project supervision (also see para 3.24).
E. Accounts, Audits and Reports
Accounts and Audits
3.23      The Forestry Administration would keep separate accounts for the
project, maintained in accordance with acceptable accounting practices to
reflect the operations and financial position of the project. The accounting
system would be prepared by a financial consultant prior to project implemen-
tation and financed under the Project Preparation Facility (para. 3.18). The
accounts would be kept by the Administration and Finance Section of the
Director-General's Office (para 1.11) and would be supervised by the Finance
and Administration Advisor (para. 4.01). Budgets for project expenditures
would be submitted to the Treasury twice yearly for approval.
3.24      All project accounts would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and the IDA credit would finance the audit fees.
Audited financial statements and reports, of such scope and in such detail
as IDA may reasonably request, would be submitted to IDA within six months
after the close of the Government's fiscal year. The auditors' report would
include a statement on the adequacy of the accounting system and internal
controls and as to whether or not IDA funds had been used for their intended
purpose together with a confirmation that summary statements of expenditure
correctly reflect detailed records kept by the Administration. Assurances to
this effect were obtained during negotiations.



- 22 -
Reports
3.25      The Forestry Administration would also submit within two months
after the end of each financial quarter a report on the physical progress of
the project, to include such performance indicators as would be determined in
the course of the project's early supervision by IDA. Such reports would
also include interim cash-flow statements for previous quarters and projec-
tions for the remaining quarters of the financial year. Assurances to this
effect were obtained during negotiations.
IV. ORGANIZATION, STAFFING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Organization
4.01      Execution of the project would be carried out by the recently
reorganized Forestry Administration (paras 1.11 to 1.14) under the Director-
General of Environment as Project Manager. The latter would be directly
responsible for the implementation of the project's institution strengthening
component. He would be assisted by an internationally recruited Finance and
Administration Advisor who would also be responsible for managing and con-
trolling the project's financial and procurement matters (para 4.10). With the
reorganization, the Director-General has been given the responsibility for the
coordination of forestry policy and for ensuring the liaison on forestry
matters with outside agencies, including AVV. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that a review of the coordination of forestry related activities
within the AVV perimeter would be carried out annually between AVV and the
Director-General's Office. The on-going reorganization of the Forestry
Administration would be completed on time for project implementation, at which
time the roles and responsibilities of the Studies and Planning Department and
the Forestry Management and Reforestration Department would be broadened to
include the responsibilities described below (paras 4.03 to 4.07). Assurances
to this effect were obtained during negotiations. It would be a condition of
effectiveness that the above departments be fully operational and charged
with such responsibilities.
4.02      The implementation of the forestry operations components of the
project would be the responsibility of the Forestry Management and Reforesta-
tion Department. A Project Operations Unit (para 4.08) would be set up in
Bobo Dioulasso under its own manager. The project components to be included
under the Bobo Dioulasso operations unit would be: the Maro plantation, the
Maro natural forest management experiment and the village woodlot component.
The FAO/UNDP plantation maintenance component would be carried out by the
Forest Management Division (para 4.04) of the Department. The Studies and
Planning Department would be responsible for awarding the consultancy con-
tracts and for supervising the studies and surveys to be carried out under
the project, and for proposing means to implement their conclusions and
recommendations.



- 23 -
4.03      Studies and Planning Department.  The role of this newly created
unit within the Forestry Administration would be to define forestry policy
and to prepare implementation plans for forestry management, production and
marketing and for the expansion of forest resources. Projects designed by
this Department would be implemented by the other operating departments of
Forestry Administration. Some of the most important activities of this
Department would include the establishment and maintenance of an up-to-date
national forest inventory and the collection and evaluation of market
intelligence on the basis of recommendations of the studies to be undertaken
under the FAO project (para. 3.04). Other responsibilities would include:
(a) assisting external agencies in designing projects (para. 1.16); (b)
coordinating forestry research (paras 1.22 and 4.17); (c) monitoring and
evaluating forestry related projects (para. 4.15); (d) overseeing and fore-
casting personnel and training needs (para. 3.12) for the Forestry Admini-
stration; and (e) supervising and assisting in the implementation of studies
and surveys to be undertaken for the Forestry Administration (para. 3.10).
4.04      Forestry Management and Reforestation Department.  Through its
Forest Management Division, one of the Department's major roles would be to
carry out the Administration's policy in such matters as the management,
protection and maintenance of the country's forest resources, and the control
of exploitation and production within as well as outside the forest reserve
areas. It would also assist in the maintenance of village or rural woodlots
(para. 3.09) and would run the Department's permanent nurseries. As it is
responsible for the collection of stumpage and cutting dues and fees, the
revenue operations of the Department would be fully reviewed and strengthened
early in the project, so as to increase the rate of collection from the
current 20% of collectable taxes to a feasible 75% (para. 5.13). A further
responsibility of the Forest Management Division would be to oversee the
marketing and distribution of firewood and other forest products throughout
the country. Under the project, this Division would be responsible for
implementation of the component relating to the maintenance of the FAO/UNDP
plantations (para. 3.07).
4.05      The Forest Management Division would also coordinate activities
in the field aimed at preventing and controlling bushfires in the reserved
forest areas and inducing the rural population to protect and conserve the
forested areas outside the reserved domain. These activities would have to
be carried out in consultation with the ORDs and the agricultural services;
the Government is currently preparing a plan of action leading to better
control and eventual eradication of unnecessary bushfires in the rural areas.
The plan of action, which could include the revision of existing bushfire
laws, would serve as a preliminary basis for bushfire control activities until
completion of the Rural Forestry Study (para. 3.10) and the formulation of a
revised and broadened national forestry policy.
4.06      The Forest Management Division would have the responsibility of
supervising the operations of the National Forestry Fund, if the study on the
latter demonstrates its viability (para. 3.10 (b)). This Fund would be
created to provide permanent financial means for the Forestry Administration,



- 24 -
by gradually centralizing the funds generated from the exploitation of the
forests, to finance (a) the maintenance and upkeep of man-made plantations and
forest reserves, and their protection against fire and other hazards; and (b)
the implementation of projects designed and prepared by the Studies and
Planning Department (para. 4.03). The Fund would be managed by a small team
of forestry and financial specialists whose role would be to insure the most
effective use of these funds through project selection and competitive pro-
curement. The implementation of projects financed by this fund would be the
responsibility of the Administration's operating departments.
4.07      Through its Reforestation Division, the Department carries out
the Administration's reforestation policy. Its responsibilities would be
broadened to include:
(a) Implementing projects designed and prepared by the Studies and
Planning Department, involving mostly (i) the establishment of new
plantations, (ii) the implementation of natural forest management
schemes, (iii) the establishment of rural or village woodlots,
and (iv) carrying out soil conservation works;
(b)  Ensuring liaison with and coordination of projects undertaken
by outside agencies, including AVV (paras 1.15 and 4.02); and
(c) Carrying out topographic and survey field work for the Studies
and Planning Department's forest inventory section.
When projects referred to in (a) above are completed, the responsibility for
their maintenance and management would be turned over to the Department's
Forest Management Division.
4.08      Prolect Operations Unit.  This unit would be located in Bobo
Dioulasso and would be responsible for implementing the forestry operations
components of the project: the plantation and natural forest management
experiment, both located in the Maro forest reserve, and the village woodlot
subproject in the Bobo Dioulasso ORD. It would be managed by a Voltaic
forester who would report to management through the Reforestation Division.
He would be assisted for the duration of the project by two expatriates:
a forestry specialist and a mechanical engineer (para. 4.10).
B. Staffing (Tables V.1 and 2)
4.09      Under the project, all key posts to be filled by Voltaics would from
the start be by qualified and experienced persons. These would include the
Director-General of Environment, the head of the Studies and Planning Depart-
ment, the head of the Forestry Management and Reforestation Department and the
heads of its two Divisions, and the manager of the Project Operations Unit.
Discussions to this effect were held during negotiations. The appointment of
these persons would be a condition of effectiveness. All posts to be filled
by expatriate staff (para 4.10) would be by persons whose qualifications,
experience and conditions of employment are acceptable to IDA. Assurances to
this effect were obtained during negotiations. The appointment of the Finance
and Administration Advisor would be a condition of effectiveness.



- 25 -
4.10      Expatriates.  To implement the IDA project, a total of four expa-
triates (not counting those of the FAO/UNDP project) would be recruited each
for five years for a combined duration of 20 man-years. The senior expatriate
on the staff of the Forestry Administration would be the advisor to the
Director-General of Environment in financial and administrative matters.
He would be appointed for the duration of the project and his role would
be mostly to assist the Director-General in implementing the institution-
strengthening component of the project, monitoring the project as a whole
through the Studies and Planning Department (para. 4.15) and supervising the
project's finances and procurement (para. 3.23). Another expatriate would be
the research specialist (para. 4.17) on the staff of the Studies and Planning
Department. The other two expatriates would be a forestry specialist and a
mechanical engineer to be employed with the operations unit at Maro. The
terms of reference of all expatriates are at Annex IV.3 of the Project File.
4.11      Voltaic professional staff.  During the five year project period, an
estimated 15 additional Voltaic forestry engineers (A level), having graduated
from ISPO and other overseas institutions (para. 1.19), would be recruited by
the Forestry Administration to fill an estimated 13 positions at headquarters
and two in the field. This number includes three counterparts who would be
trained to replace expatriate specialists. Furthermore, about six senior
positions (A level equivalent) within the Department would be filled by
graduates in fields other than forestry (e.g., economist, financial analyst)
(Table V.1). Of these, one would be a counterpart.
4.12      Consultants (Table IV.6).  Except for the specific assignments to
be financed under the PPF (para. 3.18), all studies would be undertaken at
different times in the course of project implementation. All studies, includ-
ing the PPF assignments, would be carried out by consultants whose appointments
should be on terms and conditions, and with qualifications and experience
acceptable to IDA. Assurances to this effect were obtained during nego-
tiations. In selecting consultants for studies, particular attention would
be given to the availability of local firms and specialists. Moreover, care
would be given to include, where circumstances warrant, specialists in such
fields as sociology, to evaluate the effect of project activities (e.g.
village woodlots, new stoves) on the population.
C. Pro1ect Implementation
4.13      Several project-related activities would be carried out by the
Forestry Administration prior to project implementation and would be financed
under the Project Preparation Facility (para. 3.18): a pedological study
and aerial survey of the Maro forest reserve, and maintenance of the FAO/UNDP
plantations (para. 3.07). Key Voltaïc project staff and the expatriate
Finance and Administration Advisor would be recruited before Credit effective-
ness. Other expatriate and local staff would be appointed in the course of
the project (Tables V.1 and V.2). Most equipment, vehicles and plantation
buildings would be provided in the first three years of the project and the
Technical Services Headquàrters building would be built during the second year
of the project (Tables IV.1 to IV.6).
4.14      Implementation of the forestry components of the project is
scheduled as follows (in hectares):



- 26 -
1979 1/  1980   1981  1982  1983  1984  Total
Rainfed Tree Plantation (ha)
- felling & clearing              -       200   400   400   600      -   1,600
- land preparation & planting    -         -    200   400   400    600
Natural Forest Management (ha)
- preparation works               -       250   250   250   250      -   1,000
- forestry field works            -        -    250   250   250    250
UNDP/FAO Plantation
Maintenance (ha)
- Ouagadougou                  1,112      812   214    -      -      -
- Bobo Dioulasso                 537      537   233    -      -      -
Rural Woodlots (ha)                -       -     50    75   100    100    325
1/   Financed under the Project Preparation Facility.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.15      The Studies and Planning Department would be responsible for monitor-
ing and evaluating project performance (para. 4.03). The expatriate advisor
to the Director-General would also assist the Department in this activity
(para. 4.10). The results of the analysis would be part of the periodic
reports to be prepared by the Forestry Administration on the progress of
the project (para. 3.25). In carrying out the evaluation of the project,
particular attention should be given to: (i) the forest clearing method used
under this project to establish the rainfed tree plantation; and (ii) the
village woodlot component of the project's forestry operations.
4.16      Through the monitoring and evaluation process, the Studies and
Planning Department would prepare a project completion report which would, in
particular, assess to what extent the strengthening of the Forestry Administra-
tion has contributed to improving wood supply and to increasing the revenue
potential of the forest to provide the Administration with some degree of
operating financial autonomy. The scope and format of both the monitoring and
evaluation quarterly progress report and the project completion report would
be discussed and reviewed during IDA supervision missions.
Research
4.17      Forestry research under the project would continue to be carried
out in the same manner as is currently being done (paras 1.22 and 1.23),
except that it would be coordinated through the Studies and Planning Depart-
ment (para. 4.03). Under the project, funds would be provided to finance an
additional applied research specialist, who would be seconded to the Dinderesso
Forestry School and whose work would be oriented towards the experimental
forest management sub-component of the project. He would be the first member
of a permanent forestry research unit and would be responsible for training
the Voltaic staff who would replace him at the end of the project. His major
assignments (Project File, Annex II.8) would include the analysis of the
results of the experiments in natural forest management.



- 27 -
V. PRODUCTION. MARKETS, PRICES AND INCOME
A.   Production
Maro Forest Reserve Rainfed Tree Plantation (Froject File Annex II.4)
5.01      The Maro Forest Reserve rainfed tree plantation (1,600 ha) pro-
duction program is based on the first results of ongoing rainfed tree
plantations in Upper Volta and the following assumptions:
(a) a distribution of three soil types in descending order:
- site 1 (5% of soils) suitable for teak plantations;
- site 2 (25% of soils) suitable for gmelina plantations;
- site 3 (70% of soils) suitable for gmelina and eucalyptus
plantations;
(b) a plantation life of 24 years, after which trees would be cut
and the land cleared for replanting;
(c) thinnings to harvest gmelina and eucalyptus firewood and
building poles in the fourth, eighth and sixteenth years;
(d) cuttings to harvest gmelina timber in the sixteenth year; and
(e) cuttings to harvest teak poles in the eighth, twelfth and
twentieth years.
5.02      On this basis, one average hectare of plantation would be expected
to produce 7.6 m3 of firewood and building poles per year, 0.5 m3 of teak
poles and 1.0 m3 of gmelina timber, or a total of 9.1 m3 per year, which
is in line with wood yields from existing plantations in Upper Volta. Detailed
production data are presented in Table VIII, based on the implementation
schedule (para. 4.14).
FAO/UNDP Rainfed Tree Plantation (Project File Annex II.6)
5.03      The FAO/UNDP rainfed tree plantation (1,650 ha) production program
is based on the following assumptions:
(a) yields equivalent to yields of site 2 of the Maro forest
rainfed tree plantation for the Bobo Dioulasso plantation
area and to 2/3 of these yields for the Ouagadougou plantation
area;
(b)  a plantation life of 24 years after which trees would be cut
and the land cleared for replanting; and
(c) thinnings to harvest firewood and building poles during
the eight and sixteenth years.



- 28 -
5.04      On this basis, one average hectare of plantation would produce
8.0 m3 of firewood and building poles in the Bobo Dioulasso area and 5.3 m3
in the Ouagadougou area. Detailed production data are presented in Table
VIII, based on the implementation schedule (para. 4.14).
Natural Forest Management Experiment (Project File Annex II-5)
5.05      Given the experimental nature of the natural forest management com-
ponent (1,000 ha) in the Maro Forest Reserve, it is not feasible to attempt
making well-founded production estimates at this stage. However, if managed
correctly the forest might possibly yield 7.5 m3/ha (or 0.375 m3/ha/year) for
the first 20 years and 15 m/ha (or 0.750 m3/ha/year) for 20 years there-
after. Detailed production data are at Table VIII.
Rural Woodlots (Project File Annex II.7)
5.06      Given the lack of data regarding villagers' motivation to partici-
pate in the rural woodlot component in the Bobo Dioulasso ORD area, it is
not feasible to make well-founded production estimates at this sta e. How-
ever, if maintained correctly, rural woodlots might yield from 3 m§/ha/year
to 5/m3/ha/year of firewood and building poles.
B. Markets
5.07      Future project wood production is expected to be consumed readily
by the domestic market, mainly in the Bobo Dioulasso area. In view of the
decreasing availability of firewood in the immediate vicinity of the city
and the increasing distances that have to be covered to reach available sup-
plies (up to 100 km), no difficulty is foreseen in marketing the production
from any of the production sites around Bobo Dioulasso, nor from the FAO/UNDP
plantation on the Ouagadougou-Po road in the Ouagadougou market. Moreover,
the production of this first-phase project would not have a significant impact
on the market: for instance, at total peak production (Year 11) the output
is not expected to reach more than 5% of total estimated demand. Similarly at
Maro, peak production (Year 14) will only be equivalent to an estimated 8% of
demand in the Bobo Dioulasso market.
5.08      No difficulty is foreseen in transporting firewood from pro-
duction site to market, as vehicles would be financed under the project.
Moreover, agreements could be reached with local transporters (para 2.04)
who would benefit from the shorter distances involved. The project would
also produce utility poles and some lumber and these could easily be sold
in the local markets. Voltelec, the electric utility, has a chronic backlog
of orders for utility poles.
C. Prices
5.09      In Upper Volta, firewood from the natural forest currently sells at
an average price of about CFAF 4,700/m3 at retail in urban areas, which is



- 29 -
equivalent to about CFAF 10 per kg. At wholesale, prices may vary between
CFAF 2500 and 2800 per m3. At roadside, prices may vary from CFAF 500 to
1200 per m3. Polewood sells at CFAF 150 to 400 per unit depending on
quality, and charcoal at about CFAF 25 per kg. The wholesale price of
plantation wood would differ from that of wood coming from the natural
unreserved forest. Plantation wood, having grown under controlled conditions,
grows straighter, stocks better and therefore weighs more per unit volume.
The average weight of a m3 of plantation wood is estimated at 583 kg,
compared with 450 kg for natural forest wood. For project valuation purposes,
the producer and wholesale prices of plantation wood have been estimated at
CFAF 2,500 and CFAF 3,600 per m3 respectively (Project File Annex III. 27).
5.10      Available data indicate that firewood retail prices have increased
on average by more than 15% per year over the past five years. On the other
hand, available data for a shorter period show that equivalent charcoal
prices have increased slightly. The table below shows the prices of various
fuels in 1976 and 1978, the only years for which comparative data were readily
available.
Price per KWH Equivalent
(CFAF)
1976     1978      Change %
Firewood                       1.50      2.01         34
Charcoal                       2.70      2.76          2
Kerosene                       5.50      6.90         25
Butane gas                     5.30      5.63          6
Electricity                   26.00    40.00          54
The output of this first-phase project would not be sufficient to affect
prices, although its overall impact on future supplies could be significant
(para. 6.04). In the medium term, however, firewood prices will continue to
rise due to scarcity and, as seen above, could possibly exceed the price of
charcoal in terms of energy equivalent. This is bound to encourage the use
of charcoal and of wood-burning stoves.
D. Income
5.11      Three major sources of incremental income would result from the
project, namely: (a) from clearing the Maro rainfed tree plantation, (b) from
wood produced at the plantations and the natural forest management site, and
(c) from increased collection of wood-cutting taxes resulting from the more
efficient Forest Management Division strengthened under the project (paras
4.04 and 5.13).
5.12      The sale of wood produced from clearing the plantation site would
constitute the major source of income during project implementation and would
be used to offset some of the project costs. No major obstacles to selling
this wood are foreseen. However, the experience of the German aid-financed
and AVV projects has shown that the wood may not necessarily be sold immediately



30 -
at time of cutting due to delays in organizing distribution at consumer level.
For this reason, the matching of project revenues against costs has'been
offset by one year (para. 3.13 and Table IX). Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that all revenues generated from the sale of wood by the
project will be collected by the Project Operations Unit to be deposited in a
special account in a commercial bank in Bobo Dioulesso, and would be used to
cover project costs, preferably seasonal labor wages.
5.13      The cutting tax currently collected by the Forestry Administration
from transporters to urban markets amounts to about CFAF 80/m3 (US$0.35/m3).
Based on estimates of urban consumption, approximately 20% of collectable
taxes are presently collected by the Forestry Administration and it is expected
that a more efficient collecting organization, operating 7 days a week, could
collect as much as 75% of collectable taxes (para. 4.04). The Voltaîc Parlia-
ment is reviewing a proposed increase of the tax from the current rate, which
has remained unchanged since 1959, to about CFAF 200 (or US$0.90) per m3.
The Studies and Planning Department would be responsible for reviewing the
rate and recommending changes.
5.14      Recurrent costs.  During the five years following the project,
recurrent costs necessary to maintain project operations would amount to about
CFAF 160 million (US$0.7 million) per year (Table XIV). Moreover, some
replacement of equipment totalling about CFAF 107 million (US$0.5 million)
would have to be incurred. For this period, total recurrent and replacement
costs would amount to an estimated CFAF 882 million (US$4.0 million). These
would be compensated by estimated incremental revenues from forestry operations
and improved tax collection (including the proposed increase) amounting to
CFAF 892 million (US$4.1 million). From 1990 onwards, project operating
revenues would adequately cover related expenditures.
5.15      Government cash flow.  The financial implications of the project
for the Government are summarized in Table XIV. They assume project invest-
ment costs and recurrent expenditures based on appraisal estimates, and
revenues based on wood sales and improved cutting tax collection. On this
basis, the cumulative cash-flow deficit, incurred in the early years of the
project, would be fully eliminated by Year 4
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A.   Benefits
6.01      Through its components, the project would endeavour to achieve
immediate and long term objectives which are in line with those stipulated
by Government (paras. 1.25-1.29) and those outlined by the FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program mission of 1976 (para. 1.01). Its contribution would
represent a significant effort toward slowing down the rate of deforestation,
and preventing its adverse consequences in Upper Volta.



- 31 -
6.02      The people of Upper Volta would experience the long term benefits
of the project. Those living in urban areas would benefit from improved
availability of firewood supplies grown on nearby tree plantations. In the
country as a whole, the population would benefit from the coordinated efforts
to bring about the development and production of efficient cooking stoves. In
the rural areas, the reduced rate of exploitation and increased protection of
the natural forest cover would benefit agriculture through a reduction of soil
degradation and erosion, and increased supplies of animal fodder.
6.03      Other immediate benefits would flow to the Forestry Administration,
which would be strengthened by the provision of material support and technical
expertise. This reinforcement would result in improved efficiency, which in
turn would bring about increased revenues from wood cutting-tax collection as
well as improved protection of the forest through better supervision and
enforcement of regulations. The project would also enable the Forestry
Administration to manage and coordinate activities in the forestry subsector,
to exercise needed controls where non or few presently exist, and to stimulate
public awareness of the need to preserve and expand the country's forest
resources.  Finally, the Forestry Administration would benefit from increased
skills, expertise and training received in designing and developing large tree
plantations, in implementing natural forest management schemes, and in promot-
ing rural forestry action.
6.04      The strengthening of the Forestry Administration would also act
as a stimulus for further forestry investment and would favourably influence
external agencies concerned with the problems related to deforestation and
desertification in West African countries.
B.   Economic Analysis
Overall Prolect
6.05      On the basis of the assumptions stated below together with detailed
cost elements and other technical assumptions included at Annex XV.1, the
economic rate of return of the project would be about 28%.
6.06      The economic benefits of the project and its impact on Upper Volta's
economy were measured by quantifying the increase in production of the un-
reserved natural forest following a gradual drop in exploitation resulting
from the availability of alternative sources of urban firewood and the gradual
drop in consumption. The major assumptions which were used in these calcula-
tions are set out below:
(a)  Over the next 26 years, plantations would be established
around the urban areas at the rate of 1,500 ha/yr for a
total of 50,000 ha. The yield from plantations would be
about 7 m3/ha/yr. Financing would be done by Government
and outaide agencies encouraged by the impact of the project's
actions. Improvement of the reserved domain through better
forest management methods would be the responsibility of the
strengthened Forestry Administration. The estimated yields
from these forests would be about 0.15 m3/ha/yr.



- 32 -
(b)  Per capita firewood consumption throughout the country
would be reduced gradually by about 10% from its present
level over the next 25 years, through the introduction,
promotion and adoption of woodstoves. This is considered
conservative: a Bank project in India estimates that
large scale adoption of such woodstoves would result in
reduced consumption of as much as 50%.
(c) The increase in production from the unreserved forest has
been valued at a calculated stumpage price of about
CFAF 2,500/m3. This base price would increase in real
terms at a rate of about 3% per year. This reflects
sirailar estimates by the Bank for tropical hardwoods over
the period 1976-85.
6.07      In calculating the costs incurred to generate the above benefits,
all project costs, future investment costs and related recurrent costs were
expressed in mid-1979 terms.  Foreign exchange cost components were adjusted
to reflect a shadow foreign exchange rate of CFAF 250/US$I. Unskilled labor
was costed at CFAF 300/manday instead of the official rate of CFAF 1,040, in
order to reflect the economic value of foregone output.
Rainfed Tree Plantation
6.08      The economic viability of the rainfed tree plantation component,
taken by itself, has special significance because its success would provide a
potential solution to the firewood and building pole supply problem of the
large urban centers. While such plantations are relatively expensive in terms
of establishment (US$1,000/ha) and supervision costs, they have distinct
advantages in terms of relative production, yielding 5 to 10 times more than
the natural forest and 2 to 3 times more than rural woodlots. The plantation
established under the project would have the added advantage of providing an
important experimental and training ground for Forestry Administration per-
sonnel. On the basis of the assumptions stated below as well as details of
cost and other technical assumptions contained in Annex IV.2, the rate of
return of the rainfed plantation component would be about 16%.
6.09      Plantation benefits would cone mostly from the sale of plantation
wood (Annex XV.2). Moreover, the reduced exploitation of the bush fallow and
of the natural unreserved forest in the Bobo Dioulasso area would provide
additional benefits in the form of improved agricultural yields and increased
tree volume. The assumptions are as follows:
(a)  a decrease in pressure on the bush fallow as a source of
firewood would lead to a reduction in premature cuttings.
This would provide protection against erosion as well as
additional humus, which in turn would lead to increased
yields when fallow land would be put into cultivation.
Based on an average shifting cultivation cycle of two
years cropping and six years fallow in the Bobo Dioulasso
wood supplying area, an incremental yield of 50 kg of millet
per hectare has been estimated and valued at CFAF 50/kg.



- 33 -
(b) similarly the reduction in cuttings in the unreserved
forest would result in additional standing volume which
by the 30th year of the project, would represent an
estimated 8% of current cuttings. This would be a sig-
nificant achievement in view of the relatively small size
(1,600 ha) of the plantation.
C.   Sensitivity Analysis
6.10      Sensitivity analysis was applied to determine to what degree the
project's most important variables are likely to affect its return. These
variables include the value of the wood production from reserved forests and
plantations and the savings due to lower consumption. Switching values were
used as a measure of sensitivity. The switching value of a variable is that
value at which, other variables remaining unchanged, the net present value of
the project equals zero. At this point the rate of return of the project
equals the opportunity cost of capital (OCC). In Upper Volta the OCC is
estimated at 8%. Below this value the project becomes economically unaccept-
able. The table below shows the results of this analysis.
% Change to
Appraisal Value    Switching Value
1.   Wood production from
reserved forest                         0.15 m3/ha/yr           - 190%
2.   Wood production from               establishment 1,500 m3/ha/yr
plantations                        to yield 7.0 m3/ha/yr         - 280%
3.   Increase in production
from unreserved forest due
to drop in consumption                0.06 m3/ha/yr             - 150%
4.   Prices                                 CFAF 2,500/m3             -  65%
These results show that the overall project is largely insensitive to adverse
variations in the individual assumptions.  Each would have to vary widely
from its most likely value to affect the viability of the project. The pro-
bability of the critical variations is discussed below.
(a)  Production from the forest reserves.  The improvement and exploita-
tion of the country's natural forest reserves through the use of
improved management techniques would represent a new undertaking
in Upper Volta which has more than 3 million ha of such reserves.
The management techniques themselves are well known and tried.
The experience in Nigeria, where similar techniques have been
applied under comparable climatic conditions, has shown sustained
yields of between 0.5-1.0 m3/ha. A conservative estimate of
0.15 m3/ha has been used for the purpose of calculating this
project's rate of return. The outlook for the successful imple-
mentation of this component does not appear unduly risky and
there is little probability that lower results than those
estimated would have any effect on the overall project's return.



34 -
(b)  Production from plantations.  The establishment of plantations
around urban centers and the improved management of the country's
forest reserves constitute a rational approach to providing the
urban population with reliable supplies of firewood and building
poles. While considerable efforts have been made in recent years by
outside donors, the strengthening of the Forestry Administration
would likely attract further assistance. Moreover, the Forestry
Administration could eventually finance its own plantation projects
through the National Forestry Fund. The technical aspects of these
plantations do not present any special risk. Given the continued
interest by outside agencies and the emergence of the strengthened
Forestry Administration, there is good probability of more planta-
tions being established in the coming years, although the rate of
planting could vary. For purposes of calculation, the average
yearly planted area was taken as 1,500 ha/yr which is less than the
average 1,700 ha/yr planted over the past three years. The project
is relatively insensitive to fluctuations in this variable, the net
worth of the project being almost three times its value.
(c) Increased production due to lower consumption. The project is
relatively more sensitive to conditions which would hinder attempts
to reduce firewood consumption. The best way to achieve a signi-
ficant drop in per capita wood consumption is by encouraging the
adoption of efficient burning implements. While a considerable
number of experiments have been conducted over the past years to
find solutions to this problem, most were isolated or lacked means
to pursue their findings to the production stage. Under the project,
the Forestry Administration would undertake to coordinate and
evaluate these experiments and would sponsor efforts to promote
their use. For purposes of calculations, the rate of adoption of
these stoves is assumed to be slow and gradual, leading to a drop of
10% in per capita firewood consumption level over the next 25
years.
(d) Prices. The tests indicate that, of all the variables tested,
the project is relatively more sensitive to conditions affecting
the prices at which benefits were valued, although a considerable
drop would be needed before the project's net worth equals zero.
Tests were also conducted to determine the effect of a failure of
wood prices to increase in real terms following project year six.
This would possibly occur if the firewood supply situation improved
due to the incremental production of existing plantations, combined
with an easing of demand following the introduction of wood stoves
throughout the country. If project and other costs remained un-
changed, this condition would have little effect on the rate of
return. However, if costs were increased by 50%, the rate of
return would drop to 15%. It is unlikely that price fluctuations
at the retail level would have much effect on the assumed stumpage
or producer price of CFAF 2,500/m3. Indeed, any drop in price at
the retail or wholesale level could be absorbed by the considerable



- 35 -
margin between the above price and the going retail price of
CFAF 4,700/m3, or even the semi-wholesale price of CFAF 3,400/m3
which well stacked plantation wood would fetch with city traders
and street vendors. In any event, the probability of a significant
drop in price at any level remains very low.
D.   Other Risks
6.11      There are no other unusual risks to this project.  The establishment
of a strong Forestry Administration would be new in Upper Volta, but the compre-
hensive technical assistance provided under the project for building up,
organizing and managing this institution should reduce the risk of unsatis-
factory project implementation. Another risk concerns the timing of the
sale of wood produced from clearing the Maro plantations and that of the
enforcement of the revised cutting tax laws, as any delay would negatively
affect the project's cash flow.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were Qbtained from Government,
on the following principal points:
(a)  a project bank account to be opened and controlled by the
Forestry Administration in a commercial bank would be operated
under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para. 3.19);
(b)  Government would complete the on-going reorganization
of the Forestry Administration (para 4.01);
(c)  a review of coordination of forestry related activites
would be carried out annually between AVV and the
Forestry Administration (para 4.01); and
(d)  all revenues generated from the sale of wood by the
project would be collected by the Project Operations
Unit, deposited in a special account in a commercial
bank in Bobo Dioulesso and used to cover project costs
(para. 5.12).
7.02      Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be that:
(a)  the project bank account be opened (para. 3.19);
(b)  the Forestry Administration be reorganized (para 4.01); and
(c)  all Voltaic key staff of the Forestry Administration
and the expatriate Finance and Administration advisor
be appointed (para. 4.09).
7.03      With the above assurances and conditions the project is suitable for
an IDA credit of US$14.5 million.






- 36 -
O'PTER -TOLTA/MAOTE VOLTA
FORESTRY PRO ECT/PROSETT FOREST ER
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS PER CATETORY OF EXPETSITURE AND PrR COMSEMRT/Cvûio Totsux dn Projet par Catégorie de Dpenoos et par Composante
(Million CFAFLFCFA)
FORESTRY FIELD dORK/Travau  Poreatiero                          SALAIRES/SsaiirTA
INFRASTRUCTURE      E(vIuEMET       SEASo0AL LABOR      OPERATION           DRIVERS AND 1EE                                                                                                          TOTAL FISAELIP E
Infrastrucoturee    Equipe-eet     Main dloeuee         Fsontioanement      Conducteurs et aides         Eocodeement         ERpnt,i(o          Iodemn<tEs            Fnontloonerent Personnel       CONTIEGENCIES
6aitonnière                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Avant inprevue
I.    PORESTRi  DEPARTMOM.F. STRENGTIENIRG/
Renforcemont doe la Di-otion deo Forêto             67.2              10o.4              -                   -                      _                       0.9                 syt, J05.0                                       48i.5                 1461.9
Il.   RALFE9 TIOEE FLAIOrATIO'5/
Plantatlon  -oreotière eec                         137.2              215.4            155.7               151.1                    44.6                    47.2               100.5                                             P6.P                  1031.4
III.  RATURAL T'OREST Md03AGE0E4T/
Am4noaLement de 'a foret nsturelle                  15.2               23.9             3H.0                19.5                     4.9                     5.3                21.5                                               9.7                  138.0
IV.   PAO/UEDF TRSE ILAE1TING MAINOTENIANICE/
tntretien den pLontationI forestières               p.m.               2O.0             92.0                13.7                     9.50                    4.5                p..                                               0.7                  170.4
FAO/UI DP
V.    RURAL WOODLOTS/BSsdruraux                             6.0                5.4              4.4                1i4                     u.m                      6.0                F.m                                              13.5                   36.6
VI.  SURVEYS ARD TRAIINING//
EtudeB et Formation                                  -                 p..              -                   -                                               4 47.3              74.0                                              9.7                   131.1
TOTAL BEFORE CONINGENRCIER /
Totnl avent seprovan                               225.6              423.1            290.1               185.7                    59'°                   6O3.L               60o.o              107.0                         6oo.O                 2969.2
o Lnclndiag hi million CTPF an trsining noînîaeship & incentivea/
Inclus 4h  million FCFA au titr  do boucans et incitati-n  formation.



1



- 37 -
UPPER VOLTA/NAUTE VOLTA
FORESTRY PROJECT/PROJET FORESTIER
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS PER COMPONENT AND PER YEAR/
Coats Totaux du Projet par Composante et par an
('000 CFAF/FCFA)
TOTAL BASE-
PRE-PROJECT/                 PROJECT YEARS/Années du Projet                 LINE COSTS
Avant Projet                                                               Total avant
00                  0          1          2          3         4          Imprévus
I.   FORESTRY DEPARTMENT STRENGTHENING
Renforcement de la Direction des Forêts           66.3                2B0.0      378.1      231.6     271.9      244.9        1461.9
Il.  RAINFED TREE PLANTATION/
Plantation forestière en sec                      45.9                279.8      179.0      178.3     170.6      177.8        1031.4
III. NATURAL FOREST MANAGEMENT/
Aménagement de la Forêt naturelle                  5.1                 32.8       28.8      25.7       23.9       21.7         138.0
IV.  FAO/UNDP TREE PLANTATION MAINTENANCE/
Entretien des plantations forestières             59.5                 24.0       13.8       5.8       17.8       47.4         170.4
FAO/PNUD
V.   RURAL WOODLOTS/Bois ruraux                           -                   7.7      10.8        5.2        7.3        5.7          36.6
VI.  STUDIES AND TRAINING/
Etudea et Formation                                 -                  21.2       52.0      15.4       27.0       15.4         131.1
TOTAL BEFORE CONTINGENCIES/
Total avant imprévus                             176.8                 638.4    662.5       462.1    518.5       510.9         2969.2



- 38 -                                                      Annex
Table III
UPPER VOLTA/Haute Volta
FORESTRY PROJECT/Projet Forestier
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS PER CATEGORY AND PER YEAR/CoÛts totaux du projet par catégorie et par année
('000 CFAF/FCFA)
PRE-PROJECT/                                                              TOTAL BASELINE COST9'
Avant Projet               PROJECT YEARS/Années du Projet                 Coûts totaux de base
00               O           1          2          3          4
1.   INFRASTRUCTURE/                             11.8             59.8      122.5        30.2        1.3         -          225.6                     t
Infrastructure
2.   EQUIPMENT/
Equipement                                 66.2             200.8       82.4        6.5       50.3       16.8          423.0
3.   FORESTRY FIELD WORK/
Travaux Forestiers
(a) SEASONAL LABOR/
Main d'oeuvre saisonnière            18.1              18.5       36.6        48.8       65.7      102.4         290.1
(b)  OPERATING COSTS/
Coûts de fonctionnement                4.7             10.7       28.2        42.2       50.6       49.3         185.7
(c) DRIVERS AND HELPERS/
Conducteurs et aides                   5.2             11.3       11.3        10.4       10.4       10.4           59.0
4.   SUPERVISORY STAFF/
Personnel d'encadrement
(a) SALARIES/
Salaires                               5.7             37.8        53.1       64.0       65.6       65.6         291.8
(b) ALLOWANCES/
Indemnités de projet                    -              23.7       29.8        34.2       34.9       34.9         157.5
5.   EXPATRIATES&CONSULTANTS/
Expatriés et Consultants                   42.8             157.7      123.1       95.9       95.9       95.9          611.3
6.   STAFF OPERATING COSTS/
Fonctionnement du personnel                22.3              96.9      123.5      114.4      116.8      120.2          594.1
7.   STUDIES & TRAINING/
Etudes et formation                                          21.2       52.0       15.5       27.0        15.4         131.1
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS/
Totaux de base                            176.8             638.4      662.5      462.1      518.5      510.9         2969.2



- 39 -
-                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Annex
UPPER VOLTA/Haute Volta                                                 Table IV - 1
FORES7TRY -PROJE-CI/Proe  Frste
STRENCTHENING 0F FORESTRY ADMINISTRATION/Renforcement de l'administration forestière
TOTAL COSTS PER YEAR/Coûts totaux annuels
('000 CFAF/FCFA)
1/
PAE-PR0JECT/            PROJECT YEARS/Années  du Projet                           TOTAL BASELINE COSTS
Avant  rjt                   Projet                                               CoOts totaux de base
00            0           1              2             3             4
1.   INFRASTRUCTURE/
Infrastructure                             -             -        67190            -             -              -             67190
2.   EQUIPMENT/
Equipement                                  -         36120       62570          4300         39890          7530            150410
3.   FORESTRY FIELD WORKS/
Travaux forestiers                          -                  -                   -              -             -              -
(a) SEASONAL LABOR/
Main d'oeuvre saisonnière              _            _           _              _             _             _
(b) OPERATIONS/
Fonctionnement                         _            _           _              _             _
(c) DRIVERS & HELPERS/
Conducteurs et aides                   -            _           _              _             _             _
4.   SUPERVISORY STAFF/
Personnel d'encadrement
(a) SALARIES/
Salaires                             1670        22040      37360          48210          49830         49830         208940
(b) PROJECT ALLOWANCES/
Indemnités de projet -/                -         23700      29800          34200          34900         34900         157500
5.   EXPATRIATES AND CONSULTANTS/
Expatriés  et Consultants               42820       114690      80140           52890         52890         52890          396320
6.   STAFF OPERATING COSTS/
Fonctionnement personnel                21850        74430    101080            92000         94390         97780         481530
TOTAL BASELINE/
Total de base                           66340       270980    378140           231600        271900        242930        1461890
1/  Adjusted to January 1980/Revisés en date de janvier 1980
2/ For all project related staff including the Bobo operational unit/Pouar tout le personnel
relié au projet, y compris celui de l'unité de Bobo.



- 40 -
Annex
Table IV - 2
UPPER VOLTA/Haute Volta
FORESTRY PROJECT/Projet Forestier
RAINFED TREE PLANTATION/Plantation Forestière en Sec
TOTAL COSTS PER YEAR/Coûts Totaux Annuels
('000 CFAF/FCFA)
PRE-PROJECT
Avant Projet             PROJECT YEARS/Années du Projet                        TOTAL BASELINE COSTS
00           0          1              2           3              4       Coûts Totaux de base
1.   INFRASTRUCTURE/
Infrastructure                         10640        53790       44410          27190        1160           -                137190
2.   EQUIPMENT/
Equipement                             35220       144830       17420           2030        7550          8320              215370
3.   FORESTRY FIELD WORK/
Travaux Forestiers
(a)   SEASONAL LABOR/
Main d'oeuvre saisonnière          -           3150       21430         38000       42950          50210             155740
(b)   OPERATING COSTS/
Coûts de fonctionnement            -           4720       21650         36180       44120         44390              151060
(c)   DRIVERS AND HELPERS/
Conducteurs et aides               -           7840        8610          9380        9380           9380              44590
4.   SUPERVISORY STAFF/
Personnel d'encadrement                  -           9430         9430          9430        9430          9430               47150
5.   EXPATRIATES/
Expatriés                                -          38700       38700          38700       38700         38700              193500
6.   STAFF OPERATING COSTS/
Fonctionnement du personnel              -          17350       17350          17350       17350         17350               86750
TOTAL BASE LINE COSTS/
Totaux de base                         45860       279810      179000         178260      170640        177780             1031350



- 41 -                                               Annex
Table IV - 3
UPPER VOLTA/Haute Volta
FORESTRY PROJECT/Projet Forestier
NATURAL FOREST MANAGEMENT/Développement de la forêt naturelle
TOTAL COSTS PER YEAR/Coûts totaux annuels
('000 CFAF/FCFA)
PRE-PROJECT/                                                           TOTAL BASELINE COSTS/
Avant Projet             PROJECT YEARS/Années du Projet                Coûts totaux de base
00              O         1         2         3         4
1.   INFRASTRUCTURE/Infrastructure             1180             5980      4930      3020       130        -                15240
2.   EQUIPMENT/
Equipement                                3910           16090      1930        220       840       920              23910
3.   FORESTRY FIELD WORKS/
Travaux forestiers
(a)   SEASONAL LABOR/
Main d'oeuvre saisonnière            -               570      9420      9470      9510      8980               37950
(b)   OPERATING COSTS/
Côuts de fonctionnement              -              2020      4280      4680      5090      3470               19540
(c)   DRIVERS AND HELPERS/
Conducteurs et aides                 -               870       960      1040      1040      1040                4950
4.   SUPERVISORY STAFF/
Personnel d'encadrement                     -             1050      1050      1050      1050      1050                5250
5.   EXPATRIATES AND CONSULTANTS/
Expatriés et Consultants                    -             4300      4300      4300      4300      4300               21500
6.   STAFF OPERATING COSTS/
Fonctionnement du personnel                 -             1930      1930      1930      1930      1930                9650
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS/
Totaux de base                            5090           32810    28800    25710    23890    21690                  137990



- 42 -                                                     Annex
Table IV - 4
UPPER VOLTA/Haute Volta
FORESTRY PROJECT/Projet Forestier
FAO/UNDP TREE PLANTATIONS MAINTENANCE/Entretien des plantations forestières FAO/PNUD
TOTAL COSTS PER YEAR/Côuts Totaux Annuels
('000 CFAF/FCFA)
PRE-PROJECT                   PROJECT YEARS/Années du Projet                      CoGts totaux de base
00               O           1            2             3             4
1.   INFRASTRUCTURE/
Infrastructure                           pm           pm           pm            pm           pm           pm
2.   EQUIPMENT/
Equipement                             27090          -            430            -          430           -                 27950
3.   FORESTRY FIELD WORK/
Travaux Forestiers
(a)   SEASONAL LABOR/
Main d'oeuvre saisonnière        18070        14830        5100           280       11860          41890              92030
(b)   OPERATING COSTS/
Coûts de fonctionnement           4660         4000        2000          1010        1010           1010              13690
(c)   DRIVERS AND HELPERS/
Conducteurs et aides              5160         2580        1720            -          -              -                 9460
4.   SUPERVISORY STAFF/
Personnel d'encadrement                 4090         4090        4090           4090        4090          4090               24540
5.   EXPATRIATES AND CONSULTANTS/
Expatriés et Consultants                 pm           pm            pm           pm           pn           pm                  pm
6.   STAFF OPERATINC COSTS/
Fonctionnement du personnel              450          450         450            450         450           450                2700
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS/
Totaux de base                         59520        25950       13790           5830       17840         47440              170370



- 4 3 -                                                    /-nnex
Table TV - 5
UPPER VOLTA/Haute Volta
FORESTRY PROJECT/Projet Forestier
RURAL WOODLOTS/Bois ruraux
TOTAL ANNUAL COSTS/Coûts totaux annuels
('000 CFAF/FCFA)
PRE-PROJECT/                                                           TOTAL BASELINE COSTS/
Avant Projet              PROJECT YEARS/Années du Projet               Coûts totaux de base
00              0         1         2         3         4
1.   INFRASTRUCTURE/
Infrastructure                              -               -       6020        -         -         -                 6020
2.   EQUIPMENT/
Equipement                                  -             3760        -         -       1610        -                 5370
3.   FORESTRY FIELD WORKS/
Travaux Forestiers
(a)   SEASONAL LABOR/
Main d'oeuvre saisonnière            -                -        670      1010      1340      1340                4360
(b)   OPERATING COSTSI
Coûts de fonctionnement              -                -        220       320       430       430                1400
(c)   DRIVERS AND HELPERS/
Conducteurs et aides                 -               pm        pm        pm        pm        pm                  pm
4.   SUPERVISORY STAFF/
Personnel d'encadrement                     -             1190      1190      1190      1190      1190                5950
5.   EXPATRIATRS AND CONSULTANTS/
Expatriés et Consultants                    -              pn        pm        pm        pm        pm                  pm
6.   STAFF OPERATING COSTS/
Fonctionnement du personnel                 -             2700      2700      2700      2700      2700               13500
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS/
Totaux de base                              -             7650    10800       5220      7270      5660               36600



- 44 -                                                   A,nnex
Table IV - 6
UPPER VOLTA/Haute Volta
FORESTRY PROJECT/Projet Forestier
CONSULTANTS, STUDIES AND TRAINING/Etudes, Formation et Consultants
TOTAL COSTS PER YEAR/Coûts totaux annuels
('000 CFAF/FCFA)
PRE-PROJECT/                                                       TOTAL BASELINE COSTS/
Avant Projet            PROJECT YEARS/Années du Projet              Coûts totaux de base
00             0        1         2         3         4
1.   INFRASTRUCTURE/Infrastructure                -             -         -         -        _         _
2.   EQUIPMENT/                                   -             -         -         -        -         -
Equipement
3.   FORESTRY FIELD WORKS/
Travaux forestiers
(a)   SEASONAL LABOR/                        -
Main d'oeuvre saisonnière
(b)   OPERATING COSTS/                       -             _        _         _         _        _
Coûts de fonctionnement
(c)   DRIVERS AND HELPERS/                   -             -        -         _         _        _
Conducteurs et aides
4.   SUPERVISORY STAFF/           1/              -           1830      7630    12470    12900    12470                47300
Personnel d'encadrement
5.   EXPATRIATES AND CONSULTANTS/   2/            -          17310    39560       2470    12360      2470              74170
Expatriés et Consultants
6.   STAFF OPERATING COSTS/                       -           2100      4840       480     1770       480              9670
Fonctionnement du personnel
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS/
Totaux de base                               -          21240    52030    15420    27030    15420               131140
1/   Including scholarships and incentives (CFAF 44.1 million)/
Incluses bourses et primes d'encouragement (FCFA 44.1 millions)
2/   Including audit fees of CFAF 3.3 million per year/y compris vérification comptable
à raison de FCFA 3.3 millions par an



- 45 -                               Annex
Table VI
UPPER VOLTA/Haute Volta
FORESTRY PROJECT/Projet Forestier
SUMMARY OF PROJECT RELATED VOLTAIC INCREMENTAL STAFF (a)
Resumé du personnel Voltalgue additionel relié au projet (a)
Pre Project Period/    Project Period/Période du Projet
Equivalent Grade/        Période antérieure
Niveau d'équivalence   au projet                 1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
A. Forestry Staff/Personnel
forestier
Al                        1(b)             3         4        6       6         6
A2                                         4         7        9      10       10
B                                          -         -        1       1        1
c                                          8         8        8       8        8
D                                          1         1        1       1        1
B. Non-Forestry Staff/Personnel
non-forestier
Ai                                         2         5        6       6         6
B                         1(b)             3         4        4       4        4
Dactylos                                        2         3       3       3         3
Chauffeurs                                       5         5       5       5         5
Gardiens & Messagers                                  5         5        5       5        5
(a)   Heavy equipment drivers and helpers not included/
Conducteurs d'engins et aides non-compris
(b)   Six man-months/six hommes/mois



- 46 -                                                               Arn--
Table V-.
UPFER VOLTA/Haute Volta
FORESTRY PROJECT/Pro0et Forestier
PROJECT RELATED INCRE!IENTAL STAFF/Personnel additionnel relié au projet
FRE PROJECT FEIOD                                PROJEIT PERIOD/Aznoéea du Projet
GRADE/         Période antérieure au projet
Niveau           1978                1979          1980          1981              1982            1983             1984
STRENGThENING OF FORETRY AL?INISTRATION/
Renforcement de l'doiniatration foreatière
Directeur-Générel de l'EnvironneMent  (d)                      AI               -                  p1             P               p               p                p                 m
Conseiller - Administration et Finance                         ERP.              -                  -             -                l              1                1                1
Directeur des Etudea et Programmes    (d)                      AI               -                  pI             PS              PM              p=               pi               pM         -
Directeur - Projet FAO/PNUD                                 FAO              -                  p=(6)          pm(12)          p=(7)
Spécialiste - Inventaire forestier - FAO                    FAO              -                  pi(6)          ps(6)
Spécialiste - Tnventaire forestier - FAOX                   FAOX             -                  pr(6)          p(12)          ps(6)
Spécialiste _ Inventaire forestier - P.All                  P.All            -                  pi(6)          p=(12)          p=(6)
Spécialiste - Inventaire forestier (a)                      Ai               -                  1(6)           1       1               1                        1                1
Spécialiste - Inventaire forestier                          A2               -                  -              1               1               1                i                1
Ingénieur - Topographe (b)                                  A1(NF)           -                  -(1                    1               1                        1                1
Dessinateurs - Cartographes                                 B(NF)                               1(6)           2               3               3                3                3
Agents Techniques                                           C                -                  -              3               3               3                3                3
ERonasiste Forestier - FAOX                                FAOIÇ             -                  p.(6)          p=(6)           p=(6)           -                -                -
Econcaiste Forestier                                       Ai(NF)            -                                 1               2               3                3                3
Analyste Financier                                         Al(NF)            _         -                       -               1               1                1                1
Spécialiste - Recherche forestière                          xp.              -                                 1               1               1                1                1
Spécialiste - Recherche forestière                         Al                                                  -               1               2                2                2
Spécialiste - Recherche forestière                         A2                -                  _                              -               1               1                1
Directeur de l'aménagement forestier et de reboisement(d) A                     _                  p-             pi              p-              p-               ps               p
Chef de Service - Reboisement                             Al                 _                  _              1               1               1                1                1
Ingénieur des travaux - Plantatioms                       A2                                                   1               1               2       -        2                2
Gestionnaire de natériel                                  Bl(NF)             -                  -              1               1               1                1                1
Agents Techniques - Pepinnières                           C                  pi                 pi             ps              Ps              PS               Ps               p=
Chef de Service - Aménagement                             Ai                 -                  -              1               1               1                1                i
Gestion - Plantations                                     A2                 -                  _              _               i               1                1                1
Gestion - For8ts classées                                 A2                 _                  _              -               1               1                1                1
Gestion- Doamaine non-protégé                             A2                 -                  -              -                               i2                                2
Fonds Forestier National
Forestier                                              Al                 -                  -              -               -               1                i                1
Administration et Finance                              AI(NF)             -                  -              -               1               1                1                1
Cmptable                                               Ri                                  -                - _             -               1                1                1
Personnel de sontien (additionnel)
Dactylos                                                  D(NF)                                                2               3               3                3                3
Chauffeurs                                                D(NF)              _                  _              2               2               2                2                2
Gardiens et Messagers                                     D(NF)              -                  -              2               2               2                2                2
RAINFRD TREE PLANTATION AND NATURAL FOREST MaNAGEIMNT/
Plantation  fsrestière en sec  et Aménagement de la
fort naturelle
Chef de l'nnité opérationelle de Bobo Di1u..asso             A2                 -                  -              pi(c)           pi              Pi               Pi               Pi
Ingénieurs des travaux                                       A2                 -                  -              2               2               2                2                2
Spécialiste en foresterie                                    RXp.                -                  -             1               1               1                1                1
Ingénieur mécanicien                                         Eip.               -                  _              1               1               1                1                1
Agents Techniques                                            C                  -                   -             5               5               5                5                5
Préposés                                                     D                  -                  -              1               1               1                1                1
Messagers                                                    D(NF)              -                   -             3               3               3                3                3
Chauffeurs                                                   D(NF)              -                   -             3               3               3                3                3
Conducteurs d'engins et aides
Chenillards                                                                                     - _            2               2               2                2                2
_  -   _      4               4               4                4                4
Tracteurs                                                                                                      3               5               6                6                6
- _           3               5               6                6                6
Niveleuses                                                                   _                                 1               1               1                1                1
-1                     1               1                1                1
Chargeurs                                                                    _                                 Ps              Ps              PM               ps               Ps
- _           pi:             pi              pip
Camions                                                                                         -              2               4               4
Notes                                                                                                                                         LRGENDE
(a)  en formation à l'étranger début 1979                                                                                                    pi        pour mémoire
(b)  à Dinderesso                                                                                                                            Rxp.      expatrié - IDIA
(c)  actuellement chef d'inspection à Bobo Dioulasso.  Sera détaché afin de diriger les travaux                                              All       expatrié - aide allemande
de l'unité opérationnelle                                                                                                               FAO       expatrié - FAO
FAOX     espatrié - expert associé (FAO)
NF       non-forestier
(x)      hoes-mois



- 47 _                                              Annex
Table VI
UPPER VOLTA / HAUTE VOLTA
FORESTRY PROJECT / PROJET FORESTIER
SEASONAL LABOR COSTS / Côuts de Main d'Oeuvre saisonnière
('ODO CFAF/FCFA)
(1979 CONSTANT PRICES / Prix Constants 1979)
PRE-PROJECT/          ~                  uTOTAL
Avant Projet       PROJECT YEARS/Annees du Projet             BEFORE CONTINGENCIES
oo      o          1          2           3          4          Avant Imprévus
FORESTRY DEPARTMENT STRENGTHENING/
Renforcement de la Direction des Forêts               -       -          -           -          -          -                 -
RAINFED TREE PLANTATION
Plantation forestière en sec                          -      2,929     19,933     35,349      39,958     46,709           144,878
NATURAL FOREST MANAGEMENT/
Aménagement forêt naturelle                           -        533      8,765      8,806       8,848      8,356            35,308
FAO/UNDP TREE PLANTATION MAINTENANCE/
Entretien des plantations forestières FAO/PNUD      16,812  13,800      4,745        257      11,030     38,967            85,611
RURAL WOODLOTS/Bois ruraux                            _       _           624        936       1,248      1,248             4,o56
STUDIES AND TRAINING/
Etudes et formation                                   -       -          -          -           _          _                 _
TOTAL '000 CFAC/FCFA
BEFORE CONTINGENCIES/Avant imprévus                 16,812  17,262     34,o67     45,348      61,084     95,280           269,853
TOTAL MANDAYS/Hommes-jours
(at 1040 CFAF/MAN DAY/Homme jour)                  16,165  16,598      32,757     43,604     58,735      91,615           259,474
ESTIMATED WFP PARTICIPATION/
Participation éventuelle du PAM
('000 CFAF/FCFA)
BEFORE CORTINGENCIES/Avant Imprévus                  5,044   5,179     10,220     13,604      18,325     28,584            80,956
AFTER CONTINGENCIES/Après Imprévus                   5,881   6,403     13,389     18,895      26,971     44,617           116,146



- 48 -                                                                            ANIEX
UPPER VOITA / HAUTE VOLTA                                                                    Ts,1e VII
FORESTRY PROJECT / PROJET FORESTIER
CIVIL SERVANT STAFF SALARIES / Salaires des Fonctionnaires
('000 FCFA / CFA)
(1979 CONSTANT PRICES / Pri. Constants 1979)
FRE-PROJECT/         PROJECT YERS/Années du Projet                             TOTAL
Avant  Projet    ___________________________                            BEFORE  CONTINGENCIES
00         0          1          2          3          4             Avant Imprivos
I   FORESTRY DEPARTMENT STRENGTHENING/
Renforcement de la Direction des Forêts                        1,550     17,300     35,400     47;700     49,300     50,100              201,350
II   RAINFED TREE PLANTATION/
Plantation forestière en sec                                              6,885      6,885      6,885      6,885      6,885               34,425
III   NATURAL FOREST MANAGEENT/                                       -
Aménagement forêt naturelle                                                 765        765        765        765        765                3,825
IV FAO/UNDP TREE PLANTATION MAINTENANCE/
V   Entretien des plantations forestières FAO/PNUD                 2,600      2,600      2,600      2,600      2,600      2,600               15,6o0
VI   RURAL WOODLOTS/Bois ruraux                                                  800        800        800        800         800               4,000
VII   STUDIES AND TRAINING/
Etudes et formatios     /1                                      -           700      1,600        100        500        100                3,000
TOTAL BEFORE CONTINGENCIES/                                     _        -_-                     _            _
Avant imprevus                                                 4,150     29,050     48,050     58,850     60,850     61,250              262,200
TOTAL AFTER CONTINGENCIES
Après  imprévus                                                4,399     32,652     57,228     74,269     81,417     86,914              336,879
TEMPORARILY SECONDED CS/Fonctionnaires détachés temporairement
ERXCLUDING TRAINING SCHOLARSHIPS AND INCENTIVEB/exclues bourses, formation et incitations



84t  sOt»EoP@sO re e~osOo    rUPo 
| ~ ~ ~ 00000                     00"00 D04.                  O              >0
OZS  ~     0000>00                >044CO   O    4>00          r
°'E>w~~~~~~~~~~~~l .                                                    I .
O                                                                   r~~~~~~~~M 
aH2"                                                            --a--s
g~~ ~~~        . . . .>   . i . . . . . . f . . . .    .0 .                 . . ,. .I    
c4  g    ooo'               o~~OO,,.                        -1   ,  
°~    >4>4>~>080~  ~.     .O0.   0¶. .  rrr  .   .     .....    .
8   uWo  `8  vo  o o 8 8 o ... e~~~~~~~~~~~~IM



MOItI
Table IX
UPPER VOLTA/EAUTE VOL.A
Forestry Projeet/ProJet forestier
Project Wood Production sud Sales/Production et vente de bois duraot le prolet
(1979 constant prlices/prix constants 1979)
A.   Produotio-
00           O              i               2              3              4          Toala
1.  Raisfed Troc Plaot&tioo/Pl1&tatioc forestièe es sec3
(a)  Nato-al Productocn/Production natorelle                        (n )          _           3,300          6,60o           6,600          9,900          -           23,100
(b)  Pl-otatco  Prodvctioo/Productio- de plantatiso                 (n3)          .-                                          -              -             1,020        1,020
2.   Natural Fcrest Pnoageneat/dnénageoeat forêt naturelle                   (3 )          -                          1,875          1,875           1,875         1,875        7,500
3.   FAO/UNNP Plati                             Plîatatioc FAO/              (3            _           -               -              -            lo,688         38,403       49,09'
Toctal Production/Production totale3
(s) Natural Productloe/Productton natornfle             (n3(          -          3,300           8,43           8,475          11,775         1,875        33,900
(b) Plantation Production/Productioa de plantation      (n )          -            -              -              _             10,688        39,423       50,111
B.  Sales/Vetses ('000 FCFA)
(1)   Natural Productbon/Produotloo naturelle at/a PPA 3100/  3                       -         11,0220        28,815          28,815         40,035         6,375       115,260
(2)   Pla.tation Production/Production de plaatation st/à 4300/-                                  -              -               -            45,9508       169,519      215,477
Total                                                                        -         11,220         28,815         28,815          85,993       175,994       330,737
Offoetting Revenues by 1 Year/Recettes repulées d'on an                               -           -             tl,220         28,815         28,815         85,993      154,843



- 51 -                            ANNEX
Table X
UPPER VOLTA / HAUTE VOLTA
FORESTRY PROJECT / PROJET FORESTIER
RAINFED TREE PLANTATION / Plantation Forestière en sec
PER HECTARE DIRECT COSTS AND BENEFITS / Coûts Directs et Recettes à l'hectare 1/
(CFAF / FCFA)
(1979 PRICES / Prix 1979)
BEFORE AMORTIZATION    AFTER AMORITZATION
Avant Amortissement    Après Amortissement
I. COSTS/Dévenses
1. ROADS, TRACKS + FIREEHEAKS
CONSTRUCTION/Ouverture routes
pistes et pare-feu                       15,770                    20,350
2. LAND PREPARATION/
Préparation du terrain                   57,790                     82,870
3. WOOD EXTRACTION/
Exploitation forestière                  20,800                    20,800
4. WOOD TRANSPORT/
Transport du bois                        15,050                    19,710
5. PLANT SUPPLY/
Fourniture des plants                    16,510                    25,770
6. PLANTING AND MAINTENANCE YEAR  1/
Plantation et etretine année 1           44,360                    48,510
7. MAINTENANCE YEAR 2/
Entretien année 2                        19,400                    23,700
8. MAINTENANCE YEAR 3/                       7,320                     8,000
Entretien année 3
CFAF           197,000                  249,710
us$                895                    1,135
Il. BENEFITS/Recettes
CLEARED WOOD SALES/         CFAF            56,100                   56,100
Vente bgis de défriche
(16.5m   x 3400 CFAF/m3)   US$                 255                      255
1/  INCLUDING DRIVERS AND HELPERS/Y compris chauffeurs et aides
EXCLUDING SUPERVISORY STAFF/Non compris encadrement



- 5  -                          ANE
-52--                         Table XI
UPPER VOLTA / HAUTE VOLTA
FORESTRY PROJECT / PROJET FORESTIER
nATURAL FOREST MANAGERENT / Aménagement de la Forêt Naturelle
DIRECT COSTS AND BENEFITS / Coûts Directs et Bénéfices/ha /
(CFAF / FOFA)
(1979 PRICES / Prix 1979)
BEFORE AMORTIZATION        AFTER AMORTIZATION
Avant Amortissement        Après Amortissement
I.   CSIDpne
1.  SITE SELECTION/Choix du site            1,040                      1,040
2.  TREE MARXING/Martelage                     260                       260
3. ROAD CONSTRUCTION/Ouverture Route        5,200                      6,330
4.  FIREBREAK CONSTRUCTION/                 5,900                      8,300
Ouverture pare-feu
5.  TRACK CORSTRUCTION/ Ouverture piste    1,810                       2,710
6.  WOOD CUTTING/ Coupe du bois             9,450                      9,450
7.  WOOD TRANSPORT/ Transport du bois       6,840                      8,960
80  HARROWING/Pulvérisage                   2,270                      3,390
9.  SEEDING/Semis                             100                        100
100  WEEDING/Désherbage                     20,800
CFAF           53,670                    61,340
US$               244                        279
Il. BEZEFITS/Recettes
EXISTING WOOD SALES/        CFAF          25,500                      25,500
Vente Bcis de défriche
(7.5 J  x 3400CFAF/m3)     us$               116                         116
i/  IECIUDING DR~TgFRS AND HELPERS/Y-compris conducteurs et aides
EXCY,tlING SUP-PE7'iISORY STAFF/Non compris encadrement



- 53 -                           Annex
iET=a XII
UPPER VOLTA/Haute Volta
FORESTRY PROJECT/Projet Forestier
DETAILED FINANCING PLAN - BY CATEGORY/
Plan détaillé de financement - par catégorie 1/
TOTAL COST/Coût Total              US$ (Million)
US$ Million           IDA          FAO           GOVT
F/D     L      F/D             L
EQUIPEMENT/                   FE/D            2.2              2.2     -
Equipement                      L              .3               -      .3
INFRASTRUCTURE/               FE/D             .8               .8     -
Infrastructure                  L              .5               -      .5
FORESTRY WORKS OPERA-         FE/D             .7               .7     -
TING COSTS/Fonction-            L              .6               -      .6
nement des opérations
forestières
SEASONAL LABOR/               FE/D             -  2/                       -                  -
Main d'oeuvre saison-           L             1.3 -/                   .7      -             .6
nière
SKILLED LABOR/Main-           FE/D             -                -      - 
d'oeuvre spécialisée            L             0.4               -     0.4
SUPERVISORY STAFF/            FE/D                     -               -       -
Salaires - personnel            L             1.8               -      -1.8
d'encadrement
PROJECT ALLOWANCES/           FE/D             -                -      - 
Indemnités du projet            L             1.0              -      1.0      -
EXPATRIATES AND CON-          FE/D            3.5              2.9     -        .6
SULTANTS/Expatries et           L              -               -       -       -
consultants
STAFF OPERATING COSTS/        FE/D            1.8             1.8      -
Fonctionnement - personnel      L             1.8               -     1.8
STUDIES AND TRAINING/         FE/D             .6             0.6      -
Etudes et Formation             L              .2               -     0.2
SUB-TOTAL                     FE/D            9.6             9.0      -      0.6
L            7.9               -     5.5       -             2.4
TOTAL                                        17.5                  14.5       0.6            2.4
1/ AFTER CONTINGENCIES/Après imprévus
2/ NET OF REVENUE FROM CLEARED WOOD SALES/Après déduction des revenues de la vente de
bois de défriche
3/ SHOULD BE COVERED BY WFP ASSISTANCE/Contrepartie PAM



- 54 -                        Annex
Table Xlll
UPPER VOLTA/Haute Volta
FORESTRY PROJECT/Projet Forestier
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS/Prévision de retraits de fonds
Exercice
IDA               SEMESTER/        DISBURSEMENT/                    CUMULATIVE/
Fiscal Year          Semestre         Retrait                          Cumulé
1980                   2                 1.5 l/                           1.5
1981                   1                 1.2                              2.7
2                 1.2                              3.9
1982                   1                 1.2                              5.1
2                 1.3                              6.4
1983                   1                 1.4                              7.8
2                 1.4                              9.2
1984                   1                 1.5                             10.7
2                 1.8                             12.5
1985                   1                 2.0                             14.5
1/  INCLUDES US$1.02 MILLION TO BE DISBURSED FOR PPF (US$0.52 MILLION) REIMBURSEMENT
AND PROJECT ADVANCE (US$0.5 MILLION)/Comprend US$1.02 millions pour fin de
remboursement du PPF (US$0.52 million) et de décaissement de l'avance du projet
(US$0.5 million)



1979       1980      1931      490        1903       0904      2535      1906       199<       33        199700               19 3q8 ~ 8  l ~ '~  993 19      9o        19                                        3<        90        00        2002       99294  -00           1-5        0006      o
92  O        8          O~       ~     ~ ~       ~ ~       ~ ~             ~ 9      5  O  7  9    9         0         î          3         1          1                                                  Ig19       3    21             92         19         o4    ~    5        8           7
128 CooOio/0î2410 do 2000             249.2    468.0      301~~~~~~~~.0  5 67.5  609.0    990 -    -                                   -9
002/002                                                    50.6     542.8      28.4         -                    --                                       -
2o310018/9000 10101                  1~~~~~~~~~~55.6    926.0  532.4  567.0    689.0     790,          -         -             
lodooolOo,o88111010301100             ~ ~~~~~- 49,.       72.0       00.8      27.0      87.8       68.0       7.3       180-       2.        97.0     10.0        9.3       96.0.0  09-         21.3          0       97.I719.                                                                   9l       I5-
.q  _5   14.5     I96.I       f9.0     149. 3     11.2       23.8     346.5      129.0      005.1     355.1    jo-.        îS;.9       I4.6 -3-. 7.3      33                              <.'57.9   46-.       34o.9?    155`        ..9       563.3     869.0    98.95    I34.9.0
2o130301/OoIO  35113                  -~~~~~~~~~.  138.9  73.02.     796.5    299.1       83.2      027.9       90.1~     99.1146.0809.0329.6                      93.1-   143-         o2z.8       204.1     91.,8      3.         1  vo        4     syo.  6î,            934.9      319.      100.9      503.3     004.0      895.3    2324.0
16.3 ~ 7- 373-l     UI6 ~991.2              o98.    2003-        .        99. 2118.3899.1227.61:                  995.2     490.1      008.9     114.3       4333903                                             403       3.3        131       109        599       960        059      22.
Tosol 2001000/00043 10002. 8033393             99~~~~~IID5.    634.3  090.4   796.0        96      2.           53       I:,       I:,         6        4           ,i1                                                                                                
31,  Pooooîn- 0000310000/1100433                                  29~~~~~~~~~~~~2~. 1.6^                                                                                                                                                            130.49     jîl. O-  7   139                           46. 3.  100 200      9.        3
(30)  03060200.0102/10201510           02.4      ~~~~~~~                   ~             ~~940  160.  25.M1.  2.4  -4 -I-
ooîîotol/100000301                 109.2    ~~~~~~    ~~~~~730:,5  9093:  61.3  7339,0  74.9       295.3    24.I 46.      0 4.   06.9       19.       1-07       191.      146.0     05.14.0              118        19<        06        091 7     33.89      3<9.3     1.1.       137.2     04.0       69.9       l17.8     816.6     257.0
081 0oo039/331303 301 -                    0~~ ~~~~           ~~                                                               ~         ~~.4  0.5  46-9,    8-  .8  -  35 <.5    3<         93         39          .                                       99.9     43.Il30..              3.3        7 92.4    3I. 31'<              1. 
003..  O                               -         -           ,                                                                                                                                       0       31.3    931.9      033.133<3304.2131.5                       199.3      035.1    104.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3..    ~ .5   ~ .5  3  3  4  1.
09900118/0330 33301                  o~~ ~~~~~           ~~~.4  o.5  6.î  îo.e  î46       -o.       00.       91         00.       0.3         39       9.3        3.        5I.          9       51.-        1.3                               ,     1)0.1       36      15.9       06.        '56.        lo0oe   925.6       815.9    981.4
00301 0139100/9330 îoîîl Oo - <~~<0~~        183.6      739.0     809.4      683.0    7147.6      749.1      178.1    00.. 2     167.9      795.0     143.9      101-      044.,    199.1   ~363.        997-        343.5       ,.i                    4.     2.         563       L37        27         ,4I        84       35-        3-        ê.4
1-o  Cool-  31.o/Olîo  010030100  <.03      ~~3s4.î(    (95.03    (2.0)    003.0-    043.0        638.9       03.2    (01-)    363.l1]  (159.93         -63       (3.4(    1          -. 0.9    (-13.    379.6,    )1- 3   (9.4)-14333. '                      ' 39. 63954            7 6<90)9   .4    ([<.33    037.7    530.4          573.6    968. 6
O09olloOOooOool 0100/0<33 oîO.30001133031354.49   (29.0          (-01.0      (4.3)    295.6       034.5      917.1    096.7      73.3.5    629.       131.3      103.1     790.    0,099         3.3    93. 4        93-4       41-       2 374 o    31 1      173. -   118.9.4 ~ l30.4       9-.O     01.        o4z.6   0967.0       0549.6   35l3.0



1
i                1



20103 001.30 I 121100 001,31, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~3 
193  03o      900       032        292         90        î3~         332       233          000830 1393ZQ --~                0390       393       023500             339         996       009        0990        939       20207~     221        202        003E0
21        O7          kW          w         63                    5 ~    e8            30           O,          97        1530       12C        32~   389        D1214                            5~7        68 16560633  10  19q~ 20                0 22                      .3
23,22,,0020 002002220013  O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 202322426120                                                       4n         43
01121  0273    2.o01000o  220o2 30o32.0002e  02020/1130                           .61       171,       1633       506        553        531       5,73       300          $70323                 600        F1,        6,9       790     23,7        73        377         233       332        312        773        003         00        239        67
~~~~iI~~3~~3EV1Op2o00o0023  23 0213 222 2000034222-0102,09e0  ('2090 75-                                                                                                                                                  TIF       -7     7F7         --7         7F    ~      1         .-        7j          .-
-9903302     001300002o45,0  roo02.40321902,07
hxs.,o799  -0,123200210023230223  20-3000e2('09   9661                               633       036         69        620        231         ,30       753        306           30        5,2        536         33        2,9       ~       772         090       700470-                00        601        796 o5                 2q6       0,6         00
Oedoood 0p520t02013/013222022 2e 0'2020312120(.32903)  0  3.22   ,9         000        127         05      '7)33    ~97           '997         7337        311        13         313   ~ 9          '907    '900        1277       00 131501,30 0333                           0303      1977        1329       0033 0P.
)eoedîoo 0090 2eO2200 ,201321000.3312020302005 200,4 60.1~                                                                        13        58         im         B     ~      36         -         ia~ ,,                 69              e          4,.        494         -7           ei      176          37        T1~       a~          wô        g






- 57 -
Annex
Table XV.1
Appendix
UPPER VOLTA / Haute Volta
FORESTRY PROJECT / Projet Forestier
REDUCED EXPLOITATION OF THE UNRESERVED FOREST/
Diminution de l'exploitation des forêts non-classées
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS I Analyse Economique
DETAILED ASSUMPTIONS / Détail des hypothèses
a)   Time basis of 26 years;
b)   All costs expressed in mid-1979 terms;
c)   Shadow f oreign exchange rate of CFAF 250/US$ (19% above the official
rate of CFAF 210/US$). The foreign exchange cost components were.
adjusted upward to reflect this fact;
d)   Unskilled labor costed at CFAF 300 per manday versus CFAF 1,040 at
official rate, to reflect a more realistic value for occasional labor
in the project area;
e)   reduction of expatriate and consultants costs by 25%;
f)   price contingencies excluded in project costs;
g)   revenue based on an average stumpage price (fuelwood, buildi'ig poles,
poles, timber) of CFAF 2,500/m3 at end 1978 increasing in real terms
by 3% per year to reflect the average increased estimated by the Bank
for tropical hardwoods over 1976-85;
h)   population growth of 5.0% in urban areas and 2.0% in rural area;
i)   -  annual urban consumption of fuelwood of 1.2 a3/capita;
-  annual rural consumption of fuelwood of 0.7 m3/capita;    3
- annual traditional brewery consumption of fuelwood of 0.2m /capita
in the urban areas;
- consumption of building poles which equals 10% of the total
fuelwood consumption;
- reduction of consumption "with Project" by 3% for 1985-1989,
6% for 1990-1994 and 9% for 1995-2004 due to promotion of woodstoves;
1/ Detailed supporting tables available in Project file



_ 58 _
j)   destruction rate of the unreserved forest evolving from 50,000 to
100,000 ha/year "without project" due to bushfires, encroachments
and overgrazing, aginst 50,000 ha/year "with project";
k)   exploitation rate of:
- the reserved forests, which are assumed to remain at 3,000,000 ha,
evolving from 0.10 to 0.20 m3/ha/year "without project" against
0.10 to 0.40 m3/ha/year "with project";
- the bushfallows which would decrease by 50,000 ha/year, evolving
from 0.15 to 0.10 m3/ha/year "with or without project";
1)   establishment of:
- 1,000 - 2,000 ha/year of industrial rainfed tree plantation with
a cumulative total of 50,000 ha over 26 years (production estimate
7 m3/ha/year);
- 1,000 - 2,000 ha/year of village woodlots with a cumulative totel of
42,000 ha over 26 years (production estimate 3.5 m3/ha/year);
m)   from 1979 to 1984 Bank investment and recurrent costs amounting to about
CFAF 2,700 million (US$12.0 million), another investment and recurrent
costs (govermnent and other agencies) amounting to CFAF 2,500 million
(US$11.1 million);
n)   from 1985 onwards, investment costs evolving from CFAF 600 to 700 million
per year (US$2.7 to 3.1 million). Investment costs based on an
average cost of CFAF 220,000 (US$1,000) per hectare of industrial
rainfed tree plantation and CFAF 110,000 (US$500) per hectare of
village woodlot;
o)   from 1985 onwards, recurrent costs evolving from CFAF 100 to 200
million (US$0.5 to 0.9 million) per year.



2  3  4    5                    7                  9~~~ ~                                                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~ 59 -5
000000110 200.00010 / 0001007 00003000000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~7                                                                         JT
____                                ____                                    ____                                    0090      190.0     000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~181      1 1 
10 090 0961      1.3               1904        ..4   ~.12        0907    122.5      2        1599       .322 -   523        22       3.0        12         5131    1337                                    003       001       003                 1806    1008        3003
(n)                                                                -~~~~~~~~~~20 A    157 3.  596        3, O7 3  4  Si.  i6                            74 A       6. 97 7O0  3il      1         03       -.        AS        1          W7 10             11.7      213S       siV       9                     r                -r-  - - ~ .    -9
30)  0000000 000000 0o00 000000              ,6      o.6    o.6      o.6        .6       o.6        1.0       o.î       .0       0.0       1.0     0.0        .0        0.0       1.3      0.3        .0 033              1.9       0.0        .0       0.0       0.1       0.0        .1      0.3  03970.5  
OAAol  ooA5dA   Ali                                                                38.1.6  049.5    25.32    39.6j    5D.0          56.5    01.1    10.0        9.5    000.0   î57.i.    i74.0         50,1     ll.9    i4.6       7i.0      100.0g    o6. 3003,9    65913    43.9    34.0               79.7    915.0   431.5    9369.1766.3             io.oj
3. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~         ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        ~         ~        ~       ~        ~        ~       ~        0       -00-                                      -0                                     -






- 60 -
Annex
Table XV.2
Appendix
UPPER VOLTA/HAUTE VOLTA
FORESTRY PROJECT/PROJETFORESTIER
RAINFED TREE PLANTATION/Plantation Forestière en sec
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS/Analyse Economique
DETAILED ASSUMPTIONS/Ditail  des Hypothèses   1/
a)      Time basis of 29 years (plantation life of 25 years - plantation period
scheduled over 4 years);
b)      all costs expressed in mnid-1979 terms;
c)      shadow foreign exchange rate of CFAF 250/US$ (19% above the official
rate of CFAF 2101US$). The foreign exchange cost components were
adjusted upward to reflect this fact;
d)      unskilled labor costed at CFAF 300 per manday versus CFAF 1,040, at
official rates, to refleact a more realistic value for occasiolal
labor in the project area;
e)      reduction of expatriate and consultant casts by 25%;
f)      price contingencies excluded in project costs;
g)      revenue based on Bobo Dioulasso wholesale prices at end 1978:
(M)    CFAF 3,400/m3 for fuelwood (90%) and building poles (10%) from
the natural forest;
(ii)   CFAF 4,300/m3 for fuelwood (80%) and building poles (20%) from
the p1antatio~;
(iii)  CFAF 10,000/m3 for  Teak   timber;
_(iv)   CFAF 20,000/m  for Gmelina timber:
increasing in' real terms by 3% per year for fuelwood and huildinR
poles, and-by 5X per-year<'foïfTéëkpoles and gmelina timber.
h)      population grawth of 5.0% in urban areas and 2.0% in rural areas;
i)      - annual urban consumption of fuelwood of 1.2m3/capita;
- annual rural consumption of fuelwood of 0.7m3/capita;
- annual traditional brewery consumption of fuelwood of 0.2m3/capita;
- consumption of building poles which equals 10% of the total fuelwood
consumption;
1/ Detailed supporting tables available in Project file



- 61 -
j)      destruction rate of the unreserved forest of the Bobo Dioulasso-Orodara
area of 5,000 ha per year due to bushfires, encroachments and overgrazing
"with and without Project";
k)      - exploitation rate of the bushfallows and reserved forests of the
Bobo Dioulasso-Orodara area of 0.20m3/ha/year "with and without Proiect";
- Production rate of the unreserved forests of the Bobo-Dioulasso-
Orodara area of 0.50 m3/ha/year "with and without Project";
1)      production of the plantation site "without project" (illegal
cutting of fuelwood and building poles) evolving from 0.10 to 0.20 m3/year
due to the pressure of the ever-increasing demand of fuelwood and
building poles;
m)      "Without project" operating coats amounting to about3CFAF 100|ha/year
and cutting  and transport costs to about CFAF 900/m



- 62 -
UPPER VOLTA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Organigram - Forestry Administration
Ministry of Environment and Tourism
| ~~Director-General of IEnvironment|
Administrative
and Financial
Service
Forestry              National Parks           Fishing and                 Urban                      Related
Studies and          Management             and                      Fish                   Environment                      Units
Planning              and                   Wildlife                 Culture
Reforestation         Reserves.l
i                       l
g   .                                   ~          ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I .I
|                    ~~~~~~Devartmental Inaoeetion L'nitsl






Z  't.-    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                           T'~R~A   ALGE RI A
j    AURITANIA
i   MALI
UPPER VOLTA                                                              -J `                                                                                         NIGER
FORESTRY PROJECT / PROJET FORESTIER                                                  !OUA                                                                                                      NIGERIA
TI". .mp has been éorepord hy thé
_G-<-- X r> " - To ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~thé éo,tfm,tto,ofthéréédéroof
-thé re=pt ré wh,oh tis attoched
.14                                                                                                                                              3     1                               Z R  . ,,/_ic7n tt-h3e
60Y                                                                                                  OMiT3RS -t _' ENEGA th^.OO /(~ f thh
WoM   A  nk -d its ,éfiMt- ,`y
lodgmnt onthé éegaf stt-é  é
"--    c- '-""'N T P  N I6 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oracétacerf -uh boundar-
1-0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
OUAH GO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ AANOUM                                IPAA\  
A T         S            '-DIopoU                                                                                                             7h Nféhégéé    B E N  I N
M A A FRA\ L         son-|)-   iGHANA               
NOUNA                  ,iO                                         L R         E     NR                              E
l   x  _I   rÆ         A O st                   |      |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OR ORD DE8BO-OIOULASBO          PROUMTES5YfRIANV^OIfALE tlEVETUES
-IÙEO Aod/n     J\J  \%\MAOFOREST RESERVE                              ROUTES PRINCIPALES NON REVETUES
ioffl   f1                                                                          O   FORETS CLASSEES ET RESERIES SE FAECRN E FER
.t %\,   >    \  To dovf o  /                                                                   LI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AMINITRhETIEVPE ROTUNOARtES  mr W
-12-                                                       SA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LMTS E EATMNSn
ISORTETS tN MtLLIMETERENKODGS    \'
i \ > _Strd P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RECtfITUATIONS ANNUELLES MOYENNES EN MILLIMETRES                         R____,ESION5ADL E5EVELOPMENT OFFICE BOUNDARIES C 
LZI V  O   R  Y  "b  C  ONE APSU T   9s           2.                                                -. _  FNRTOENR EARTES NTERNATIONENEANLONR`
EO          OTIEBELE~~~~~~~~~~~~FOTIRS NERAIOAE
IVORY'a   COAS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BE    
T...  T~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
BANFORA                                                                     G   H    A    N      A                           T  0   C,.






IBRD 14037
FEBRUA RY 1979
p                                  c      r~~~~~~~~.'aft/~~~~~«teraad-r  a t/te apon ta w/,ch ait attaat/d T/te t/ntedt,n  -sid t/te
. 0;   Yz        gtES  . |Etl1              o~~~~~~~~ ~            ~~Dedou90oa  T/s saa ha Sean pepadt/yrte ea/ a/  stesc/s,he/yfo t/toneetnence
i  L    A      ~        ti .)C   /taa,aaas o3s t/t .tap da ast tep/y anara Hantiayé        nda sh- t         d     t -1pIO,thtaata rpt/e  r th. WdBakadj,
' `so,,^  o.t.,.ak,'                       ,,sstt,|/                                      acceaptansa ai ssch /osedar,as.                        r  
UPPER   VOLTA
Ousgadoogo\
/   A      '-,          ,       r             \\ J                      e   - ,',,,',,,'/X/ 
e                                      T
obo
1l'30'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*0
'a -<-LLI1 (  S                                                                                                                  I /  /-UPPER VOLTA
\  Ssf   B  / GX-v                        <'                                  ~~~~~~~~~HAUTE VOLTA
'D°s.\        S\\ç                                                                                  FORESTRY PROJECT
\                                       \0<"                                                            PROJET FORESTIER
,   \           s`                 \S    -/                                ~~~~~~~~Maro Forest Reserve
__t,\ _  _ \AX                             ~~Forêt Classée de Moro
\    "   -   / I \ \_ __== -_,v             ~          ~         ~         ~         z         /                N 
_-i -rm--            ~ KaIdonbaBob  Kari                                                                Main all-weather road
'-'-Dorossiamenso                     I    N              '     I                                 Route principale permanente
Secondary all-weather road
N N                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Route secondaire permainente
N                      'a, I I  /    \   /   I                     ---         aiste automobile
g  /   \                           _ _ _ _ _ ~~~~~~~~Paths
NNN   I;' / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~isepiétons
`  !   \                                ,   ,   , ~~~~~~~~~~~Railwoy
-                Kofila                  I                                         Chemin de fer
-120'---____                      /7                                                                    Cours d'eau                            --20
/   |  \   \\   -'                       3 0          Contours in meters
'y- >/  ,r     (`Courbes de niveau en metres
t°s    lx         s/        I      \\\                                                                      IOMTR
N /T                                   / "N(  /  \      \         3-50'.LE
I~~~~~~~~~3~0 3N4



