Report No. PID10828
Project Name                     Brazil-Municipal Pension Reform Project
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Pensions & Social Insurance
Project ID                       BRPE74777
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF SOCIAL SECURITY &
SOCIAL ASSISTANCE
Address: ESPLANADA DOS MINISTERIOS
BLOCO "F"
7th FLOOR-SALA 723
70059-900--BRASILIA--DF
Contact Person: Vinicius Carvalho Pinheiro,
Secretary of Social Security
Tel: (55-61)-317-5236
Fax: (55-61)-317-5195
Email: Vinicius.pinheiro@mpas.gov.br
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                December 6, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date           February 12, 2002
Projected Board Date             May 14, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
One of the most serious fiscal problems confronting Brazil's Federal,
state and municipal governments is pension reform. The most recent Country
Assistance Strategy Brazil Country Assistance Strategy Report No.
20160-BR; March, 2000, identifies social security reform as "the single
most important fiscal issue facing the Federal and sub-national
Governments". The CAS estimated overall pension deficit including interest
and public debt accumulated on behalf of public pensions at about 9.5% of
GDP or nearly $80 billion. Four fifths of the pension deficit is public
and about half of that belongs to states and municipalities.There is a
growing consensus among government officials that the fiscal burdens
imposed by social security are not sustainable. Reform proposals most
often discussed look at the benefits regime: the links between retirement,
time of contribution and minimum age to receive pensions, retirement age
for men and women, and benefits for disability and death. There is also
speculation regarding the advantages of merging public pensions (Regime
Proprio de Previdencia--RPP) into social security (Regime Geral de
Previdencia Social--RGPS), especially for small sub-national systems.
However, these reforms are all highly political and require, in some
cases, Constitutional amendments. Hence they would only be possible
following the fall, 2001 elections provided there was broad based
political support. In the absence of a new round of benefits reform, the
Government has followed an interim strategy to improve pension management
and strengthen the pension reform constituency. It has done so by first
implementing important reforms in the legislative framework governing



sub-national pension administration including requirements for reporting
and actuarial balance of pension funds. Second, it has undertaken to
provide technical assistance to improve state and municipal management of
pensions. And third, it has built up MPAS's capacity to monitor,
evaluate, validate performance and provide technical assistance. It has
done this with the support of multilateral institutions and especially the
World Bank.     Legislative Framework Reforms.  Three years ago the Federal
Government was constitutionally constrained from intervening in state and
municipal pension regulation, had no internal unit concerned with such
matters, and knew next to nothing about sub-national pensions. States and
municipalities managed their pensions independently and without the
benefit of adequate laws, systems, data bases, actuarial opinions, or
qualified human resources. Brazilian policy makers addressed pensions
during President Cardoso's second term, approving a half dozen significant
reforms over the past three years beginning with Constitutional Amendment
20/1998. On paper these laws constitute a major reform in pension
management. They, inter alia, established (i) lower benefits, stricter
eligibility requirements and the phasing in of the new Complementary
pension regime(ii) individual accounts and regulations regarding
participant and public contributions, (iii) actuarial and financial
standards and requirements for pension funds based upon accurate
cadastres(iv) regular reporting, publication of results and transparency
(v) validation by the Government of results, and penalties for
noncompliance (vi) restrictions on use of pension funds for non-pension
ends and on investment of funds in government instruments (vii)
restitution by the Federal Government of pension liabilities assumed by
states and municipalities     (Compensacao Financeira)(vii) enhanced role
of the Government through MPAS to assure implementation through
supervision, monitoring, validation of results, and provision of technical
assistance.     Technical Assistance and MPAS Capacity.     Few states and
even fewer municipalities possess the resources to unilaterally reform
pension management and comply with the new legislative framework. Another
problem confronting the Government is that little information is available
on municipal social security systems. Hence the challenge for the Federal
Government has been to create in MPAS an organization capable providing
technical input to the development of the new framework, supervising,
monitoring and validating performance and assisting sub national
governments to reform.   This was done primarily through the establishment
and strengthening of DEPSP within MPAS.
2. Objectives
The objective of the Municipal Pension Reform Project ("PREV-MUN" or
Programa de Apoio a Previdencia dos Municipios in Brazil) is to upgrade
municipal pension management. It will do this by (i) addressing pension
problems in 26 of Brazil's state capital and larger municipalities, and
(ii) strengthening the Ministry of Social Security and Social Assistance
(MPAS) capacity to carry out its legal mandate to provide technical
assistance, monitor, evaluate and validate pension management and
performance. The loan targets these larger municipalities because they
account for a preponderance of the total aggregate municipal pension
debt. Also, given their importance and geographic distribution, they can
eventually become vehicles for extending the PREV-MUN approach to the over
2,700 municipalities operating public pension systems throughout Brazil
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
-2-



The World Bank has successfully partnered with the Government and brought
it's technical knowledge to bear upon both national and sub-national
pension reform. Bank operations including PARSEP, the INSS two S/Secals
for nearly $1.4 billion in 1999-2000 and important AAA have all
contributed to excellent relations between the Government and the Bank,
which has become a trusted and valued interlocutor in the sector. As part
of its interim strategy, the Government has decided it is time to directly
address municipal pension problems and has called upon the Bank to adapt
PARSEP to create a municipal project, PREV-MUN.    The Bank has assisted in
the refinement of the PARSEP model to address municipal issues and Bank
experience in implementing PARSEP also assures that implementation will
move forward smoothly.
4. Description
By Component:Project Component 1 - US$2.02 million Component I:
Institutional Strengthening of MPAS/SPS and Project Management This $2.01
million project component addresses institutional strengthening of MPAS
and specifically SPS required to manage PREV-MUN and carry out its mandate
of monitoring, evaluating, validating and providing technical assistance
to sub-national governments. The sub-components follow.A. Provision of
Technical Assistance. Following PARSEP's successful formula, a core group
of consultants in information technology, actuarial science, and pension
legislation will be retained at DEPSP to supplement MPAS staff and service
municipalities during the project.    B. Project Management Support.   A
project team comprising DEPSP staff and several project management
consultants will be retained plus a financial management specialist. Once
again, the size of the team to administer the program for 26
municipalities is based on PARSEP experience with 26 states.     C.
Technical Assistance for Municipalities--Logistics. Experience
demonstrates that pension reform cannot be managed centrally but rather
requires the continuous presence of MPAS specialists in the field. The
MPAS based PREV-MUN team will need to constantly travel to municipalities
to assist in the diverse activities each will be undertaking including
project formulation and implementation, cadastre upgrade, SIPREV
implementation, actuarial diagnostic and legislative reform. DEPSP
officials will also assist with municipal workshops and procurement.
Hence care has been taken to ensure that resources are adequate to sustain
the projected level of field operations.    D. Acquisition of Hardware and
Software. A small ($58,500) amount of computer equipment includeing
computers, printers, software, and ancilliary equipment has been budgeted
to ensure that DEPSP is equipped to run PREV-MUN together with PARSEP and
also manage its mandate to service sub-national governments.     E. MPAS
Sponsored Training Workshops and Publications. DEPSP will sponsored three
training workshops for municipal officials and other relevant
stakeholders. It will also undertake a series of seven technical
publications that will disseminate laws, regulationsities, best practices
and other materials relevant to sub-national pension management.     F.
Institutional Studies. Two important studies will be undertaken: (i)
pension fund asset management and (ii) needs evaluation and strategy for
assisting the universe of municipalities operating their own pension
systems. This latter study will be done around the time of the mid-term
review and will draw upon the experience of PREV-MUN and PARSEP. G.
Training of MPAS/SPS Staff. A small training program that will ensure
that MPAS staff are exposed to best practices internationally and acquire
the requisite skills to ensure that the sub-national program is conducted
- 3 -



making use of the latest knowledge and methodologies.H. SIPREV Development
and Implementation. The electronic cadastre format, SIPREV, will ensure
that all requisite data for benefits calculation and actuarial analysis is
collected and inputted. Actuarial and benefits modules will also be
installed and other modules developed. SIPREV and its modules will be
free to the municipalities. This component comprises the costs of
installation, maintenance, upgrade, training, and refinement and
development of new modules.    Component II:   Institutional Strengthening
of Municipal Pension Management A second component totalling $6.8 million
(689) of the project total is dedicated to upgrading pension management in
the municipalities. The sub-components are a follows.A. Acquisition of
Hardware and Software for SIPREV. Small hardware/software packages valued
at about $19,000 will be provided to each municipality to ensure that the
pension agency has the requisite equipment to operate SIPREV and otherwise
carry out the project. B. Cadastre Upgrade. At $2.2 million this is the
largest sub-component and one of the pillars of the PARSEP/PREV-MUN
approach. Each municipality will be provided with consultant services
valued at $80,000 plus assistance from DEPSP specialists. It is expected
that the municipalities will also spend from their own resources, as was
the case with states receiving PARSEP assistance, to complete and validate
their cadastres. The advantages for the municipalities of this
undertaking include accurate actuarial analysis, savings from elimination
of unjustified benefits payments, and submission of reimbursable pension
costs to the Federal Government under the Compensacao Financeira
program.C. Actuarial Evaluation. This is a second pillar. It includes a
diagnostic--something legally required of all sub-national governments
starting July, 2002. It also includes the development of proposals for
achieving actuarial balance and reforming pension systems.     D. Municipal
Workshops and Dissemination. Stakeholder participation through
municipality sponsored workshops and the dissemination of pension
materials is an essential part of the PREV-MUN program. The purpose is to
disseminate the PREV-MUN program, report results, provide knowledge on
best practices, and advance reform proposals. Each municipality will
conduct two such workshops accompanied by the preparation and
dissemination of materials.E. Municipal Training. Two types of training
are contemplated. The first is a workshop in basic pension management,
concepts and best practices for two key agency officials from each
municipality. A second venue will be training for groups of up to fifteen
agency officials held in the municipalities. One key contribution will be
the identification of permanent, accessible training venues for
sub-national governments.
5. Financing
Total                           ( US$m)
BORROWER                            5
IBRD                                5
Total Project Cost                 10
6. Implementation
Implementation ArrangementsThe project executing agency will be MPAS.
Within MPAS there will be a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) and a Project
Executing Unit (PEU) whose attributions are described below.Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU). A PCU already exists in the Executive Secretaries
Office of MPAS. It is charged with financial management/execution of the
Ministry's projects. This body is also the PCU for the Bank's INSS LIL.
- 4 -



PCU responsibilities will be to manage Project budgeting and financial
control orient the PEU (see below) regarding Bank guidelines and
procedures guarantee that Bank norms and procedures are followed supervise
and ensure the completion of the Project's physical, budget and financial
chronograms respond for audit and Project evaluation requirements provide
the Bank with financial and evaluation reports, statements of accounts and
other reports as neededensure the implementation of PEU approved
activities and procurement in accordance with the Operations Manual.ensure
the payment of the Project's contracts and acquisitions.Project Executing
Unit (PEU). The PEU will be responsible for the technical execution of the
Project. It will reside within DEPSP in the Secretary of Social Security
(SPS). The PEU will comprise many of the same employees that are
successfully managing the technical execution of PARSEP. The current
PCU/PEU arrangement is similar to what exists for PARSEP except that the
PCU resides in the Ministry of Finance and not MPAS. PEU responsibilities
will be to:coordinate, plan and supervise the implementation of municipal
and SPS activities ensure that Bank norms are followed elaborate technical
reports regarding Project implementation form a Procurement Commission to
accompany and evaluate purchases and service provision support the Bank
and SPS in general Project supervision and evaluation provide
documentation required by auditors disseminate Project results within and
outside of MPAS. The DEPSP team is responsible for PARSEP's execution
including technical aspects and most of the procurement. It is
experienced, well staffed, and has earned the respect of state officials.
Hence, theexpectation is that this will be a very strong PEU.a.
ProcurementWhile PARSEP is formally executed by the Ministry of Finance,
project execution--including most aspects relating to procurement--is
managed by the DEPSP team. DEPSP develops TORs and is responsible for all
procurement cycle matters including contacts with the Bank, UNDP (the
PARSEP procurement agency), state clients and vendors. The group maintains
good relations with the CMU Implementation Team that handles PARSEP
procurement matters and UNDP. It has become experienced in Bank
procurement procedures through close Bank contacts that include a recent
procurement workshop and Post Review.PREV-MUN procurement should be well
managed. Procurement will be simplified by virtue of the MP LIL being
similar in structure and components to PARSEP. It is also likely that
procurement procedures and documents can be adapted and that the universe
of vendors will not vary greatly from PARSEP. A strong CMU Implementation
Team will again provide all necessary procurement support. And similar to
what is done for PARSEP, UNDP or a similar agency will be retained to
support procurement operations.b. Financial ManagementThe Bank has
evaluated the Project Coordinating Unit's financial management capacity
and found it to be satisfactory. The PCU is finalizing software that will
be employed specifically for PREV-MUN and other multilateral projects
executed by MPAS. Again, the loan is similar to PARSEP and the INSS LIL,
which are being managed satisfactorily, hence no difficulties are expected.
7. Sustainability
Project sustainability is assured owing to the following
circumstances.(i) The legislation governing subnational pension systems
management has recently been reformed providing a permanent framework with
strict compliance rules. It requires sanitized cadastres, actuarial
analysis and balance, regular reporting and compliance with administrative
guidelines, especially those governing pension fund management and the
benefits regime permitted in sub-national governments. PREV-MUN
- 5-



facilitates municipal compliance in each of these areas.(ii) PARSEP has
successfully piloted methodologies in states that will be implemented in
PREV-MUN. This is especially true of SIPREV which responds to
sub-national government demand for a comprehensive electronic cadastre
format to unify pension data managed by different government branches.
SIPREV and the new actuarial and benefits calculation modules also respond
to strong sub-national government demand for pension management
tools.(iii) Growing awareness of the fiscal burden imposed by pensions
together with the Fiscal Responsibility Law restrctions on state payrolls
are strong incentives for municipalities to find solutions to their
pension problems. PREV-MUN helps municipalities to assess the burden in
actuarial terms and develop proposals for dealing with it. In essence, it
provides municipalities with a tool for strengthening the reform
constituency. (iv) For municipalities, PREV-MUN facilitates compliance
with legal requirements. There are also positive fiscal incentives.
SIPREV facilitates the solicitation to the Federal Government for
reimbursement of pension liabilities (Compensacao Financeira) and cadastre
upgrade can eliminate significant unwarranted payments.      In addition,
MPAS has taken strategic decisions bearing on its role in the provision of
sub-national services offered by PREV-MUN on a sustainable basis. As a
result, it is also looking for permanent, accessible and self supporting
venues for training and SIPREV maintenance. This becomes especially
important considering that many of the 2,700 municipalities operating
their own pension systems will need support. Regarding training, a
University of Brasilia foundation, FINATEC, will be retained to provide
train-the-trainers courses and direct training in pension management. If
successful, FINATEC will become a permanent purveyor of pension training
for sub-national governments. A decision has also been taken to retain a
private organization to maintain and service SIPREV on a permanent basis.
Finally, DEPSP has determined that it can and should provide technical
assistance in the legal area for all sub-national governments and respond
to specific requests in other areas. It believes this will be possible
with its current staffing levels. This proposition will be tested over
the four year loan period and adjustments will be made based upon
implementation experience.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
A number of lessons were learned via the implementation of the precursor
PARSEP LIL which are reflected in the operation's design, namely:Client
Commitment. Formal client agreements (convenios) need to be more closely
linked to client action plans to ensure commitment. Client Teams.
Municipal project coordinators and their teams should be integrated into
the pension agency structure to mitigate problems of weak ownership and
lack of influence. Sequencing. Activities should not be sequenced with
rigid trigger conditions but rather municipalities should develop their
own individual plans to strengthen ownership and avoid waivers, merger and
elimination of components resulting from different client needs and
priorities. Loan Components. The basic PARSEP structure and components
including the need for a strong DEPSP based team providing technical
assistance is appropriate for municipalities. Special care should be
given to ensuring adequate travel expenses given importance of direct
DEPSP intervention with different branches of municipal government,
departments and agencies to overcome vested interests, provide technical
assistance, and implement the project. Training. It is not enough to
train key officials. Given the lack of a pension career stream and
- 6 -



specialized courses, personnel turnover and dependence on consultants in
sub-national governments, a permanent and accessible training venue must
be found.Cadastre Upgrade. The potential financial benefits to
sub-national governments from eliminating unwarranted payments and
submitting proposals to the Federal Government for restitution
(Compensacao Financeira) are sufficiently strong incentives to overcome
inertia in this activity. States have spent much more on this component
than funding offered by PARSEP.Upscaling. There is a need to find
"multipliers"--like national associations of pension officials (CONAPREV)
and other municipal bodies--to become permanent centers of technical
assistance and knowledge sharing for sub-national pension matters given
the huge number of potential sub-national governments requiring
assistance.Actuarial Software. The Bank's PROST software was a very
useful pedagogical instruments, useful for conducting several important
studies and served as a model for SIPREV development. However, ownership,
specific country needs, maintenance and upgrade issues argue strongly for
development of a local software, especially in countries with Brazil's
technical capacity. PARSEP and PREV-MUN support Brazil's development of
SIPREV and its modules. SIPREV Maintenance. MPAS will not be able to
maintain, upgrade, and train the universe of clients who will demand
SIPREV assistance. This function will have to be let out to a private
group(s) with DEPSP supervising and working on upgrades. Stakeholder
Dissemination. Locally sponsored workshops and materials dissemination
have proven very effective in states to inform stakeholders of project
objectives and results and to build reform constituencies. The dearth of
materials addressing pension management, best practice and the legislative
framework hampers training, compliance with new guidelines, and management
reform. Hence PREV-MUN supports a significant publications effort.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        N/A
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Chris Parel
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-3918
Fax:   (202) 522-3134
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
-7 -



This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending Dec. 21, 2001
Lucy Njuguna
M:\InfoShop - Tonya's weekly directories\Dec 21, 2001\P074777.txt
December 17, 2001 2:55 PM
- 8 -



