Report No. 23833
Report No: I074777 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 03/06/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: BRAZIL Project ID: P074777
Project: Municipal Pension Reform Project        Task Team Leader: Chris Parel
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 8, 2002        IBRD Amount ($m): 5.00
Bank Approval: May 14, 2002      IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSPS     Sector: SI - Pensions & Social Insurance
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
1. Project Development Objective
The objective of the Municipal Pension Reform Project ("PREV-MUN" or
Programa de Apoio a Previdencia dos Municipios) in Brazil is to upgrade
municipal pension management. It will do this by (i) addressing critical
pension problems in 26 of Brazil's state capital and larger
municipalities, and (ii) strengthening the Ministry of Social Security and
Social Assistance (MPAS) capacity to carry out its legal mandate to
provide technical assistance, monitor and evaluate pension management and
validate performance. The loan targets these larger municipalities
because they account for a preponderance of the total aggregate municipal
pension debt. Also, given their importance and geographic distribution,
they can eventually become vehicles for extending the PREV-MUN approach to
the over 2,700 municipalities operating public pension systems throughout
Brazil.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Component I: Institutional Strengthening of MPAS/SPS and Project
Management
This $2.01 million project component addresses institutional strengthening
of MPAS and specifically SPS/DEPSP required to manage PREV-MUN and carry
out its mandate of monitoring, evaluating, validating and providing
technical assistance to sub-national governments. Specific sub-components
follow.
A.  Provision of Technical Assistance.     Following the successful formula
established in the State Pension Reform LIL (PARSEP), a core group of
consultants in information technology, actuarial science, and pension
legislation will be retained at DEPSP to supplement MPAS staff and service
municipalities during the project.
B.  Project Management Support.     A project team comprising DEPSP staff
and several project management consultants will be retained plus a
financial management specialist. The size of the team required to
administer the program for 26 municipalities is based upon PARSEP
experience with a similar number of states.



C.  Technical Assistance for Municipalities--Logistics.     Experience
demonstrates that pension reform cannot be managed centrally but rather
requires the continuous presence of MPAS specialists in the field.     Hence
care has been taken to ensure that resources are adequate to sustain the
projected level of field operations.
D.  Acquisition of Hardware and Software.     A small ($58,500) amount of
computer equipment includeing computers, printers, software, and
ancilliary equipment has been budgeted to ensure that DEPSP is equipped to
run PREV-MUN and also manage its mandate to service sub-national
governments.
E.  MPAS Sponsored Training Workshops and Publications.      DEPSP will
sponsor three training workshops for municipal officials and other
relevant stakeholders. It will also publish a technical series to
disseminate laws, regulations, best practices and other materials relevant
to sub-national pension management.
F. Institutional Studies. Two important studies will be undertaken: (i)
pension fund asset management that might also include asset evaluation and
sale with proceeds going to funds, and (ii) needs evaluation and strategy
for assisting the universe of municipalities operating their own pension
systems. This latter study will be done around the time of the mid-term
review and will draw upon the experience of PREV-MUN and PARSEP.
G.  Training SPS Staff.     A small training program will ensure that MPAS
staff are exposed to best practices internationally and acquire the
requisite skills to ensure that PREV-MUN makes use of the latest knowledge
and methodologies.
H.  SIPREV Development and Implementation.      Implementation of the SIPREV
electronic cadastre format, will ensure that the requisite data for
benefits calculation and actuarial analysis is available in a uniform,
accessible format. Actuarial and benefits modules will also be installed
and other modules developed. SIPREV and its modules will be free to the
municipalities. This sub-component comprises the costs of installation,
maintenance, upgrade, training, and refinement and development of new
modules.
Component II: Institutional Strengthening of Municipal Pension
Management
A second component totalling $6.8 million (68%) of the project total is
dedicated to upgrading pension management in the municipalities. The
sub-components are a follows.
A. Acquisition of Hardware and Software for SIPREV. Small
hardware/software packages valued at about $19,000 will be provided to
each municipality to ensure that the pension agency has the requisite
equipment to operate SIPREV and otherwise carry out the project.
B. Cadastre Upgrade. At $2.2 million this is the largest sub-component
and one of the pillars of the PARSEP/PREV-MUN approach. Each municipality
will be provided with consultant services valued at $80,000 plus
assistance from DEPSP specialists. The advantages for the municipalities
of cadastre upgrade include accurate actuarial analysis, savings from
elimination of unjustified benefits payments, and submission of
reimbursable pension costs to the Federal Government under the Compensacao
Financeira program.
C. Actuarial Evaluation. This is a second pillar. It includes a
diagnostic--something legally required of all sub-national governments
-2 -



starting July, 2002--plus the development of proposals for achieving
actuarial balance and reforming pension systems.
D.  Municipal Workshops and Dissemination.     Stakeholder participation
through municipality sponsored workshops and the dissemination of pension
materials is an essential part of the PREV-MUN program. The purpose is to
disseminate the PREV-MUN program, report results, provide knowledge on
best practices, advance reform proposals, and strengthen reform
constitutencies. Each municipality will conduct two such workshops
accompanied by the preparation and dissemination of materials.
E. Municipal Training. Two types of training are contemplated. The
first is a workshop in basic pension management, concepts and best
practices for two key agency officials from each municipality. A second
venue will be training for groups of up to fifteen agency officials held
in the municipalities. One key project contribution will be the
identification of permanent, accessible training venues for sub-national
governments.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The Government has determined that it can address nearly 90t of the
aggregate municipal pension deficit problem and thereby alleviate fiscal
burdens affecting large populations (including many poor) by first
addressing the 26 capital/largest municipalities. It further believes that
because of their relative sophistication, these municipalities have a
better chance of successfully implementing the PREV-MUN program and
afterwards can serve as poles for replicating the approach.
The Bank agrees with the client's approach and will consider the pension
reform impact upon the poor under a more appropriate AAA venue. The
operation will include a study to determine the needs of municipalities of
different sizes and will develop a strategy for delivering the requisite
services to them.
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
-3 -



necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Not applicable.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
Not applicable.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
Not applicable.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
Not applicable.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Not applicable
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
Not applicable
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
- 4 -



Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why. Not Applicable.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Chris Parel     03/06/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Juan D. Quintero         03/05/2002
Sector Manager/Director:         Ronald E. Myers 03/06/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 5 -



