Docunent of
The World Bank
Report No: 24387 BR
PR nECT APPRAISALT D     llNT
(YhT A
Wil rIL
Tr%y% -~Crr  T f.A  T
1N lilt AMVUUIN 1 ur uS.O 5 iviLLism'
TO T-HE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR
MUNICIPAL PENSION REFORM PROJECT
June 25, 2002
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Rtrazil Countrv Management IJnit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Real
R$1.0 = US$0.37
US$1.0 = R$2.70
FISCAL YEAR
lv)
ABBREViATioNs A-ND) ACRONYMS
PARSEP          State Pension Reform LhL          Programa de Apoio a Reforma dos Sistemas
Estaduais de Previdencia
PREV-MUN       Municipal Pension Reform Project   Programa de Apoio a Previdencia dos Municipios
CRP             Pension System Certification (MPAS  Certificado de Regularidade Previdenciaria
certifies sub-national govermments)
ASD A           Ifinii.u y of S.)or  1oc-ia  i; al Social1 1U--LViU de Previdenciaii e As iscia Socia
Asistencia
SPS            Secretary of Social Security       Secretaria de Previdencia Social
DEPSP          Department of Public Social Security  Departamento dos Regimes de Previdencia no
Systems                           Servico Publico
CONAPREPV      National Council of Officials      ConseLho Nacional dos Dirigentes de Regimes
Responsible for Sub-National Pension  Proprios de Previdencia Social
Systems
INSS           National Social Security Institute  Instituto Nacional de Seguro Social
PROST          Pension Reform Options simulation
Toolkit
SIPREV         Integrated Pension Information System Sistema Integrado de Informacoes Previdenciarias
PrC.U           roIject WAU[)LUUIdIUig UInit k1iiLanciai  uPr-unidade ue Coordenacao ce rrojeto
execution)
PEU            Project Executing Unit in DEPSP (also UEP-Unidade Executora de Projeto
"Technical Unit")
RGPS           National social security system    Regime Geral de Previdencia Social
INA I          GoV-.I11LL VIILFAVyVU social oc-4uiayL .regilv oiUpio UV r lVIUViIL.id.
system
Compensacao    Financial ompensation (to sub-national Compensacao Financeira
Financiera     governments for liabilities assumed)
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Vinod Thomas
Sector *'a'b-i'  .        .1JRoa.d. MA.I -
I            Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Chris Parel



TilA '7TTY
MUNICIPAL PENSION REFORM PROJECT
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
i. Sector-reiateu' Country Assistance Sirategy (CAS) goal supporteu oy ie project     3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  5
C. Project Description Summary
i. Project components                                                                 6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       8
3. Benefits and target population                                                      9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                           10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   12
5. Value added of Bank sunport in this proiect                                        12
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          12
2. Financial                                                                          13
3. Terhnica!l                                                                         13
4. Institutional                                                                      13
C.  EA1-vu-----                                                                       C -,1
6. Social                                                                             15
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 16
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     16



2. Critical risks                                                                       17
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       18
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                              18
2. Other                                                                                18
H4. Readiness for Implementation                                                           19
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                           19
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           20
Annex 2: Detailed Proiect DescriDtion                                                     24
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                           30
AUUl A: C-os B   er.e- fi  A., ---  cuj- , or f'oLst-E  fl0+O AJ, -1-  V .LJ..31
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary      33
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                         34
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                       45
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                     46
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                    47
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                              51
Annex 11: Additional Information                                                           53
Annex 12: Differences and Lessons Learned                                                  59
MAP(S)



BRAZIL
Municinal Pension Refornm Proiect
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
I Date: June 19. 2002                            Team Leader: Chris Parel
Country Manager/Director: Vinod Thomas           Sector Manager/Director: Ronald E. Myers
IP--+ ID:. PD7A4777                              Seetor(s- SI - P o       & Sc  L-r
1.        .  -  1 II                             3%;"VI k31  1-  %L11U 0 MLJ   LX V,U~L,AJ UI,OUIa1IV.,
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Public Sector
Poverty Targeted intervention: N
[XI Loan     [ ] Credit   [ Grant      [ Guarantee      [ Other:
Amount (US$m): 5
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: 0 Yes
rroposea Terns (titGj: variabie-Spread Currency Loan (VSL)
Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
F,inciriit!,-. i°,i;                                                                    Tta-
BORROWER                                                       5.00  1       0.00   1      5.00
IBRD                                                          4.45           0.55          5.00
Total:                                                        9.45           0.55         10.00
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL
~  ~      1ufTM1VTV C1~ V(V~T  T7Vf(T TDTTV P. Cnf'TAT A QTQ AXJ1-1C'
Responsible agency: ,SR      OFSCAT E        vPT&SCILSITNE
Address: ESPLANADA DOS MINISTERIOS
BLOCO r
7th FLOOR-SALA 723
700U5Y-Y00--BRASLA-43F
Contact Person: Vinicius Carvalho Pinheirob Secretary of Social Security
Tei: (55-61)-317-5236          Fax: (55-61)-,i 7-5i95
Email:  Vinicius.pinheiro@df.previdenciasocial.gov.br
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
Annual     0.20       2.10      1.61       0.57      0.52
f.mn4,I   )A   )I           01       A AO        A n0
Project implementation period: 6/2002--6/2006
Expected effectiveness date: 09/03/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
=C PAO Fl R.  2ld MM



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
1.    Project Development Objective
The objective of the Municipal Pension Reform Project ("PREV-MUN" or Programa de
,4poio aI PV,01iAPn,.'i" Aoc Af imhininv ;ir.   ;a.  tir.i is to I u pA  m.wcil pnsin mnr-fmPnt
It will do this by (i) addressing critical pension problems in 26 of Brazil's most important
municipaituies comprising many state capitals plis large lulicipalities, and (ii) strenguthening
the capacity of the Ministry of Social Security and Social Assistance (MPAS) to carry out its
legal mandate to provide technical assistance, monitor and evaluate pension management and
validate performance. The loan targets these larger municipalities because they account for a
preponderance of the total aggregate municipal pension debt. Also, given their importance
and geographic distribution, they can eventually become vehicles for extending the
PREV-MUN approach to the over 2,700 municipalities operating public pension systems
Tne project is modeiedu on mhe B ii'an-s Strate Pension Reform LIL (" rAiEa "r ; Loan ffQ369).
It has similar objectives and will adapt approaches and methodologies currently being
implemented in Brazilian states. Similar to PARSEP, the operation will focus on the basic
building blocks of pension reform for municipalities while strengthening the capacity of
MPAS's Secretary of Social Security ("SPS") and its Department of Public Service Pension
Regimes ("DEPSP") to manage sub-national pensions.
7 KPYv prfrnrmunep inaiiC'tarc* (qpp AnnpX PI
A.    Ministerial/SPS Indicators
*   Provision of Technical Assistance: maintenance of a team of PREV-MIJN supported
specialists able to provide technical assistance in project formulation/management, information
*cAnolWflJgy, Legisb Jtive anJ d aeV  Attaal arne fiAm. DPSP or;ir thel fiA as .n10 ed
* Acquisition of Hardware & Software: Installation and operationalization of budgeted SPS
haruware package.
*   Training and Dissemination: Completion of programmed SPS training; sponsorship of at least
two national-workshops; publication and dissemination of materials essential to sub-national
pension management and legal compliance.
* Integrated Pension Software (SIPRE;) Development and Implementation: Successful
installation and oneration of SIPREV and its actuarial or benefits modules in 20
municipalities respectively; identification of "replicators" to provide permanent SIPREV
~~~ G~CA1L U   L]L,AJI OULPrIiLLWJIMu r V'.ilUj±..dJLL0.
*   Institutional Studies: Completion and dissemination of studies on (i) fund/asset management,
and (ii) strategy for extending PREV-MUN coverage to other municipalties.
- 2 -



Note that twenty-six municipalities have been targeted. However,, each one is unique. Hence,
similar to PARSEP, some merging and self-financing of activities is expected. Consequently the
number of municipalities established as 'indicators' varies across activities.
*     Acquisition of Hardware and Software for SIPREV: installation of a small
hardware/software equipment package in 23 municipalities.
*      Cadas.t.reLJpgr7p,ade:PRE PPV-AM,TJN suppovrtAed  "rn-.oa i- n 23 rii'iintia
*     Actuarial Evaluation: analysis performed with PREV-MUN support in 23 municipalities
inciuding. financiai diagnostic and reform proposai development.
*      Municipal Workshops and Dissemination: carrying out of at least one stakeholder
workshop in 26 municipalities.
*      Municipal Training: varticipation in two MPAS sponsored workshons and
implementation of local training programs in 24 municipalities; identification of a
rprmn%pmimt uipn1P(Ql fnw t-minn anA i hr  ovaitnoip
X,.       .~J       **~ .,r .srn.. ..__U L tOw_SC_s'Sw_.
B. Strategic Co..text
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategv (CAS) goal supported bv the nroiect: (see Annex 1)
Document number: CAS: Report No. 20160-BR/March, 2000/CAS Update: Report No. 22116-BR/May 1, 2001
Date of !atest GAS d-scus-sIn: CAS: March 30, 200/CAS Updtte: May 24, 2001
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Problem.
The most recent Country Assistance Strategy characterizes social security reform as "the single most
important fiscal isse facing th.e FedPral and sub-national Goernments". Thpe Cr45 eslated the ovxerll
pension deficit including interest and public debt accumilated on behalf of public pensions at about 9.5%
ofi GTYDP or -. ,a $80QbiA.'ion. F JLr fifiais of +- perio* Adeiitf is pUflJU..b z*dl -abut hlf  v bU.   ltt-,s to
states and municipalities. Last year's CAS Update reaffirmed that social security and pension reforms
rema-Ir "cl-ic-a componmalt of fic  I refLI"
There is a paucitu nfinfnrnmatinin rprlrtlir,lc miuninci.al npncrin suytprn.s N^.rthol1sc Adlta othra.rPd ae nort
of loan preparation suggests the importance of pension reform for Brazil's capital and larger municipalities
gee;nhis.ui operation*.
*   The 26 state capital municipalities ran a combined deficit of R$2. 1 billion which accounted for 80% of
tota aggregate municipal deficits of -2.6 billion ir, 1999.  esUe same 2U plus Uue 23 largest
municipalities with population in excess of 400,000--a total of 46 million urban inhabitants-account
for about 96% of total municipai pension deficits.
*   Pension deficits are large and growing in most municipalities. CY2000 data for Brazil's 26 state
capital municipalities show four witn small pension surpluses while in the remaining 22 expenditures
exceed contributions by anywhere from R$4 million in Macapa (Amapa State in northern Brazil) to
R$66 million in Belo Horizonte, R$107-109 million in Salvador and Porto Alegre, R$565 million in
Rio de Janeiro, and R$1.1 billion in Sao Paulo.
*   CY1999 data for these same municipalities show that social security deficits consume a significant
-3 -



proportion of municipal receipts
_5 mminiipnalities ran deficitc amou nting to 3-5% of totnl receipts
-11 municipalities had deficits from 5.1% to 10% of receipts
=5 mun"idnaitiudes -1f-.pA defici, niror !0O%. .nhl,A,' Saon P-al and Po,tr, A legre (14O.21 Szalao-Ar
(17%), Rio de Janeiro (18%), and Cuiaba (21%).
A  fr.r)nAA  -4.A.. -r -;+e1  - -;---1.4-A Jr-.._rt 41U v -+  lv-ni I2 X ;  - -*_ ._1-, _#U -+
_A - ILSVVV    Ut atUU ml -" w"ll 11 Lt1 ,1IJl vullU ulaL aL UVOL  WVdV uULUI VUUJ%a%. VIUI III%
requirements of Law 9717 (see Annex 11) regulating pension administration. The most serious
pU-oulC  inudedU peliou byatalls w,os WuU  UeUCliL5 Uifie-eU 11(Irl uiosU perII1iLL.U UIIUndeCr WC law (19
municipalities), inclusion of health insurance in the social security system (8), and inclusion of
financial assistance (6). Only about 40% of all municipalities with pension systems are currently in
compliance with pension reporting and administration requirements.
*   In a two day project preparation workshop, municipal secretaries and pension agency chiefs from 22
of the targeted, capital municipalities corroborated the fiscal burden imposed by pensions and
highlighted the poor state of computer equipment, systems, data bases, and lack of actuarial analysis.
They also cited the lack of qualified personnel to address pension problems. It is presumed that the
situation is no better in most of the 2,700 smaller municipalities also operating their own pension
systems.
The absence of comprehensive, reliable municipal pension data is being remedied by DEPSP, the
Department in MPAS created scarcely three years ago to monitor and evaluate sub-national pensions,
provide technical assistance and, more recently, to validate compliance with new Federal legislation. The
new legislative framework also establishes legal and actuarial reporting obligations that will allow the
Government to gather the requisite data to supervise sub-national pension systems. PARSEIP played a
strategic role in creating DEPSP and addressing these problems in states and PREV-MUN will replicate
this work in municipalities.
(Invemment tlrtpt,v
L]ntarim Stategy,. Therp iS a grnwinrg c.nepnsus among gover.nupmernt officials that the fiscal burdens
imposed by social security are not sustainable. keform proposals most often discussed--there is no formal
age to receive pensions, retirement ages for men and women, and disability and death benefits. The
aduvak1v r,U'age of,-leuin pubic. per,si,-, IIegXf,, ewropric oS dFCvLUcfa-LRPU) UIL soiaU sea-uILty
(Regime Geral de Previdencia Social--RGPS) is also discussed, especially for small sub-national systems.
However, 'uLese reifu - are ali u iugny political anu require, in some cases, Ciusurutiuonal amnenuments.
Hence they would only be possible following the fall, 2002 elections and would require broad based
political support.
In the absence of a new round of benefits reform, the Government has followed an interim strategy to
improve pension regulation and management and strengthen the pension reform constituency. It has done
so by first implementing important reforms in the legislative framework governing sub-national pension
administration including imposing restrictions on use of pension funds, establishing reporting requirements
and requiring actuarial balance. Second, it has undertaken to provide technical assistance to imnprove state
and municipal pension management And third, it has built up MPAS's capacity to monitcor, evaluate,
validate performance and provide technical assistance. It has done this with the support of multilateral
institutions and especially the World Bank.
Leg'islative Framework Reforms.  Three years ago the Federal Govemment was constitutionally
constrained from intervening in state and municipal pension regulation, had no intemal unit concemed with
-4 -



such matters, and knew next to nothing about sub-national pensions. States and municipalities managed
ULVeir yper.uior  uit.tJ..4.UI 0UL Vd .wIut uth ber.eLft VI zua.etj~ lawO, syste..s, tuta -ases, UI.fniaL
opinions, or qualified human resources. Brazilian policy makers took up the challenge of pension reform
UUfiiig rlrsIUei L CA4UI.ThU ' sLeUIIU L.e11., app,-o-VUIn a 11411 Uha LL1 fd sgicUa.t  l awLs ar.1d 4 d ee UUo1r've OVr
the past three years beginning with Constitutional Amendment 20/1998. These are detailed in Annex 11.
Among the more important advances were
(i)       reduction of benefits, stricter eligibility requirements and the phasing in of the new
Complementary Pension regime
(ii)      requirement of individual accounts for pension participants and regulations regarding
participant and public contributions
(iii)     establishment of actuarial and financial standards and requirements for pension funds
based upon accurate cadastres
(iv)      requirement of regular reporting, publication of results and transparency
(v)       MPAS validation of compliance, and penalties for non-compliance
(vi)      restrictions on the use of pension funds for non-pension ends and on investment of funds in
government instruments
(vii)     reimbursement by the Federal Government of pension liabilities assumed by states and
municipalities (Compensacao Financeira)
(viii)    enhancement of the Government's role through MPAS to assure adeauate supervision,
monitoring, validation of results, and provision of technical assistance.
Strengthening MPAS Capacity. Few states and even fewer municipalities possess the resources to
ujnilateralyV rfnorm npneinn manageme-nt andA r-mnIv Urith the new 1-v odiCltive frqm_wnrk- MTpnn-- th--
challenge for the Federal Government has been to create in MPAS an organization capable of monitoring,
vvauuatunu ai,. vcua%n,lh-g pens.on -e --fo .nar.ce -Alr. OOO*Ot...  sub *jU-lS-*I 6JvSctflrfk.ts to rIA,^rn.  T.ls as
done primarily through the establishment and strengthening of DEPSP.
World Bank pension reform support includes important project funding, ESW and technical assistance.
Bank operations inc;lude PASEP and tuhe Federal Penson Reormn LIL, and LWO BanIk /SecaLs for nearly
$1.4 billion in 1999-2000. PARSEP, has been an especially important catalyst in creating and
strengthening DEPSP and financing state technical assistance. As part of its interim strategy, the
Govenmment has decided it is time to address directly municipal pension problems and has called upon the
Bank to adapt PARSEP to create a municipal project, PREV-MUN.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
PDEDtQ'AlTTM  -.11 adrMess tha mrnot es:4niiu inetvit4innn1 ismsue  -nnfrfnntincy m,,,,niinn)ifipq i, ineliwIrno
training, cadastre upgrade, actuarial balance, hardware and systems, and strengthening of the pension
refor,.. col-101LUV1.cy. oSi..laO.Ily, LVII vvlWI bVe UL *UIhnUeA& Lto Vc.LS j o i..k- .-.I -W %J1
To aauress une sector iss-ues u'ul folllo-wUg suF4Leg 1ic choices -were  ade.
* How to begin? The project is beginning with WPAS strengthening and technical assistance to 26
capitail/arge municipalities. At mid-term it will develop a sirategy for addressing The needs of otier
municipalities.



* How to ensure MPAS can carry out its legal mandate to validate sub-national performance? DEPSP
*    io- pro,Ai  t?-^^r ng toTVC ifrpectr   -ho &-e sprad reg;.orly, .-nd-A  cour..tr  vA -ho -nll ba
responsible for validation, making use of the SIPREV actuarial module as it is implemented across
*   How to ensure DEPSP has adequate capacity to service municipal needs, especially over the next 4-5
years when systems changes must be introducead DDEP,SP optea to retamin consultants rather than
increase pernanent staff during the peak demand years which will be financed in part by PRE V-MUN.
*   How to address actuarial imbalances in sub-national pension funds? DEP'SP will provide technical
assistance and fund cadastre upgrade, actuarial studies, development of reform proposals, and
stakeholder dissemination efforts to support reform and build local reform constituencies. Depending
upon the outcome of a PARSEP pilot, it may also help municipalities to evaluate and sell off assets
with the proceeds going to pension funds.
* How to assure that SIPREV and its modules can be maintained and upgraded as needed' including
the provision of technical assistance and training? DEPSP has decided to contract out this service to
private companies while maintaining a core staff sufficient for project oversight and module
development needs.
* How to provide permanent, accessible pension training for sub-national governments? DEPSP will
retain one of several foundations (FINATEC, FUBRA, CESPE) linked to the Federal University of
Brasilia. to provide train-the-trainers and direct municipal training. The hope is that one of these could
become a permanent purveyor of pension training.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component I: Institutional Strengthening of MPAS/SPS and Project Management
This $2.1 million project component addresses institutional strengthening of MPAS--specifically of
SPSiDEPS--required to manage PREV-MUN and carry out its mandate of monitoring, evaluating,
validating and providing technical assistance to sub-national governments. Specific sub-components
include the following.
A.     Provision of Technical Assistance. Following PARSEP's successful formula, a core group of
consultants in information technology, actuarial science, and pension legislation will be retained at DEPSP
to supplement MPAS staff and service municipalities during the project.
B.     Proiect Management Support. The DEPSP Project Executing Unit (PEU)  comprising DEPSP
staff and several project management consultants will be retained plus a financial management: specialist.
The size of the team required to administer the program for 26 municipalities is based upoil PARSEP
experience with a similar number of states.
C.     Technical Assistance for Municipalities--Logistics. Experience demonstrates that pension reform
cannot be managed centrally but rather requires the continuous presence of MPAS specialists in the field.
HenGe care has heen taken to ensure that resources are adeauate to sustain the nroiected level of field
operations.
D.     A^.nvisition of Hard.ware and Sonftwre.  A zmiil ($58,500) amoulnt of cnrnmputer equipnme.nt
including computers, printers, software, and ancillary equipment has been budgeted to ensure that DEPSP
La        to A.^.I DLnV=.,.T.IN ar.d naW mnana its mnd,^fto senr,.a 011hnat.onal gover.^.ne.ents.
E.     MPAS Sponsored Workshops and Publications. DEPSP will sponsor three training wor;kshops for
1wUlltilpdI U11UII l dUIU UUISI llLVdIlL MiIllUlUclo. IL Will a1UU pUuu3IIl a LVIUUm..al brilu IU Ul1bbrl1lulaL



laws, regulations, best practices and other materials relevant to sub-national pension management.
F.    Institutional Studies.  Two important studies will be undertaken:  (i) pension fund asset
management that might also include asset evaluation and sale with proceeds going to funds, and (ii) needs
evaluation and strategy for assisting the universe of municipalities operating their own pension systems.
This latter study will be done around the time of the mid-term review and will draw upon the combined
experience of PREV-MUN and PARSEP and administrative and actuarial compliance data bases.
G.     Trainine for SPS Staff. A small training program will ensure that MPAS staff are exnosed to best
practices internationally and acquire the requisite skills to ensure that PREV-MUN makes use of the latest
knnwledge and methodologies=
H.     SIPREV Development and Implementation. Implementation of the SIPREV electronic cadastre
foEnat uAll ensMre thnt tlfh requisite data for be.nefits calculation and actarial analysis is availableina
uniform, accessible format. Actuarial and benefits modules will also be installed and other modules
developed.  ML M , wd iaL  r.odule. wil Me given *iee to suh  nuaLicii,LjstiJs.  LIno . UU-% ub II1po.II-L
comprises the costs of installation, maintenance, upgrade, training, and refinement and development of new
Iuouuues.
Component i: InstituionulStrengthening of MunicipalPension management
A second component totalling $6.5 miiiion (65%) of the project total is dedicated to upgrading pension
management in the municipalities. The sub-components are a follows.
A.     Acquisition of Hardware and Software for SIPREV. Small hardware/software packages valued at
about $19,000 will be provided to each municipality to ensure that the pension agency has the requisite
equipment to operate SIPREV and otherwise carry out the project.
B.     Cadastre Upgrade. At $2.2 million this is the largest sub-component and one of the pillars of the
PARSEP/PREV-MUN approach. Each municipality will be provided with consultant services valued at
$80,000 plus assistance from DEPSP specialists. The advantages for the municipalities of cadastre
upgrade include accurate actuarial analysis, savings from elimination of unjustified benefits payments, and
submission of reimbursable pension costs to the Federal Government under the Compensacao Financeira
program.
C.     Actuarial Evaluation.  This is a second pillar.  It includes financing an actuarial
diagnostic--something legally required of all sub-national governments starting July, 2002--plus the
development of proposals for achieving actuarial balance and reforming pension systems.
D.     MuniciDal Workshops and Dissemination.  Stakeholder participation through municipalitv
sponsored workshops and the dissemination of pension materials is an essential part of the PREV-MUN
proamm   The nmrpose is to dissezminate the PRFV-MUlN program, reponrt res.ults, providde knowledoe on
best practices, advance reform proposals, and strengthen reformn constituencies. Each municipality will
conduct two such workshops accon.panied by the prparation and dissemination of materials.
E.     Municipal Training. Two types of training are contemplated. The first is a workshop in basic
pensio1UU rz.ze..e, .t,WV   J CIAc U V3 anU -ML f Vo to 11penion agr.cAy oIfL.4CiLa 'siii fo..  111c iU"U.IaIi.y.
A second venue will be training for groups of up to fifteen agency officials held in the municipalities. One
'sy project couIbuitiOn U wU11ill be UV uI lidlfiLiLOa  ot pVIIrIllrlLt, accessuible udiling venues  Sub s-nutllULi
governments.
-7-



II. Institutional Strengthenina-MPAS  IPensions & Social  1   43     4 31     0.36        7.2
A. Technical Assistance          Insurance
B. Project Mqs qg ement           Perions &, Soci                              A           A0
Insurance
C. Hardr      i.SoftwarCe    s    Pensions & Social      0.06       0.       0.00        1.0
Insurance
E. Workshops & Dissemination      Pensions & Social      0.56       5.6       0.15       3.2
Insurance
F. Institutional Studies          Pensions & Social      0.04       0.4       0.04       0.8
Insurance
G. Training of MPAS/SPS Staff     Pensions & Social      0.09       0.9       0.083      1.6
Insurance                   I               I         I
H. SIPREV Implementation          Pensions & Social      0.29       2.9       0.07       1.4
Insurance
II. Institutional Strengthening-  Pensions & Social      0.49       4.9       0.40  |    8.0
Municipal Pension IManagement     T   rnsurc.e
A. Hardware & Software-SIPREV
B. Cd.ste.. U-Jo Ad inaJors                   1& In                 I 21      1.7'5     35.0  1
Insurance
|C. rAc.jiai tvaiua.Uuon          lPer.sion.s &; Social  1  0.89 1  8.9       u 0.6o1   i3.0
| o~hops                       | ..  Insurance
- D. 'Workshops & Dissemination   IPensions & Sociai     i.77    1  i7.7      0.5        10.6
|j.          |cssernaon            Insurance                                        I
E. Training                       Pensions&Social        1.18      11.8       0.35       7.0
Insurance
1I1. Component Residuals          Pensions & Social      0.40       4.0       0.0()      0.0
A. Multilateral Procurement Agency  Insurance      j                               I
B. Contingency                    Pensions & Social      0.98       9.8       0.5 11     10.2
IInsurance
Total Project Costs                     9.95      99.5      4.9'|      99.0
Fmnt-end fee                            I 0.0           n n.  ,      A
Total Financing Required                     10.00      100.0      5.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
PREV-MUN supports institutional reforms in sub-national pension management in the following ways:
*   Promotes professional pension management with reliable date and compliance with Federal laws
through cadastre upgrade, SIPREV, legal and actuarial assistance and training.
*   Develops sub-national pension refonns based upon actuarial and financial diagnoses.
*   Supports reduction of fiscal burdens associated with pensions.
*   Strengthens MPAS/SPS so that it can carry not its legal mandate of sub-nationa- pnenon - ninitMonrn
evaluation, and provision of technical assistance.
- 8 -



*   Strengthens the reform constituency throuah stakeholder workshons and dissemination.
3 RBpiefits-and taret popunanion:
Most of the 26 targeted states are already running pension deficits that range from 5% to 21% of total
receipts. This constitutes a huge drain on their resources and ability to undertake growth and poverty
alleviation investments. Few have staffing or systems that permit adequate pension management to
dimension their pension problems and develop solutions. Many are not able to comply fully with Federal
legislation governing pension management and reporting. PREV-MUN will address these problems.
Hence the:target population is first the municipal governments participating in the program and indirectly
other municipalities who will benefit from the PREV-MUN experience and the assistance preferred by
MPAS/SPS. Second, public officials enrolled in the pension programs will benefit from having pension
fimds analyzed and actuarial and other problems addressed. Third- the nonulations of the
municipalities--upwards of 20-30 million inhabitants--will benefit from the eventual reduction in pension
hiirdens and improved liquifiity enabling resources to be nut intn other activitiss.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project executing agency will be MPAS. Within MPAS there will be a Project Coordinating Unit
(rCU) and a Project Executing Unit (rPt u) wnose attributions are described below. Both units exist and
both are managing Bank projects. A formal agreement ("portaria") will establish their respective roles and
responsibilities regarding PRiEV-Muu implementation.
Proiect Coordinating Unit (PCU). A PCU exists in the Executive Secretary Office of MPAS. It is charged
with financial management/execution of the Ministry's projects. The PCU successfully manages the Bank's
NVSS LIL and will soon assume responsibilities for PARSEP. PCU responsibilities are to
*   manage Project budgeting and financial control
*   orient the PEU (see below) regarding Bank guidelines and procedures
*   guarantee that Bank norms and procedures are followed
* supervise and ensure the completion of the Project's physical, budget and financial chronograms
*   respond for audit and Project evaluation requirements
*   provide the Bank with financial and evaluation reports, statements of accounts and other reports as
needed
*   ensure the implementation of PEU approved activities and procurement in accordance with the
Onerations Manual.
*   ensure the payment of the Project's contracts and acquisitions.
Proiect Executina Unit (PEU). The PEU will be responsible for the technical execution of the Project. It
-All reidep w thin DE PSP in the  .cPitiw, of Scinal 4Zavr.tY .4Z (SPS) The PPT T u crl rnmri-a vnv,y nf th*
same employees that are successfully managing the technical execution of PARSEP.  The current
CU'TTPDUTT anant is --l- +l- *.o wh+ atex  4s DADCUVD excep + that   WI'TT P  'Aie  :
f  Ui  L,k LUa Ii  5.ULWJIL 10 OULUIU  L%VJ VYRML ~~0t  jul I rXK%~.JL.l  UA~JJ  .lat UkA  I S.~ J jFI3l LM.   UI UlL  1VLUUOLXy
of Finance and not MPAS. PEU responsibilities are to
*   cowrdinate, plan and supel vise tuhe UIir.11VIpLmL4aiUo VI nuIcipa il  adPSacdV-viie
*   ensure that Bank norms are followed
* elaborate technical reports regarding Project implementation
*   form a Procurement Commission to accompany and evaluate purchases and service provision
*   support the Bank and SPS in generai Project supervision and evaluation
*   provide documentation required by auditors
* disseminate Project results within and outside of MPAS.
-9-



The DEPSP team is responsible for PARSEP's execution including technical aspects and most of the
procurement It is experienced, well staffed, and has earned the respect of state and municipal officials. It
has also worked closely with the CMU's Implementation Team and UNDP, which will be retained to
support procurement operations. Given PCU and PEU experience, strong project management is expected.
D. Projert Ratinnala
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Pension Reform LnL. The LIL format was abandoned because (i) the Senate approved budget fi)r the first
year of oUJFdUUi1J, - I 2002, WUb uuy $24 IJ,000 Um.urIg IL UilpUiUbl1e oU oImpIeLe L1Ie PIUJVAUl tiLLUr
years, (ii) the new LIL requirements are very restrictive and do not allow for many of the activities to be
carried out under PREV-MUN.
Greater Attention to Smaller Municipaiities. Tte Government has determined that it can address nearly
90% of the aggregate municipal deficit problem and thereby alleviate fiscal burdens affecting large
populations (including many poor) by addressing first the state capital/largest municipalities. It iiarther
believes that these municipalities, because of their relative sophistication, have a better chance of
successfully implementing the PREV-MUN program and afterwards can serve as poles for replicating the
approach. The Bank agrees with the client's approach and will consider pension reform impact upon the
poor under a more appropriate AAA venue. The operation will include a study to determine the needs of
municipalities of different sizes and will develop a strategy for delivering the requisite services.
Larger Operation. PREV-MUN is modelled upon PARSEP, the highly successful pension reform LIL that
addressed the needs of 26 states. PARSEP success, the complexity of administering an operation with 26
clients, and budget constraints imposed by the Government resulted in a $10 million proiect.
2. Maior related nroiects financed by the Bank and/or other develoDment agencies (comnletedL
ongoing and planned).
Note that a survey of the Bank's social security loan portfolio was conducted to determine the relevance of
initiatives undertaken elsewhere. Most of these operations were found to emphasize policy reform and
address single, country wide social security systems unlike PREV-MUN which is modelled on the:
successful Brazilian "State Pension Reform LL" (PARSEP).
| rla .  ^ !  X j:  ,  - .  1   *  ,  .   |  t.  .  -,;,--1'  , te t ................. n S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   j   ~   4 z U '" ~ 1   , ~   -- ,
I I !mp!ementk,o I fln,,e!op,.,s.n.
Progress (IP) |Objetive (DO)
Bank-financed
SOuvia   OV,%C-ILY                 ILBL all",  PriOn LCILO  ... VIIOt   S , I HSII
LIL (PARSEP - P057910)
rUDiiC rmanciai managemeFt riscai and rinanciai                      S
cManagement Technical
Social Security                   Assistance Loan (P07329)
| Social Security                |INSS Reform LIL (P062619)   |                    S
COMPLETED
-10-



Public Sector Management           Fiscal and Admninistrative        S
Reform Loan Special Sector
Social Security|Adjustment Loan (P063341)
l Social Security                 lFirst Social Security Special     S             S
Sector Adjustment Loan (SS
ISECAL - P063340)
Social Security                   |Second Social                    HS            HS
I                                  ISecuritv Snecial Rector
Adjustment Loan (SS SECAL
Public Sector Management Adjustrnent |Programmatic Fiscal Reform  |                S
Q.S.,trUCt   ) A jusu.^leL Loan.
(PFRSAL-P060575)
Second Programmatic Fiscal
Rt-f5nrm Rtninhiru Adi ShnclAd tment
|ther |evelopment agencies         Loan (PFRSALII-P070641)
Inter American Development Bank    PROPREV (targets 5-6 large
miiuufcipailucs and is modeiied  -
on PREV-MUN; start-up             "
pnase)                        -,      ,         Y.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons leamed from PARSEP and similar operatons follow. A detailed analysis of PARSEP lessons
incorporated into project design is presented in Annex 12.
*   Client Commitment. Formal client agreements ("termos de adesao') need to be more closely linked to
client action plans to ensure commitment.
*   Client Tea.ms. Municipal proiect coordinators and their teanms should be integrated into the pension
agency structure to mitigate problems of weak ownership and lack of influence.
a   RVpnuo,pinr, Anr-ivitipm qhnllld nnt he qpniienned with rioidi tric aer t-.nnditinn-Q hiut rquthpr mmirninAlitieq
should develop their own individual plans to strengthen ownership and avoid waivers, merger and
elmn matnon oaf ,.nmnnnntfa  ut4nn f.r. duffar.ant ci ant A aaAt, - ndA n.iroc,e
*   Loan Components. The basic PARSEP structure and components including the need for a strong
L'L Or Uavf I.eaUL LLvl pr ulg j tldcujica aSaLsLiTICZ is apprL  iusi uIuU.CI1patues. Speciu care
should be given to ensuring adequate travel expenses given the importance of direct DEPSP
intervention to overcnse r'bibLanue V p vi l..'al wSsib'wice, and ii-nplmeni LUC proscL
* Training. It is not enough to train key officials. Given the lack of a pension career stream and
specialized courses, personnei turnover and dependence on consultants in sub-national governments, a
permanent and accessible training venue must be found.
* Cadastre Upgrade. T'he potential fmancial benefits to sub-national governments trom eliminating
unwanranted payments and submitting bills to the Federal Government for restitution (Compensacao
Financeira) are sufficiently strong incentives to overcome reform inertia. States have spent much more
on cadastre upgrade than funding offered by PARSEP.
- 1 1 -



*   UDscaling. There is a need to find "multinliers" to become nermanent centers of technical assistance
and knowledge sharing for sub-national pension matters given the huge number of potential
mi1h-na nnal 0overnments reLiiri nasqsistance.
*   Actuarial Software. The Bank's PROST software was a very useful pedagogical instrument and was
also empn.lnyed in coup"rl im,tnnntnt studies It sereA no aa mnAal fnr STPP- PV rdvalnopment HUnr-o,pr
ownership, specific country needs, maintenance and upgrade issues argued strongly for development of
local sol4.ware, especia'ly Li a  LuAuILy wi tut1CLaLu a t%ecnic.1al FajacL.-y. H1ence, I rA XOPL a.JLu
PREV-MUN support Brazil's ongoing development and implementation of SIPREV and its modules.
0  rInDnr:rs, I       IL: rnX A C' ---IItl -   I:_z_ -1  :_   J  -._:, 1:-    _._
a ,iFr     iVflWflcun ne;. ivirto Will IiuL UV 4ulC LU 11lLaUL, UjJls dUC, dIlU U4UI WUC ULLVUl:i 01 UUl1LM
who will demand SIPREV assistance. This function will have to be let out to a private group(s) with
DEPSP supervising and working on upgrades.
* Stakeholder Dissemination. Locally sponsored PARSEP workshops and materials dissemination have
proven very effective in states to inform stakehoiders of project objectives and results and to build
reform constituencies. The dearth of materials addressing pension management, best practice and the
legislative fiamework hampers training, compliance with new guidelines, and management reform.
Hence PREV-MUN supports a significant publications effort.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The borrower has demonstrated commitment and ownership in the following ways
* 1Pxecognution vf peons re40r as or.n f+  .ia  alocroicre2cm..un           r1(e
-  I~~J~LUJ~JUUk 1L4.WJi.I IU 1  G UI1I U  JL~ L, %I.L.a iu %U,&liLLt.U% un  L UiJl il a jJIGLII
Annex 11 for recent legislative reforms)
*   Grow-U   of DEPSP sutalLig to over 20 p-rofessionls and assumiption of expandirg legau mandate to
monitor, evaluate and validate performance and provide technical assistance
*   Successful implementation of PAKSEP, Winch was used as a catalyst to create and strengthen DErPSP,
the unit responsible for sub-national pensionl supervision
*   Design of PRKEV-MUN components virtually identical to PARSEP
*   Diversion of funding from a larger IDB loan to address pension reform in six large municipalities
following the PREV-MUN model
*   Submission of a budgetary request in the CY02 budget exercise of over $1.0 million to launch the
project.
*   Allocation of DEPSP/PARSEP staff to work on PREV-MUN.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has successfully partnered with the Government in pension loans and ESW, providing resources,
techlillcal assistarce aant da[l U 117u lur ueuatung pei1lUlI INSNUU. DaUIK upuratLulls-reusznr, LUC 1UN  LiL,
two S/SECALs and important AAA-have supported the Ministry's formidable reform efforts. Relations
are excellent and the Bank has become a valued sector interlocutor. Tne Bank has coliaborated in the
refinement of the PARSEP model to address municipal issues. And good relationships between the Bank
and MPAS assures that PREV-MUN implementation will move forward smoothly.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million: ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
Not applicable (NA)
-12-



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex S):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
NA
Fisca; Impact:
At only $5 million in loan funds and an equal amount in counterpart funding, and given Bank terms, the
fiscal burden is not significant. However, the eventual positive fiscal impact from improved pension
management for the tareeted municinalities -and considering that the 26 state canitAl mumicinalities
account for some 800% of the aggregate municipal pension deficit of R$2.6 billion--could be quite
cianifilent R.anit7i,nv ofnclanntres alne haS nrnvpn a hiohh l,ie-rAitvp  = .foiprt2lfl r f t.tes, nf.en
generating savings of tens of millions of dollars annually.
3. Technical:
There are no serious technical impediments to PREV-MUN imnlementation. The comDonents have either
been successfully tested and implemented by PARSEP in the states or, in the case of the SIPREV modules,
w:ll sonn he launched. The nrincinal challenges are the fohlovwin
*   SIPREVIntegration. Implementation of SIPREV and its modules requires municipalities to decide
whether the nPw svystemc will rpnelac exicting pnavrnll lnA hbnefits c-alcla-ltinn csetpem andi if nnt hnw
the incumbent and new systems will be integrated. MPAS specialists will assist the municipalities to
reolve Ut-s, quest.+on
*   SIPREVMaintenance. MPAS has decided that it will retain private sector entities to maintain
OiERIJX V aL-d pIvv.ud LU.e WC1 11alI ass1iLsUc aIlU UaIg, IreqLLedU LV rIn.ULUI.Le IVYIEU  MUIifILU While
ensuring that institutional memory and capability are made accessible to sub-national governments on a
peniar[erit busis.
*   "Replicators ". MPAS has decided that it will identify and work to strengthen "replicators" to support
sub-national pension agencies. Tnese could include groups associated witn municipal institutionai
strengthening.
* Training. Permanent and accessible training venues are needed in the pension area. Because there is
no formal government career path for pension specialists there are few courses available. MPAS will
identify permanent training venues and verify if they are appropriate for sub-national governments.
There are three Federal University of Brasilia foundations that could provide the desired training
vehicle and one has already been used for PARSEP.
*   2,700 Municipalities. The question of how to assist the universe of municipalities of different sizes
and needs will be studied with PREV-MUN support around the time of the mid-term review. It is
expected that experience accumulated with two years of PREV-MUN (and PARSEP) plus access to
legally required legal and actuarial reports will provide the necessary information to conduct a needs
assessment, and develop recommendations.
4. Institutional:
Within MPAS there will be a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) and a Project Executing Unit (PEU)
whose attributions are descrihed below and detailed in Section C-4.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). A PCU already exists in MPAS in the Executive Secretary's Office. It
ic c.harvrpge uith finninnisd mannacPmPint/P.YP-iitinn nf th. MTnAi'tru' nrniorts  T.hDs PCU is Lhe  oritina
agency for the Bank's Federal Pension Reform LIL and is in the process of taking over PARSEP. It also is
upgrading a financial man.agem.en.t module c.w..'y bein.g ued to manage the LIL and customized for
- 13 -



Bank type operations. This work is nearly complete and will facilitate the work of managing all of the
Bank loans including PREV-MUN. A financial management assessment found that the PCU is fully
capable of executing the operation.
4.2 Project management:
Project Executinz Unit (PEU). The PEU will be responsible for the technical execution of PREV-MUN.
It also resides in MPAS, within DEPSP in the Secretary of Social Security (SPS) and on the same floor as
the PCU. The PEU will comprise many of the same employees that are successfully managing PARSEP.
The DEPSP team has successfully implemented PARSEP and the two operations are very similar in terms
of management and procurement. It is experienced, well staffed, knows the Bank and its procedures and
has earned the respect of state officials. Hence, the expectation is that this will be a very strong PEU.
A 'I       A        
r.JL ALvUI9'lV..lL LOOLUa.
While PARSEP was formally executed by the Ministry of Finance since its inception, project
management--including procurement--has largely been handled by the DEPSP team. DEPSP develops
TORs and is responsible for all procurement cycle matters including contacts with the Bank, UNDP (which
is also the PARSEP procurement agency), state clients and vendors.
DEPSP maintains good relations with the strong Brasilia based CMU Implementation Team that helps with
PARSEP procurement matters. It has become experienced in Bank procurement procedures through close
Bank contacts and training. The Implementation Team will again provide PREV-MUN with all necessary
nrn ilre ment supnnrt
Pinally, wrnPlefpmPent :ill be smplifmiped hbecaius P,RFV_MT1N ic dimpePinnpA sim.ilnr to PAQ'Z1P incluiiring
its components. It is expected that PARSEP procurement documents can easily be adapted for
DDVXI_WAT fl'J Alcr -,n. r%f t+cn, .o,nc nuila,,,.,
I J'L V ~AVItJL. [LZO'., M_.WIy of t.he smf -e ,ve-1o.-s will e IIVUA V
4.4 Financial management issues:
The Bank has evaluated the Project Coordinating Unit financial management capacity and found it to be
sa.fiasla"uy r; (se Ar.n  6).  I I.e I  isAJ  ia 1AL.UII, OUILVVaI- UtaL WAIL Vb er.^.IployeU OFpecificlly.-3 LVr
PREV-MUN and other multilateral projects executed by MPAS. Again, the loan is similar to PARSEP
anu ihe iNSS LIL, w'nch are bcing managed satisfactorily, hnce no dii0 cuituies are expected.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
NA
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
NA
5.3 For Category A and B proiects. timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N.A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
iPuIL MI UIV 16iLV UUIIV.dILa1 J111pU1L3 mlLK FAUyUJOL.IdV U VLJUIUILAIVL.I1a.LI~R jJIULI ~OIIU" III..~IIaLUOJLI3
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
NA
- 14 -



5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor-and evaluate the impact of the proiect on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
NA
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
developnent outnrnes.
This is an institutional strengthening operation and there are no significant social issues. The eventual
social development outcomes would relate to (i) improved municipal liquidity which would allow for
increased development and poverty alleviation expenditures, and (ii) strengthened pension reform
constituency.
6.2L oa".lFpawluy AppJ.-oac` How arev key s  ldeJs pal . FLL.pa.Lui Ul uit, FJI. pJJ%
Stakeholder needs and concerns have been elicited and taken into account in two ways. First, PARSEP is
well known among many municipal officials. Furthermore, DEPSP is continuously in contact with
municipalities providing technical assistance in the legal, actuarial, cadastre, and SIPREV/systems support.
Consequently, DEPSP has already acquired an understanding of municipal capacity and needs and these
are reflected in project design. This is especially true in the legislative area owing to sub-national
governments' obligation to comply with new guidelines governing the management of their pension funds
and benefits regime. DEPSP has set up a website and nublishes the results of its validation exercise for
each sub-national government. It knows which municipalities have submitted, which are in default, and,
fother                          their nenri reire'q Iega! ff-rewnrI iS accentAle iinder the new
guidelines.
Second, a two day workshop was held for municipal secretaries and heads of pension institutes to assess
eAA -.A -       tpA, DD lQ I TUT TM -_-.  Dn s  --      -.A. At-,  ,A A1 1A-nl.
p  sIOLuVII LIV U%O  W. S V OJU.U W Ule  L R  I VIV.JL  JiVapp  X. _.Ja..,u.  I  I IWUI VV W,A_ ,na.   li, VT *t,5UOfl_- VW
framework governing sub-national pension management and reporting. PREV MUJN was also presented
HiAudUUing execuUUMIo 4-1 Anr,-VeMWJLts a-ULIU rJIUJct %;,IIjJPVLIVLer'  lugm., UadU-V, air MUV auld iL rr,oULles,
workshops and training. Participants' views were elicited regarding their most pressing needs, priorities,
and the appropriateness of the PREV-VIMUN design. Tne participanis were su-ongly supporuve of uie
operation, and the current project design reflects their input. Nineteen letters of intention from mayors have
been received to date.
6.3 How does the proiect involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Each participating municipality will have an obligation to conduct two stakeholder workshops. Budgets
have been provided for the workshops and also for the preparation and dissemination of materials. The
municipality will decide the timing of the workshops but it is likely that many will choose to launch their
participation with a first stakeholder event and conduct a second in 2-3 years to present cadastre and
actuarial results and debate reform proposals. These workshops are also a PARSEP requirement and have
proven highly successful in informing NGO's and interested civil society and government officials of the
program and its results.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcor.,es?
This is a technical assistance operation focussing on institutional strengthening of MPAS and participating
municipalities' pension management. Neither changes in benefits' regimes nor extension of coverage are



addressed. The most important social outcomes would be control of pension expenses through cadastre
upgrade and strengthening of the municipal reform constituencies. The first is covered by a specific
cadastre project component and the second by stakeholder workshops and publications.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Progress in each component will be monitored as part of normal supervision. Indicators are presented in
Annex 1.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
* 2.---i P.olicy"...        -   .&_J1et                             Xf--
|   Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            OYes * No
INatural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                       0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     O Yes * No
Pest Mana2ement (OP 4.09)                               I       O Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                           1          Yes * No
Indiienous Peoples (OD 4.20)                            1       OYes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                           OYes * No
I afetv of Dnam  (OP 4.37. RP 4371                      1       0_ Yes*_NoI
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes * No
Prneets In Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, RP 7.60, CP 7_60)*  !        0 Yes * No
7.2   bULLV, 1  provisioins ..laUd uy UIV pject to eure c...pliar.ce -wi,u applicable Lafeguau- polcies.
Not Applicable
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. SustaOrnabUa+y:.
Project sustainability is assured owing to the following.
(i) The legislation governing subnational pension systems management has recently been reformed
providing a permanent framework with strict compliance rules. It requires sanitized cadastres,
actuarial analysis and balance, regular reporting and compliance with administrative regulations
including those governing pension funds management and the permissible benefits regime.
PREV-MUN facilitates municipal compliance in each of these areas.
(ii) PARSEP has successfully piloted methodologies in states that will be implemented in PREV-MUN.
This is especially true of SIPREV which responds to sub-national government demand for a
comprehensive electronic cadastre formnat to unify pension data managed by different government
branches. SIPREV and the new actuarial and benefits calculation modules also respond to strong
sub-national government demand for pension management tools.
(iii) Growing awareness of the fiscal burden imposed by pensions together with the Fiscal
ResponibtfiOlitLy Law IV-;toM , fVIflon s'JtOa'.e paj v!!sl are. strorn,g ;,r.centive *v: ,n * "J flflw.lt.AiJes '.o S,.d
solutions to their pension problems. PREV-MUN helps municipalities to assess the burden in actuarial
Le[IIs and deve:op pImposahs Ir Udealing wLUI IL. tL proViUde 11IULLL i.J4IILes wiuiL .oo:s IUr sU,11gUA,e,,Lg
the reform constituency.
(iv) Fiscai incentives aiso contribute to sustainabiiity. SiPREV faciliiates the solicitation to the
Federal Govermment for reimbursement of pension liabilities (Compensacao Financeira) and cadastre
upgrade can eliminate significant unwarranted payments.
- 16 -



In addition, MPAS has taken strategic decisions that will reenforce the permanence of its interventions. As
a result, it is looking for permanent, accessible and self supporting venues for training and SIPREV
maintenance. This becomes especially important considering that many of the 2,700 municipalities
operating their own pension systems will need support. Regarding training, a University of Brasilia
foundation will be retained to provide train-the-trainers courses and direct training in pension management.
If successful it could become a permanent purveyor of pension training for sub-national governments.
Finally, DEPSP has determined that it should dimension its staffing to provide technical assistance in the
lega area --' -! sub-natonl -oen=et --il -ep    .    to spcifi_ request- ... other area. At belie_,e
this will be possible with its current staffing levels. This proposition will be tested over the four year loan
~I'.J   MA"~ ~.J U. -XWA~lA. VY A Ii  '  LILGA4.. UU.%,AA UjJ'.JR 1ULIJ1L.L1XVMaL4UIV 
I. .riuival ui fi -iciuvlig Ul1v ktulM0 Uc klU'al a:UImpUOIIs IUlUIIU HI1 U1U IUUOUI I.U III 01 anneX 1):
|-    * ^  ;~Rislk  i           I |.Rlsk.Ratin,icF  l:' r  . -.-Risk MitigationlMeasuro  
From Outputs to Objective                            l                                        l
Politically motivated delay in pension fund  H       PREV-MUN will mitiRate this problem in part
and benefits reform--which require a                 through improved pension management,
Constitutional amendment-will result in              development of reform nronosals and
mounting fiscal burdens                              strengthen the reform constituency.
PREV-MUN approach and methodologies        M         |Legal framework requires compliance and their
!not easily replicated in numerous  I                lare strong positive managerial and fiscal
municipalities not covered in the loan.              incentives associated with pension reform and
snecificallv with cadastre upgrade and SIPREV. I
PREV-MUN will help to find permanent,
l  Qeihe'~ vem1ues fnr tMni   and seru1cm l
SIPREV and pay for a strategy paper
.Addroocinr rnlica.ot4inn
Many municipalities will lack the          H         PREV-MNUN will help to identify the problem
1neressay resou.-ces tLo ivest in pension            anUd puoiblue oiUUVrLs. IL is LIUL U:iZ1UIU LU
funds to ensure actuarial balance.                   resolve the problem although it will strengthen
reforni constituencies.
MPAS capacity to monitor and validate      M         SPS will provide training to MPAS's regional
periormance wiii be overwheimnea y                   teams of inspectors. It is believed that tnese wiii
2,700 municipal clients            I                 be sufficient especially given the formatting of
reporting and eventual implementation of the
actuarial module.
Small first year budget will undercut      M         DEPSP will finance much of first year activity
|interest and prejudice project                       with own resources and also leverage PARSEP
|implementation                                      funding to assist municipalities.
From Components to Outputs
General: Budget constraints will delay     M         PARSEP budgeting has been satisfactory once
limnp1mentatinn                     I                Iimplementation cnmmen .eePA PRF.V-Ml N iS 
small and resources should become available
I            a-up~~ovn im..prt-2rlf.j of nperion refom^..
Component 1: MPAS/SPS Institutional  |              l                                         l
Su-rl-gu^er iL-g                           17-
-17 -



IDEPSP staff will not be adequate to        M        |DEPSP is already servicing many municipalities
service 26 municipalities given its                  and believes it can handle the work load. More
requirement to attend all sub-national                staff and consultants can be brought on if
governments.                                         needed.
SIPREV and its modules will not be         N         States have uniformly adopted SIPREV and
laccepted by municipalities         I                 modules are demand driven. Many
municipalities are requesting SIP'REV and
I                                   I                I interest confirmed in PREV-MUN workshop
among targeted municipalities.
Component 2: Municipal Institutional                    o
Strengthening
Political opposition from local public     M         These problems are being overcome in PARSEP
lofficials and branches of government to             ithrouah intervention of DEPSP and local
relinquishing hold over pensions will                workshops and municipalities run smaller
Inrejudice implementation                              vqtemn and have fewer nTnhlem.
FHigh turnover, reliance on consultants and   M      IPREV-MUN implementation of cadastre
lack of preparedness will complicate                 clean-up, SIPREV and actuarial analysis will
limplementation and sustainabilitv                    simnlifv nension management; emnphasis on
finding a permanent, accessible training venue
(linirpA to the Fedi-l T niupreitu of BrPeilia) ar.d
ltrain-the-trainer courses will make possible
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~nltfint .                  t^^1|  ro.nn of pnsonn n1 .wn1ci^
|Overall Risk Rating                        M         The risks of not satisfactorily meeting the
Projects objectives are "modest" even though
political and financial problems may impede
l______________________________ l                    ladoption of solutions.                  l
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. r ossUib: ..UUII r.a Aspec:s:
Pension reform is likely to cause concem among municipal stakeholders similar to what transpired in some
states. However, once the PARSEP program was understood the problem disappeared. DEPSP missions,
local stakeholder workshops, publications and disseminations of findings and proposals have been used
effectively to dispel opposition in states and should be equally effective in municipalities.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   rulilLal agwraemvin  puria") j 'wuuaisiUg LimIs anU resp1nsioiucLICs sausfactory to tne BanK for a
Project Coordinating Unit in the Executive Secretary's Office and a Project Executing Unit in SPS.
*   Finalization of an agreement witn a multilateral procurement agency expected to be uNEDP.
-18 -



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
Li 1. a) Tne engineering design documents for the first years activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Note that the Government has authorized only $275,000 for CY02 operations. A procurement plan for this
amount has been approved--it includes workshops or computer eauipment for a limited number of
municipalities. Procurement arrangements are similar to those for PARSEP for similar activities and are
eaqilv nrenared and nrocessed.
!. Cm,!la~ nuie wlt Bnk, Polce
1 1. This proiect complies with all applicable Bank policies.
1] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other annlicable Bank nolicies.
Chris Parel                       Ronald E. Myers    C)             Vinod Thomas
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BRAZIL: Municipal Pension Reform Project
Key Performance      [Data Collection Strategy |               =;    .
Hierarchy of Objectives I        Indicators                    -                Critical Asuifptions  ]
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Support pension management Improved municipal pension  -Supervision Reports   -Continued Giovernment
reform                    management and reduce     -Senate approved budget   support and enforcement of
associated fiscal burden                            relevant legislative
requirements
-Adequate budget
authorization
-Approach and methodologies
are successfally implemented
in PARSEP and can be
adopted for targeted
Strengthened SPS/DEPSP    idem                      idem
'abit*. car.-y ouiw -mmda:e
to oversee sub-national
nensinn sysqtems
rUJut    vuiDveopmuiet    .oulu.u, la I:pact        Prujuec rpur;              itorm Objective 0o Goalj
Objective:                Indicators:
Sup-,ort penssion reformr in 2  '(i) Improved mn^ar.agn^.emnt in  . Sutpernisn reports  'ide.
of Brazil's capital/largest  26 municipalities:
Imunicinalities           I   cadastre unprade (20)  1
* SIPREV (20) and module
(15) implementation
* actuarial analysis (20)
* constituency building
through stakeholder
workshops &
dissemination (26)
* improved human resource
capability through
training programs
(ii) SPSDiEPSI Psuccesstully  idem                  idem
* implementing project
* institutional
strengthening through
raining p.-ogarn
* validating
nerfnrmancelegal      II
|   compliance (24)
I    p Froviding technical
assistance (26)
.(iii) Development of a strategy I Study             Assumes feasible snlutinns for
and program to attend the                            cadastre upgrade, SIPREV
|  | needs of numerous    |                         | and module implementation.
municipalities not covered by                        and actuarial balance and
PREV-MUN                                             Constitutional reforms
-20 -



Output *from eac'h        OQutput !ndlcators:        Pr  ct reports:           (fo   Output_s to_____
Component:                                                                      .J_._ 
r Gmnonent 1: MPAS/SPS                                                         Continuing GIve
Institutional Strengthening                                                    political and budget support
A. Provision of TA in       * Maintenance of        | -Supervision reports
systems, actuarial, legislative  consultants in DEPSP
and project management      * Compliance of 24       -Supervision & official GOB
municipalities with    website (CRP) publishing
legislation/regulations  Icompliance resuits
* Development of 26
vaiiuaiea municipa;
action plans
lB. Maintenance of core     * Maintenance of team n  Supervisionreports        |idem
relluired to manage    Spriinrprsie
project team                  project
C. Logistics support for    * Resources necessary for  Supervision reports      idem
DEPSP team to work in     |   logistics support of
municipalities                municipal activities
D. Installation of budgeted  * Installation of $60,000  -Supervision reports   idem
hardware/software package     package
E. Successful conduct of    * Three successful      -Supervision reports and exit Municipal participation
training workshops;           workshops/ forums      evaluations
publications              |   addressing critical topics
it 26 municipal
participants
6 newsletters                                    studies & newsletters
1        .,    In        s   sn^u-ionalss^ I  *  Co.m.p ......... do - ;on..A
(i)asset management,   validation of reports
ad il (n'i  , fnr
serving other
municiDalities--results
validated by the Bank
G. SPS/DEPSP training     |   Successful completion of Supervision reports
IH.Implementation/             programmed training
| H. Implementation/      | * Implementation of      -Supervision reports      -SIPREV and modules
maintenance of SIPREV, its    SIPREV in 20                                     accepted by municipalities
modules and development of    municipalities
new modules                 * Implementation of
I   actuarial and/or benefits
|                 !   ~~~~~~~modules in 15  
municipalities
0                 0 * ~~~~~Development/implementa|
tion of new modules (to
be defined)
-21 -



Component I: Municipal
Institutional Strengthening
A. Installation of hardware/  I *IM4IL4UII In f J3allpes VIelo'l              l                         l
software packages             municipalities        l                         l                         l
B. Cadastre upgrade       0* Upgrade oftcadastres in  -Supervision reports     -Collaboration of ditferent
20 municipalities                                government branches
sufficient for                                   -FiscaiAegai compliance
comprehensive diagnostic                         incentives outweigh vested
p-uri-oses            I-MuILniMcpal uValUaL.iVon  i:rsts
* Realization of significant                                                 l
C. Actuarial analysis      * Projectsupported       -Supervision reports
benchmark acSubr,c -SbmiiOn oflepaaly,
analysis in 20         mandated actuarial reports
municipalities inlu-ding
reform recommendations I                        |
D. Stakeholder Workshops &  * Implementation of one or -Supervision reports    Municipality takes ownership
Dissemination                 more workshops in 26  -Exit interviews           of participatory approach
municipalities including
dissemination of
materials
E. Training                 * Participation of officials -Supervision reports
in MPAS training
workshops and larger
groups in locaily
administered
| workss,ops--24                                   1
Identification and                               -Successful training vehicles
piloting of permanent,                           can be developed and
su-stainnhle trinina                             maintained
_    _   _  _   _  _   _   I  venue 
- 22 -



Hierarchy-of Objectives | '.:  iidifcators       '         -     -S.;-.     I.-CriticaI Assumptionsj.
Project Components /     Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                         Outputs)
1. MPAS/SPS Institutional                          Same as above plus audit  Same as above
Strengthening                                      reports
A. Technical assistance in IT, $432,000
actuarial, legislative areas
B. Technical assistance for  $288,000
the PCU/PEU
C. Technical assistance for  $291,000
municipalities--logistics
D. Hardware/ software     $59,000
E. Workshops & publications $557,000
F. Institutional studies  $43,000
G. Training               $91,000
H. SIPREV and modules     $290,000
implementation, training,
maintenance
11. Municipal Institutional                         Same as above plus audit  Same as above
Strengtnening                                      reporEs
A. Hardware/ software     $494,000
B. Cadastre upgrade       $2, 89,000
C. Actuarial evaluation   $889,000
D. Workshops &            $1,,768,000              ll
dissemination
E. T raining              $i, 82,000 I                                       l
If,_n"             I ~~~~~#ZOn'77 nA
%, Cooingcncy            |$7,0 
Prnnlreement agency      | 4'A(1                   l                         l
-23 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
BRAZIL: Municipal Pension Reform Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$2.01 million
Component I: Institutional Strengthening of the MPAS/Secretary of Social Security and Project
Management
Sub-ComponentA: Provision of TechnicalAssistance - $432,000
Experience with PARSEP demonstrates conclusively that there is a huge demand for technical assistance
across project components that can best be provided by maintaining expert consultants full-time at SPS.
These consultants will work on and refine project sub-components and respond to requests for assistance
from municipalities. Six consultants will be maintained for three years at a cost of
$2,000/month/consultant which translates into $144,000/year and $432,000 for three years as follows.
A- 1. Information Technology Consultants (2). These consultants will work on SIPREV systems
develonment including modules Thev will also nrovide awmistance to municinalities to imnlement STPRF.V
and the modules, training, maintenance and responding on technical issues and queries.
A-2. Actuarial Consultants (2). The new social security legislation (see Annex 11) requires actuarially
bala_nced pension f-"ri   A phia1 ar   is iLmnost ,.^tm,.y new to BP   iar persion m.aragement
having been introduced in the states primarily through a PARSEP component. The actuarial consultants
Wil1 p.ovide        -UjJ_JtJ1 +_ to I1icipa t;... WUh aU.   fl _ w  --A +_ puce a.rn- GacuaIa.
diagnostics of their funds. They will support the development, implementation, training and maintenance
o.0,1-  CTflThr!~X . 1.TL1.  A_ a  .___ .  IN A T10~T."   .1 .    ~,L..  __1  A
Io Lue airIP^V Wa.uaiUi i*,^,ouI. tUuL, basdu upun rtu .r.r experieiieUV, ulvy wi  V ucaiuuu upotiA
continuously by municipalities for professional support regarding contracting of actuarials, compliance
with legisiative requirem-n-ets, and to understaind the implications of ithe actuariai results produced.
A-3. Legislative Consultants (2). Tne maintenance of two consultants fuli-time basically substitutes
PARSEP Phase #3 which programmed $200,000/state for consultants to help with the development of a
reform legislative framework in each state. Legislative advances provided the model legislative framework
contemplated in Phase #3 and accompanying regulations that govern sub-national pension management.
Sub-national goveunments also have lawyers in sufficient numbers to adapt local legislation to Federal
statutes. What is most needed in the case of states (PARSEP experience) and municipalities is a core of
expert lawyers on call to (i) provide clarifications regarding the new legislation and how it relates to
existing sub-national legislation, (ii) provide technical assistance as needed to assist sub-national
governments in adapting the new Federal laws, and (iui) validate the sub-national governments' legislative
framework which is now part of MPAS's new compliance mandate. Note that the results of the validation
exercise was published in the recently launched MPAS website, "CRP". Every state and municipal
government will have its legislative framework evaluated and results Dublished. These consultants will also
assist in the development of a model framework and technical assistance for adapting the Complementary
Law (annmrval expected sonn) to the requirements of the Piscal Respoznsibility Law.
-24 -



Sub-Component B: Project Management Consultants-$288,000
B-1. Permanent Proiect Management Capacity. A permanent staff of five professionals is contemplated at
a UIU- yeaI L.UL VI of  I V,000 Lt (i) dUeVe:op adIl UIIUrILIII pIUJMLcL lall5dgelllIi1 cUpdacLy UcapaleI of
monitoring and evaluating the development and implementation of terms of reference and contracts, and (ii)
responu to tue numerous informatuon ana nelp requests ror 2o municipaliues spreaa across the country.
These professionals will provide technical assistance to municipalities during project launch when they will
be required to develop and commit to an action plan. T-hey will also monitor the updating and
implementation of these plans over the four year project period and generally assist municipalities with
procurement and implementation matters while providing project management input and support for the
various monitoring, evaluation and reporting efforts that must be carried out throughout the life of the
project. The configuration of project management staff is based upon the PARSEP experience with 26
states. The following positions will be staffed
-3 Project Management Consultants @ $2,000/month/consultant
-1 Administrative Assistant for Project Management @ $1,000/month/consultant
-l Auxiliary Administrative Assistant for Project Management @ $1,000/month/consultant
B-2. Financial Management. The financial management of the project will be done through the experienced
Project Coordinating Unit that is already managing the Bank's INSS LIL and that will soon assume
responsibility for PARSEP. Consultant support for managing the system is estimated at $24,000/year for a
three year total of $72,000.
Vuh-n-mnonen,tt   Tprhnirv,I Aeddane, for fu,4na1iiipe.LnaSiesgii'e ... 2G°,2QQ
One of the critical lessons learned in PA1?EP is the need to have sufficient logistics  nding-travel n d
per diem--to ensure that DEPSP staff and consultants, including those retained in Sub-Component A
WWWS WV MVlS ;O.O-LI C    UZI UVL 5VLUUIIU WIl%JL L1A5%UV1. LI LD UU&UrL ILVII jJVVIUUD WUI IVrDULb
funding for
* Gen-eral project super-vision
*   Municipal action plan formulation
* IT/SiPrEV support
*   Actuarial support
*   Legislative support
Sub-Component D: Acquisition of Hardware and Software - $58,500
The objective of this component is to ensure that DEPSP is adequately equipped to carry out its mandate.
A modest equipment package of $58,500 is contemplated for DEPSP staff working on PREV-MUN and
municipality issues including project management, monitoring and evaluation and SIPREV development.
Roughly two thirds of the budget--$37,500--is for 15 Pentium computers costed at $2,500/computer and
another $10,000 is for notebooks, also at $2,500/unit. The equipment list includes
*   15 Pentium'computers
*   4 Jet ink printers
*   1 color laser printer
*   2 ZiD Drives
*   I multimedia projector
* 1 digital camera
* 4 notebooks
-25-



Sub-Component E: MPAS Sponsored Training Workshops and Dissemination -S557,000
E-R1. Workshops. Three DEPSP sponsored workshops are contemplated for municipal participants.
"P'epicaf.oJLU   ViralLALAJ,JJl (3LsatL asocG,a1VorV Io LALUl IU1JIuUs, jJilVa. a0I.%,LVJ ULaL 1l4ly tV lIv OVit VnIi,e of
the DEPSP responsibilities for SIPREV maintenance, technical assistance and training may alsco be invited
to participate. iThe first forl. wifl beagre<upnin Scto  eiia.  rItW;  be olwd'y uwO
dL UIPM. I110IILZ IUWU  HI C a gOL~IUM PCIl51Ufl CUUWIL1OU 501iiiiia. It WUI UW IOIIOWWODytw
forums for presentation of reform topics including discussions between municipal officials, MPAS
technicians and intemational pension experts. Tne final forum will also be a stocktaing at which
municipal and DEPSP officials will evaluate the results of the project components and next steps will be
considered. T-he total cost of these workshops is $237,000 or roughly $80,000 per workshop, which is the
going rate for PARSEP workshops which have been used to good effect as forums to mobilize participants,
provide training and strengthen reform constituencies.
E-2. Publications. Prior to PARSEP, there was virtually nothing written about pensions in Brazil.
PREV-MUN contemplates publishing and disseminating seven technical works covering legislation and
pension management best practices to help fill this void. The cost for each work (5,000 copies plus
dissemination) is $20,000 and the total cost often publications is $140,000. These publications will be
important tools for sub-national pension managers and stakeholders faced with complying with new
legislation and managing pension funds. They will also serve as basic training materials. And the
publications will be made available to municipalities not participating in the PREV-MUN.
E-3. Newsletter. The PARSEP Newsletter has played an important role in building local support for the
operation and snreading best practice. and disseminating information on legislation. Six PRF.V-MT TN
newsletters in four years are contemplated at a total cost of $180,000 including dissemination. Each
edition wurill havpe 1 5 f,  enniem ain-ind diitrihution will al-so inc lup non-participatinng munic1ipalitPe nand
stakeholders.
Sub-Component F: Institutional Studies - $43,000
Two studies have been budgeted. The first ($23,000) is a study of asset management that includes pension
U1UasseLs 4u1 Ve-Wy kPObilUly WJL-LpcIU,I d4IbU 3uha4L UUF1L be solU Uil WiUI UIW prLoceeds UWIIWI*itlUlg Ltii J1U1.
It should look at best practices in pension management in Brazil and elsewhere in the context of Central
BaK reUrcUIons on peniison ftUnd Ianagement Te second study ($20,0O) wiii occur around the iime oI
the mid-term review and will rely upon PREV-MUN and PARSEP experiences plus municipal legal and
actuarial submissions required by law to determine the possible approaches for attending the universe of
municipalities requiring assistance.
Sub-Component G: Training of MPAS/SPS/DEPSP Staff-$91,900
As explained earlier, DEPSP, the MPAS department responsible for sub-national pension affairs, was
created through PARSEP three years ago. Previously there was no MPAS unit charged with state and
municipal pension matters. DEPSP's mandate and responsibilities have grown enormously as a result of
PARSEP and important legislative refonns. Today, DEPSP professionals including staff and consultants
number 22. There is a dependence on expert consultants and seconded staff that puts DEPSP ;at risk when
these staff leave. And with the new legislation requiring MPAS to evaluate and validate sub-national
submissions dealing with pensions, the demands upon the Department are enormous. To meet the
challenge, training will be provided for key SPS/DEPSP staff and will include



-participation in the Harvard University course on pension reform--3/year
Tu.--..,..4 da a bs QL.T 7 A  g
_1VAV.4 laJ31L. u.ii  VC.L0%  I .,Jua u.
-data warehouse training with emphasis on OLAP
MUMai IviDnt bpUiUULU-lg in LperlbUl asset managCIneLt
-local MBA in actuarial management
Sub-Component I: SIPFt VDeveiopment and Implementation-S$290,400
SIPREV is a software developed in Brazil which provides a comprehensive format for an electronic data
base adequate for reporting, actuarial and diagnostic purposes. It is one of the PARSEP/PREV-MUN
pillars. SIPREV is modelled on the Bank's PROST software which was used early in PARSEP as a
pedagogical and analytic tool and was successfully employed in Bank AAA. SIPREV is better suited for
Brazil, incorporating actuarial concepts and the individual accounts that have recently been legislated as a
system requirement. It is also an MPAS product which greatly facilitates its implementation in
sub-national governments, training, and adjustments that must be made to accommodate new rules and
regulations.
The first diagnostic 'modules' that will be finalized and refined for municipalities are (i) actuarial analysis,
and (ii) benefits calculation. The former is extremely important as it will provide municipalities with a
much demanded second actuarial oninion--bv law- the actuarial work must be done by actuaries and
cannot be soft-ware generated. It should, however, facilitate the work of actuaries. And it will also
prouide MPAS wvith the meancs of proe--ssing nnd validjating actuarial informationi a-s reqirred in the new
legislation. The benefits module links payroll and career history data plus benefits regulation and
,in A-tacl,1a itao _spnifits fewr inA  Adinl1 Q1 h v:-_!tprn  Mpaj ninhuc cs iknil. hp aua. ehsp h.
PREV-MUN effectiveness. SIPREV and the modules will be provided free of charge to municipalities by
Tt ArD AC 'M  -U         --4ses Ao# a-;+ *A -+16 *fM DUI -A -A,I 1-+ 11- -A
MU A. A he aUtVr...r.zt tJ.Upl *fL, Yo s aaotr.flaLU.. YinSi i   MAU - maaluAf  uja mt-jUL ala.
maintenance, training of municipal officials, system refinements and development of additional modules.
Project Component 2 - US$6.52 million
CUomponent I. &A  :AffLRULIY1JUU rUn oeULUVUiogo UI ivtVULUV61pal Pe ioUo MIanUaUgemen
SuCompone,BA.                                                  inuAf-o ofAAAae n  o~  eoSr"=VS9,
0"uL-s-umpunIenL Zs. ?ILyUI.)aS6UWI U, xuruwur-C ""a auJ6wuIoJur 43XAi v - %P ,iniuVV
Liisialliion uo 3)rih V req-uires a uasic iitruware anu softwuar iLUiurduviU UIiL I,IUny umunlpalities are
not expected to possess. The PARSEP experience also points to the importance of an adequate equipment
package-something highly valued by clients--as a focal point for strengthening ownership and organizing
the implementation effort. The basic municipal package is small at $19,000. It is dimensioned based upon
PARSEP experience. it includes, for each municipality, the following items
*   server
*   Pentium computer
*   scanners
*   Laser Jet ink printer
*   Zip Drive
*   software
Sub-Component B: Cadastre Upgrade - $2,189,200



Tnis is anotner of the PARSEP/rPREV-MluN pillars and tne totai cost is mhe largest or any component ai
$2,189,200. As recently as three years ago when PARSEP was launched state cadastres were found to be
entirely inadequate for carrying out actuarial and financial analyses or calculating Compensacao
Financeira. Experience has also shown that payment of unjustified benefits constitutes a serious drain on
sub-national resources. In addition to missing and invalidated data, PARSEP found that data bases were
often owned by different government branches that had vested interests in maintaining control over them.
For example, in a number of states difficulties were encountered in getting the cooperation of executive,
legislative, judicial and other branches of government Another oft encountered problem was lack of
cooperation between the pension agency, payroll and the central data base organization.
However, over the last three years there have been a number of important changes that increased. the
pressure for cadastre upgrade. These included (i) the new legislative requirement for comprehensive,
transparent data, individual accounts, limits on payroll expenditures and actuarial analysis, (ii) agreement
on the part of the Government to provide "financial compensation" for validated sub-national pension
liabilities-- Compensacao Financeira, (iii) growing realization that pensions is the number #1 fiscal
nmrblem at the Federal and sub-national levels. (iv) the catalvtc effect of PARSFTP and (v) the sn cess of
SIPREV. A few states used their own resources to upgrade cadastres and most spent significanl:ly more
than PARSREP's t100,000 and it is verv possible that some miuniri.palities will spend more than
PREV-MVUNs budget. While knowledge of municipal cadastres is still sketchy, it is supposed t]hat they
are, in. all likelihood in no better hapea tbn",u,hat was -ncw"t.-red in the states and  even be w, se
This component provides $80,000/municipality in consultant assistance plus technical assistance/visits
from DEPSP specialists to support the upgrading of the data base. Updating comprises (i! gathering and
validating data required by SIPREV, (ii) inputting it into SIPREV, and (iii) developing a process to ensure
continuous updating. It also ensures that data can be remitted via internet. The costs are based unon
PARSEP experience with a similar component.
Sub-Component C: Actuarial Evaluation - S889,200
This is a third PARSEP/PREV-MUN pillar. The legislation approved in the past three years requires
-kb-anti.nnI a nnornmar.nt u',th thp.ir Ium rpnsinn fiinels tn csrhmit ant,ar,l ann1wep ofthe .-s. m. Trho
pension funds will also need to be actuarially balanced or plans developed for achieving balance within an
alo-tted4-. -n.,,;-A A--. ! -uaI--, n-ll be equftm.d      J-g nng , im f )J no ) 2002. T.hear yses ....nu- be
done and validated by an actuary as opposed to a system such as SIPREV. However, the SIPREV module
M1 :/__ 1%      _      1_:_:_ lr__ *__    ::_: 1..l r . _1. X- _J. 
WuI kIJ piuviuC a sew-IIU UjpUJIAl IVI U1r 111ULAJ9aIALy aiiU VUly Iikrly IWUUV UI W L UI U UClU aIlUSI
analysis, (ii) establish a quality benchmark, and (iii) greatly facilitate the work of validation of INSS
inspectors and Tribunai de Contas officiais.  hne cosi for each or mhe Lo municipaiities is 1, i 85,600
comprising $33,000 in consultant assistance plus technical assistance/trips by DEPSP actuaries.
One difference with PARSEP is that there is no PREV-MUN obligation for the actuarial analysis to follow
the completion of the cadastre work. Since there is now a legal requirement for actuarial analysis, it is
possible that mayors and pension managers will choose to do a benchmark actuarial analysis in year one of
the project and pay for subsequent analyses from their own resources. Regardless of when the municipality
chooses to conduct its PREV-MUN funded analysis, it is important that a comprehensive diagnostic with
tenrs of reference validated and monitored by DEPSP be undertaken to set the standard for subsequent
actuarial analyses. And this component will also support the formulation of reform proposals to address
problems of actuarial imbalance.
- 28 -



Su-            V C.        Wi?Xshops - nDse -- -2       C1 O2-  el  flf
.3UL-tLUMpUIwII IJ; IVUfl5UiS VVUIIIMUPS UnlU 1J534CMInlUWf - DI,UO,IUfJ
Owing to the sensitivity surrounding pension reforn and tne need to build a reforn constituency,
stakeholder involvement is essential. PARSEP is funding state sponsored workshops that have been very
successful in publicizing resuits and reforms, informing stakehoiders and eiiciting their views. Thus is also
an important tool for strengthening the reform constituency. Consequently, this experience is being
repeated in PREV-MUN- it is the second largest component budget. Municipalities will receive $30,000
to sponsor a workshop plus $4,000 for preparation and dissemination of materials to address the results of
the cadastre upgrade effort and related reform issues. A second municipal workshop plus dissemination
will be supported for the same cost to discuss the actuarial results and their financial implications. The
importance of this sub-component is attested to by the total costs, $1,768,000.
Sub-Component E: Municipal Training - $1,182,000
One of the principal challenges for PARSEP and PREV-MUN is to provide, on a continuing basis,
adeauate and accessible training for pension professionals. Because there is no public career desienation
for pension specialists there are very few training courses available anywhere in Brazil. PARSEP invested
in training workshops and is now reprogramming resources to be able to provide training to larger numbers
of local state staff. It is also looking for penmanent, readily affordable and available sources of training.
Su.ch vpebhicles coulld taike the form of formal agreemeWnts with universities, Government hooln or
foundations--the Federal University of Brasilia has three foundations that will be evaluated for suitability,
FPMATEC, FTBRlA arnd CESPE. Differer.t ironiiue for rnPnpnveuP crnmpe tent arn. reaudily au.1ih1e
training and technical assistance will be investigated under PREV-MUN.
This component will include a five day workshop for two officials from each municipality in basic pension
n0otions aLdu practices shni.lll tVtoU a succeUI rssfu,lrP E   WUlkl1UI IfI sLa.es. IL wil also 1uUd uauinLirg iII
individual municipalities or within regions aggregating municipalities for larger numbers of municipal
officials. Tne traiining sub-component costs are estimated as follows.
-Five day basic pension workshop for two officials for 26 municipalities- $89,500
-Five day basic pension workshop adapted for each of 26 municipaiities for 1i5 officiais - $ i ,092,000.
Project Component 3 - US$ i.37 million
Component Residuals
* Multilateral Procurement Agency $400,000. UNDP will be retained to help with procurement of
PREV-MUN goods and services similar to what is done in PARSEP.
* Contingency of $977,000. Given the relatively low price inflation and the extensive PARSEP
experience acquired in procurement of similar goods and consultant services, a contingency of nearly
10% comprising $51 1,000 loan and $466,000 counterpart resources should be adequate to cover price
contingencies and allow flexibility to strengthen components over the course of the operation.
- 29 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BRAZIL: Municipal Pension Reform Project
I-. i   Y;niQ~.tPidiret Cnlt 1RV1C mnenti   -t$ mlesinn1.                    . I.s
1. Institutional Strengthening-MPAS                      0.72         0.00         0.72
A,. Tecu.,ical A-si-f--J, &
B. Project Management                                                f       I
C. lechnical Assistance--Logistics Suppon                0.29         u.uu         0.29
D. Hardware & Software                                   0.00         0.06         0.06
E. Forums & Publications, &                        I     0.60         0.00   j     0.60
F. Institutional Studies                          l
G. Training                                              0.09         0.00         0.09
H. SIPREV Implementation                           I     0.29         0.00         0.29
II. Institutional Strengthening--Municipalities          0.00         0.49         0.49
A= Hardware & Snf-ware
B. Cadastre Upgrade                                |     2.19         0.00         2.19
Cl- AC UXHa                                               A on lUAf11%               on
%-. PMILUa4ia4 J_~VdIUMOLIUt                             V.IV
D. Workshops & Dissemination                             1.77         0.00         1.77
E. I raminng                                             i. i 8       0.00         i.18
III. Multilateral Procurement Agency Fee                 0.40         0.00         0.40
Total Baseline Cost                                      8.42         0.55         8.97
Physical Contingencies                                  0.00         0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                     0.93         0.05         0.98
Total Project Costs1             9            0.60         9.95
Front-end fee              |     0.05         0.05
Total Financing Required        J     9.35         0.65    |   10.00    l
I Goods                                             |      0.00  |0.55 |05 
£U fn     , i    I    * c
VVUE r~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~WSr~ inu.t                              US    Mff6
G:oods                                                     0.00          0.()0        0.00
|Services                                           |      4.36          0.)0 J       4.36
Training'                                                  3.66          0.00         3.66
Multilateral Procurement Agency Fee                        0.40  l       0.00         0.40
[Price Contingency                                         0.93          0.05         0.98|
Toa PoeCot               9-35          o 0.60       9.95 
Front-end fee                     0 |0 0. |   0.5
Total Financing Required      9.35          0.655       10.00
*Comprises logistics services, travel and per diem expenses for training activities
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0.75 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 9.25 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 54.05% of
total project cost net of taxes.
-30 -



Annex 4: COST EFFECTIVENESS AND RECURRENT COSTS
BRAZ3L: Municipal Pension Reform Project
Component I: Institutional Strengthening of MPAS
As part of PREV-MUN preparation, the Secretariat of Social Security (SPS) undertook a
gL-al-v &t.Agc sAtudyoo t   J.mdnAo upor sits resouwppo ix,Arr th.e ri.vt 5q-'7 ypears 1'Mese d.min&Aa riaeiit
from the legal expansion of MPAS's mandate to include (i) provision of technical assistance to
sub-national govenmments, (ii) validaiion of the iegai frameworks of subnationai pension systemis,
and (iii) validation of their actuarial reporting. The cost effectiveness of the current
PARSEP/PREV-MUN approach was evaluated along with implications for recurrent costs. SPS
concluded the following.
*   Permanent staffing will remain more or less at current levels hence consultants will be
retained for peak activity vears
*   Current staffing of judicial experts, including permanent staff and PARSEP and PREV-MUN
IUI-U4   IAPI- -L a-I3 ~iU-1A Up  U1.1LLl  J -V-1W.' -- ..A- iLL - - 44 fl1  U.~O1 1 -1 
iuL ided consu.+ants, shoLu u'd be uff.ie.t AJ%J%Jto p,vid Fsser.ti %'00".c" i%'u&cal `6ssc ir eaA,I
and actuarial matters. PARSEP will continue to address state problems for two more years
and PRKLV-MfUN will contribute to the growing body of knowledge regarding the upscaiing of
the PARSEP approach (cadastre upgrade, actuarial diagnostic, SIPREV/modules) to
municipalities.
*   Validation of sub-national legal frameworks is already functioning efficiently through the
SPS's certification program, "CRP" with 40% of municipalities currently in compliance.
*   Vlititon of actuarial reports and eventhal enforcement of the actuarial balance requiirement
will be shifted to another MPAS secretariat with regional offices and staffing adequate for the
W.bK. L uL np. o111Vf1111LaUVU UL J XL V 1ar.U it MAUaLal LLIiULUd 'e WiLL UiLA,.1a1Ure1y falit1UaLte this
work.
* Permanent and accessible private pension training venues will be piloted in PARSEP and
PREV-MUN--the most likely vehicles being Federal University of Brasilia foundations. SPS
is not equipped to provide training to sub-national governments and the establishment of such
programs will shift the burden to the private sector and client governments.
*   DEPSP will remain responsible for developing and refining SIPREV and its modules.
M.aiti-nnen2p inrliidina some trnininu nd in.t2lltinn/imnltementAtion ipnnnort, will he done
through sub-contracting or by creating private sector capacity to respond to sub-national
goveHuiflleriL nee.
*   CONAPREV, the national pension association created under the aegis of PARSEP, along
with municipal associations will assume greater responsibility for sub-national institutional
strengthening, communications and training thereby reducing the pressure on MPAS.
* A study of municipal needs and feasible solutions, including the upscaling of SIPREV and its
modules, will be undertaken about the time of the mid-term review to establish a strategy for
assisting sub-national governments to meet pension management and compliance
* PARSEP and PREV-MUN financed publications will fill a lacunae in the legal and technical
iiterature uat wiui SUpport sUu-nLaIoIali goveHr1iiLrL unUdrs ndiurlg of uUuI  U i.s o liUgmiom and
pension management best practice.
-31-



Based upon the above, the cost effectiveness of the PREV-MUN approach vis-a-vis MPAS is
deemed satisfactory. Furthermore, no recurrent cost problems are foreseen.
Component II: Institutional Strengthening-Municipallties
Three years of PARSEP implementation and considerable experience with municipalities also
provide assurances that PREV-MUN solutions are cost-effective. Recent pension legislation and
especially the Fiscal Responsibility Law require periodic reporting, adjustments of legal
framewnrkm and actuarial balance of qih-national nenionnsvstems. As results are genemAted and
municipalities become increasingly aware of the fiscal burden imposed by poor cadastres and
1U-iLrpdLr-U IIUIGUall rsOuiL-c IL is VAIVLLF--U UatL uIJUIU%dp aU:V Will bLecL1U more ir,WIl.ALnel WIUL
pension management. Investment in sanitizing cadastres is to be expected, following the PARSEP
experience. However, the cost-benefit of such investment is well established both in terms of the
elimination of unwarranted payments but also through the vehicle of Compensacao Financeira.
Staffing patterns may also change with implications for recurrent costs as sub-national
governments strive to reduce pension costs and comply with the requirements of the new
legislation. PREV-MUN supports this reform process while potentially minimizing investment
and l rpmim-nt P.r_Pditiires in the follnwinn .wnve
*   Implementation of SIPREV facilitates the Compensacao Financeira submission
*   Sirr%Z V piurviure a suprioru eecurLuUiL pelI1ior Udat  Udba  freUI Lo1 c.ar  LU a1 5UU-14oUr.iLL
governments that can be downloaded for those with the technical capacity
* SIPRE-v's audit module should facilitate periodic actuarial balance reporting and provide a
much demanded "second audit opinion"
*   SIPREV and its modules provide a potentially superior integrated pension, benefits
management and payroll system that may be adopted by many subnational governments.
Similar to th.e case of M PAS above, the PRl4vUMrN apronnach prnvides mnicipalities with
cost-effective solutions that would be costly to develop independently. No substantial increase in
recurrert costs is eeCted Lo resi1 frum uie 1loan whicAh 5-11udd also0 mifigate expenses associated
with sub-national government efforts to better manage pensions and comply with legal
requirements.
- 32 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BRAZIL: Municipal Pension Reform Project
Years Ending
The Implementation Period corresponds to Calendar Years CY02-06 and CY02 values correspond to Government approved budget
allocauons
rYear I       a       Year 3     Year 4  | Year 5         0 Yerp|iVa 
Total Financing                                                                                 l
Project Costs
Investment Costs          0V.3        3.4 A                2.4 .0.0             0.0       V.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Totai Project Costs          0.3        3.4       3.9        2.4       0.0        0.0       0.0
Front-end fee    0.1        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
|Total Financing             0.4        3.4        3.9       2.4        0.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  0.2        1.9        1.9        0.9       0.0       0.0       0.0
Government                0:1        1.4        2.0        1.4       0.0       0.0       0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.1        0.1        0.1       0.0       0.0        0.0
Contingency-IBRD
UNDP Fee-Government          0.0        0.1       0.2        0.1       0.0       0.0        0.0
Other                        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total ProJect Financing     0.3        3.5       4.2        2.5        0.0     0°0         0.0
Main assumptions:
Disbursemernat prnfi!e is r.ot co-rane. by f .nnrnt f-,nan. -.-me
- 33 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BRAZiL: Municipal Pension Reform Project
Procurement
Procurement Resnonsibilitv
1. Project procurement will be managed by the DEPSP, the project's executing unit. Prospects for
Pffpfiup nmiprot imn1PEmPntqtin ore Pnrnmkina Sionifin-nnt nrncnirPmPnt imnIpmPntntlinn P,pyPrit-p. e w.z
gained by this agency in managing PARSEP's project execution. Furthermore, the loan's structure will, in
lrge measur e, follow PAeEP's sf a e   & om.et. Honr.o, sdmi!- to PAAQEP, P  UAV-MMTTN
components will include cadastre upgrade, SIPREV, actuarial diagnostic, hardware/software acquisition,
anu WvU-.LV . I. P:^^ly, a %AJ11U Gac will be oAjnldduuU wiuL a niumtiaLviam agencyq to suJppior pUvLunVUl1rl
implementation. The combination of these factors mitigates any possible design risks to efficient
procurement implem-ention.
2.     Tne DEPSP project execution unit wili be comprised of a coordinator, 3 project management
specialists, and one administrative and one auxiliary assistant. This team, with procurement agency
assistance, will be responsible for overall project procurement activity, including ensuring compliance with
World Bank procurement guidelines and procedures and meeting timetables agreed with the Bank. In this
context, the project coordinator will be responsible for the general oversight of project procurerment. Each
of the 3 project management specialists will be assigned general oversight of specific municipa]ities for
which they will be responsible for (i) assisting in developing feasible work programs; (ii) providing
ongoing technical assistance; and (iii) overseeing and monitoring procurement processes of designated
municipalities. The administrative and auxiliary assistants will provide administrative support as necessary
to the above.
Procurement Plan
3.     A detailed procurement plan covering the duration of the proiect has been approved by the RPA.
This plan will constitute the basis for the project's implementation and will be revised every six months by
DEPSP and UNDP, the procurement agency, according to evolving needs during the proiectfs life cycle.
PrnrnrpmPnt Mpthnd-
A      Good.. Prnacrnert of sn ardA T..in-nar onA  blicatinn SenAnas (aeg senn  toe  p ho rnde
for the organization of training activities or for publication of training and municipal pension materials)
WiJli jVLIVw uLeG .j%u1V l for =1U1LLuULlL urlder ILDDT Lo nsi1 aU CJ.Pr e d.itUsL", uatLu JaUuaIy 1795
(revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) and any special provisions
sUpUiaCU in uiC Lvan ftgreWiUieu.
5.     Goods to be purchased under the proposed project, comprised of computer hardware and software,
are expected to total approximately US$552,000. Some US$58,500 in Information Technology (IT)
acquisitions (hardware/software) will be purchased through NCB procedures to equip the DEPSP staff
with the computer hardware and software necessary to support its operations. Ihi addition, approximately
US$494,000 in IT equipment will be procured via NCB procedures to equip all 26 municipalities with the
basic hardware and software configuration necessary for support installation of SIPREV. In addition,
training and publication services valued at $400,000 will be aggregated and procured via NCB. Local



shopping procedures will be applied for the procurement of goods and those services in packages not to
exceed US$50,000 up to an aggregate of US$650,000. Tne pregao wiii be an acceptabie method for
procurement of small items as an alternative to shopping. This procurement method was established via
Medida Provisoria No.2.108-10, January 26, 2001 establishing, in accordance with Article 37 of the
National Constitution, the procurement of goods and services within the jurisdiction of the Federation. The
"pregao", also known as "Dutch shopping", is a novel procurement method established by law and
applicable to small purchases of off-the-shelf items, simiiar to shopping, in which the lowest priced bidders
are allowed to improve their offer in a public ceremony.
6.     Training, Workshops, and Seminars. In an improvement over PARSEP, training seminars and
workshops will be aggregated into larger contracts. Under this modality, consulting finms providing
logistics support will bid on packages that include participant costs. Dissemination of materials in support
of these workshops will also be aeregated. Larger packages exceeding $100,000 will be bid under the
NCB modality and smaller packages will use the shopping modality. SPS will sponsors 3 national
wnrkshons ffor an estimated $237,000 and also STPRF.V workshons (for nresenting modules) for $121,000.
In addition to training seminars, SPS staff will receive $90,900 in training comprising courses at Harvard
lTr,prdtu nd irnive.rsv,l degree and terhnit,l cirse inTBrasilia. Procriir-mment will he via snle .so-nrme and
this is justified by the specialized technical nature of the activities and the requirement that the training
uns+;.-u.^;on ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     o__~ 4be loca1.ed Qn4      -B1 ,i-
7.    Consfl3UaUl Slev.cs ard (55 A  r.rgfl. Barj--fijWA1I.AVU L..ce4a jVl .V.UlOltU.LLI5 ,g1 S vices Wvll be
awarded following the "World Bank Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers", dated Jainuiary 1997, and revised ii January 1999 ansd dM'vIay 2002.
8.     Consulting services consisting of, among otners, PCrU and PEU management support, tecbncai
assistance, systems upgrading, software application development, training and workshops totalling
approximately US$4.83 miiiion, will make up the bulk of activities supported by the proposed project.
This includes an estimated $700,000 for logistics (travel and per diem) to support travel to the
municipalities.
9. Indigviduals. Approximately US$500,000 wiil be contracted with individuais in accordance with
Chapter V, paras 5.1 to 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Specifically, over the four year project period
US$500,000 has been allocated to contract technical and managerial consultants to undertake project
management functions within the PCU and PEU/SPS and to finance technical assistance to the
municipalities in project preparation, cadastre and IT appraisal and upgrade necessary for SIPREV's
implementation, actuarial analyses and the preparation of relevant legislation. Another US$43,000 is
earmarked for services to be contracted with individual consultants to prepare two studies addressing (i)
pension fund asset management, and (ii) strategy for upscaling the PREV-MUN approach to the universe
of municipalities with their own pension systems. Two consultants will be contracted for a total of
US$24.000 to install and maintain the recently concluded SIPREV actuarial and benefits modules and to
develop new modules. All amounts will be subject to revision based upon the Borrower's revised
nrocurement plans. The Borrower's procurement plan will be updated semi-annually and submitted to the
Bank for review and approval. The procedures for selection of individual consultants will be spelled out in
the prnoict operational manual. HirinLg of consultants will he carried out nursuant to paragraph 5.1 of the
Bank's Guidelines that would generally include the comparison of three candidates.
10.   Firms. Approximately US$2.86 million has been allocated for the contracting of firms. Such
conuacts vv,LL ve Lndaaken us;...g LU.r QCBS o; C-  poeur
- 35 -



Proposals. Specifically, individual assignments related to actuarial services costing less than US$100,000
up to an aggregate amount of US$780,000 will be undertaken using CQ procedures pursuant to paragraph
3.7 of the Guidelines. Contracting of assignments related to cadastre upgrading totaling up to
US$100,000 will also be undertaken using QCBS procedures. Two training activities aimed at municipal
officials will also be undertaken using QCBS procedures. The larger, $1.09 million contract consists of a 5
day seminar to be given in each municipality for pension agency officials. This activity is an important
pilot effort to establish a permanent, accessible, non-governmental trainirig venue for sub-national
government officials of pension agencies.
11.    Sole Source. Sole source selection selection procedures will be permitted up to an amoumt of
$100,000 for specialized training courses.
Procurement Review
12.    The Bank's procurement review will be in accordance with Appendix I of the Guidelines for
ProCreme. t aond the provx?isions stipulat.edinA the T oan A.greeernt Thqe fist thvree procu-remepunt dlocuiiepnts
for NCB bidding will be subject to prior review, irrespective of the estimated contract amounts.
13.    With regard to consultant services, prior to issuance of any requests for proposal, a comrLplete plan
iur se:1ecuon of cours-un 'tbLU tu uiL ULU FLuJ.L IUVUhLU UV bJe IpLaJLU 'y UI" UiIJ1ii1ivlmuuiIn '..ulu.aUlU adiu
submitted for the Bank's review. The plan should be adhered to by UNDP. The Bank's review of selection
of conswtants will be mi acc;ordanve with Appendix I of Lte Guidelines for Selection and Empluyment of
Consultants and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement. Contracts for consulting firms estimated
to cost the equivalent of USi!00,000 per contract or more wiii be subject to the BaniK's prior review.
Consultant contracts estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$100,000 per contract, will be subject
to post review. For employment ot individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants will be
provided for prior review and the contracts will be awarded only after the Bank's concurrence. Contracts
for individual consultants estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$50,000, will be subject to post
review. Consultant contract documents to be reviewed will include TORs, short lists and evaluation
reports, and contract forms.
14.   In addition to the regular tasks of prior and ex-post reviews, the Bank may also carny out spot
checks of the quality and consistency of its financed procurement work, with the objective of strengthening
the fiduciary responsibilities.
15.   Procurement Records. Detailed procurement records, reflecting the project's supply of goods and
consultant services, including records of time taken to complete key steps in the process and procurement
activities related to supervision, review and audits, will be maintained by the project implementation
consultant. The detailed records and original documents regarding the procurement process should be
retained at UNDP. These records will be maintained for at least one year after the proiect's closing date.
The records for goods will include public notices, bidding documents and addenda, bid opening
infoimationh bid evaluation renorts- formal appeals by bidders and outcomes; sinned contracts with related
addenda and amendments, records on claims and dispute resolution, and any other useful infomiation. The
records for conrsltant services ill include pu blic noti-es for exp.ressioin of interest, request for proposaAls
and addenda, technical and financial reports, formal appeals by consultants and outcomes, signed contracts,
AuAA --A A mA Au  AA, ---A. _o                              A4; A A;i.-Oln OA topuIl.  AA Cflfl*. c_4;  .l ;ntI . A
a%=vmu=;ll aliiv.cl~;-                -A    6  -V                 -
-36 -



Assessment of the Agency's Capacitv to Implement Procurement
16.    The Country Procurement Specialist in Brasilia carried out a procurement capacity
assessment of the Client and Project and results were submitted to the RPA. This would be the
Borrower's third lending operation with the Bank which is also implementing an IDB project The
evaluation determined that the risk was "average" owing to the project implementation experience
eained by the Client. An action plan was prepared to improve the implementing capacity of the
Project. The Action Plan requires MPAS to develop a Bank approved procurement plan and this
has already been done.
The following lthnough not conditions fnr effectivenem- were agreed to be carried out by loan
effectiveness or as soon thereafter as possible
* An experienced consultant with knowledge of World Bank procurement will be retained
:. o.-der tasist '-he i...p mlerrem.ation coorA.aoir in project irnnlorantc.. ar.d
specifically to monitor the activities of UNDP.
*   Key JrSr SWIa, 4las we as of11's,Ut VI ULI1LIULUVId1 IV'I'e,prc.eIIer,t agenUciy c'hosJeL to
support procurement implementation should be trained in the selection of consultant
and procurement of goods proced-Ures.
*   The Information System will be modified in order to produce management reports and
specific information for ex-post procurement supervision.
The Bank will carry out one procurement ex-post review as per regional guidelines. in addition, the
Secretaria Federal de Controle will carry out reviews of procurement processing on a yearly basis
and will share their findings with the Bank.
Procurement methods (Table A)
- 37 -



Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ millions equivalent)
(Amounts in parentheses are financed by loan)
I                     I                               I Total Cost
I Expenditure Category j     Procurement Method
I ICB    NCB     Other   N.B.F._
1. Goods             I 0.00 |   .55  | 0.0   |0.0         0.55
1_____________________ 1U(°-°°)1 (°.44) 1 (°°.1I) I (U.0U) (1 .I44)  I
2.I Se-ce                    >S I 0_I jT>s00i  1 <S5OOw 1T<100o.oo I
a. Consulting Firms    0.00    2.86    0.00     0.09      2.95
(0.00)  (2.40)  (0.00)  (0.08)     (2.48)
b. Individual          0.00    0.00     1.41    0.00      1.41
Consultants           l(o.00)1 (0.00) 1 (0.42) 1 (0.00) 1  (0.42)  |
>s Iuu,owU  <iNu <uu uu  1l,
TrInno  1      1         >$50,000 I
3. Tining*           I0n.0n0I'A 3.!8 0.1  3 I  i     I    3.
F                      1(0100)1 (0.95)     7    (0.10)    (1.12)
| Sub-Total             0.00|    6.59  | 1.54  | 0.42 |    8.55
I  L 0'.    70   A Idol  /a 18)    (4.J6I
4. Contingencies/       0.00    0.00    0.98    0.00       0.98    j
| Unallocated         |(0.00)  (0.00)   (0.51)  (0.00)    (0.51)
| Procurement Agency  I 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.40       0.40    I
I(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)     (0.00)   1
Front-End Fee          0.00    0.00    0.05     0.00      0.05
(0.04- (0.00)   (0.05)  (0.00)     (0.05)
I TOTAL               | 0.00 | 6.59   | 2.59  | 0.82  |    10.00
I (O.00)1 (3.79) 1 (1.03) 1 (0.24) 1  (5.00)
Training & publication services will be procured as goods via shopping (up to $650,000) and NCB.
Not Bank Financed is for goods only, otherwise procurement activities are categorized by contract size.
- 38 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
|^7Expoendfiture Catego  o :  ..  osans)4    '|.r-     'Meho   j    .^?t- -<IJ    millions);~|
I WGoord              I         N/A                                   I          N/A
12I Goods                        >1e;0        I                        Ia All einrimpntv
<350>50           * NCB                o First three documents
I  I<1DDT1.Tf1       e   T---
3. Services
Firms                            >100              * QCBS               o All
<100              * QCBS/CQ           J o None
<100              * Single Source      0 All
Individuals           |          <100              * Section 5
> 50                 --Guidelines     1 ^ All
* Section 5
< 50                 -Guidelines       o None
*No ICB contracts are contemplated



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
1. Goods                                0.44        |100% except for dornestically acquired 1
2. Consulting Services                  2.90                       84%
3. Training, Workshops, Seminars        1.10         1             30%               1
4. Contingencies               l        0.51         l             100%
I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  10 .0 0  1                  1
|Total Project Costs                     4.95
iTota!              Front-end feel       0.05        l
|.Total                         |         AJ.uU      l_
17.   Allocation of loan proceeds. The duration of the loan is four years. The final disbursement
wouid-be incurred no more than four months after the closing date which would be December 31, 2006.
Financial Management and Disbursement
County Issues
A CFAA has recently been conducted for Brazil and a draft report has been prepared with the
final report to be completed following a workishop including the Bank and relevant government
officials. The report presents findings that state that Brazil has sound financial management and
accounting practices which allows for the transparent budget elaboration and its execution. The
report provides adequate assurance that there are no major accounting or financial management
accountability issues. There are no issues at country level which could negatively affect the use of
fiindR,
V.frpnoahc and Wonknoeep
ItAfl A C' IL.  11 I  .flTT  -.L-'-LL  i     r.            L  1'   1 
IvArtw hias ctbmL ih   aPCU, waILLi is lbiuble fr iuiipitmeniiuig Ulu rulrmi reiisioni Reform
Project - LIL (PROAST). The PCU is organized to respond to the workload required to
implement the project activities established in the PAD. With the Municipal Pension Reform
project, the PCU will need to allocate staff and conclude its financial management system. We
have been informed by the project financial manager, that they are recruiting two professionals to
ioin the PCU, and that the financial management svstem will be up and mnning by thie end of
December. The audit report of PROAST, submitted to the Bank, did not contain any financial
mfasoagn,ant ,crn,no '.Aknlk su,,IA ;tl- imply   ... of 4fndA or lak o1,f rgeem r --.Io n -n.l +A
5   --Smfll  fl0£.0*£          -0£4.   w- Z£&1.h0  Ml 1"U,JU WJA  L 1U~.JL   ~.VJ1L1VI.  f-ULVUL1,L
strong point is that the project executing unit in MPAS is implementing a second Bank loan, the
State Pension Rerorm LiL, and nas accumulated substantial experience in Bank procecures and
- 40 -



especially procurement as well as implementation experience in the field.
Implementing Entity.
MPAS has established a PCUT for the adminiitration of PROART and staffed the init with a
financial manager and administrative assistants. The PCU has two years of experience and during
audit reports have not indicated any irregularities in the management, control and spending of loan
funds. One indication of the capability of this team is that they have disbursed 5U% ot PROAST
and expect to complete the project within the programmed time frame.
Response            I    Agent      [             input
114                             I                                           -
Analyzes expense reports (SOE)                  Deposit of resources in the Special
and authorizes realimenting the      BIRD      Account opened by the project
special account
13                               .          .
Receives from the PCU evidence of              Iprovides STN resources to
--A                       E=~~~~~T'IYTT? /ThY A C    T%,f/rT
expenue1sLarb relU  es.Ut JL01       LTN       IC    r1JIVArt LL reispounbe Lto a rPUL
reimbursement/replenishes the   |request
Special Account for the confirmed
amounts/sends a reimbursement
request to the Bank            l               l_l
112                                            13                                1
Enters the financial transactions in  |        |Provides resources to the DEPSP
CI-T A 1T7T  -A..- +h. ;--+-     £'91I~DPiLfD"  DIQ T T  ~.,11n
Slx~ A based uponz the i n.fo.. . -  tnJ..  at ion . tL k L,U wVl1ch wi *A. as ec
provided by the PCU            |agent the PCU in the Minister's
1  aDimei
Inputs the payments made in the                |Records the funds and provides them
proiect's accounting system /emits   PCU       lto UNDP
reports (SOE and PR) as evidence ofl
expmnditlrpg msndue for        I
reimbursement and sends to STN
iO
Pays vendors/emits transactions     UNDP/      kogether with the PCU, undertakes
reports to the PCU.               UAP-ABC      the contracting and acquisition of
I __________________________  _ |goods and              services for the project  |
Tmits docuimentatinn attesting to thel  Technisu1  Reeives. the- gn0 . qnd service.
receipt of the goods and services and| Management [acquired and proves them to the
-41 -



solicits payment through the PCU    PEU     |project municipalities for which the
lacquisi ions were undertaKen. 
Confirms to the PCU the receipt of  Municipalities I Receives the goods and services
the goods and services          particivating  provided by the proiect's technical
| _______________________________I in the project I|management.            |
Staffing.
The PCU staff is sufficient in number and capability to successfully manage PREV-MUN.
Staffing includes a competent financial manager plus assistants. The staff have demonstrated
good knowledge of Bank financial, disbursement and procurement procedures which should
ensure smooth project implementation.
Results Agreement.. During the TM's mission it was established that two additional professional
level stall WILL UV, COHUaC.LU LoV I.  w iui LXVI'..1.,V-MviUJ arnu buvigulra uih P-CJu Lapatj
generally.
Accounting Policies and Procedures.
MPAS uses the SLAFI system input in its project accounting. This complies with the Budgetary
Law No. 4,320-64. Through this system, MPAS's PCU identifies project expenses through
sotirces nf fiinds and categonie of exnenditure. The financinl reports of th.e PCU downlond this
information and automatically transfer it to the project reporting systems in use to monitor and
e'v'>'alua 1..-r.CIal <u-cXulCOI.
Results agreement. MPAS rPu nas developed a system, CUOFHE", that is now being tested. It
makes use of the project information archives-both planning and financial execution. The
Project will have an accounting module which will permit the extraction of specific: financial
reports for the Project. It will facilitate and support project report generation and audits. It also
has a procurement module that will conform to the specific requirements of the Bank's
nrn memmnt nfficer and will oe nrte Tn mannupmint and -nritrl rpnnrtc raqminrP  y tl.-e Ban1r ainA
for efficient project management.
Planning and Budgeting
PREV-MUN will centralize all procurement operations in the PCU. The component initended to
strengthen the municipalities will be defined in the following way. First, each municipality will
develop it's own proiect and estimate budget requirements within the framework and budget
limits imposed by the PCU. The PCU will work with the municipalities to refine the project and
wLZher.n ready, will validate it. MNo -r'mncial resor ces x,ZJl be +t+.A t.o  e m  (
"Flow of Funds"). Only goods and services will be provided to the municipalities. All
procurement will be centraized in the PCU, the terms of reference Deing developed jointly by the
individual municipalities with assistance from the PCU. A second component will strengthen the
SPS-the MPAS secretariat responsible for sub-national government pensions andt the unit
42 -



responsible for project operational execution.
The budget proposal for CY02 has already been approved by the Senate and the project is being
designed to ensure that activities programmed are congruent with the amount approved.
External Audit
Following arrangements for Bank-financed projects in Brazil, the annual financial audit of the
project accounts for each fiscal year will be carried out by Secreitaria Feueral de Controle - SFC,
acceptable to the Bank to perform the Bank's financed projects. SFC will submit audits to the
Bank no later than June 30 in the year following the year for which the project accounts have been
reported. The Auditor's TOR has been discussed and it will be submitted to the Bank for final
review. It will include the issuance of a management letter on internal controls six months after
effectiveness. The format of the project financial statements has been established-
A q*  --I  JB-A   -,;  AA' AC 1U-.  J.'  LLLJV.LDD4UJI5 A i'S. rI ~  -AU.L  -UL  A . ..jJ  U. V ... ~UU11i1L A.
As r,enioe e!ie:, - ADA 1s been FiVmpLemer,U&r, g POAST-F-XJJ,C and :,ts MUlt,t AJLV-tL WC.- 0LUJLLi"LLV%
to the Bank. The audit report review did not find any relevant issue which could affect the use of
Bank's funas.
Audit Report                            Due Date
Entitv                                Not Applicable
[Project                               June 30th folowing the year in which the 1
_____ _____ ____ _____ _____ ____ expenditures  have  been  rep,orted
SOE                                   June 30th following the year in which the
I expenaitures hlave been reported 
Special Account                       June 30th following the year in which the
expenditures have been reported
Contract Clauses                      June 30th following the year in which the]
|                               | expenditures have been reported
Reporing, Monitoring and Information System
In addition to the FMRs, the project will make use of a physical reporting format that is very
similar to what has been successfully used in PARSEP which in terms of size and components is
nearly identical to PREV-MUN. The PARSEP parallel system with its indicators together with
the FMRs will provide a strong management tool. In addition, COFRE is being designed to
rnxA;dAp aAAtit.nal rnriirPmPnt mannoaem."t inft%rmat-nn t+.at +11 be iusae by th. P.e_k t Team, to
k--,.-                             -    -   be used -.7   U.- I.-Ject~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  e-   t
ensure track the many municipal operations and assure efficient and timely implementation.
Disbursement Arrangements and Special Account
The financial management system will generate FMRs, however, disbursements will be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs), except for (i) the first three contracts for goods
and services above US$50-000 equivalent, (ii) contracts with consulting firms ahove I J1$ 10 0-000
equivalent, and (iii) contracts with individual consultants above US$50,000. In these cases all
-43 -



contracts information has to be attached to the Summary Sheet (SS) as per Table B above. The
information required for mte compilation of SOEs would be maintained by the Projeci
Coordinating Unit in the MIS data base. The SOEs will be submitted to the Bank as per cash flow
requirements. In order to facilitate project implementation, the Borrower will establish a special
account in US Dollars, in a commercial bank, with an initial authorized allocation of $500,000,
but, until disbursements from the Loan Account reach the amount of $1 million, the interim
authorized allocation will be %250000-
Resu.'s Agre,,.e,.: T,F% Specal rAccount& will be, oper.ed, ir uhe, due cou se bvy suhe. i-ativlLai
Treasury Secretariat - STN, and all requirements to be determined in the disbursement letter will
be met.
Retroactive Financing
An amount of $300,000 of retroactive financing for eligible expenditures incurred within one year
prior to loan signing but not before June 1, 2001 will be allowed. Retroactive financing is
recommended to allow for Bank financing of expenditures incurred since Project identification.
Action Plan and Conditions of Effectiveness
An action plan has been agreed with Project Coordinator, where the action below have been
established and have to be put in place before effectiveness.
There will be two conditions of effectiveness:
(i) Formal establishment of the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) in the Executive Secretary's
nffi.c ne thei eyeuitnr nf the nrnijet anni Prniprt 1ypelitiicnc TTUint (PPITh ir SPS ne the p.rn,pet
management unit.
(il) IUIiILt4iLL uo apioc pLuirWemet managl r1LIVII, oI1LI7UL WiLUI a UIUILUIULIUUgi M agviicy sirmiar to
UNDP
AA



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BRAZiL: Municipal Pension Reform Project
|.  70 -  .cOl#S ,>  -lbi#^:         *;gln~d*"f.s=                   >7:A,>aR.'~
I Time taken to prepare the proJlect (months) 
First Bank mission (identification)     |       06/01/2001          |        07/23/2001
Appraisal mission departure                     09i/1/2001 i                 05i/ 152002
Negotiations                                    11/15/2001                   05/15/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness           1       12/15/2001                   09/03/2002
Prepared by:
Chris Parel
Preparation assistance:
Indermit Gill
Truman Packard
Tulio Correa
Efiaim Jimenez
Mnqri Crrmen Minnsn
Tania Hollestelle
Bank staff who worked on the project Included:
C 4 -:. iName                 ' ''  '  i        'Speiaiaty.; . . .       .J-A,        :  .
Chris Parel                       Task Management: Public Sector Management
Indermit Gill                     Pension and Macroeconomic Management
ITruman Packard                   I ernsion miauiagemwint
Tulio Correa                      Financial management specialist
Efiaim Jimenez                    Procurement
Maria Carmen Minoso               Operations Assistance
|Tania Hollestelle                 Program Assistant
-45-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BRAZIL: Municipal Pension Reform Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
The detailed budget and procurement table included in Annex 2 summarizes the PIP. The first year's
procurement program has been approved. Procurement, financial management and component descriptions
in the PAD taken together constitute a comprehensive implementation plan, especially considering that
MPAS has successfully implemented an almost identical operation at the state level.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*   Financial Management Assessment
*   Procurement Assessment
C. Other
*   PCD and annexed materials together with reviewer comments and the PCD minutes
*   Proposal from the TM to elevate the revised draft to a PAD and authorize negotiations which details
how concerns raised at the PCD have been addressed.
*   PAD
*   Draft Legal Agreement
*   Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS)
*   Survey of Bank pension projects over the past five years, "Comparison of Financed Activities of IBRD
Pension Reform Projects within Last Five Years".
* Diverse emails containing reference material used in project design and elaboration, and clearances
*Including electronic files



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BRAZIL: Municipal Pension Reform Project
03-Jun-2002
Difference between expected
atnd acual
OAgIonal Auriount in US$ Milios                              d... .....
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                       IBRD        IDA                  GEF     Cancel.    Undlsb.      Orig   Frmn Rev4d
P051696        2002 SAO PAULO METRO LINE 4 PROJECT                  209.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00    209.00       0.00       0.00
P055954        2002 GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT                   65.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     63.34       6.10       0.00
P060221        2002 FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT                 65.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     67688       0.00       0.00
P057665        2002 TA Financial Sector                              68.00       0 00                 0.00       0.00     66.00       0.00       0.00
P043869       2002 BR-FAMILY HEALTH EXTENSION PROJECT                62.80       0.00                 0.00       0.00     62.60       0.00       0.00
P074085        2002 BR SANTA CATARINA NATURAL RESOURC & POV.         20.60       0.00                 0.00       0.00     20.59      -0.21       0.00
P057649        2001 Serglpe Rural Poverty ReductIon                  54.35       0.00                 0.00       0.00      50.31      7.41       0 00
P050881        2001 Rural Poverty Reduction Prnjed - BA              22.50       0.00                 0.00       0.00     21.08      10.18       0.00
P050880        2001 RURAL POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT - Pi             30.10       0.00                 0.00       0.00     28.90       2.13       0.00
P050875        2001 Rural Povert ReductIon Project - PE              37.50       0.00                 0.00       0.00      32.48      4.24       0 00
P050772        2001 Rural Poverty Reducton Project -CE              202.10       0.00                 0.00       0.00     160.93     36 33       0.00
P059566        2001 LAND-BASED POVERTY ALLEVIATION I (SIM)           90.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      88.24     -1.76       0.00
P059565        2001 BR- CEAI4A HPcIC EDUCATION                       69.60       0.00                 0.00       0.00      33.65    -10.59       0.00
P073294        2001 BR- BA BASIC EOU PROJECT (PHASE I)                8.66       0.00                 0.00       0.00       7 91      1.96       0.00
P047309        2000 BR FIsca & Fin MorntTAL                           0.00       0.00                15.00       0.00      12 06      3.40       0.00
P039200        2000 BR ENERGY EFFICIENCY (GEF)                       43.40       0.00                 0.00       0.00      42.66      1460       0.00
P039199        2000 ENERGY EFFICIENCY (ELETRO6RAS)                   30.30       0.00                 0.00       0.00      29.60     -0.70       0 00
P035741        2000 PROSANEAR2                                       15.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      13.09      9.45       7.16
P006449        2000 NATL ENV 2                                      138.00       0.00                 0.00       0 00     123.41     47.24       000
P062619        2000 CEARA WTR MGT IPROGERIRHI (SIMI                   5.081      00n                  00         000no      10n7      nA8       -05An
P050776        2000 INSS REF LIL                                     50.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     40.40      -9.60       0 00
P043874        1999 NE Mlcrofinance Development                     100.00       0 00                 0.00       0.00      611.67    61.67       0.00
P050763        1999 BR- DISEASE SURVEILLANCE - VIGISUS              202.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      42.52    -22.48       0.00
P054120        1999 BR- Fundescola 2                                165.00       0.00                 0.00       3.50      40.88     41.88       0.00
P048N9.        1000 EIR. AIDS & STfllC-,ntrlo, 11II50.fln                        0.0n                 0.0f       n.on     107.67     7001i       0.00
P058129        1999 SALVADOR URBAN TRANS                              15.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00       8.93       8.93      6.93
P038947        1998 BR EMER. FIRE PREVENTION (ERL)                   155.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     121.29     121.29      0.00
P038895        1998 BR- SC. & TECH 3                                196.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     118.62    106.92      52.96
P05`1701       1998 FED.WTR MGT                                      60.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      10.37      1.57       0.00
P043420        198 BR PENSION REFORM LIL                            150.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     146.99    141.06     123680
P042865        1998 WATER S.MOD.2                                    60.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      26.92     17.72       0 00
P035728        1998 PARAIBA R.POVERTY                                51.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      28.92      26.80      9.31
P006559        1998 BAHIA WTR RESOURCES                              45.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      22.33     22 33       0.00
Puvu474        long8 (8F-R)SP.TSP                                    oU.u        lJu   .1.0,                     Vut, o.Jn 0.00 0.0 517 358     23.02
P048357        1996 BR LAND MGT 3 (SAO PAULO)                        20.00       0.00                 0.DO       0.00       0.02      0.02      -7.30
P043421        1998 BRAZIL CEN.BANK TAL.                            188.00       0.00                 0.DD      17.17     138.11     155.28      0.00
P006475        1997 Ri M.TRAN-SIT PRJ.                               00.00       0 00                 0.00       0.00      23.77     23.77       0.00
P046052        1997 LAND RPM PILOT (SIM)                              9.60       0.00                 0.00       0.00       1.93      1.93       1.66
P006562        i97 CEAJRA WA:I ER PLlJT (SIM)                       iuu.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      51.66     51.66       5.99
P038895        1997 BA-HIA MUN.DV                                    24.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00       0.57      0.57       0.00
P034578        1997 R.POVERTY(RGN)                                   70.00       0.00                 0.60       0.00      53.54     51.21      40.21
P043873        1997 RGS HWY MGT                                      60.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      33.57'    33.14      22.59
P006532        1997 AG TECH DEV.                                    300.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     152.73    152.73      65.61
P043888        1997 FED HWY DECENTR                                 100.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      57.13     41.99      19.16
P040028        1996 ROS LAND MGT/POVERTY                            350.00       0.00                 0.00      75.00      17.65     92.65      17.65
P006210       1996 RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURG                               0.00       0.00                10.00       0.00       2.88      4.04       4.66
P037828        1996 GEF BR-NATL BIODIVERSITY                        175.00      .0.00                 0.00       0.00      82.87     82.27      74.28
P006554        1996 BR (PR)R.POVERTY                                300.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     103.63     103.63      0 00
P006564        1995 BR- HEALTH SECTOR REFORM - REFORSUS              99.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      18.12     16.12       0.00
P038882        1995 BELO HM.TSP                                     102 00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      13.40     13.40       0.00
P0064-36      110081 RECiFE MTSIP                                   140.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      18 50     18.50      12.50
Ceara Urban Developmnent & Water Resource
- 47t -



Differnce beteetn expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                           disbursements
Projec ID     FY   Purpose                                   IBRO         IDA                   GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Ffn Revd
P006543       1994 BR- MINAS GERAIS BASIC EDU.                    150.00     0.00                0.00       0.00      326       326        0.00
P006522       1994 ESP.SANTO WATER                                154.00     0.00                0.00      54.00     11.94     65.94       6.92
P-54-         -1993 °R W'R 01.N(SPIM.wED)                        245.00     01.00                0.00       5.15      4.18     19.311      3.581
P006505       1992 MATO GROSSO NAT RES                           205.00      0.00                0.00      15.00     12.12     27.12       0.00
P006454       1992 RONDONIA NTRL RES. M                           167.00     0.00                0.00      10.00     10.64     20.64       0.00
Total:    5797.48       0.00             25.00  .   179.83    2834.73    1739.72   492.10
48 



BRAZIL
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity    Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1997               Guilman-Amorim-              25.78    0.00    0.00   57.47   25.78    0.00     0.00   57.47
1998               Ica Equity^c                  0.00   20.00    Q       0.00    0.00   12.;4     0.00    0.00
I 998  U "Ul..y                  v v    Z.V UV   0~~~~.UU  U.Uv.J       L.'       .U     UJ
1999               Innova SA                    20.00    5.00    0.00   60.00   20.00    5.00     0.00   60.00
1980/8.7/97        Ipiranga                     29.33    0.00    0.00   57.27   29.33    0.00     0.00   57.27
1999               Itabemba                      0.00    5.34    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.34     0.00    0.00
1999               JOSAPAR                       8.00    0.00    7.00    0.00    3.00    0.00     7.00    0.00
1995               LATASA - Brazil               1.33    0.00    5.00    0.00    1.33    0.00     5.00    0.00
1995               Lojas Americana              14.00    0.00    5.00    2.00    14.00   0.00     5.00    2.00
1987/92/96/99      A.....                                        u.R   20.00      ..  0   .00  0   .00  0  .U00
0                  Macedo Nordeste               6.33    0.00    5.00     0.00    6.33   0.00     5.00    0.00
1996               Mallory                       4.36    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.36    0.00     0.00    0.00
1975/96            Oxiteno NE                   10.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    10.00   0.00     0.00    300
1994               Para Pigmentos               21.50    0.00    9.00   12.32   21.50    0.00     9.00   12.32
1987/96            Perdigao                     15.31    0.00    0.00    2.00    15.31   0.00     0.00    2.00
1989/95            Politeno Ind.                 5.85    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.85    0.00     0.00    0.00
;994/Oo/02         Portobelo          .     . '    n     !.IC    n.nn  0  .0n  0  .0  1.:5 0     .00      An.
IYYQ~~~~~~UWUL                    IJ.IJV   C~~~~~~~~~~.1 £0 VCC Jv V  V.JI   I  10  UU     JV-V
2000               Puras                         4.67    0.00    0.00     0.00    4.67   0.00     0.00    0.00
1998               Randon                        6.53    0.00    3.00    0.00    6.53    0.00     3.00    0.00
1991               Rhodia-Ster                   0.00    5.95    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.95     0.00    0.00
1995               Rhodiaco/PTA                  7.50    0.00    0.00    3.00    7.50    0.00     0.00    3.00
1990               Ripasa                        0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00     0.00    0.00
1997               Rodovia                      27.22    0.00    0.00   47.70   27.22    0.00     0.00   47.70
S.A.I.C- C                    0.00    2.85    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.85     0.00    0.00
1994/96            SP Alpargatas                16.67    0.00    5.00    0.00    16.67   0.00     5.00    0.00
1987/97            Sadia                        20.50    0.00    6.83   109.33  20.50    0.00     6.83  109.33
1994/95/97         Samarco                      11.70    0.00    0.00    6.67    11.70   0.00     0.00    6.67
1997               Sainaritano                  20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
2000               Saraiva                      10.38    3.00    0.00    0.00    10.38    3.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Seara Alimentos               0.00    3.88    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.88     0.00    0.00
0                  Senetiba                     32. A  0.00      0.00     8.00   17.n  . n0n      0.00    8.00
2001               Sucorrico                     7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00     7.50   0.00     0.00    0.00
1997               Synteko                      18.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    18.00   0.00     0.00    0.00
2001               TIGRE                        13.46    0.00    5.00    6.41    13.46   0.00     5.00    6.41
1996               TRIKEM                        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
;992/93 Te                                 co R io   6.65  0.00  5.50    14.84   6.65    0.00     5.50   14.84
1998               Tecon Salvador                3.50    1.00    0.00    5.00    3.50    0.77     0.00    5.00
2001               Votorantim                     43 4   0.00    0.00    0.00     1.43   0     .00   0 .00  0.00
1993               Vulcabras                    16.68    0.00    0.00    0.00    16.68   0.00     0.00    0.00
1999               Wembley                       0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00     0.00    0.00
1997               Wiest                         0.00    0.00    8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     8.00    0.00
1999               AG Concession                 0.00   15.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
2001     A:garTeleco.                            0.00    8.17    0.00    0.00     0.00   8.17     0.00    0.00
1996/97            Apolo                         8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
2001               Arteb                        20.00    7.00    0.00    18.33   20.00    7.00    0.00   18 33
1998
Total Portfolio:       731.43  159.78   133.83  649.28  657.65  131.34   115.53  644.16
-49 -



Aynrnvqlc PendIina Cammitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi     Partic
2002               DiuAi lmu I                       0.0J     0.uu      uu I00  .00
2000               BBA                              10.00     0.00      0.00     50.00
2001               Brad Templeton                   0.00      0.00     20.00      0.00
2001               Cataguazes                      45.00      0.00      0.00     40.00
1999               Cibrasec                         0.00      0.00      7.50      0.00
2001               Satipel                         15.00     15.00      0.00      0.00
2002               Unibanco-CL                      0.00      0.00      0.00    150.00
2001               uJ bul                           IJ.U0     UAJI 0.U 0          0
2002               Univali                          10.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        95.00     15.00    27.50    340.00
-50-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BRAZIL: Municipal Pension Reform Project
Latin
POVERTY and'SOCIAL:                                            America    Middle."
Brazil   &Crb       inme        Development diamond'
2000 
-Population, Fmid-year (mi'i'llons)                    i70.1        SiS       647'                 Ltfe expectancy
GN I per capita (Atlas meithod, US$)                   3.590 3:.      O   .4,12
GNI (Atlas method. US$ billions),                      8.10.1     1,895    TZ86
Average annual growth,19S94.00.j
Population (%)                                           1.3        1.6         3
Labo force M%             .                               .         23        20         IGross
Per                              primary
Most recent estimate (1atest yoar. available, `1994-00).                               capita                        enrollment
Poverty. (% of ooDulatlon below national oove rt iine)  - 22                                            40o
Urban population (% of total populetion)     .    8     1            75        78
Life expectancv at brh(es).7                                         70        69                                               I
Infant mortalitv (per 1.000 live bilith.) .32                       30 :       2
Child rhialnutritlon (% of chlidren under 5)               S'         Si                    Access to Improved water source
Access to an Improved water sourcea (% of population)     87         85        8;7..
Illifteracy ?% of population age 15+)                     15    *.12           10. 
Gross primary enmollment I% ot school-age population)    125        113 vi     0soi.
Male                 .                                   .106                                 Upper-mIddle-income group
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LON4G-TERM TRENDS
1980      1990., :   9I
GDP (UJS$ billions)   .235.0                           405.0      529.4     65988
Gross doinestic InvestmentlGDP  .           .23.3       20.2      :20 4      2
tx6ortsotfooods and services/GD3P       .       9.1      8.2       108,      10.9Trd
Gross d6mestic s vnSlD                         21.1     21.4 .     19.3       193~
Gross national savlnaslGDP         .           17.8     10.9       16.1 
--5 .-                             Domestic
Interest'p8vments/GDP  .                        2.7.     04         2                   aig                         Investment
Total debt/GDP        .304                              28       .456        397                                                I
Tntal dlaht nArvi'aexnrs'AS4                            2-5      '112 '--    770                  -     *
Present value of debt/GDP                        .         .     .4 
Present value of debtlexports                    ..        .     403.7                                                          I
Indebtedness
1980-90   1099800     1999       2000]  ; 000-04
(averace annual growth)      .        . 
GDP                                   2.7       2.9      0.8 .  .   4.5-.. 3.6                  8arazi
GDP per capita -.~-                    .   ~    1.3     -0.5    .   3.2-      2.3:               Upper-mIddle-Income group
Exportsoaf goods and services"        7.5       5.5     12.0   :   14.0o    .13.0'.   -
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP,                      ~   ~~~1980  1990      1999      2000     Iorowthf lnveatment and GP(%
Agriculture                                    11.0      8.1        7.2       74       I
Industry                                      43.8      38.7       27.5      286 
Manufacturing                                3359 2                         A n
Services                                      45.2      53.2       65.3      84.0     10        314~                        O
Private consumption                           69.7      59.3       61.8      62.5     .a
General government consumption                 9.2     119.3      118.9      182GDl                           -    -GDPP
Imports of goods and services                 11.3       7.0       11.7      12.1 
(average annual growth)                    1980-90  1990-00       1999      2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                    2.8       3.2        7.4       3.0    140T    A
Industry                                       2.0       2.6       -1.6       5.0                          X
Manufacturing                                 1.6      2.1       .0.7                             .       ...f                I
services                                       3.3       3.0        1.3       3.9 
Private consumption                            1.2       5.7        6.1       9.     j97                        "a
General aovemnment consumDtion                 7.3      -1.7       -9.3      -5I     [M2
Greoss domestic Investment                     3.3       3.4       43.0       5.0                -  Exp"t      l--mports        I
lmDorts of goods and services                  0.5      11.9      -14.8      13.8
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key Indicators In the country (in bold) comDared with Its income-group average. If data are missIng, the diamond will
be Incomplete.
- 51 



Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000    |Inflatlon (%)
Domestic prces
(% chan,e)
Consumer prdces                              .. 2,947.7        8.9      6.0    zooo.
1.000
Impliclt GDP deflator                      87.3  2,509.5       4.3      8.5    1,S3                                  I
Govenoment finance                                                              500
(% of GDP, incdudes curernt grants)                                               o                              O
cu5nun iuvuiru                                ..      ..      19.5     2u.U             99    Y     97   go   YY
Current budget balance                       ,,                0.4      1.0                 GDP deflator
Overall surplus/defct                         ..              -6 .8    -3.2
TRADE
1980     1990      1999     2000w     =    .    i,.IOV    .   ,flm.)
Total expos (fob)                            .,   31,414    47,140   53,589    meooI
Coffee                                      ..   2,656     2,74     3.040         T
Soybeans                                    ..   2,854     1,593    2,188 
Manufactures                                ..  19,624    35,312   41,027
Total ImDorts (c)                             ..  20,661    49.275   55.800    1i_i_ _d_                     *-_
Food                                        ..   1,379     1,655    1,507     25.000 in  m   m    m   m   uu    mi
Fuel and energy                             ..   4,354     4,258    6,362            _   _              _
Cagialooods                                 ..   5,932    13.570   13.593        n
Export price Index (1995=100)                80      81        91       97            9j 9s    sr   97   98        o
Importprlceindex(1995=100)                   65      74       113       118                *Exports     *ITIaworts
Terms oftrade (1995=100)                    123     1U9        80        82
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS mIllions)                             1980    1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and services            21,857   34,615    55,205   64,470     °  ___            '''       r4     _
Imports of goods and services            27,788   26.708    63,443   72,741
Resource balance                          -5.931   7.907    -8,238   -8,271     2                   E       liii
Net income                                -7,044  -12,523  -18.840  -i 7,u_ 
Net current transfers                        42     834      1,689    1,521    [3                  * E K   EIKI
Current swwunt bhlannn                  -12,9 0   -3,782   -25.397  -24,636 6   4                      ___
Financing items (net)                     8,990   -5,043    13,634   33,815
Changes in net reserves                   3,943    8,825    11,763   -9,179
Memo:
ResevesIncluding gold (US$ mIlions)       5.853    9,175    35,725   33,011
rven U    _- (D ECt, ;,aus;J o12E-11             2.48E-S       t 8 .      8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1999      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                 [Composltlon of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     71,520  119,877   241,468  236,200                     A- 7 577
IBRD                                    2,035    8,427     6,822    7,377                            c 1,768
IDA                                         0       0         0         0            G: 29.486
Iot^ d6eb-, snc114,7S57                           8,168   667S,22   53200                                     48,358
IBRD                                      275    1,975     1,381    1,351
IDA                                         0       0         0         0
ComposItfon of net source flows                                                                                  99
Official grants                            14      41        62
Official reditorsm                         25     433       6eo    -2-037
Private creditors                       3,745     -427   -11,828  -32,675
Foreign direct investment               1,911     989     32,659
Porlfnll rKIr n n0                         0       0      1,981   1                F    2
World Bank program
CommKaments                              820      905      1,863    1,593     A - IBRD                   E - Blateal
Disbursements                             343     788      1,533    1,692    | B-IDA   D-Other mulUlateral  F- Prvate
PrncIpal repayments                        98    1.251      952       887    CC-IMF                      G -Ehot-erm
Net flows                                 245'    463       580       805
Interest payments                         177     725       428      464
Nettransfers                              68    -1,187      152       341
Development Economics                                                                                           9/17101
- 52 -



Additional Annex 11
BRAZIL: Municipal Pension Reform ProJect
RECENT 12REFOnD S IN lD A 7n TA N PENIQON T EGIST ATTON
Tne Public Sector Pension k`SP) system is in tne process of consolidating its principals and
norms. This process, was launched with the passage of Constitutional Amendment n° 20/98 and
made the following key developments possible:
Establishment of the Department of Public Service Pension Regimes (DEPSP)
*   Drafting Law no 9.717/98 and Government Decree no 4.992/99
Preparation and implementation of the State Pension Systems Reform Project
(Programa de Apoio a Reforma dos Sistemas Estduaiua    de PrpviflAnnin
-PARSEP)
-   A LFaCaauu l VI ULF LLLUJiipaI I PnVILbLI RefIoIrI LP411.
A key accom.p-iOLmIentL LeOLL1:LIAr, iv A14 V1Irngir.  UILeffo  LU IVIrIef   uih V41IiUU  ruUiic Sector
Pension (PSP) Systems" is the heightened consciousness and involvement of federal, state and
municipal authorities in finding solutions to challenges associated with rationalizing their diverse
pension systems.
Consolidation of PSP legislation constitutes one of the principal indicators of reform progress.
Consequently, an array of laws and norms have been developed to reduce chronic distortions in
public sector pensions including (i) insufficient or non-contributory nature of the system; (ii)
premature retirements (iii) high replacement rates; (iv) inclusion of retirement benefits; and (v)
accumiulation of retirement henefitq.
The nrincinal legal reformn are enumerated helow
I.    Constitutional Amendment n° 20/98
The Amendment established the following norms.
Prohibits collection of accumulated retirement revenues in cases where the
pensioner continues to be emnloved in a nublic office excent in those cases exemnted
in the Constitution, (elected, nominated or commissioned posts)  which are
exonerted;
Prohibits the accumulation of more than one retirement pension, except in cases
wnere allowed by the Constitution;
Ensures public employees of federal, state, and municipal posts are covered under
a pension system of a contributory nature, that will observe requirements geared to
preserving the financial and actuarial equilibrium of the system;
Reforms retirement limits in age and contribution periods for a public employee
- 53 -



entering into either the federal, state or municipal administration as a regular employee
, effective December 16, 1998: the age limit is 60 years of age for men and 55 years
for women and the contribution period is 35 and 30 years respectively. Those public
employees who entered into the public sector prior to December 16, 1998, can opt for
the former transition rule, that estahliqhed a 53 year age limit for men and 48 year aOe
limit for women. This option would require that the contribution period be increased
20/Ol -arl A401-/  --sec+:-Ly, -l order for- vhe erlp e  to- be A- cosdee elgiletocli
LU /U a£LifL. -?  /v i..,OFj%JL V.LVA  L4y, 1. U11 U iU.   JULq- U fI J11IJVkUy   LU UV %,-IAJ -Lq-1.IU VUI1rUI%, LU  allll.I
integrated and proportional pension benefits.
* Requires 10 years in public sector and 5 years in existing post.
* Ensures that retirement revenues and pensions not exceed the amount of the civil
servant's last paycheck;
* Prohibits any fictitious accounting of employment period;
* Allows for the establishment of a system that would complement those of the
federal, state, nnd mumic-ipal governments, thus enabling the array of PSP uystets to
fix the same ceiling on benefits payments as that established by the General Social
BnLLef 'Mr L'UU.JL. I 11n        law W     reulte this UuULuII, JuisL1y
under discussion in Congress. All employees who have filled a public post prior to the
instatement of the Complementary regime, can either continue in the old regime or
migrate to the new one;
* Permits the PSP Systems to establish funds comprised of contributions, goods,
duties and assets of any nature.
H.    The General Public Pension Law (Lei Geral da Previdencia Publica - Lei n° 9.717)
Enacted on November 27, 1998, and modified on September 26, 2000 via Provisional Measure
2.060, this law established the general by-laws governing the organization and functions of the
PSP yvdtPmQ of fMe&rnl qtnte aRnd mlinininAl emnlnveps Amninclm'nt n° 2I09R eniolht tn mntiifu
the nature of PSP Systems, by modifying retirement by-laws. Law n° 9.717 sought to standardize
lUlub gUVVralir, Ul, UlgaldJU4L1UiUII U1s5S bybLviks, ubUU nlm% U  IV"UUUWIrg.
U- ti MaL.uia CvaluatLonLII vandr one ofachalnuual baElance sheet;
* Contributions made by insured members are only to be used for pension purposes
* Coverage of a minimum number of insured members;
* Coverage provided exclusively to civil servants and pacts or consortiums between
public agencies are strictly prohibited;
* Establishment of an individualized accounting registrvy
* Consolidation of disability and retirement payments via financial statements and
* Subject to internal and external control agencies of actuarial, accounting, financial,
oudgetary, and pautimoual inspeciions and audits;
* PSP Systems forbidden to provide benefits differing from those of the General
Social Benefits Regime.
This law also establishes certain modifications regarding limits to pension benefits expenditures of
state agencies:
-54 -



* It prohibits the establishment and maintenance of PSP systems by those
municipalities whose own direct collection revenues do not exceed revenues from the
national government, with the exception of those cases of municipalities which had
establish.ed a PSP systpmr nrior ft piulicatino n  tfthe luaw in nlipetintn
Contributions made by the Federal, State, District and Municipalities to their
respective PSP Systems should not exceed twice ihe contribution of tie insured.
(beginning 01/01/2002);
* Net outlays for inactive and retired personnel covered by PSP Systems should not
exceed 12% of their current net income (beginning 01/01/2002).
With respect to exvenditure control it established the following:
* The Financial and budgetary statements of the Federal, State and Municipal
Govermnents should be published for a period of 30 days following the close of each
bimester. Such statements should nresent total nension incomes and outlavs and
accumulations per financial exercise. In the event that the statements were to reveal
n.on=conna 0.in1 nxperA1.-u. lir.+c. 00tb1ished via Tow n 07!'7, anyans
taken (revisions, adjustments, adaptations) that would promote an increase in pension
outiays would be rendered nuli and void;
* Municipalities with population under 50,000 inhabitants will be permitted to
publish their financial statements up to 30 days following the close of each semester;
* State agencies should adjust their cost-benefit projections in those cases where the
limits established in the above cited Law are surpassed, to ensure that the established
limits are complied with in the subsequent financial exercise.
VY iLUl LVDV_,  LV 5J!IL2ALJIIU.
-  .KTone    r.., by  .L-n'A1 Q+..+_, a.d ?tn.cipal -Ager.is of +- -.-.o
I ~UII AIpMaI . Y i Jy %I u   JLcu   aLV,  `U   JL L&"ILUUJVijJU  U51AJ.   ul'.J  L.  F'JIUv L'JIj
established in Law n° 9.717 will result in the enforcement of the following penalties,
beginning 01/07/99:
* Suspension of voluntary transfers of resources from the Union;
* Banning of entry into agreements, contracts, covenants or adjustments, as well as
reception of loans, financing, collateral securities, or subsidies from any Government
agencies;
*  SIRupenqinn of loans and financing originating from federal financial institutions;
* Suspension of financial compensation payments owed by the General Social
* The directors of the agency or firm managing the individual State SPS systems, as
well as members of administrative and fiscal counsels of funds governed by Law no
9.717, will be directly responsible for any infractions to said law, and thus subject to
penalties as established under Law n° 6.435, of 7115/7.
With respect to fiscal control:
-55-



* The MPAS will be responsible for:
Guiding, supervising and supporting PSP systems to ensure compliance with
provisions set forth in Law n° 9.717;
* Drafting by-laws and general provisions of said law;
*  investigating infactions, by ar c ''A;t..A cx  sna.,ar.d1~wntri nwliA.ti l rnm1tie in
cases where an infraction to the law has been revealed;
*  State SPS systems snould present all information requested by iirAS.
m.    Complementary Law no 101
Enacted on May 4, 2000, this law is also iKnown as the Fiscai Responsibility Law. It establishLes
public financial norms aimed at ensuring fiscal responsibility. This law establishes that the
governing authority should follow a series of rules associated with public financial management.
Noncompliance with such rules will result in a series of penalties to be imposed on government
entities and the responsible officials. One of the key provisions under this law is that the total
disbursement ou tlavs shoiild not exceed 50% of the national current liquid income and 60% of the
current liquid income of the states and municipalities. In the event that the required reductions
-Under U1 law le nt- LL a.clue ve tUULe gov rnmel-It agency will be unab.le t0:
: Receive ,lr+- Afem,;
*   Obtain direct or indirect securities from other agencies;
*   Undertake credit operations, with the exception of those aimed at refinancing fixed
asset debt and those geared to reducing pension outlays.
Both the Budget Execution Summary Report and The Fiscal Management Report are two
important pieces of the Fiscal Responsibility Law. On the one hand, the Summary Report is a
publication which will be released bi-monthly in tandem with a Balance Sheet statement of
pensions income and expenditures. In the final two months of the exercise this summary is to be
supplemented wnith a PSPS Actuarial Prnipet-ian. The Fiscal Management Repnort to be
published on a quarterly basis, will present expenditures and inactive personnel figures., so as to be
able tL UCIJ-lIpae tulse -wuI ulte tIIIL estab-lshed in t} e ComPlem ta.rL  y Law.
BUo' t.i abuuovve mertLLiIonied Usuinm, aries and govern.enllllt agencies' Bal,ance Shtas shouMl obey "J.w
time limits established for their publication. Noncompliance with stipulated deadlines will prevent
the agency from receiving voluntary transfers and contracting credit operations, except for those
aimed at refinancing the principal.
Three other points warrant mentioning.
* The national government will provide municipalities with technical assistance and
financial cooperation necessary to modernize their respective tributary financial,
patrimonial and pensions administrations, with a view to ensuring compliance with the
Complementary Law;
*  Art.610 reiterates tlhe conrifrnutor- chm-acter of an e ?w PSP that shniolId be
established and also that it should be managed according to acceptable accounting and
- 56 -



actuarial norms so that its financial and actuarial equilibrium are maintained.
It further establishes that infractions to the provisions of the law will be punishable
lun.der the penal code of L aw nr 1.079 of April 10, 1950; Legal Deree n° 201 of
February 27, 1967, Law no 8.429 of June 2, 1992 and any and all other pertinent
lgis Ia  Yve   AloA  A S-l A
IV. G I.rovernmentah;n DLecree NPrAS n° 4.YY9
T2  _E ___ .  IIE  I Afn -- .1 - .   l% - -0     1  ,nr1  _.   A--- -,   l%
Enacted on reoorudy OJ, I199 -anu iuumifiu viai IJeree ln 7.7iO, Ul tAugust 2O, 2000 - it
regulates the general parameters and directives encompassed in Law  n° 9.717/98 and
Complementary Law n' 101/2000.
The Secretariat of Social Welfare Assistance will be responsible for receiving the financial
statements, as well as the actuarial evaluations and projections as required by Law n° 9.717 and
the Fiscal Responsibility Law. The Secretariat will also be responsible for evaluating these and
emitting a technical opinion as to their compliance with the general parameters and directives
established in Law n° 9.717/98 and Government Decree ne 4.992/99.
This Decree also establishes penalties for directors of the state government agency or of the
managing agerncy of the PSP system. as vwell as for m,,fmrA of thep mn;atrtvP ar.d fisrca
counsels of such pension funds. Such penalties include
Warnings;
Temporary dismissal for management posts, directors, and members of
administrative and fiscal counsels.
lThe MPAS will also enjoy free access to managing units of the PSP systems and to benefits tunds,
allowing them the right to inspect any and all books, recoids, technical notes and documents.
V.    Law n° 9.796 (the Hauly Law)-Financial Compensation
Financial compensation constitutes a settlement of accounts of the National Social Security
Institute -- INSS, the Federal Government, and those states and municipalities that have their own
p-erioin rpag,nies.
lims sebLUUmnL Was ,nade n11 essab.ly WIUI Uih paage V Ulf t YYO 1 .9918 1IUUII 01 UlV Rexpub,,c
which entitled states and municipalities to establish their own individual pension systems. As a
result, many public employees who previously had fallen under the INSS pension system,
migrated instead to one of the new regimes. Upon retiring, these employees become eligible to
receive benefits from the new systems, instead of the INSS, despite contributions made to the
latter. This has resulted in a situation where states and municipalities are obliged to pay for
services they have not received nor been compensated for.
This distortion is corrected by Law n° 9.796, of May 5, 1999, also referred to as the "Hauly
- 57 -



Law", which seeks to include financial compensation in the pension regimes.
T.k.eree ato.  vo-k, for- +he abov  -.+-A l-w was set out .n Dere  r. 312/99,
I he~ 1m.WS4.U4VjL   ti me l   LXL  %41%1  (IUJVN.  .4IAA&i aw  vvc O.L  VUL  JAL ~  IL  .).I I /.f 77,
subsequently modified via Decrees no 3.217/99 and n° 6.209/99.
According to the above-mentioned legislation, for the financial compensation process to be put
into effect, a Financial Compensation Covenant (Convenio de Compensag4o Previdenciaria)
must first be entered into between the Federal Government, and the Ministry of Social Security
and Social Assistance (MPAS), with the INSS acting as intermediary.
Subsequent to contract signature, and after a cadastre of the Federal Government's pension
wb unuI..id      uJ li U1  1Va~I II IU IlIuu1uVi    Wl US JlUWSU access to
COMPREV, an IT system capable of processing and analyzing financial compensation eligibility
requirements. Tnese agencies will also have access to SISOBI, a systems database designed by
the Social Security Technology and Informations Company (DATAPREV), which maintains
death records since 1994 which accounts for an estimated 2 million deceased.
To date, approximately 400 Federal agencies have sent requests to the INSS and MPAS to be
included in the financial compensation system. Of these, a total of 263 federal agencies have
already signed Financial Compensation Covenant. Of the total number of states and municipalities
th.it have signed the cnvenant- 61 aienrie, re asirendv recevn.ivi  rnmpencntnr rPinursAes, as
illustrated in the following table.
-58 -



Additional Annex 12:
BRAZIL: Municipal Pension Reform Project
PARSEP AND PREV-MUN
~~ C? ~~~A IkTW% V '1C? C? A~%T~1 V U. A VT?
DJIFFRENCESW AND41 LESSONS LJLARi)iTE
A survey of the Bank's pension operation portfolio confirms that the Brazil State Pension Reform
LIL (BR-4369), under implementation for over two years, is the best reference point for
evaluating the Municipal Pension Reform Project (PREV-MUN). Main differences and lessons
Ipfirnp' art- mm11MMi7Pfd hPlnuW
Difference             PARSEP                 PREV-MUN           Explanation/LessonsLearned]
Ii Nnip,-4 ftn,-J  i.11T qtsktfP t,1ipme f~n1inr-wnn kI ZT - Ait rn-')  IDO PUAM TM  - .- -  ir- a T IT 
I !                         ~       ..tL.f.a .....*...               A... va ...u.  .J   A...perafions.would  Y02   tar  t.f
client/follow-on  operations would likely be in  capitallarge      but lack of CY0 2 counterpart funding
operation        individual state(s)       Imunicinalities: follow-on  and new- retnrctive T.I. gmidelineq
would be up-scaling to  mitigated in favor of a 4-year SIL.
I                 I                         l additional municioalities IPARSEP LIL has been excellent
vehicle for piloting and confirming
utility of pension management reformI
lapproach.l
12. Client        Termos de adesao committingl Cmmitment letters from  In PARSEP the action plans were
agreements (      stat to compliance with loan mayors are required  paper documents, soon became
"termos de adesao" requirements were obtained  during preparation.  obsolete, and the state convenios
) and action plans  during preparation and  Action plans will be   provided little link to specific
preceded action plans which  developed during early  commitments. PREV-MUTN will
were required for         stages of implementation  attempt to make the individual action
disbursement. Plans were  with consultant support  plans meaningful documents linking
cuonstrained by PARSEP'S  and convenios wiii roliow, tnem to municipai convenios and
strict sequencing of      both being a condition of providing for updating as needed.
,.;vities.                                      rl?...lb-ul,n. I ,, ciI  V -iVIU1N plans win uciinc 1or eacn d
plans will determine   municipality the sequencing (see
I  I  sequencing.     'beL..,I ad b.ence ... be1 r..o.-  I
I   I                      I                      l~~~~~~~~~      ~~               ~~~~~important.I
L  LEal ,p.-i^p-gt  I Tpemc required in a!.
teams            and not always a part ofthe  be influential figure withindid not work. Ownership and effective
nIpensio-n agenev and/arwith  fern-ninn agtency and  imnpntatinn reqnuire stabhlishing i
|sufficientinfluence to  |selectedbymayor/agency Icoordinators'and teams withinrelevant
I                | influence vroiect        I head. The team must be lagencies and ensuring their authoritv.
|                |implementation.           part of the agency.                            t  r
14. Sequencina   IPARSEP had 3 distinct.    I Activities will not be  IMunicinal differences and ther--pid
components and   sequenced phases-cadastre/ rigidly sequenced,     evolution of reforms mitigate against
triggers        |actuarial diagnostic/ reform  individual municipalies  rigid sequencing with trigger
framework-with triggers for will do action plans  conditions.
I                {moving from one to the other. determining sequencing  I
This scheme became        and there will be no
problematic owing to the fast triggers. For instance,
I            I~~~~~pace of national pension  Igiven the new legal ll
reform and state differences. requirement for actuarial
I                II
Phases were merged in some Ianalysis, some states may
- 59 -



|                 | states and in others were paid choose to undertake this
for from own resources.   activity prior to cadastre
Phase #3 was largely       upgrade.
s-uperseded by legal reormis.
t5. B^~I             c        ,or licue in _____________ wth M:.andiApp,rop riateness of basic com ........pone.n.ts I
I   -flo,, 1- Io,   inplu,ApA ;~PADIZIP uA1h  IA. +,.,,.A n,ni nrnnf
componients-:                                                 lcaeexcellent results; DEPSP  PREV-MUN. Special care corroborated. Constant travel of
acafnqtr- *graie-I b-a'sed 50nsultant  t    takeo in assuring       PARSRP team to implement loans and
actuarial         prvddtcncl sitneaalbi-ity of financing            overcome -diffic-ulties wias recognized
diaenostic, legal  and the team traveled    for frequent team trips  as critical. PREV-MUN structured
assistance, training, constantly to states to provide               loan similarly and great care was taken
workshops        I assistance                                      Ito ensure adequate resources for traveli
16_ Training     1     E  b         mto municipalities.
16. Training     |PARSEP budgeted minor    | More DEPSP training    There is a huge need to find more
|training of DEPSP staff   ($90,000); DEPSP       |permanent training venues/vehicles.|
coupled with DEPSP         sponsored forums plus  j and training that can reach larger
sponsored training workshops training provided in the  numbers of state and municipal staff .
for 2 state officials. At MTR  municipalities becomes a  Both operations are collaborating to
needfor permanent training   major component and part find a solution to this problem which is
venue and training of state  of an effort to identify a  exacerbated by the absence of a public
teams was recognizea ana   pernanent training     service pension career patt ana tne
|budgeted.                 |venue.                lack of specialized courses.
7. Cadastre       unginally rAKxtir          I otai cadastre upgraae  S,ub-nanonai governments have strong9
Upgrade          Icontemplated working with a will be supported. Care  cost/benefit incentives to upgrade
s I                  l zed;I,J-/O saiu,pf         t wxen-eusu[uzrlPr  caUiLsires. MaJor instiJiu a  and
|            | ~~~~"Compensacao Finaniceira"  | ffcals can travel to  |problems in centralizingpnsos n 
|            I ~~~and new le-s.latim. fiae - ,4- .A ,cpltiswe  -l    A rs -dn data bage c:r-veepce
states to undertake pension  needed. Flexibility  and the solution seems to be
I                 Ireform so loan ended up  I a!!owed in Renli"    nnntini o   nre_enne of
supporting comprehensive   budgeting.            |help resolve 'turf' problems, promote
I  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I            l~~~~upgrade and states    I                      Iprrogram benefits and urgeI
supplemented PARSEP with                          implementation.
}            l~~~~own resources, Serious lll
problems encountered with  |
resistance to centralizing  l                     I
(executive, legislative,
judiciary, others) pension datal
bases/management. There is
also a problem with data
'base/payroll being separate
I                |     from the pension agency.  |                  l
Constant intervention or
DEPSP was required.       l
I  ,<o     atwhichilopweint of SIPREV.......
| | ~~~~adopted by states. ||.......l
Modules          Iinitially lumped under IT  training and development strong sub-national demand and are
usp,,ort anrud the reporting of I of new modwlel,s) isa  fimt --m-nt2l Lw DEP PIAPA
|  data to MIPAS was       pillar of the operation.  |carry out its mandate to monitor,
I  downnlaved owing to lack of I                   Ievaluate- and validate performance I
|I| GOB mandate to intervene in                                     j SIPREV and modules are
-60 -



I                 Imunicipalities. SIPREV and                      1 |'revolutionizing' pension management|
modules grew out of state                         and will need to be strongly supported
demand and realization of  Iby both loans. Demand will outgrow
their imnportance as                              DEPSP capacity to service clients
management tools. Resources                       hence maintenance will need to be
were reallocated and SIPREV                       spun off to private organization(s).
now constitutes a major
component.l                      
9. SIPREV &      I PROST courses were given  |PROST not a part of loan |Ownership, customized technical 
PROST             and PROST was expected to  having been substituted by treatment and servicing/upgrade
be used by states and MPAS  SIPREV and its modules. require a domestically produced
to perform diagnostics.                           software which is possibie in a
Brazil's specific needs and                       sophisticated country like Brazil.
difficuity of
servicing/adapting PROST
.relyugufioiWsigo
I             .12...I l uul VlbITtl
based staff a'problem.    l
PROST impo or.... Wt t.o1SPRn
development and served
I   IeAnogiral f Pnetinn                         I                                 It
Ilonger used.              l                      l                                 l
II0   egl         l(-r-iot-nn! P-ARseP.Phnce;X3lMnPhsaq-e#3l         IP n iiotinn fthe. mtronn]frnm.ewnrk -
Organizational    wouldsupport legal        envisioned. Rather, l  renders legislative reform component
Iframework development in 7  iudicial consultants belobsolete.      assistance is
|  advanced states. However,  |employed to assist  needed and can be provided through
I the evolution of national  I municipalities to  I DEPSP based staff. "CRP" website
reforms rendered the      understand and comply   contributes to transparency,
I                Icomponent obsolete. Legal  jwith legal requirements.  icommunications.
|technicalassistance provided |
|                |through DEPSP based staff  I                     I
with help of CRP website
presenting sub-national legal |                  l                                 l
|            I~~~~regime and validation. ll
III. Workshops&     orkshops (2) projected to  Workshops (2) maintainedt Workshops are successful and popular
Dissemination/   foliow each completed phase. I but timing is flexible;  Imediums for addressing stakeholders
Publications      Publication and dissemination| specific budget provided  and promoting reform agendas. Local
of technical studies, laws, ioar ror federal and iocai  impact greater with iocai
information and best practice, preparation of materials  publications. Debilitating lack of
I                 L.. _1                                           1                             I_. .  _  l I
e t1c. IU:LLdLU fi   dlf iAd L  L uIU u-1tlllLUdl  L  MLcuula, puubLtdlUllU at ILILUa LVi
need and funids reallocated fori publications now a major Iis being addressed by loans.
I                   _
Isp.hk  |   SPS/IP cor.ponnDD         t   . I-
- 61 -



ro
(N
os
1
er
CII)
Q
*:
1-
C9 >,
a-, 1



