Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4673-BR 
 
Loan Agreement
 
(Municipal Pension Reform Project) 
 
between 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 16, 2003 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4673-BR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 16, 2003, between the FEDERATIVE 
REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) upon the terms 
and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) “MPS” 
means 
Ministério da Previdência Social
,
the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Social Security; 
 
(b) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual, dated December 7, 2001, 
which contains, inter alia, the operational procedures for the carrying out of the Project, 
the requirements for a municipality to become a Participating Municipality, and the 
model form for Subsidiary Agreements; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(c) 
“Participating Municipality” means any of the Borrower’s 26 
municipalities, to be selected by the Borrower among the capitals of the Borrower’s 
states, as a first priority, and the 50 largest municipalities in the territory of the Borrower, 
which meet the requirements set forth in the Operational Manual to benefit from Part B 
of the Project; 
(d) 
“PCU” means the unit within the Executive Secretariat of MPS, 
established pursuant to MPS’s 
Portaria 
No. 8486, dated October 25, 2000, which will be 
assigned, as provided in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement, responsibility for managing 
and coordinating the carrying out of Project activities, including Project financial 
management, procurement and disbursement activities; 
(e) 
“SIPREV” means s
istema integrado de informações previdenciárias
,
the 
software developed by MPS which provides a comprehensive format for an electronic 
data base adequate for pension related reporting, actuarial and diagnostic purposes; 
(f) 
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;  
(g) 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement; 
(h) 
“Training and Publication Services” means the services of firms to be 
employed to organize training activities or to effect the publication of training materials 
or municipal pension reform materials under the Project; and 
(i) 
“UT” means the unit referred to in Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to five million 
Dollars ($5,000,000). 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, consultants' services and training activities required for the Project and to 
Page  4
-
3
-
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and in respect of the front-end fee referred to 
in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(b) 
T
he Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06.  (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in single currency 
for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of 
the initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Page  5
-
4
-
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as 
a
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan, as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the LIBOR Base Rate and the 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower  
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07.  Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09.  The Borrower’s Minister of Social Security and any person or 
persons he or she may designate in writing are designated as representatives of the 
Borrower for the purpose of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE III
 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project, through MPS with the assistance of the Participating Municipalities, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and 
social security practices, and the provisions of the Operational Manual, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through MPS, shall enter into an agreement, satisfactory 
to the Bank, with each Participating Municipality (the Subsidiary Agreement), whereby: 
(i) the Borrower will undertake to make available to such Participating Municipality the 
technical assistance and goods under Part B of the Project as shall be required to enable 
such Municipality to carry out its activities under Part B of the Project; and (ii) such 
Participating Municipality will declare its commitment to the objective of the Project and 
will undertake to carry out such activities and to collaborate with the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Project as set forth or referred to in this Loan Agreement (including 
the Operational Manual). 
(c) 
The Borrower shall comply with its obligations and exercise its rights 
under the Subsidiary Agreements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail 
to enforce the Subsidiary Agreements or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods, 
Training and Publication Services and consultants’ services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall, during the execution of the Project, maintain 
the PCU and the UT with a structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, and with 
qualified staff in adequate numbers as required to carry out their respective 
responsibilities under the Project, including, in the case of the PCU, with technical 
assistance, satisfactory to the Bank, in respect of the procurement activities under the 
Project. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the letter, 
dated May 15, 2002, from the MPS to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objective thereof; and 
(b) 
review with the Bank, on the 24th month after the Effective Date, or such 
later date as the Bank shall request, the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of such review, based on the monitoring and 
evaluation activities referred to in paragraph (a) above, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said review. 
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the objective of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system in 
the PCU, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures of 
the Borrower related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
Page  8
-
7
-
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such financial statements, records, accounts and report of such 
audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
financial statements, records and accounts, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02.  (a) The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial 
monitoring report, in form and substance acceptable to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
Page  9
-
8
-
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first such report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days 
after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each such report shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.
 
ARTICLE V 
Effectiveness; Termination
 
Section 5.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement, within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a) 
the Borrower, through MPS, has formally defined, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank, the responsibilities of the PCU in respect of the Project;  
(b) 
the Borrower has established, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, a unit 
(the UT) in the Secretariat of Social Security of MPS with responsibility for assisting the 
PCU and the Participating Municipalities in all technical aspects related to the carrying out 
of the Project, and for providing technical assistance on pension matters to the 
Participating Municipalities; and 
(c) 
the PCU has obtained assistance, satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out 
the procurement activities under the Project. 
Section 5.02.  The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion to 
Page  10
-
9
-
be furnished to the Bank, namely, that this Agreement has been validly registered with the 
Central Bank of Brazil. 
Section 5.03.  The date January 15, 2004, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 For 
the 
Borrower: 
 
Ministério da Fazenda 
 
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “P” - 8
°
andar 
 
70048-900 Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 412-1740 
 
With copies to: 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5
°
andar 
 
70040-906 Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 225-4022 
Page  11
-
10 -
Ministério da Previdência Social 
 
Secretaria de Previdência Social 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “F” - 7
°
andar 
 
70059-900 Brasília, D.F. 
 Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 317-5195 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  12
-
11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the city of Brasília, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
By /s/ Ana Lúcia Gatto de Oliveira 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Vinod Thomas 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
Witnessed by: 
 
/s/ Ricardo José Ribeiro Berzoini 
Ministro da Previdência Social 
 
Page  13
-
12 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Goods 
  442,000 
80% 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ services 
 
2,898,000 
84% 
 
(3) Training 
 1,099,000 
30% 
 
(4) 
Front-end fee 
 
50,000 
Amount due 
 
pursuant to  
 
Section 2.04 of 
 
this Agreement 
 
(5) Unallocated 
511,000 
 
_______ 
 
TOTAL                  
5,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “training” includes reasonable travel 
costs and per diems of trainees, and Training and Publication Services. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $300,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within twelve months before the 
date of this Agreement; and 
Page  14
-
13 -
(b) 
expenditures in respect of a Participating Municipality, unless such 
Municipality has entered into a Subsidiary Agreement with the Borrower. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures regarding goods, consultants' 
services and training that are not subject to prior review by the Bank pursuant to Section 
I, Part C.2, and Section II, Part D.2, of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  15
-
14 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to upgrade the management of municipal pension 
systems in Brazil. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Institutional Strengthening of MPS
1. 
Provision of technical assistance to MPS in the areas of information technology, 
actuarial science, pension legislation, and project and financial management, and 
acquisition and utilization of computer equipment and software to enable MPS to assist 
municipalities in the upgrading of the management of their pension systems. 
2. 
Carrying out of training workshops for staff of the Participating Municipalities 
and other stakeholders, and publication of a technical series to disseminate laws, 
regulations, best practices and other materials relevant to pension management. 
3. 
Carrying out of studies on: (a) pension fund asset management; and (b) needs 
evaluation and strategy for assisting municipalities operating their own pension systems. 
4. 
Carrying out of a training program for MPS staff in best practices in pension 
systems’ management. 
5. 
Provision of technical assistance for the installation, maintenance and upgrade of 
SIPREV, and refinement, development and implementation of new modules for SIPREV.  
Part B
:
Institutional Strengthening of Municipal Pension Management
1. 
Provision of small hardware and software packages to each Participating 
Municipality in order to enable such Participating Municipality to be linked to, and 
operate, SIPREV. 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance for the upgrading of the cadastre of pensioners 
of each Participating Municipality. 
Page  16
-
15 -
3. 
Carrying out of an actuarial evaluation of the pension liabilities of each 
Participating Municipality, and development of proposals for achieving actuarial balance 
and reforming the pension system of each Participating Municipality. 
4. 
Carrying out of at least one workshop on municipal pension system reform, and 
development and dissemination of pension materials to stakeholders, in each 
Participating Municipality. 
5. 
Carrying out of training in pension management to staff of each Participating 
Municipality. 
*** 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006. 
Page  17
-
16 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)
*
On each June 15 and December 15 
 
beginning December 15, 2007  
 
through June 15, 2017 
 
 
 
        250,000
 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
Page  18
-
17 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Training and Publication Services
Part A
:
General
Goods and Training and Publication Services shall be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines), and the following 
provisions of this Section. 
Part B
:
Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods and Training and Publication Services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.  Standard bidding documents, satisfactory to the Bank, shall be 
used in the procurement of goods under this Part B.1. 
 
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement to be undertaken 
pursuant to this Part B.1: 
 
(a) 
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been 
determined to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price 
and, whenever appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those 
referred to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid 
evaluation shall always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and 
the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid; 
 
(b) 
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be 
advertised for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in 
Brazil; 
 
(c) 
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(consórcios)
 of
Brazilian 
 and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by 
the Bank in each case; 
Page  19
-
18 -
(d) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance 
of bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and 
 (e) 
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank’s prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or other 
terms and conditions of sale. 
2. Shopping 
or 
Pregão
Goods and Training and Publication Services, estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $650,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of: (a) either national or international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines, and a standard request for quotations acceptable to the Bank; or (b) the 
procedures known as “
pregão
,”
set forth in the Borrower’s 
Decreto
 No. 3555, of August 
8, 2000, as amended by 
Decreto
 No. 3693, of December 20, 2000. 
Part C
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitation to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Such plan shall be updated every six months during the execution of the 
Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval.  Procurement of all goods and Training and Publication Services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan (as updated from time to time) as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply to the first three contracts to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part B.1 
above. 
Page  20
-
19 -
3. Post 
Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply to the review by the Bank of any contract not governed by the provisions of 
paragraph 2 above. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, and Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions 
of this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Consultants’ 
Qualifications
The services of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Single Source Selection
Consulting firms’ services for training activities costing not more than $100,000 
equivalent in the aggregate may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Page  21
-
20 -
Consultants' services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 
5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, costing not more than $500,000 in the aggregate, shall 
be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions 
of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank, for its review and approval, prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals. Such plan shall be updated every six months during the 
execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs  2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of the candidates, or the qualifications 
and experience of the candidate in the case of sole source selection, as well as the terms 
of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said 
approval shall have been given. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
SCHEDULE 5 
Page  22
-
21 -
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, consultants’ services and training activities required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to 
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $250,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall equal or exceed the amount of $1,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
Page  23
-
22 -
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
`
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
Page  24
-
23 -
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
