                     INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET
                                  APPRAISAL STAGE

I. Basic Information
Date prepared/updated: 04/28/2005                                      Report No.: AC741

1. Project Statistics
Country: Brazil                               Project ID: P082142
Project Name: Ceara Multi-sector Development APL
Task Team Leader: Chris Parel
Estimated Appraisal Date: May 9, 2005         Estimated Board Date: June 16, 2005
Managing Unit: LCSPS                          Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program
                                              Loan
Sector: Central government administration (50%);Sub-national government
administration (50%)
Theme: Decentralization (P)
IBRD Amount (US$m.):           149.00
IDA Amount (US$m.):              0.00
GEF Amount (US$m.):              0.00
PCF Amount (US$m.):              0.00
Other financing amounts by source:
        BORROWER                                                         500.00
                                                                         500.00
Environmental Category: A - Full Assessment
Simplified Processing                         Simple []             Repeater []
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery)          Yes [ ]     No [X]

2. Project Objectives
The principal objectives of the CE APL are to achieve Ceara's fiscal sustainability and
social inclusion goals. This will be achieved through support of nine line item budget
programs in six key sectors and the judicious use of disbursement conditions and APL#2
triggers to ensure results-based outcomes.

3. Project Description
The Ceara Multi-Sector Reform APL supports, through funding and capacity building,
key programs across sectors, which contribute importantly to the State's development
agenda. Nine Eligible Expenditure Programs (EEP) covering six key sectors are being
supported by the operation.

 Nine Critical Eligible Expenditure Programs (EEP)

 Human Development Axis
 (i)    Strengthening and Expansion of Primary Health Care (~$20 million/year)
supports 10,500 Health Agents (Agente de Saude), the Family Dental Program, and the
provision of basic pharmaceuticals to municipalities. This is the Government's most
important vehicle for delivering health services to the poor and in the interior.

 (ii)   Strengthening of Secondary and Tertiary Health Care-- "Health Closer to You"
(~$26 million/year) promotes access of the population to institutionally and technically
better managed, maintained and provisioned health care units including regional
hospitals, clinics, and emergency care units. This is the largest program and supports the
State's network of healthcare facilities.
 (iii) Basic Standards for School Functioning (~$20 million/year) covers cost
management and maintenance of pedagogical standards in State schools, basic school
materials, rehabilitation and maintenance, vehicles and maintenance, and the illiteracy
program for those older than 15 years of age. This is the main program for supporting
state school system operations.
 (iv)   Progressive Universalization of Rural and Urban High School Education (~$5
million/year) funds rehabilitation and maintenance of high schools, assurance of physical
standards, materials, maintenance, and rehabilitation and contracting of temporary
teachers. The states, under the Brazilian Constitution, are responsible for high school
education.
 (v)    Coordination and General Maintenance--Support to Municipal Schools (FUNDEF
Program)--(~$145 million/year)--this is a Federally required State transfer to Municipal
schools that goes to support teachers and physical infrastructure. It funds municipal
systems which are responsible for most primary education.

 Sustainable Resource Management Axis
 (i)    Urban Water and Health (~$6 million/year) funds increase in urban water supply,
especially among poorer populations.
 (ii)   Urban Sanitation (~$10 million/year) funds increase in urban sanitation coverage,
especially among poorer populations.
 (iii)  Water Basins Conveyance System (Castanhao Dam--Fortaleza Metropolitan
Region) (~$18 million/year) is the critical water work for supplying the Fortaleza
Metropolitan Region and that will eventually also provide water to 200,000 farmers and
276 rural communities.
 (iv)   Biodiversity Program--"PROBIO"($3 million/year) constitutes the single largest
environmental program in Ceara and funds management of protected areas and related
programs in key biomes, licensing, monitoring, inspection and natural resource
management.

 The operation is an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) using a Sector Wide Approach
(SWAp) modality. Loan disbursements will be against pooled EEP expenditures using a
disbursement percentage of up to 35%. Loan proceeds will be disbursed to the State
Treasury.

 The Ceara APL supports State and Bank priorities through:
 -     disbursements against EEP expenditures and a requirement that at least 70% of
projected EEP budgets are actually expended
 -      conditions of disbursement requiring satisfaction of primary surplus and loan
portfolio implementation benchmarks
 -      conditions of disbursement requiring satisfaction of 13 benchmarks linked to the
EEP across the six target sectors

 -      APL#2 triggers linked to the EEP across the six target sectors.

 Notwithstanding the fact that the CE APL does not disburse funds directly to sector
programs and makes use of important sectoral conditions of disbursement, it makes use
of the investment lending instrument and disburses against expenditures. Hence the
targeting of EEP and sector activities triggers the requirement that the operation perform
due diligence to ensure that Bank safeguard policies are satisfied. It should also be
clarified that these EEP are specific line item budget programs whose content and
purpose are specific to the achievement to limited and identifiable objectives and EEP
expenditures for each program are captured and reported by the accounting system. In
other words, the CE APL is supporting specific programs and not the reform of entire
sectors.

4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard
analysis
Location: Ceara, Brazil

 Ceara State confronts huge poverty and development challenges. Ninety-eight percent
of its area is categorized as caatinga, an arid, thorny, dry vegetation biome that suffers
serious draughts on average once every four years. The population living in northeastern
Brazil's caatinga is considered the poorest in Brazil. The region is marked by low
educational levels, high infant mortality and a paucity of social and physical
infrastructure and basic services. About 70% of Ceara's population live in the caatinga.
The remainder is crowded into the narrow coastal strip.

 Ceara is poor in absolute terms and relative to many other Brazilian states. Its absolute
ranking across states hovers generally around #16-17 depending upon the index being
used. However, a recent study by the Government's research institute, IPEA, affirms that
of Brazil's 26 states Ceara is the one that has progressed most in the social area over the
decade 1993-2003.

5. Environmental and Social Specialists on the Team
Mr Daniel R. Gross (LCSFT)


6. Safeguard Policies Triggered                                Yes         No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                           X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                   X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                       X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                  X
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   X
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                               X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                           X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                     X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                           X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                    X

II. Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management

A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues

1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project.
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:
Only some of the project components involve safeguard issues (as described below). The
project has an A rating solely because of the WRM component, which involves additional
funding for an existing Bank funded category A project, for which due diligence has
already been done (while all other project components correspond in fact to B or C
ratings).

 As already mentioned, the CE APL is designated a Category "A" project owing
exclusively to the fact that it co-finances one component of another Category "A" Bank-
financed project. In all other respects, the Ceara Multi-Sector APL would be categorized
a "B" under the Bank's Environmental Assessment policy (OP/BP 4.01) because of their
more limited potential environmental and social impacts. More specifically, the "A"
designation stems from the inclusion in the CE APL of, an EEP to be financed by the
loan that comprises counterpart funding for the Bank operation "Ceara State Water
Resources Integrated Management Program" ("PROGERIRH", BR-PE6449). This loan
was approved by the Board in 1999 at which time full due diligence was performed as
required of Category "A" projects. Documentation is available in project files attesting to
this and project supervision confirms that in fact the client is in compliance with Bank
safeguard policies and commitments undertaken at the time of project approval and
signing. Continuing supervision of PROGERIRH safeguard policies will be relied upon
to verify that Bank safeguards are being respected throughout the life of the loan. The
applicability of Bank Safeguards is summarized in the table below and detailed in
subsequent sections of this document.

 Safeguards issues by project component

 1. Public Sector Modernization Sector - No safeguard policies triggered.
 2. Education Sector - No safeguard policies triggered. The programs do not include
civil works, only capacity-building, maintenance, and operation activities with no
safeguard impacts.
 3. Culture Sector - No safeguard policies triggered. A study is the only activity,
completion of which is an APL#2 trigger condition
 4. Water Resource Management Sector - This is an "A" Category component. Full due
diligence was already completed as a condition of approval and supervision during
implementation confirms that Bank safeguards are being adhered to.
 5. Health Sector - Environment policy triggered only for medical waste. Regarding the
535EEP (Secondary and tertiary Health care) - there are no civil works.Bank evaluation
of medical waste disposal indicates that laws and regulations are adequate but there is
need for in-depth analysis of enforcement. Medical waste disposal is a relatively minor
problem in EEP 536 (Primary Health Care) but will be diagnosed together with EEP 535.
 6. Environmental Sector - The only safeguard triggered would be in the eventuality that
the creation of new parks in the caatinga biome would trigger involuntary resettlement
concerns under OP/BP 4.12. The Natural Habitats Safeguard OP/BP 4.04 is not triggered

as protected area creation will preserve critical habitats from degradation or conversion.
No indigenous communities will be affected by new park creation hence OD 4.20 is not
triggered.
 7. Water & Sanitation Sector - EEP 583 (Urban Water): This triggers environmental
safeguards OP/BP 4.01 for the three programs, SANEAR II (IDB), KfW, and Projeto
Alvorado (GOB) included in the project. No resettlement is expected. EEP 584 (Urban
sanitation): Same as above except that a limited SANEAR II resettlement in Fortaleza
triggers OP/BP 4.12.

2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area:
N/A

3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize
adverse impacts.
The rationale for explaining the selection of EEPs vs others. The CE APL is making use
of a results-based Sector Wide Approach (SWAp) loan modality to support nine key
government programs in five targeted line sectors. The sixth sector addressed by the
loan, Public Sector Management, functions as an 'umbrella'sector and impacts on the
other programs and sectors through its results-based management initiatives. The nine
Eligible Expenditure Programs (EEP) have been selected because they are operationally
linked to the State's key development goals and priority sector benchmarks. Each EEP
constitutes a significant budget allocation. Hence, increased management efficiency and
incorporation of targets will benefit the programs, sectors and the State. The choice of
EEPs also ensures that with relatively small annual disbursements of around $50 million,
the loan will leverage some $250 million in annual EEP expenditures--ensuring EEP
expenditure levels and the achievement of priority benchmarks. Hence the loan will
mobilize significant reform and institutional strengthening efforts while guiding and
supporting the State's basic development agenda.

 While no loan funds flow directly to the EEP or sectors--disbursement is to the State
Treasury--the loan establishes annual required expenditure levels for each EEP. In this
way the loan safeguards key EEP, assures timely release of resources by the central
government, and forges a partnership between the Secretaries of Planning and Finance
and line Secretaries who must spend budget resources and produce the results that will
guarantee further loan disbursements. Without the loan and its disbursement conditions it
is very likely that the Government's development and reform agendas would simply not
be achieved.

4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
Measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. The borrower has
taken several measures to ensure that Bank supported activities are managed in
compliance with the safeguard policies. The assessments and arrangements are included
in the project's Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF), which is
covered in the Project Appraisal Document, the draft Loan Agreement, and has been

agreed by the government of Ceara and published on Government websites in its entirety
in Portuguese (http://www.ipece.ce.gov.br/).

 Mitigating Measures/ Process Framework by project component

 1. Public Sector Modernization Sector - N/A
 2. Education Sector - N/A.
 3. Culture Sector - N/A. No safeguard policies triggered. A study is the only activity,
completion of which is an APL#2 trigger condition. Should an historic center project be
funded under APL#2 it will be subject to Bank safeguards review under OPN 11.03.
 4. Water Resource Management Sector - This is an "A" Category component. Full due
diligence was already completed. The CE APL will rely upon ongoing PROGERIRH
supervision to ensure safeguard compliance. Non-compliance would result in removal of
the WRM component from the EEP.
 5. Health Sector - Environment policy triggered only for medical waste.
 -      Regarding the 535EEP (Secondary and tertiary Health care)- there are no civil
works. Bank evaluation of medical waste disposal indicates that laws and regulations are
adequate but there is need for in-depth analysis of enforcement. A framework has been
agreed by the State whereby (i) Federal and State guidelines regarding medical waste
disposal will be resent to hospitals and clinics and stepped up monitoring and reporting
will be required of them; (ii) an in-depth evaluation to be carried out following an already
agreed upon TOR will be undertaken during loan implementation and an action plan
developed; (iii) implementation of the action plan and attendant investments will be a
condition for inclusion of Health within APL#2.
 -      Medical waste disposal is a relatively minor problem in EEP 536 (Primary Health
Care) but will be diagnosed together with EEP 535. Same as above. Primary health care
facility disposal of medical waste will be diagnosed as part of the study alluded to above.
 6. Environmental Sector - The only safeguard triggered would be in the eventuality that
the creation of new parks in the caatinga biome would trigger involuntary resettlement
concerns under OP/BP 4.12. A Resettlement Policy Framework (for physical
resettlement) and a Process Framework (for limitations on access to assets) have been
developed and agreed by the client, approved by the Bank and duly published. These
frameworks are detailed below. Carrying out the tenets of the agreement is a State
obligation and non-compliance would result in the removal of the environmental
component from the loan.
 7. Water & Sanitation Sector -
 -      EEP 583 (Urban Water): This triggers environmental safeguards OP/BP 4.01 for
the three programs, SANEAR II (IDB), KfW, and Projeto Alvorado (GOB) included in
the project. No resettlement is expected. The Bank has determined that due diligence and
the process framework adopted for SANEAR II works fully meets Bank safeguard
standards. The SANEAR II framework will be extended to KfW and Alvorada ensuring
that those programs'framework is also adequate. To harmonize Bank and IDB approach,
the Bank will accept SANEAR II's framework and verify its implementation, relying
upon IDB/CAGECE documents and site visits.

 -      EEP 584 (Urban sanitation): Same as above except that a limited SANEAR II
resettlement in Fortaleza triggers OP/BP 4.12. The Bank has reviewed the resettlement
program and found it to be satisfactory and in compliance with Bank safeguards.

 Assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. It
should be noted that the operation benefits the State by ensuring safeguards compliance
over a multi-sectoral agglomeration of programs. It should also be noted that Ceara has
been the first or second largest Brazilian state Bank borrower for a decade. Current
portfolio projects include loans for WRM, education, rural poverty reduction, and a
Federal urban transit project. Also, an urban/WSS project closed last year and a follow-
up project, which will stress regional development, has recently been approved by the
Federal Government. The State also participates in many of the Federal projects that
constitute 50% of the Brazilian portfolio. Consequently, the Bank knows well Ceara's
institutional capacity to manage safeguard policies. In some areas, such as resettlement
policy, the State is considered to be good or best practice in Brazil.

5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Because this is a multi-sectoral project a special effort has been made to identify and craft
a consultations process that targeted specific civil society and sector stakeholders with
appropriate communications. In fact, each sector is characterized by a unique situation
according to the CE APL initiatives to be undertaken and requires a targeted
consultations program. The Ceara Government has committed to carry out the following
program to optimize consultations and ensure anyone needing information regarding the
operation can obtain it readily.

 General Consultations and Communications Plan. The Project Implementation Unit
will be responsible for formulating and implementing the Government's General
Consultations and Communications Plan which will have as overarching objectives: (i)
ensuring availability of relevant information to civil society, and (ii) implementing a
referral system for inquiries regarding the project. These same procedures will also be
followed during APL#2. To carry out this Plan the following actions will be undertaken:

 (i)    Making available relevant information. The GOC will establish a website for
project related information within 3 months of Loan Agreement effectiveness that
includes the following information:
 -      Project description and key project documents including project components and
the Environmental Plan (this annex)
 -      cross reference information for the PROGERIRH project all available project
documents bearing upon Safeguard compliance and where they can be obtained plus the
names and contacts of key State and World Bank officials involved in project
implementation.
 -      cross reference information for the Water and Sanitation component similar
information for the four institutions funding the EEP work: IDB, KfW, CEF and
FUNASA.
 -      project Implementation Unit contact numbers and individuals

 -     contact information for informed individuals in each Secretary that can respond to
specific questions regarding project status in the relevant sector
 -     email address for written inquiries that will be responded to by the PIU or referred
to knowledgeable Secretarial staff for response
 -     periodic project status reports.

 (ii)  Providing an effective referral system for project inquiries. The Project
Implementation Unit will undertake the following to ensure that inquiries regarding the
project are directed to easily accessible, knowledgeable individuals:
 -     a circular describing the project and providing the requisite information on
websites and referrals will be sent to relevant Government employees throughout the
State for discussion and posting
 -     "point persons" will be identified in each relevant Secretary who will be
competent to respond to inquiries on the project and/or provide referral contacts.
 -     a workshop will be held for the point persons in the Secretaries to provide project
documentation and discuss the project and issues of communications with the public
 -     the project will be announced in Ceara newspapers and on the relevant
Government websites and emails will be sent to relevant civil society associations and
organizations providing contact information at Loan Agreement effectiveness and after
12 months of activity.



B. Disclosure Requirements Date

Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other:
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                     03/22/2005
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                                 03/22/2005
  Date of submission to InfoShop                                  04/27/2005
  For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive
                                                                  04/21/2005
  Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process:
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                     03/22/2005
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                                 03/22/2005
  Date of submission to InfoShop                                  04/27/2005
Safety of Dams:
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                     03/22/2005
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                                 03/22/2005
  Date of submission to InfoShop                                  04/27/2005
* If the project triggers the Pest Management, Cultural Property and/or the Safety
of Dams policies, the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of
the Environmental Assessment/Audit/or EMP.
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please
explain why:

C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting)

OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report?             Yes
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit review and approve the EA      Yes
report?
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the         Yes
credit/loan?
OP/BP 4.04 - Natural Habitats
Would the project result in any significant conversion or degradation of      Yes
critical natural habitats?
If the project would result in significant conversion or degradation of other Yes
(non-critical) natural habitats, does the project include mitigation measures
acceptable to the Bank?
OPN 11.03 - Cultural Property
Does the EA include adequate measures related to cultural property?           Yes
Does the credit/loan incorporate mechanisms to mitigate the potential         Yes
adverse impacts on cultural property?
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement
Has a resettlement plan, abbreviated plan, or process framework (as           Yes
appropriate) been prepared?
If yes, then did the Regional Social Development Unit review and approve      Yes
the plan / policy framework / policy process?
OP/BP 4.37 - Safety of Dams
Have dam safety plans been prepared?                                          Yes
Have the TORs as well as composition for the independent Panel of Experts     Yes
(POE) been reviewed and approved by the Bank?
Has an Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP) been prepared and arrangements Yes
been made for public awareness and training?
BP 17.50 - Public Disclosure
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's      Yes
Infoshop?
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a      Yes
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected
groups and local NGOs?
All Safeguard Policies
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities   Yes
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard
policies?
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project  Yes
cost?
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the          Yes
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies?
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the            Yes
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal

  documents?



  D. Approvals


Signed and submitted by:                           Name      Date
Task Team Leader:                 Mr Chris Parel           04/20/2005
Environmental Specialist:         Mr Daniel R. Gross       04/20/2005
Social Development Specialist
Additional Environmental and/or
Social Development Specialist(s):

Approved by:
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:  Mr Jean-Roger Mercier    04/20/2005
 Comments:
Sector Manager:                   Mr Ronald E. Myers       04/20/2005
 Comments:

