Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB791 
Project Name 
CEARA MULTI-SECTOR DEVELOPMENT APL PROJECT 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (50%);  
Sub-national government administration (50%) 
Project ID 
P082142 
Borrower(s) 
CEARA STATE GOVERNMENT, BRAZIL 
Implementing Agency 
 
Ceara State Government 
Ctro. Admin. Gov. Virgilio Tavora-SEPLAN 
Cambeba, Fortaleza, Ceara, Brazil 
CEP: 839-900 
Dr. Marcos Holanda 
Tel: 85-488-7564; Fax: 85-488-7564 
holanda@ipece.ce.gov.br 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[X] S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
August 24, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
October 7, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
November 15, 2004 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Although poor, Ceara is one of the best managed and progressive states in Northeast Brazil.  Its 
development agenda, 
Ceara Cidadania, Crescimento com Inclusao Social 2003-2006
,
sets out 
four development “axes”: (i) 
Ceara Empreendedor
 covering industrial and private sector 
strengthening and necessary infrastructure; (ii) 
Ceara Vida Melhor
 including education, health, 
security and poverty alleviation; (iii) 
Ceara
 Integração
 targeting regional development and the 
deconcentration of resources; and (iv) 
Ceara-Estado a Servico do Cidadao
 strengthening the 
government’s institutional capacity to carry out these programs.  This agenda closely parallels 
the Bank’s four Brazil CAS objectives of competitiveness, equity, resource sustainability and 
strengthening the foundations of the economy and governance.  The state’s agenda is 
operationalized through its Multi-Year Budget Plan [Plano Plurianual 2004-2007 (PPA)].  The 
PPA is a closely watched Brazilian innovation involving multi-year program budgeting with 
results indicators.  It aims to focus budgeting and public administration on cross cutting 
outcomes rather than sector driven inputs.  It has been implemented by the Federal level and now 
is legislated to be applied at the state level. 
 
Unfortunately Ceara is facing severe fiscal constraints.  Reductions in tax collections as well as 
longstanding commitments to reduce its debt to the federal government over the next six years 
threaten to sharply cut its ability to make these key public investments or maintain core public 
Page  2
services.  Cuts in revenues in 2003 cost the state R$457m (roughly $150m) resulting in 
investments falling to 40% of Plan while service delivery expenditures were reduced by 30%.  
Without external assistance, investments in 2004 will suffer further drastic cuts and service 
delivery will likely be 35% below 2003 levels.    
 
The proposed APL/SWAp loan would help support the execution of the state’s development 
agenda and the attainment of key social objectives through a series of institutional strengthening 
efforts, policy reforms, and sectoral investments.  Drawing on considerable World Bank team 
expertise, the operation would also assist Ceara to design, adjust, and implement its PPA 
program to achieve, on a sustainable basis, more efficient, effective, and transparent public 
management.  Specifically the operation would: 
 
·
identify and support key PPA programs addressing the key development objectives as 
determined by the State of Ceara; 
·
support integrated reforms/investment across a number of key sectors and programs 
necessary for achieving those objectives; 
·
support results based management through implementation of key PPA reforms; 
·
strengthen central secretaries’ capacity to design, and implement, and refine its 
development agenda and supervise sectoral/program performance through judicious 
monitoring and evaluation; and 
·
support sector secretaries’ ability to efficiently implement key sector programs.  
During project preparation the Bank would identify, with the state government, the key programs 
and sectors to be supported.  Selection would be based upon the extent: (i) programs support: 
critical Ceara development objectives, including PPA and MDGs; and (ii) the potential impact of 
proposed reforms on meeting these objectives.  Performance benchmarks including institutional 
strengthening, program maintenance, and policy reforms would be identified for the sectors and 
programs.  Loan disbursements would depend upon both verification of key program 
expenditures and satisfaction of the performance benchmarks.   
 
Borrower’s Commitment
.
Both the State and Federal governments have indicated that the 
proposed operation is of the highest priority.  The Vice Governor/Planning Secretary is the 
principal counterpart and the head of the Research and Statistics Institute (IPECE) is the 
operations liaison.  The state has agreed to performance based disbursement based upon program 
expenditure validation and a multi-sectoral Performance Results Matrix (PRM).  Several Bank 
missions have noted the professionalism and willingness of counterparts to undertake meaningful 
institutional strengthening and program reforms.   
 
CAS Objectives.
Support for sub-national governments and the adoption of an “integrated” 
(cross sectoral) project approach are key goals of the Bank’s Brazil program.  Further, the 
operation could well address, depending on the ultimate selection of sectors, all four CAS pillars:  
·
A
More Equitable Brazil
:
education, health, youth & social inclusion, urban development 
with emphasis on regionalization 
·
A
More Sustainable Brazil
:
water management & sanitation, environment  
·
A
More Competitive Brazil
:
strategic infrastructure 
·
Foundations of the Economy and Governance
:
public sector strengthening, fiscal and 
financial management reform. 
Page  3
Main Lessons Learned
.
Ceara is one of the Bank’s largest portfolios and has been the subject of 
extensive research including a SEM and a SPAR. A SFAA is underway.  Lessons learned 
include the following. 
·
Although Ceara is considered well managed and responsible, Bank loan implementation 
has suffered from lack of counterpart funding. The proposed operation would carefully 
review state finances to ensure appropriate funding in the selected sectors.   
·
The State has distinguished itself in numerous areas including health (see WDR—
“agente de saude”), education, urban transit, social security, procurement, water sector, 
environment and fiscal management.  Hence it is capable of such an ambitious program 
of institutional strengthening and reform. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The Ceara Multi-Sector Reform APL would support through funding and capacity building key 
programs across sectors which contribute importantly to the achievement of development 
objectives as defined in Ceara Cidadania and the PPA. Specific development objectives (key 
outcome indicators) would be identified during project preparation.  The operation would 
enhance the government’s capability to design, budget, implement, monitor and evaluate its 
development agenda in the ‘central secretaries’ while strengthening efficient program design and 
resource use by key sectors and programs.   
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The operation would be a combined APL/SWAp - a six-year $240 million program comprising 
two three-year SWAp-type loans.  The main triggers for the second operation (the APL feature) 
would be the satisfaction of a majority of Performance Results Matrix (PRM) benchmarks set out 
in the first operation plus agreement on a revised PRM for the second operation.  Selection of 
sectors and benchmarks would be conducted with counterparts during project preparation.  Some 
$2 billion in planned investment spending over the period 2004-2007 which could be reviewed 
for partial SWAP funding.  Potential sectors/programs, grouped by the state’s development 
agenda (
Ceara Cidadania),
 include the following
:
Ceara-Estado a Servico do Cidadao
.
As a core integrative aspect of the loan, this would likely 
include institutional strengthening and performance improvements in debt and expenditure 
management, revenue, budgeting, M&E, human resource management, cash and asset control. 
The financial management and procurement areas will also require a technical assistance sub-
components to ensure efficient program implementation. 
 
Ceara Integracao
.
Water management throughout the state is a critical issue.  Bank projects 
(PROGERIH, Sao Jose, PROURB) have set the framework for sustainable resource management 
and with Bank support the water company (CAGECE) has made considerable strides.  However, 
the unfinished agenda is huge to maintain management and physical infrastructure while 
extending potable water, waste water treatment and water resource management especially to the 
interior of the State.  Environmental protection is also critical as Ceara confronts challenges 
Page  4
relating to water course degradation, conservation of the biodiverse and threatened 
caatinga 
(scrub forest), and degradation of coastal areas critical for water quality control and tourism. 
 
Ceara Vida Melhor
.
Ceara is making significant strides in education and health.  Programs that 
could be considered for Bank support include secondary school support--infrastructure and 
education quality, pre-school program support, state/municipal coordination including school 
upgrading, pedagogical improvements, and teacher education.  In health, Ceara has a 
distinguished "agente de
 saúde" (health agent) program and is extending basic coverage 
throughout the state.  Health programs to be supported could include programs to upgrade and 
extend hospital and clinic service delivery, supply pharmaceuticals, and strengthen primary and 
preventive health care.  Other programs dealing specifically with youth and vulnerable 
populations, housing, and regional development might also be considered.  
 
Ceara Empreendedor
.
Strategic infrastructure expenditures (not involving large or ecologically 
questionable projects) could include basic services like road pavement and maintenance, 
extension of coverage for electricity to poor/un-served communities,  METROFOR construction 
(partly financed by Bank loan), urban transit, and regulatory improvements. 
 
The APL/SWAp would have the following features: 
 
·
Eligible program expenditures would be pooled each year and the Bank will finance a 
percentage of these pooled annual expenditures (the exact percentage to be determined).  
Release of loan funds against incurred program expenditures will also be conditioned on 
the attainment of benchmarks in the PRM. 
·
Under established precedents eligible expenditures could include salaries (percentage to 
be determined).  This could be an important incentive for those sectors where programs  
(finance and fiscal management, planning, social security, procurement, fiduciary 
oversight) are highly labor intensive with few capital investments—if indeed they require 
program expenditures.  
·
Performance results benchmarks will be negotiated for the six year period with emphasis 
on the first 3 year SWAp. 
·
At the end of each year a Review Meeting will validate counterpart expenditures and 
compliance with PRM benchmarks, and confirm loan disbursements. 
·
Components in the PRM will be weighted according to agreed importance with the 
weights summing to 100.  The annual programmed disbursement  will be allocated across 
sectors according to their weights.  Hence, if the education sector is accorded 20% of 
year two disbursement of $49 million it will account for $9.8 million.  Within each 
sector, this amount will be allocated across specific performance benchmarks according 
to their importance.  
Non-achievement of any benchmark will result in non-disbursement 
or delayed disbursement of the benchmark’s corresponding  value.
 
·
The PRM will be adjusted at the Annual Review Meeting to take into consideration new 
developments and areas, recommendations from recently completed diagnostics and the 
external environment.  This flexibility is required to ensure that the Bank’s program 
support and sector strengthening efforts are continuously updated and relevant. 
·
The APL structure allows the Bank to review the functioning of the design arrangements 
after 3 years, make adjustments, and incorporate changes and new 
Page  5
areas/recommendations into the second operation through the mechanisms of eligible 
program selection and the PRM. 
·
A
technical assistance component will also be included to fund limited sector benchmark 
activities like key studies --to ensure both funding and Bank oversight.  It is expected that 
amounts of up to $1-1.5m will be set aside for procurement and fiduciary reforms coming 
out of the SPAR and SFAA studies, thereby providing an important funding link to key 
fiduciary recommendations. 
There appear to be no legal impediments on the Bank side to such arrangements and there are 
also useful precedents.  The client has been queried on these design features and has agreed in 
principle.   
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
None are expected. There will be infrastructure and maintenance programs support but no large 
new construction projects requiring environmental impact statements. Furthermore, environment 
is one of the sectors to be covered in the APL so there is an opportunity to address basic 
guidelines issues. Beneficiary and Safeguard requirements are expected to be minimal
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 870 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
149 
 Total 
1,019 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Chris Parel 
Title: Senior Public Sector Management Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-3918 
Fax: (202) 522-3134 
E-mail: Cparel@worldbank.org
 
