                       PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                      APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                             Report No.: AB1132
                               Ceara Multi-sector Development APL Project
 Project Name
 Region                        LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN
 Sector                        Central government administration (50%);Sub-national
                               government administration (50%)
 Project ID                    P082142
 Borrower(s)                   STATE OF CEARA, BRAZIL
 Implementing Agency
                               Ceara State Government
                               Ctro. Admin. Gov. Virgilio Tavora-SEPLAN
                               Ceara, Brazil
                               CEP839-900
                               Tel: Dr. Marcos Holanda/85-488-7564            Fax: 85-488-7564
                               holanda@ipece.ce.gov.br
 Environment Category          [X] A [ ] B [] C [ ] FI [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 Safeguard Classification      [ ] S1 [ ] S2 [ ] S3 [ ] SF [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 Date PID Prepared             April 20, 2005
 Date of Appraisal             April 12, 2005
 Authorization
 Date of Board Approval        June 2005

1. Country and Sector Background

Background

Ceará State confronts huge poverty and development challenges. Ninety-eight percent of its area
is categorized as caatinga, an arid, thorny, dry vegetation biome that suffers serious draughts on
average once every four years. The population living in northeastern Brazil's caatinga is
considered the poorest in Brazil. The region is marked by low educational levels, high infant
mortality and a paucity of social and physical infrastructure and basic services. About 70% of
Ceará's population live in the caatinga. The remainder is crowded into the narrow coastal strip.

Ceará is poor in absolute terms and relative to many other Brazilian states. Its absolute ranking
across states hovers generally around #16-17 depending upon the index being used. However, a
recent study by the Government's research institute, IPEA, affirms that of Brazil's 26 states
Ceará is the one that has progressed most in the social area over the decade 1993-2003. Ceará
State ranking across various composite poverty related indices based upon improvement includes
the following:




                                                                                                  1

                                      Social Indicator                Rank
                         ·   Indicator of Human Development             1
                         ·   Childhood Development                      1
                         ·   Poverty                                    2
                         ·   Health                                     3
                         ·   Education                                  5
                         ·                                              5
                             Housing



Governor Lúcio Alcântara assumed office in 2003 and has developed an ambitious fiscal, state
modernization and social inclusion agenda. However, low growth, reduced revenues and high
interest rates over the previous 3-4 years plus the concentration of debt repayments (2004-2009)
have conspired to seriously prejudice the State's fiscal situation (see Annex 1) and undercut
implementation of its development efforts. The State has already cut programmed investment by
more than 50% over the last two years and constrained expenditures on basic service delivery.
Investments in 2004 will be less than one third of budgeted amounts. Resource allocation to
critical programs underpinning the State's efforts to address poverty are seriously compromised
by liquidity problems. Ceará needs an infusion of financial and technical support to strengthen
its institutional reform efforts and maintain its ambitious development and social agendas.

Government Strategy

Faced with this difficult environment, the Government has adopted a two pronged strategy.
First, it continues to contain costs and under-run programmed budget expenditures while
attempting to preserve the integrity of priority programs and reforms. Second, it has approached
the Federal Government and the World Bank to obtain support for a large State loan--the Ceará
Multi-Sectoral Development APL ("CE APL")--to maintain critical growth and social programs
and ensure State modernization and fiscal sustainability in the medium term.




                                                                                                2

              Ceará SWAp                 Government officials and Bank staff reviewed Ceará's
            Strategy Oriented            development strategy and priorities and agreed on fiscal
               Loan Design               sustainability and social inclusion as overarching goals.
                                         Six key sectors contributing to these goals were identified
          Review conducted of            based upon the social and fiscal impact expected from CE
            Ceará strategy &             APL interventions.    Bank and Government teams next
           development agenda            carried out sector diagnostics identifying (i) critical
                 priorities              problems in achieving sector goals and solutions, (ii)
                                         specific Government programs linked to the sector goals
         Fiscal sustainability &         that merit loan support, and (iii) key benchmarks and
        social inclusion identified      targets over the life of the operation (Annexes 3-4).
       as overarching development
                   goals                 (i) Choice of Targeted Areas/Sectors
                                         The Government has specified its development priorities
         Development Axes (3)            in three documents:    the Development Agenda, the Social
         comprising Sectors (6)          Inclusion Indicators, and the Multi-Year Budget ("Plano
           selected for potential        Pluriannual 2003-2007" or "PPA").       Ceará's
      impact on development goals        comprehensive Development Agenda groups activities
                                         and benchmarks under four Development Axes which
        Key Eligible Expenditure         identify priority sectors and benchmarks.    The CE APL
       Programs (EEPs) identified
                                         reconfigures the priority sectors into three axes:   (i)
          for loan support based
                                         Public Sector Management, (ii) Human Development,
        upon contribution to goals
                                         and (iii) Sustainable Resource Management.

           Priority outcome and
        institutional benchmarks/        One Ceará axis, "Ceará, State Serving the Citizen",

         disbursement conditions         addresses state modernization.   It is the basis for the CE
        selected based upon EEP          APL's Public Sector Management (PSM) Axis.             It
    and development goals (contained     targets reforms impacting upon fiscal sustainability and
             in Sector Plans)            social inclusion goals in central (Finance, Planning,
                                         Administration, Controllers) and line Secretaries. Up to
      Essential technical assistance     $4.9 million has been budgeted for a technical assistance
    and funding sources identified to    component and progress in implementing reforms will be
        support goal achievement         measured through incorporation of fiscal and institutional
                                         indicators.

The PSM Axis plays the vital role of an integrating "umbrella" program that will improve
efficiency in all sectors.  Much of the loan's technical assistance component is directed towards
helping the Government to implement results-based management.         This will be achieved through
programs comprising development of indicators-based sector plans, budgeting and monitoring &
evaluation reforms, with emphasis on key sectors impacting upon social inclusion goals.

The PSM Axis also addresses fiscal sustainability goals.    It incorporates essential fiscal
benchmarks (primary surplus, tax revenue/GDP, debt/GDP) plus institutional strengthening
activities impacting state finances and fiduciary oversight.  Activities cover procurement,
revenue, expenditure and contingent asset and liability responsibilities.




                                                                                                    3

The Human Development Axis comprises the Education and Health sectors. Both axes are
vitally important to the State's fiscal and social inclusion goals. The Human Development Axis
addresses Ceará's human resource constraint. Education and Health are the State's largest
sectors in terms of expenditures and contribute importantly to priority State (and Bank) social
benchmarks. Both suffer from important administrative failings resulting in poor performance,
especially when compared with states outside of the Northeast. The loan will address these
problems and also strengthen the Social Inclusion and Youth Secretaries working with
vulnerable populations and support an important cultural renovation project in the historic center
of Fortaleza, the State capital.

The Sustainable Resource Management Axis comprises Water Supply & Sanitation (WSS),
Water Resource Management (WRM) and Environment. It addresses Ceará's other fundamental
constraint--water--plus numerous related social and environmental problems. Key State and
Bank development priorities addressed by the loan include WSS coverage, completion of the
State's priority WRM works, legislative reform (in all three sectors), and institutional initiatives
that will strengthen the State WSS company (CAGECE) and the State WRM company
(COGERH), and the WSS-related activities of the state regulatory agency (ARCE). The
Environment Secretary's support of natural resource management efforts will also be
strengthened through zoning and coastal management programs--especially important given the
State's reliance on tourism. Natural resource monitoring and management functions will be
upgraded. And the State will establishing its first two `fully protected' parks in Brazil's only
unique biome, the caatinga.

(ii) Choice of Key Programs to be Supported
The CE APL is making use of a results-based Sector Wide Approach (SWAp) loan modality to
support nine key government programs in five targeted line sectors. The sixth sector addressed
by the loan, Public Sector Management, functions as an 'umbrella' sector and impacts on the
other programs and sectors through its results-based management initiatives. These nine Eligible
Expenditure Programs (EEP) are presented in Box 1 below. They have been selected because
they are operationally linked to the State's key development goals and priority sector
benchmarks. Each EEP constitutes a significant budget allocation. Hence, increased
management efficiency and incorporation of targets will benefit the programs, sectors and the
State. The choice of EEP also ensures that with relatively small annual disbursements of around
$50 million, the loan will leverage some $250 million in annual EEP expenditures--ensuring
EEP expenditure levels and the achievement of priority benchmarks. Hence the loan will
mobilize significant reform and institutional strengthening efforts while guiding and supporting
the State's basic development agenda.




                                                                                                    4

                           Box 1: Nine Critical Eligible Expenditure Programs (EEP)
  Human Development Axis
  (i)     Strengthening and Expansion of Primary Health Care (~$20 million/year) supports 10,500 Health
          Agents (Agente de Saude), the Family Dental Program, and the provision of basic pharmaceuticals to
          municipalities. This is the Government's most important vehicle for delivering health services to the
          poor and in the interior.
  (ii)    Strengthening of Secondary and Tertiary Health Care--"Health Closer to You" (~$26 million/year)
          promotes access of the population to institutionally and technically better managed, maintained and
          provisioned health care units including regional hospitals, clinics, and emergency care units. This is the
          largest program and supports the State's network of healthcare facilities.
  (iii)   Basic Standards for School Functioning (~$20 million/year) covers cost management and maintenance
          of pedagogical standards in State schools, basic school materials, rehabilitation and maintenance,
          vehicles and maintenance, and the illiteracy program for those older than 15 years of age. This is the
          main program for supporting state school system operations.
  (iv)    Progressive Universalization of Rural and Urban High School Education (~$5 million/year) funds
          rehabilitation and maintenance of high schools, assurance of physical standards, materials,
          maintenance, and rehabilitation and contracting of temporary teachers. The states, under the Brazilian
          Constitution, are responsible for high school education.
  (v)     Coordination and General Maintenance--Support to Municipal Schools (FUNDEF Program)--(~$145
          million/year)--this is a Federally required State transfer to Municipal schools that goes to support
          teachers and physical infrastructure. It funds municipal systems which are responsible for most primary
          education.


  Sustainable Resource Management Axis
  (i)     Urban Water and Health (~$6 million/year) funds increase in urban water supply, especially among
          poorer populations.
  (ii)    Urban Sanitation (~$10 million/year) funds increase in urban sanitation coverage, especially among
          poorer populations.
  (iii)   Water Basins Conveyance System (Castanhao Dam--Fortaleza Metropolitan Region) (~$18
          million/year) is the critical water work for supplying the Fortaleza Metropolitan Region and that will
          eventually also provide water to 200,000 farmers and 276 rural communities.
  (iv)    Biodiversity Program--"PROBIO"($3 million/year) constitutes the single largest environmental
          program in Ceará and funds management of protected areas and related programs in key biomes,
          licensing, monitoring, inspection and natural resource management.



While no loan funds flow directly to the EEP or sectors--disbursement is to the State Treasury--
the loan establishes annual required expenditure levels for each EEP. In this way the loan
safeguards key EEP, assures timely release of resources by the central government, and forges a
partnership between the Secretaries of Planning and Finance and line Secretaries who must
spend budget resources and produce the results that will guarantee further loan disbursements.
Without the loan and its disbursement conditions it is very likely that the Government's
development and reform agendas would simply not be achieved.

(iii) Results-Based Management: Conditions of Disbursement, Indicators, Sector Plans
The Government has specified targets in its Development Agenda, the PPA and its Social
Inclusion agenda. After selecting critical sectors and supporting EEP, Bank and Government
specialists developed a menu of priority indicators (Annexes 3-4). These indicators are directly
linked to EEP and sector performance and supporting the loan's fiscal and social inclusion goals.



                                                                                                                    5

The most important sector indicators were incorporated into the CE APL as conditions of
disbursement and APL#2 triggers which must be met to process the second loan. The sector
diagnostics identified other important reforms and performance targets that complete the loan's
Sector Plans (Annex 4). These Sector Plans should constitute the basis for six prototype Sector
Strategic Plans to be developed by targeted Secretaries in 2005 which will guide budget
allocations, work programs and monitoring & evaluation efforts in succeeding years.

The Government of Ceará and the Bank jointly developed loan design features that support
results-based management through the judicious use of disbursement conditions and technical
assistance. These include
    (i)      a 2005 disbursement that requires completion of the six Strategic Sector Plans
    (ii)     two disbursements, 2006 and 2007, that require*
             ·   EEP expenditure levels
             ·   achievement of annual primary surplus targets
             ·   "satisfactory" performance of 3 Bank portfolio loans to Ceará (as detailed in
                 Annex 4, Section C, Table 4.C.1.)
             ·   achievement of disbursement-linked indicators (14) across the six sectors.
    (iii)    APL#2 trigger conditions (15) across the six sectors
    (iv)     a Public Sector Management technical assistance component of up to $5 million.

This results-based loan design is supported by three additional design features. First, at the end
of each calendar year Bank and client teams will meet to evaluate results against each of the
conditions (which are rigorously defined by protocols and specified in the Loan Agreement) and
make any needed design changes. Second, the disbursement mechanism provides an important
incentive to carry out the sector programs since disbursements for achieving the higher, 2006
indicator levels increases by 20% over 2005 levels. Third, sector indicators have been fixed for
the APL #2 operation as well, ensuring program continuity and sustainability.

One important outcome of project design is heightened ownership among affected Secretaries.
Officials in the line Secretaries and SEPLAN are delighted to have guaranteed budget levels and
conditions of disbursement including "satisfactory" portfolio performance that support their most
important programs. It also forges a partnership between the central Government and the
secretaries who become jointly accountable for performance. In the past, line and central
secretaries had different incentives and fiscal constraints often resulted budgets for priority
programs being withheld or reallocated without attention to priorities.

Table 1 summarizes the key sector challenges, the EEPs and their link to disbursement
conditions, triggers and other benchmarks comprising the expected APL#1.




*Note that these disbursement take place in June in each year thereby ensuring sufficient time for the State to
develop and present reports demonstrating that conditions of disbursement have been satisfied.



                                                                                                                6

                           Table 1: Government of Ceará Strategy
          Critical Challenges, Programs (EEPs) and Expected Outcomes*

Eligible Expenditure
Programs (EEPs)                                      Expected APL#1 Outcomes
(Ave. Expenditure                           (Disbursement Conditions, and Triggers)
$Million/Year)
Public Sector Management Axes--critical challenges are (i) fiscal sustainability and (ii)
absence of results-based management and supporting systems and procedures.
No EEP programs               · Fiscal sustainability signaled by satisfactory primary surplus and debt
                                indicators
                              · Growing tax revenues and broader tax base
                              · Implementation and functioning of a Financial Management Committee to
                                coordinate fiscal, financial and budget matters
                              · Implementation of an annual results-based management cycle targeting: (i) six
                                key sectors and social inclusion priorities; and (ii) central management of
                                sector plans and performance
                              · Improved External Audit (TCE) indicated by compliance with legal deadlines
                                for issuing judgments on public administrators accounts.
Human Development Axes

Health Sector--critical challenges are (i) maternal and infant morbidity/mortality,(ii) health
services for vulnerable populations, (iii) improvement of health delivery and outcomes, and (iv)
monitoring and evaluation
1.  Strengthening &           · Increased pre-natal maternal consultations
    Expansion of Primary      · Increased population coverage by certified Family Health units
    Health Care               · Decreased treatments in hospitals of cases that should be treated in clinics
2.  Strengthening of          · Performance based contracts between State and (i) regional hospitals, and (ii)
    Secondary and Tertiary      municipalities
    Health Care--"Health      · Implementation of M&E and audit of health outcomes in regional health
    Closer to You"              organizations
               (~$50m/year)
Education Sector--critical challenges are (i) improved learning achievement,(ii) cost-
effectiveness of educational expenditures,(iii) reduced illiteracy, and (iv) resolution of
outstanding State: municipal issues
1.  Basic Standards for       · Improved learning achievement through the implementation of a testing
    School Functioning          (SPAECE/SAEB) cycle building on diagnostics, action plans and
2.  Progressive                 implementation
    Universalization of Rural · Improved cost effectiveness of Secretary's operations focusing on
    and Urban High School       administration, staffing, regional units
    Education                 · Reduced illiteracy of population of 15 years and older
3.  Coordination & General    · Resolution of outstanding State:municipal coordination and fiscal issues
    Maintenance--FUNDEF         deriving from school decentralization with focus on teachers and school
    (municipal school           maintenance
    support)                  · Improved State school system management with focus on schools,
              (~$165m/year)     maintenance, and teachers
Culture--rehabilitation of a historic/cultural corridor in the center of Fortaleza
No program                    · Implementation of multi-site corridor in Fortaleza




                                                                                                              7

Eligible Expenditure
Programs (EEPs)                                           Expected APL#1 Outcomes
(Ave. Expenditure                                (Disbursement Conditions, and Triggers)
$Million/Year)
Sustainable Resource Management Axes

Water Supply & Sanitation Sector--critical challenges are (i)increased WSS service, (ii)
improved sector management and revenues, and (iii) implementation of new State WSS
legislation.
1.  Urban Water and Health      ·    Increased WSS coverage
2.  Urban Sanitation            ·    Reduced non-revenue water
                                ·    Implementation of revised tariffs and subsidies
                                ·    Implementation of reformed water company accounting
                (~$16m/year)    ·    Submission to the State Legislative Assembly of a new State WSS law
                                ·    Reduced water provision that is not charged
Water Resource Management--critical challenges are charging water users, construction of
critical infrastructure, participatory basin management, and revised legislation
1.  Axes for Integrating        ·    Increase percentage of water users being charged--industrial, irrigation, and
    Water Basins                     aquaculture
                                ·    Construction of critical 166 km of a critical water conveyance system canals
                                     connecting the Castanhao dam to Fortaleza
                                ·    Creation of Water Basin Committees to manage key basin water resources
                (~$18m/year)    ·    Submission to the Legislative Assembly of a reformed Water Resources law
Environment Sector--critical challenges are protection of high biodiversity caatinga/carnauba
biome, completion of economic and environmental zoning (EEZ), coastal management and
revised legislation
1.  Biodiversity Program        ·    Creation of new fully protected areas in at risk caatinga/carnauba biome
    "PROBIO"                    ·    Completion of economic and environmental zoning for 2 of 3 biomes
                                     (caatinga, coastal, and humid hill areas)
                 (~$3m/year)    ·    Submission to the Legislative Assembly of a reformed Environmental Law
*Note that the outcomes cited above do not include key benchmarks identified during sector diagnostics and
expected to be incorporated into the State Sector Strategies (Annex 4) that should orient budgetary allocations and
efforts throughout APL#1 and APL#2 and contribute importantly to loan outcomes.


(iv) Identification of Technical Assistance Needs
The CE APL's institutional development agenda is more comprehensive than other operations of
this genre. Each Sector Plan requires institutional strengthening expenditures to achieve sector
and program benchmarks. The Plans are comparable to Sector Investment Loan (SIL) log-
frames except that indicators and triggers have consequences for non-achievement. The funding
for institutional strengthening needs identified in the sector diagnostics and Sector Plans and not
covered by CE APL funds will come from alternative sources including other Bank and IDB
loans and Government budget sources.



2. Objectives




                                                                                                                   8

The principal objectives of the CE APL are to achieve Ceará's fiscal sustainability and social
inclusion goals. This will be achieved through support of nine line item budget programs in six
key sectors and the judicious use of disbursement conditions and APL#2 triggers to ensure
results-based outcomes.

3. Rationale for Bank Involvement

The Bank CAS supports integrated operations in the impoverished Northeast region. It supports
reforms in four priority areas covered in the CE APL. It supports State administrations
committed to reform, poverty alleviation and prudent fiscal management. The Bank loan plays
an important catalytic role by leveraging and guiding State efforts and resources to address
critical development issues while helping to bridge the difficult fiscal situation over the period
2004-2009. For these reasons, the CE APL is fully justified.

Ceará has demonstrated a commitment to reform. The State's fiscal performance compares
favorably with many states and especially Northeastern states. Regarding the targeted sectors,
Bank specialists rate health, water and sanitation, and water resource management as `good' or
`best' practice in Brazil. Education has improved markedly in recent years and also compares
favorably with other states in the Northeast region. The aforementioned IPEA study affirms the
State has improved social conditions more in the past decade than any other State. In
recognition, Ceará has also been a leading recipient of Bank loans over the past decade. The
State's collaboration in developing this demanding, results-based CE APL operation further
underlines its reform commitment.

Ceará's development agenda prioritizes fiscal sustainability and poverty mitigation efforts
congruent with the Bank's country and regional strategies. However, due to its difficult fiscal
situation, the State has cut back dramatically on spending in important areas. Public investment
has declined from 1.8% of State GDO in 1998 to 0.4% in 2003 and 2004 expenditures are
estimated at only 28% of 2004 budget law authorizations. Debt repayment obligations for the
period 2004-09 exacerbate the situation. Critical State programs impacting delivery of essential
services, resumption of sustained growth and modernization of the state apparatus are being
jeopardized. With support from the Federal Government, the State applied to the World Bank
for assistance. The CE APL assures that Ceará will be able to recoup its development agenda
while meeting its fiscal obligations. The loan will support nine large, central programs in six key
sectors and contribute importantly to growth, fiscal sustainability and social inclusion goals.

4. Description

This operation is a state-based, multi-sector Adaptable Program Loan (APL) making use of the
Sector Wide Approach (SWAp) modality to support nine critical Ceará State budget programs
(Eligible Expenditure Programs-EEPs) and reforms. With a relatively small investment the loan
leverages a huge reform effort and significant resources dedicated to State fiscal sustainability
and social and development objectives. Important results-based incentives are incorporated into
the loan design to support these objectives.




                                                                                                  9

   ·  Sustainable Outcomes. Agreement has been reached on the fixing of sector specific
      triggers for the period covered by both loans (Annexes 3-4) assuring program continuity
      and sustainability.
   ·  EEP Activity Levels. The nine EEP in five key sectors are central to the State's strategic
      development agenda. Ceará is required to meet minimum EEP expenditure levels each
      year for each EEP as a disbursement condition. This also assures line secretaries'
      ownership and assures timely funding for achievement of benchmarks.
   ·  Disbursement Mechanism. EEP expenditures will be pooled and a loan disbursement
      percentage of 35% will be used. Disbursements will go directly to the State Treasury
      rather than individual Secretaries to better support budget and fiscal objectives. (Annex 4,
      Section E, Figure 4.E.1. Flow of Funds Chart).
   ·  Results-Based Disbursement. In 2005 the presentation of prototype Sector Strategic
      Plans is a disbursement condition. In 2006/2007 disbursements are conditioned upon (i)
      primary surplus targets, (ii) "Satisfactory" loan portfolio ratings for 3 loans (as detailed in
      Annex 4, Section C, Table 4.C.1.), and (iii) required annual EEP expenditure levels (iv)
      achievement of sector specific disbursement-linked indicators (14) in six sectors.
   ·  Technical Assistance Component. Dedicated funding has been included in an amount up
      to $5 million primarily to support the Public Sector Management axis targeting financial
      and results-based management.

5. Financing

Source:                                                                            ($m.)
BORROWER                                                                           1200
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND                                           149
DEVELOPMENT
                                                                       Total       1440

6. Implementation

SWAps use existing client organizations and systems. Consequently, a small Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) of full-time staff under the immediate supervision of the head of the
SEPLAN Research Institute (IPECE)--the main counterpart during loan preparation--will
manage the implementation. The main PIU functions will be
   ·  Overall project management and World Bank reporting responsibility
   ·  No Financial Management specialist is required. The PIU will receive and vet quarterly
      reports from the Secretary of Finance used for determining disbursement against EEP
      expenditures prior to passing them on to the Bank. It will maintain financial records for
      the small TA component.
   ·  No Procurement specialist is required full time on the PIU. The TA component is small
      and dispersed and the PIU will oversee and vet procurement which will be carried out in
      specialized secretarial units.
   ·  The PIU will maintain all relevant records.
   ·  The PIU will retain at least one higher level staff to oversee progress towards meeting
      disbursement and APL#2 benchmarks including Sector Plans.




                                                                                                  10

The PIU will also aggregate and vet end-of-year sector reports addressing achievement of
disbursement linked indicators (and APL triggers in 2006) prior to providing them to the Bank
and will prepare any waiver requests, including requests for partial or late reimbursement.

The PIU will also respond to any legal, regulatory or political questions that may arise in relation
to the implementation of the CE APL project and ensure that any legal requirements incumbent
upon the State and related to the carrying out of the project are met. In this regard, it is expected
to support and facilitate Bank supervision of the agreed environmental safeguards framework

7. Sustainability

The CE APL addresses sustainability in the following ways
    ·   The timing of loan disbursement has been calculated to ensure that the State can grow
        and implement its development agenda while achieving a sustainable and improving
        primary surplus.
    ·   Inclusion of fiscal, financial and performance management indicators backed by technical
        assistance directed at key fiscal determinants (tax revenue, asset and contingent liability
        management, social security, fiduciary oversight) will improve the State's fiscal situation.
    ·   CE APL benchmarks will be tracked over a six year period, ensuring continuous
        improvement and solidifying them within the M&E framework.
    ·   Progress against conditions of disbursement and APL triggers will be reviewed annually.
        Conditions can be recalibrated to counter any backsliding and this can be reinforced in
        the preparation of APL #2.
    ·   Inclusion of institutional strengthening benchmarks and technical assistance funding over
        a six year period will provide ample opportunity to identify and consolidate reforms and
        this will be supported by the emphasis upon results-based management.

8. Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector

During preparation the team reviewed Ceará operations and ESW and recent SWAps including
two in Brazil. The following points emerged (see also Annex 4-G of the PAD)
    ·   Choice of multi-sectoral model and activities. SWAps are predominately single
        program/sector loans. However, Mexico has just completed a multi-sector SWAp. Also,
        Bank is emphasizing multi-sectoral approaches, which is echoed in the CAS, Bank ESW
        and Ceará's own development agenda. Hence, six key sectors were selected along with
        EEP and benchmarks with strong links to MDG, CAS and State priorities. Inclusion of
        the umbrella Public Sector Management Axis and identification of disbursement
        conditions, triggers and the technical assistance component assures that institutional
        reform synergies will take place across sectors.
    ·   Disbursement to Treasury and not to sectors. The CE APL follows the $572 million
        Federal Bolsa Familia SWAp which disbursed to the Federal Treasury. The Ceará loan
        safeguards EEP expenditures by establishing annual minimum required levels and
        sectoral disbursement-linked indicators. It allows the Government to manage its fiscal
        resources and allocations while forging a partnership between the central secretaries and
        the line secretaries who are responsible for meeting disbursement conditions and hence
        must receive timely disbursements from Treasury.



                                                                                                   11

    ·    Disbursement incentives. The Mexican infrastructure SWAp contributed the concept of
         disbursement-linked indicators. Brazil's Bolsa Familia provided the idea of increasing
         disbursement amounts every year to strengthen results-based incentives. The
         incorporation of required EEP expenditure levels also came out of this discussion.
    ·    Ownership. Since this is the first state SWAp, is multi-sectoral, disburses to Treasury,
         and involves a State with 3 Bank loans that have struggled, it was deemed essential to
         ensure collaboration and ownership by line and central secretaries. Bank teams traveled
         to Ceará to develop proposals with sectoral counterparts and build program ownership. A
         3-day stakeholders' workshop was held to discuss and finalize the Public Sector
         Management program. The program has also been formally vetted by participating
         Secretaries, the Governor and Vice Governor. And participating Secretaries are strong
         loan proponents since the APL effectively supports implementation of key programs.
    ·    Support for portfolio loans addressing key areas. Ceará has three Bank loans--education,
         WRM, and rural poverty. Implementation has been prejudiced by weak management and
         fiscal constraints. Attending the requests of task managers, and because these loans
         support CE APL programs,--"satisfactory" loan implementation has been incorporated
         as a disbursement condition (see in Annex 4, Section C, Table 4.C.1. of the PAD).



9. Safeguard Policies (including public consultation)


  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                               Yes                     No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                                   [x]                    [ ]
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                              [x]                    [ ]
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                                  [ ]                   [ x ]
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                                   [ x]                    [ ]
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                      [x]                    [ ]
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                                     [ ]                   [ x ]
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                       [ ]                   [ x ]
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                                [x]                    [ ]
  Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                                [ ]                   [ x ]
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                        [ ]                   [ x ]



10. Contact point

Contact: Chris Parel
Title: Senior Country Officer
Tel: (202) 473-3918
Fax: (202)-522-3134
Email: Cparel@worldbank.org

11. For more information contact:


*
 By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties'claims on the
disputed areas



                                                                                                                              12

The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop




                                          13

