LOAN NUMBER 117-17    CO
0
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(Sixth Development Finance Companies Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION.
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                        , 1976


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                      , 1976 between RE-
PUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Banco de la Repdblica (hereinafter called the Borrow-
er) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in various
currencies equivalent to eighty million dollars ($80,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only
on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations
of the Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Batik's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
,U -e -7-  77-7 ",                  7


﻿ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set fc,rth herein, subject,
however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule 2 to
the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being hereinafter called
the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
111TWT,   1  _   ."T?  !F OMT,VM-r _           9


﻿ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan all as set forth in the Loan
Agreement.
I        tIPW".r                                      Nw1


﻿ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member.
To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public assets
(as hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt, which
will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the creditor
of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall other-
wise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and
ratably secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or permitting the creation
of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on
assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions,
the Guarantor shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank-secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by
an equivalent lien or other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
7- 77


﻿-5 -
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall take all action, including
the granting of all necessary authorizations, import licenses,
foreign exchange permits and all other approvals required under
the laws of the Guarantor, to ensure the timely procurement of
the goods and services required for the ?roject and the Investment
Projects.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall take all such timely actian
regarding the sale by the Financieras, within the territories of
the Guarantor, of debt securities or instruments and shares of
capital stock of the Financieras as shall be necessary on its
part to enable the Financieras to fulfill the obligations set
forth in the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor covenants that it shall not take
or permit any of its political subdivisions or any of its agencies
or any agency of its political subdivisions to take any action
which vould prevent or interfere with the performance by the


﻿-6-
Borrower and the Financieras of any of the respective covenants,
agreements and obligations of the Borrower and the Financieras in
the Loan Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements contained,
and shall take or cause to be taken all reasonable action necessary
or appropriate to enable the Borrower and the Financieras to per-
form such covenants, agreements and obligations.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro de Hacienda   Credito Publico of
the Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Hacienda y
Credito Publico
Palacio de Los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustin
Bogota, Colombia
Cable address:
MINHACIEND.
Bogota
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By           3&44%7        V4J.      tV
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


