CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1223 CO
SUBSIDIARY
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Sixth Development Finance Companies Project)
between
BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
and
CORPORACION FINANCTERA DEL NORTE
Dated March 31, 1976


﻿mw
SUBSIDIARY LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 31, 1976, between BANCO DE LA RE-
PUBLICA (hereinafter called Banco) and (CORPORACION FINANCIERA
DEL NORTE) (hereinafter called Financiera).
WHEREAS by a loan agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter
called the Loan Agreement) between International Bank for Recon-
struction and Development (hereinafter called the Bank) and Banco,
the Bank has agreed to make to Banco a loan in various currencies
equivalent to eighty million dollars (880,000,000) (hereinafter
called the Loan) on the terms and conditions set forth therein;
WHEREAS under the terms of said Loan Agreement, Banco has
agreed to relend to Financiera part of the proceeds of the Loan
under a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank; and
WHEREAS the parties hereto have agreed to enter into this
Agreement, which is one of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements referred
to in Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement shall have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the term "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided for
inder Section 2.01 of this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Subsidiary Loan
Section 2.01. Banco agrees, subject to the provisions of the
Loan Agreement, to relend to Financiera, such amounts in various
currencies out of the proceeds of the Loan as shall be withdrawn
by Banco from the Loan Account on account of expenditures for
eligible sub-loans or investments made by Financiera, on such terms
and conditions as are set forth or referred to in this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Upon request of Financiera, Banco shall
forthwith (i) request the Bank to approve sub-loans or investments
in respect of which the approval of the Bank is required or to
authorize withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of free-limit
sub-loans or free-limit investments; (ii) make application for
withdrawal from the Loan Account of amounts which Banco is entitled
to withdraw therefrom in accordance wi,h Section 2.02 of the Loan
Agreement for Investment Projects or Technology Improvement Programs
financed by Financiera: and (iii) pay to, or on the order of,
Financiera the amounts so withdrawn; provided, however, that if
Banco shall determine, after taking into account the economic poli-
cies of the Cuarantor, that any Investment Project or Technology
Improvement Program in respect of which a request for the Bank's
approval or authorization to make withdrawals is received from
Financiera, shall not make a significant contribution to the eco-
nomic development of Colombia, Banco may, by notice to the Bank
and Financiera setting forth the reasons for such determination,
refuse to submit such request for approval or authorization and
the corresponding applications for withdrawal.


﻿-4-
(b) Financiera shall furnish to Banco for each Investment
Project or Technology Improvement Program the documents and other
evidence required by paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 2.04 of the
Loan Agreement, as the case may be, and such other information as
Banco shall reasonably request.
Section 2.03. Banco shall open a Subsidiary Loan Account on
its books in the name of Financiera and shall credit to it the
amount of the Subsidiary Loan. Any amount of the Subsidiary Loan
shall be deemed to be withdrawn from the Subsidiary Loan Account
sinultaneously with each withdrawal by Banco from the Loan Account
in accordance with Section 2.02 of this Agreement, and in the same
amounts and currencies of such withdrawal.
Section 2.04. The several portions of the principal amount
of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn from the Subsidiary Loan Account        -
shall be repaid by Financiera to Banco in pesos. Unless the Guaran-
tor, the Bank and Banco shall otherwise agree pursuant to the pro-
visions of the. Loan Agreement, the amounts in pesos to be so repaid
by Financiera shall be determined, for each such portion of the
Subsidiary Loan, by agreement between Banco and Financiera at the
time of the respective withdrawal from the Subsidiary Loan Account,
to be either:
(a) the peso equivalent of the foreign currency amounts so
withdrawn determined as of the respective date of each withOrawal;
or
(h)  the peso equivalent of the value in dollars of the
amounts in foreign currency so withdrawn determined as of the
respective dates of repayment;


﻿-5-
provided, however, that: (i) in respect of any portion of the Sub-
sidiary Loan withdrawn for the puipose of making a sub-loan, the
choice between paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of this Section shall
be determined by the corresponding repayment provisions of such sub-
loan; (ii) any portion of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn for the
purpose of making an investment in an Investment Enterprise referred
to in Section 3.06(v) of the Loan Agreement (other than an invest-
ment referred to in (iii) below) shall always be repaid in accord-
ance with the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section; and
(iii) any portion of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn for the purpose
of making a minority investment in a New Investment Enterprise
for financing an Industrial Decentralization Investment Project
shall always be repaid in accordance with the provisions of para-
graph (a) of this Section.
--            Section 2.05. Unless the Guarantor, the Bank and Banco shall
otherwise agree pursuant to Sections 2.02, 2.03, 3.06, 3.07 and
3.08 of the Loan Agreement, Financiera shall pay to Banco interest
in yesos in the following manner:
(a) On portions of the Subsidiary Loan repayable in accordance
with Section 2.04(a) of this Agreement, interest shall be paid at
an annual rate of twenty-two per cent (22%), with the exception
of those portions of the Subsidiary Loan used for making sub-loans
for Technology Improvement Programs where the interest shall be
fifteen per cent (157) per annum.
(b) On portions of the Subsidiary Loan repayable in accord-
ance with Section 2.04(b) of this Agreement, interest shall be
paid at an annual rate of nine and one-quarter per cent (9-1/4%).


﻿-6-
(c) On portions of the Subsidiary Loan used for making
minority investments in new Investment Enterprises for financing
Industrial Decentralization Investment Projects, interest shall be
paid at an annual rate ranging from seventeen per cent (17%) to
twenty-two per cent (22%), to be determined by agreement between
Banco and Financiera before such minority investment shall have
been approved by Banco.
(d) Interest on each such portion of the Subsidiary Loan
shall:
(i)       be calculated on the principal amount of the
Subsidiary Loan outstanding at each interest
payment date, provided, however, that whenever
such principal amount shall be repayable in
accordance with Section 2.04(b) of this Agreement,
the pyeso equivalent of each such portion of the
Subsidiary Loan shall be determined as of the date
of the interest payment to be made;
(ii)      accrue from the respective dates on which each such
portion shall have been withdrawn; and
(iii)     be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve
30-day months.
Section 2.06. (a) Financiera shall pay in jyesos to Banco a
commitment charge equivalent to one-sixth of the amount of the
commitment charge payable by Banco to the Bank pursuant to Section
2.06 of the Loan Agreement, subject to such adjustments as Banco
I


﻿-7-
shall from time to time reasonably determine as any portion of the
Loan is relent to any of the Financieras.
(b) At the written request of Financiera, Banco shall forth-
with request the Bank to enter into special commitments in respect
of the cost of imported goods required to carry out any Investment
Project or Technology Improvement Program approved by the Bank
or authorized for withdrawal by the Bank. Such special commitments
shall be upon such terms as shall be agreed upon between the Bank
and Banco, as provided in the Loan Agreement, and Financiera shall
pay to Banco the equivalent in pesos of the amount of such commit-
ment charge payable by Banco to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.02
of the General Conditions, such equivalent to be determined as of
the respective dates on which such commitment charge is so payable.
Section 2.07. (a) Financiera shall repay the principal amount
of each portion of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn from the Subsid-
iary Loan Account in accordance with the amortization schedule
applicable to the Investment Project or Technology Improvement
Program for which such portion shall have been withdrawn. Any
such amortization schedule shall provide for full repaynent of
funds lent or invested by Financiera for any such Investment
Project or Technology Improvement Program in approximately equal
semi-annual installments, payable on March 31 and September 30
in each year and shall conform to the provisions of Sections 3.06(i),
3.07(iii) and 3.08(iv) of the Loan Agreement.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Section, if an
Investment Enterprise shall repay in advance of maturity all or
any portion of the principal amount of any sub-loan, or if


﻿-8-
Financiera shall sell, transfer, assign or otherwise dispose of,
for value, a sub-loan or an investment or any part thereof,
Financiera shall repay to Banco on the next following interest
payment date an amount of the Subsidiary Loan equivalent to the
amount withdrawn from the Subsidiary Loan Account in respect of
such sub-loan or investment or part thereof and corresponding to
the principal amount of the Loan to be repaid by Banco to the Bank
pursuant to Section 2.09 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. Interest and commitment charges shall be pay-
able by Financiera to Banco semi-annually on March 31 and Septem-
ber 30 in each year.
Section 2.09. Except as Banco and Financiera shall otherwise
agree, Financiera may repay in advance of maturity at par all or
part of the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan and any such
repayment shall be applied to the several maturities thereof in
inverse chronological order.
Section 2.10. Whenever it shall be necessary for the purposes
of this Agreement to determine the value in terms of pesos of any
foreign currency, such value shall be as determined by the Bank
from time to time.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE III
The Project; Use of Proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan
Section 3.01. This Subsidiary Loan is made by Banco to
Financiera exclusively for the financing of the Project described
in Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement and Financiera shall apply
the proceeds thereof exclusively to finance the Investment Projects
and Technology Improvement Programs for which they were withdrawn
and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of the Loan
Agreement Pnd of this Agreement.


﻿- 10-
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants of the Financiera
Section 4.01. Financiera shall carry out the Project and
conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound finan-
cial and investment standards and practices, under the supervision
of qualified and experienced management, and in accordance with
its Estatutos and its Statement of Operating Policies and Pro-
cedures.
Section 4.02. Financiera shall take such measures and action
necessary or convenient for the expansion of its operations and
for the improvement of appraisal and supervision of Investment
Projects and Technology Improvement Programs as shall be agreed
from time to time between the Bank and Financiera.
Section 4.03. (a) Financiera shall exercise its rights in
relation to each of its Investment Projects and Technology Improve-
ment Proqrams financed in whole or in part out of the proceeds of
the Loan in such manner as to protect the interests of the Bank,
Banco and Financiera.
(b) Financiera undertakes that unless the Bank shall other-
wise agree, any sub-loan or investment will be made on terms where-
by Financiera shall obtain, by written contract with the Investment
Enterprise or by other appropriate legal rieans, adequate rights
protecting the interests of the Bank, Banco and Financiera, en-
abling Banco to carry out its obligations under the Loan Agreement,
and including, without limitation, in the case of any such sub-loan


﻿*                             -11 -
and, to the extent that it shall be appropriate, in the case of
any such investment, the right to:
(i)       cause such Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the respective Investment Project or
Technology Improvement Program with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, managerial and financial standards,
including the maintenance of adequate records and
documents;
(ii)      apply to sub-loans the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in Sections 3.06 and 3.07 of
the Loan Agreement;
(iii)     cause such Investment Enterprise to use the proceeds
of the Loan exclusively to finance the goods and
services required to carry out the Investment Proj-
ect or Technology Investment Program in respect of
which such proceeds were withdrawn and ensure that
such goods and services shall be used exclusively
in the carrying out of such Investment Project or
Technology Improvement Program;
(iv)      ensure the Bank's and Financiera's rights to inspect
such goods and the sites, works, plants and con-
struction included in such Investment Project or
Technology Improvement Program, the operation there-
of and any relevant records and documents;


﻿-12-
(v)       require that such Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts,
as shall be consistent with sound business practice
and that, without any limitation upon the foregoing,
such insurance shall cover marine, transit and other
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery of the goods financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation,
and that any indemnity thereunder shall be payable
in a currency freely usable by such Investment Enter-
prise to replace or repair such goods:
(vi)      obtain all such information as the Bank, Banco and
Financiera shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and
financial condition of such Investment Enterprise;
(vii)     establish and amend the amortization schedule appli-
cable to the respective sub-loan in accordance with
Section 2.07 of this Agreement; and
(viii)    suspend or terminate further access by such Invest-
ment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the
Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise
to carry out the terms of such sub-loan'or investment.
Section 4.04. (a) Financiera shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the


﻿- 13 -
Investment Enterprises, its Investment Projects and Technology
Improvement Programs, the sub-loans and investments and the admin-
istration, operations and financial condition of Financiera.
(b) Financiera shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project and of each of its Investment Projects and
Technology Improvement Programs (including the cost thereof) and
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound account-
ing practices the operations and financial condition of Financiera.
Financiera shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
records.
(c) Financiera shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank, as soon
as available but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year (A) certified copies of its financial state-
ments for such year as so audited, and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of Financiera and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.05. (a) Financiera shall cooperate fully with the
Bank to assure that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished.
To that end, Financiera shall from time to time, at the request
of the Bank exchange views with the Bank through their representa-


﻿- 14 -
tives with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance
by Financiera of its obligations under this Agreement, the admin-
istration, operations and financial condition of Financiera and
any other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) Financiera shall promptly inform Banco and the Bank of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the mainte-
nance of the service of the Subsidiary Loan or the performance by
Financiera of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 4.06. (a) Financiera shall consult Banco concerning
any proposed amendment of its Estatutos and its Statement of Oper-
ating Policies and Procedures and shall not, without the prior
approval of Banco, amend, abrogate or waive any provision thereof.
'Rw
(b) Financiera shall transmit to Banco, for its prior approval,
any substantial changes proposed to be made in respect of the re-
payment provisions of any sub-loan.
Section 4.07. Without limitation on the obligations of
Financiera set forth in Section 2.07(b) of this Agreement, if
Financiera shall sell, lease, transfer, mortgage or otherwise
dispose of or encumber its property or assets except in the ordi-
nary course of its operations as set forth in iL; Statement of
Operating Policies and Procedures, Financiera shall, unless Banco
otherwise agrees, promptly repay an amount of the Subsidiary Loan
equivalent to the fair value of such property or assets or make
other arrangements satisfactory to Banco to protect or secure the
interests of Banco.
I


﻿- 15 -
Section 4.08. Financiera shall make all reasonable efforts to
(i) raise on an annual basis, if the circumstances prevailing in
the capital market within the territories of the Guarantor so per-
mit, resources in such capital market in such amounts as shall be
substantially equivalent to the amounts disbursed in each year by
Financiera under this Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (ii) with a
view to raising funds as provided in paragraph (i) of this Section,
cooperate with one or more other Financieras to raise or mobilize,
through the sale within the territories of the Guarantor of debt
securities or instruments or through increases in the "consolidated
capital and surplus of Financiera and all its Financial Subsidiaries"
(as defined in Section 4.09(d) of this Agreement), such amounts in
Pesos as shall be required to increase the total aggregate resources
available for the operation of all Financieras during the period
August 31, 1975 to August 31, 1976, by an amount equivalent to not
less than Col$400 million, or such other amount as shall be agreed
by the Bank.
Section 4.09. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
Financiera shall not incur, or permit any of its Financial Subsid-
inries to incur: (i) any Category I debt if, after the incurring
of any such debt, the consolidated Category I debt of Financiera
and all its Financial Subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding
would be greater than two times consolidated capital and surplus
of Financiera and all its Financial Subsidiaries; or (ii) any
Category II debt if, after the incurring of any such debt, the
consolidated Category II debt of Financiera and all its Financial
Subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than
seven times the consolidated capital and surplus of Financiera
and all its Financial Subsidiaries.


﻿- 16 -
(a) The term "Category I debt" means any debt incurred by
Financiera or any of its Financial Subsidiaries in carrying out
those activities authorized under Decree 399 of the Guarantor
dated March 6, 1975; and the term "Category II debt" means any
debt other than a Category I debt incurred by Financiera or any
of its Financial Subsidiaries.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i) under a loan
contract or agreement, on the date and to the extent that the
amount of the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such
a loan contract or agreement, and (ii) under a guarantee agreement,
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into, but only to the extent that the guarantee debt is
outstanding.
(c) The terms "consolidated Category I debt of Financiera              '
and all its Financial Subsidiaries" and "consolidatei Category II
debt of Financiera and all its Financial Subsidiaries" mean the
total amount of debt of Financiera and all its Financial Subsid-
iaries, excluding any debt owed by Financiera to any Financial
Subsidiary or by any Financial Subsidiary to Financiera or to any
other Financial Subsidiary, in regard of, respectively, Category I
debt and Category II debt.
(d) The term "consolidated capital and surTlus of Financiera
and all its Financial Subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the total
unimpaired paid-up capital and the unallocated surplus and free
reserves of Financiera and all its Financial Subsidiaries, after
excluding therefrom such amounts as shall represent (i) equity
interests of Financiera in any Financial Subsidiary or of any


﻿- 17 -
Financial Subsidiary in Financiera or any other Financial Subsidiary
and (ii) provisions for probable losses on the outstanding amount
of all loans and investments made or guarantees given by Financiera
as shall have been determined by Financiera to be adequate to cover
the risk of such losses in accordance with sound business and finan-
cial practices.
(e) The term "Financial Subsidiary" means any subsidiary
which, in the judgment of the Bank, is engaged in promotional,
financial or technical activities similar or complementary to the
operations of Financiera.
(f) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of pesos debt payable in a foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable by Financiera or its Financial
Subsidiaries for the purposes of servicing such debt.
The provisions of this Section suDersede all prior agreements be-
tween Banco and Financiera relating to the relationship between
the debt and the equity of Financiera and its subsidiaries.
Section 4.10. Financiera shall. at all times take all steps
necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry
on operations and shall take all steps necessary to maintain and
renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are
necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.


﻿- 18 -
Section 4.11. Financiera shall cause each of its subsidiaries
(if any) to observe and perform the obligations of Financiera
hereunder to the extent to which such obligations shall or can be
applicable thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon
each of such subsidiaries.
Section 4.12. Financiera shall take such steps, satisfactory
to the Bank, as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the currencies (including pesos) used in its lending and borrowing
operations.
AMN


﻿-19-
ARTICLE V
Remedies
Section 5.01. (a) If (i) a default shall have occurred in the
due and punctual payment of any amount payable by Financiera to
Banco under this Agreement; or (ii) a default shall have occurred
in the performance of any other obligation on the part of Financiera
under this Agreement: or (iii) the Bank shall have declared the
principal amount of the part of the Loan relent to Financiera pur-
suant to this Agreement and then outstanding to be due and payable
immediately, then Banco may by notice to Financiera suspend in
whole or in part the right of Financiera to request Banco to with-
draw from the Loan Account the amount of the Loan allocated to
Financiera and such right shall continue to be suspended in whole
or in part, as the case may be, until the event or events which
gave rise to such suspension shall have ceased to exist or until
Banco shall have notified Financiera that such right has been
restored, qhichever is the earlier.
(b)  If Banco's right under the Loan Agreement to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended or termi-
nated with respect to any amount in the Loan Account allocated to
Financiera, regardless of the reason therefor, then the right of
Financiera to make withdrawals from the Subsidiary Loan Account as
provided in this Agreement shall likewise and Limultaneously be
suspended or terminated, as the case may be.


﻿- 20 -
Section 5.02. If (i) the event described in Section 5.01(a)(i)
of this Agreement shall have occurred and it shall continue for a
period of thirty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by Banco to Financiera; or (ii) the event described in Section
5.01(a)(ii) of this Agreement shall have occurred and it shall
continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by Banco to Financiera; or (iii) the event described
in Section 5.01(a)(ili) of this Agreement shall have occurred and
be continuing, then Banco, at its option, may declare the principal
amount of the Subsidiary Loan then outstanding to be due and pay-
able immediately, and upon such declaration such principal amount
together with interest and other charges thereon shall become due
and payable im.mediatel-,, anything in this Agreement to the contrary
notwithstanding.
AML


﻿- 21 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall not enter into force and
effect until the Loan Agreement shall have become effective in
respect of Financiera.
Section 6.02. If and when the entire principal amount of the
Subsidiary Loan withdrawn from the Subsidiary Loan Account and all
interest and other charges which shall have accrued thereon shall
have been paid, this Agreement and all the obligations hereunder
shall forthwith terminate.
Section 6.03. (a) Any notice, demand or request required or
permitted to be given under this Agreement shall be in writing
and shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall
be delivered, in the case of Banco at its principal office in
Bogota, Colombia, and in the case of Financiera at its principal
office in Barranquilla, Colombia, or at such other address which
Banco or Financiera may from time to time specify in writing to
the other party.
(b) Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement
on behalf of Banco may be taken or executed by its General Manager
or such person or persons as he shall designate in writing.


﻿- 22 -
(c) Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement
on behalf of Financiera may be taken or executed by its President
or such person or persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original and all collectively but
one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement to be signed in their respective names and
delivered in the District of Columbia, United States of America
as of the day and year first above written.
BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA                                 u
By /s/ Antonio Jose Gutierrez
Authorized Representative
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DEL NORTE
By /s/ Alvaro Jaramillo
Authorized Representative


