Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19370-EGT
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 3.6 MILLION
(EQUIVALENT TO US$5.0 MILLION)
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR
A SOCIAL PROTECTION INITIATIVES PROJECT
June 16, 1999
HUMAN DEVELOPMENT GROUP
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA REGION



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 1, 1999)
Currency Unit = Egyptian Pound
EGP 1 = US$0.30
US$1 = EGP3.4
F'ISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIAI'IONS AN]) ACRONYMS
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CAA        Central Auditing Agency
CDA        Community Development Association
ID         Identification Cards
IDA        International Development Association
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
LACI       Loan Administration and Change Initiative
MISA       Ministry of Insurance and Social Affairs
NGO        Non Governmental Organization
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NS         National Shopping
OECD       Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PMU        Project Management Unit
PMR        Project Management Report
SFD        Social Fund for Development
SOE        Statement of Expenditures
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
UNICEF    United Nations International Children Emergency Fund
Vice President:                  Kemal Dervi,
Country Manager/Director:        Richard Westin/Khalid Ikram
Sector Manager/Director:         Zafiris Tzannatos/Jacques Baudouy
Task Team Leader:                Eluned R. Schweitzer



Arab Republic of Egypt
Social Protection Initiatives
CONTENTS
A  Project Development Objective ..................................................................2
1. Project development objective ..................................................................2
2. Key performance indicators ..................................................................2
B   Strategic Context ..................................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .........2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ..................................................................2
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project ..............                        ....................3
4. Learning and innovation expectations .                 .................................................................4
C  Project Description Summary ..................................................................5
1. Project components ..................................................................5
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements ..............................................................5
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements ..................................................................          6
D   Project Rationale ...................................................................7
E  Summary Project Analysis ...................................................................7
1. Economic .................................................................7
2. Financial .................................................................7
3. Technical .................................................................8
4. Institutional ..................................................................8
5. Social .................................................................8
6. Environmental assessment ..................................................................9
7. Participatory approach ..................................................................9
F  Sustainabiity and Risks ..................................................................9
1. Sustainability ..................................................................9
2. Critical Risks ................................................................. 10
3. Possible Controversial Aspects .................................................................                 10
G   Main Loan Conditions .................................................................                                     10
1. Effectiveness Conditions .................................................................                       10
2. Other ................................................................. 1 1
H   Readiness for Implementation .................................................................                             11
I  Compliance with Bank Policies .................................................................                             11



Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary
Annex l a  Expanded Indicator List
Annex 2.  Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.   Economic Analysis
Annex 5.  Financial Summary
Annex 6.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.   Procurement Arrangemrrents
Table B.   Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.   Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Annex 6a  Report on the Assessment of Projects for PMR-based Disbursements
Annex 6b  Assessment & Proposal of Project Financial Management Arrangements
Annex 7.  Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.  Documents in Project File
Annex 9.   Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10  Social Assessment Plan
Annex 11  Disabilities in Egypt
Annex 12. Country at a Glance



Arab Republic of Egypt
Social Protection Initiatives
Project Appraisal Document
Human Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region
Date: June 16, 1999                                  Team Leader: Eluned Roberts-Schweitzer
Country Manager/Director: Richard Westin/Khalid Ikram   Sector Manager/Director: Zafiris
Tzannatos/Jacques Baudouy
Project ID: 66336                                    Sector:  Poverty Alleviation
Lending Instrument: Leaming and Innovation Credit (LIC)  Theme(s):
Poverty        [x]  Yes  [ ] No
Targeted
Intervention:
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [x] Credit      [] Grant       [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$mlSDRm): IDA Credit US$5.0 Million; SDR 3.6 Million
Proposed terms:   [  To be defined      [  Multicurrency      [  Single currency
[  Standard Variable   [  Fixed     [ ] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):          10
Years to maturity:             35
Commitment fee:            Standard
Service charge:                0.75%
Front-end fee on Bank loan:    1.0%
P1xi~nelaplaa~     [1Tobt5de~ihed-
Sourei Local    - : u    ---a-,
(in US$'000)
Government                                                0.33                          0.33
IDA                                                       4.57         0.43             5.00
Other (specify)
Total:                                                   4.90         0.43              5,331
Borrower: Government of Egypt
Responsible agency: Ministry of Insurance and Social Affairs
' Numbers may not add up due to rounding
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M):
03:-        04     -     #5-
Annual        0.25        0.8          1.4          1.7          0.85
Cumulative       0.25         1.05         2.45        4.15         5.0
Project implementation period: April 2000 - June 2004
Expected effectiveness date: April 2000           Expected closing date: December 31, 2004
Implementing agency: Ministry of Insurance and Social Affairs, 19, El-Maraghy St. Agouza, Cairo, Egypt
Contact person: Mr. Anwar Sherif
Address: Ministry of Insurance
Tel: 011-20-2-3604158         Fax: 011-20-2-3375404         E-mail:



2
A.   Project Development Objective
1.    Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1)
The objective of the project on Social Protection Initiatives is to develop and test integrated
programs for children with disabilities and youth at risk, through a range of providers, and to
inform the development of a new strategy for improving services.'
2.    Key performance indicators
*   Improved services for disabled children and at-risk youth, resulting from cost effective
project activities with better outcomes,2
*   Inputs to national strategy, by the Ministry of Insurance and Social Affairs (MISA),
incorporating the lessons learnedl from sub-projects and the new standards and guidelines
for operating programs.
B.   Strategic Context
1.    Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see
Annex 1)
GAS document number: 1653 3-EGT, May 5, 1997
Date of latest CAS discussion: May 29, 1997
The 1997 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Egypt notes the role of human resources in
increasing economic and social development. It states that "women and children feature
disproportionately among the poor. About one-third of households among the urban poor are
headed by women, and unemployment of women is double that of men. Together with the
elderly, the sick and the disabled, they constitute the greatest portion of the very poor" (para. 10).
The project specifically targets children -- i.e., those under 18 years who are disadvantaged
through disability or social marginalization -- and their families.
The proposed project was not included in the CAS. During the last two years, the Egyptian
government has intensified its substantial efforts to address social development needs, especially
those of the poor and of children. Services for these groups are receiving increasing attention and
resources. Present Bank-funded projects, such as the Social Fund are addressing the need for
credit and for community level services and infrastructure for the poor, but reaching the poorest
of the poor requires a range of strategies; to build a comprehensive social safety net.
2.    Main sector issues and Government strategy
The economic reform program has produced positive results, but the benefits have been unequally
distributed across the population. Previously unknown or sporadic phenomena such as street
children and juvenile delinquency are increasing in part because of rapid urbanization, and
'The project will operate in four areas: Greater Cairo, and three govemorates in Upper Egypt.
2 The definition of "youth at risk" in this context includes children who are on the street but may not
necessarily live on the street. The term encompasses the OECD definition which is related to dropouts
from formal schooling. A large number of street children in Egypt fall into this category. The age range
for "youth at risk" is from 1 to 18. Some "street children" programs include foundling babies. Disabilities
under the program include hearing, sight, physical and other impairment, or a combination of these, of a
long-term nature (see Annex 2 for a broader description of the issues involved with street children).



3
because new social strains that affect the traditional family framework of village life. Efforts are
fragmented in areas that require coordination of Ministries operating in social welfare, health,
education, and labor. Regulations and service standards are out of date. The Government and the
non-profit sector are responding positively, but there is no comprehensive framework into which
these services fit. In addition, data on the cost-effectiveness of services already provided are
weak, and even the extent of the problem is largely unknown. Further information is required for
analyzing and improving the social safety net.
In the meantime, the Egyptian government is making substantial strides to address social
conditions, especially those of the poor and of children. A National Council for Childhood and
Motherhood was established in 1989, under the presidency of the prime minister and with the
membership of the ministers of social affairs, information, health, education, culture, planning,
manpower, and the executive head of the Higher Council for Youth and Sports. This reflects a
national interest in welfare issues. The Ministry of Social Affairs (MISA) is making strong
efforts to strengthen policy and strategy formation, regulation, and the monitoring and evaluation
of its programs with the assistance of donors, such as UTNDP and UNICEF. UNDP has in place a
US$0.5 million.project to build capacity to formulate and implement a social reform strategy.
Among other activities, a national conference on good practice in social work is to be held at the
end of June, 1999 with the assistance of donor financing. The mandate of the MISA includes the
provision of social insurance, public assistance (welfare) services, and social and human
development programs for the vulnerable.
MISA requested the Bank for assistance in piloting innovative modes of service delivery in key
areas of disabled and at-risk youth - a desire to borrow for improving these services indicates the
importance of these issues to the Government. At present services for disabled children or those
in difficult circumstances are neither mapped nor coordinated. In many countries the disabled are
generally excluded; this prevents them from becoming productive citizens. Changing attitudes
about the individuals with disabilities and fostering normalization and acceptance of disability
would help affected individuals and their families lead more productive lives.
3.   Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project
The project targets poor children with disabilities or those at risk of street life. Through the
development of new service delivery strategies, the project will provide information on consumer
needs and the cost effectiveness of different interventions, the development of coordinated
services, and the integration of new operating standards into the national strategy-building
process. This bottom-up approach is the most appropriate for a project aiming to develop
capacity for service delivery, in a context where other donors were already involved in policy
development. Accordingly, the project will examine whether the access of the poor to social
services is constrained by administrative arrangements (such as lack of identity cards). Learning
from this project will feed into UNDP-supported efforts on strategy formulation.
The Ministry is strongly promoting the inter-agency coordination of services for vulnerable
groups. Addressing the needs of families with disabled children and youth at risk is difficult and
requires this type of coordination. Experience in other countries has shown that interventions
which are cross-sectoral are most successful when targeted to specific groups, as is the case in
this project. Through developing new integrated services for the two target populations, the
project will provide opportunities for assessing:
a)   The kinds of service mechanisms that best reach target populations. At present there is no
clear understanding of which services best reach the target populations nor how to make the
services cost effective. Using different kinds of providers (government, NGOs or private



4
providers) in different regions, the project will monitor how interventions meet client needs and
draw conclusions for future program design.
b)   How services integration for these targeted groups can be improved. The project is using
the OECD definition of services integration, which has two aspects: (i) multi-disciplinary
cooperation on decisions concerning individual children and their families and (ii) inter-agency
coordination that focuses on decisions concerning entire programs.3 Both programs for disabled
children and youth at risk will use case management training for social, education, and health
workers from a range of agencies to collaborate on issues affecting individual children. Results
from project outcomes will feed into ongoing strategy development to foster inter-agency
collaboration at the national level.
c)   Improved design of service standards. Monitoring feedback from the programs under
development, including discussions with policy makers, professionals, and clients should result in
a process of program design which leads to the development of improved service standards.
4.   Learning and innovation expectaLtion
Through project activities two types of learning will take place:
a. Improved project management and administrative skills in MISA staff
*   A better understanding at all levels of the Ministry regarding program  design and
administration;
*   Improved skills in project monitoring and evaluation.
b. Improved service delivery practices, by providers
*   the development of good programs for disabled children and youth at risk including
street children;
*   improved mechanisms for integrating social services for targeted groups;
*   a set of service standards and guidelines for program operation and a contribution
towards a national strategy for vulnerable children.
The project components are designed as integrated packages. Each component contains a needs
assessment and information sharing (Phase 1), projects incorporating inter-agency collaboration
(Phase II), the development of prototype standards and rules (Phase III), leading to changes in
national programs (Phase IV or follow-on). The project implementation manual contains a
detailed plan of action for implementation. Funded projects, implemented by a variety of
providers in selected govemorates, will be implemented on a rolling basis throughout the project
period. Results will be compared to sirmilar, already existing programs in other governorates.
3 Coordinating services for Children and Youth at Risk: A World View. Center for Research and
Innovation, Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, 1998.



5
C.   Project Description Summary
1.   Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
=~~~~~~~hiav .ot                                 o      Baib-       % of:;i'
--; . '.     *   Category                         Tot    fln g-
Component 1.
Support for services for    Piloting,      2.7           51%       2.6       95%
children with disabilities   Monitoring
and their families      Evaluation
and capacity
Component 2.            building            1.9          35%        1.8      96%
Initiative for youth at risk
Project Management                         0.7           14%        0.6      83%
Total Project Costs                        5.3          100%        5.0      94%
2.   Institutional and implementation arrangements: (please see the Implementation Manual
for details)
Implementation period: The project would be implemented in 4 years, from 2000 to 2004.
Project Oversight & Coordination: The project will be overseen by a Steering Committee (SC)
of about 12 members. The SC will set the overall policy guidelines and direction of the project
and report to the Minister. It will consist of a Chairman, the General Directors of MISA
programs on Women, Disabled Children, Social Welfare and other General Directorates involved
in the Project, representatives from the Ministries of Health, Education and Labor, the UNDP
Project Manager, and other technical specialists as needed.
Project Implementation: Project activities will be executed by: (i) MISA for capacity building
activities, such as social studies on needs assessment, evaluative studies, organizing training in
case management, and (ii) service providers at the community level for program activities of the
project, through contracts signed between MISA and the service providers, and based on set
eligibility criteria.
To assist the SC, a Project Management Unit (PMIU) will be established and fully staffed, as a
condition of IDA credit effectiveness. The PMU will consist of four key members, recruited on a
competitive basis: a Project Manager, a Financial Officer, a Procurement Officer, and a Planning
and Monitoring and Evaluation Officer, as well as administrative and research support staff.
Qualifications and detailed terms of reference of the key members of the PMU are described in
the Implementation Manual.
Interface with civil society/Service providers
The project's activities will be implemented through MISA service agents and other service
providers at the field/community level. The selection of providers will be based on advertised,
pre-established selection criteria. At present MISA uses mainly the non profit sector to deliver
services. Many of these associations have both public and private funding, and are local in



6
nature. The initial needs assessment will include a beneficiary assessment to better inform the
project on client and family needs and expectations, and these data will be used to see if programs
have met client expectations.
Financial
Under the project the financial management system at MISA will be upgraded to adequately
monitor and supervise the financial management of the project. To increase the project's quality
and success and to build capacity at the project level for possible replication, a set of actions have
been devised to install good management practices. Financial management arrangements are an
integral part of the agreed action plan, and a satisfactory financial management system would be
implemented prior to IDA credit effectiveness (see project implementation manual). The
recommended financial management system will include the following important components:
* An adequate number and mix of skilled and experienced staff in the PMU and at the service
Provider level;
* Good internal controls in place which ensure the conduct of an orderly and efficient payment
and procurement process, and proper recording and safeguarding of assets and resources;
* Good accounting systems that can produce reports that include up-to-date and cumulative
financial information for budgets and actual expenditures;
• A link between project implementation and the financial information to monitor the project's
progress;
* An independent, qualified auditor to review the project's internal controls and reporting
requirements.
3.   Monitoring and evaluation arrangements
A Planning/Monitoring and Evaluation. section will be established within the PMU to monitor and
evaluate interventions. As much of the work will be done at the governorate level, project
activities will be monitored by MISA staff, with support as necessary from local universities. A
Needs Assessment is planned for each component at the beginning of the project, and baseline
data on disability prevalence, existing services, and community needs will be collected at this
stage (Phase 1) in pilot govemorates and control governorates. Evaluation will be done to assess
changes in the situation in the selected governorates before and after the intervention in both
components (disability and youth at risk). Standards and guidelines developed during the project
period will be field tested in selected govemorates under both interventions so that successful
models can be expanded in the future.4
The Planning/Monitoring and Evaluation section would also provide decision makers with policy
recommendations and options to help them formulate future strategies, and advice and guidance
on how MISA can improve the way that it manages its general programs, including the capacity
of Governorate and district level offices to monitor service delivery. This would help ensure that
the project contributes to the internalization by MISA of new and more effective ways of
planning and operating its programs.
4Monitoring programs for transient populations such as street children is comnplicated. Specific attention
will be given to this prior to program effectiveness.



7
The PMU will submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports, summarizing all financial
transactions and physical accomplishments as well as the work plan for the next six months and
status of the performance indicators (see Annex I). An outline of a progress report is presented in
the Implementation Manual. Within six months of project closing, the PMU will jointly prepare
with the Bank an Implementation Completion Report.
The project will be formally supervised by the Bank at least two times per year, with day to day
follow-up from the Egypt Resident Mission.
D.   Project Rationale
Not applicable - See Section B
E.   Summary Project Analysis
(detailed assessments for those analyses applicable to LIC are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1.   Economic (supported by Annex 4)
[ Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$   million; ERR=  %  N/A
[ Cost Effectiveness Analysis                         N/A
[XI Other (specify) LIC
Children in Egypt are the country's poorest age group (between one in three and one in four live
in poor households). Poor households also may have a higher incidence of disability (19 to 30
percent in poor households, versus 3 percent reporting a disabled person in non-poor households).
Members of multiple person, female-headed households constitute a second vulnerable group (10
percent of multiple person households in Cairo, and between 2 and 4 percent nationally). Recent
economic growth has not necessarily resulted in an equal income distribution, and measures to
address income disparity are needed.
It is important to establish a clear rationale for investments in the project target groups in
comparison to other priority groups. The Government has to direct scarce public resources where
the returns will be the highest. Investing in the poorest is justified on several grounds: achieving
socio-economic justice and guaranteeing human rights, or alleviating poverty and strengthening
social capital. Data gathered during the project will enable the government to establish the
following: (i) the extent of disability in targeted communities and (ii) the demand for, and
potential value of, proposed interventions. The economic assessment of this project is based on:
(i) the decrease of the effect of disability on the individual and the community, (ii) whether
services successfully mainstream youth at risk, (iii) whether or not public expenditures are
sufficient and sufficiently well-targeted to provide needed benefits.
2. Financial (see Annex 5)   NPV=US$                 Million; FRR=       %
Fiscal impact. The Government's portion of the project, US$0.3 million, is about 5% of past and
projected spending. Government expenditures on rehabilitation services for the disabled have
ranged from about US$ 4-6 million over the last 4 years.
Since the composition of investment -- largely rehabilitation, training, and technical assistance --
is similar to the composition of the government's past investment, a reallocation of expected
budgetary flows into project categories can be accomplished without financial difficulty. Over
the last five years, MISA expenditures have increased in constant terms at an annual average rate



8
of 11 percent, in contrast to 2 percent for total government expenditures. The likelihood that the
government will sustain expenditures on social welfare supports its emphasis on providing social
services. This is also demonstrated by its investment in this project and other programs under the
Ministry of Insurance and Social Affairs.
3.   Technical
The approach to care for disabled children in Egypt is a combination of institution and
community-based care. A community-based rehabilitation model which uses a participatory
approach with low-cost local workers to provide information, support services, and socialization
for families and their children is now considered good practice.   However the process of
changing attitudes and practices is long tern, and local contexts must be taken into account.
Combining outreach with institution-based services can be a learning process for all involved.
Changing staff attitudes and developing partnerships to foster a pro-active attitude on integrating
populations with special needs and inter-agency tensions over budgets for service provision will
all be issues and challenges in the program. Links between institutions and the comnmunities to
counter tendencies for isolating special needs populations, empower families and clients and
allow for flexibility in addressing client needs are complicated. Technical assistance will be
provided to ensure best practice in program design and must be done according to internationally
accepted standards.
4    Institutional
This project will be the first IDA-funded project with MISA. As the project will test new
approaches in integrated programs for children with disabilities and youth at risk to produce a
learning experience, its execution requires flexible and efficient implementation arrangements.
MISA's existing administration does not have the necessary capacity. Overall sector policy
guidelines and project direction will be carried out by a Steering Committee appointed by the
Minister. Project implementation will rest with a Project Management Unit (PMU), staffed with
qualified experienced staff, recruited on a competitive basis (see para. 2, Institutional and
implementation arrangements). This arrangement will ensure the achievement of the following
benefits: (a) enables project management to respond more effectively to demands from the field
level; (b) permits flexibility for innovation; (c) isolates project from being affected by existing
administrative capacity limits; (d) ensures effective processing of disbursements; and (e) builds
management capacity on a small scale for learning purposes for replication of lessons, if deemed
desirable.
5.   Social
Children with disabilities and their families are among the poorest of the poor. Many disabilities
result from poverty and are compounded by ignorance of basic child care -- for example, the loss
of hearing due to inefficient preventive medical treatment. This project is focused on providing
assistance to those who are already disabled and for whom there is otherwise little opportunity to
become productive. Children and youth that are at risk, because of family or social difficulties,
are deprived and vulnerable to abuse. The existence of national-level interest in these most
deprived groups is a strong marker of commitment to the poorest of the poor. Integrating
preventive and rehabilitative services should enable not only more efficient service provision but
also provide support to families that might break up or abandon children, and to prevent children
from entering the juvenile justice system.



9
6. Environmental assessment   Environmental Category     [ ] A  [ ]  B [x]  C
No significant environmental risks are foreseen. If undertaken, construction will be limited to the
renovation or rehabilitation of existing premises, such as institutions for handicapped children
and special schools. Buildings selected for upgrading will be chosen for their suitability for
renovation and for appropriate site size so that no land purchase is required. In addition,
environmental standards covering safety and waste management and design will be approved by
IDA-contracted engineers and architects. A qualified engineer will jointly review site plans with
MISA officials and make recommendations and advise on how to address waste management
issues (treatment and disposal). Should any unforeseen construction of a larger scale be
necessary, the implementation time lag will allow for a fuller environmental assessment, to be
undertaken with the assistance of the environmental department of the World Bank and Egyptian
specialists.
7.   Participatory approach
a.   Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups. The primary beneficiaries will be children
with disabilities and their families, and youth at risk and their families. These groups will be
consulted during the needs assessment as to their difficulties and their perceptions of required
services (Phase 1). The evaluation methodology will ask whether or not clients have been better
served by the programs funded under the project than previously and whether they have further
unmet needs (Phase III). Both groups targeted by the project are difficult to access due to social
stigma. Care will be taken not to intrude on families with social problems in ways which are
unacceptable. Changing attitudes towards vulnerable and deprived groups takes a great deal of
time, as has been shown in OECD countries.
b.   Other key stakeholders. Women without identification cards who are involved in the
program will be assisted to obtain social benefits and entitlements. Social workers and MISA
administrative officials who will receive inter-disciplinary training will also be prime
beneficiaries.  Their involvement in the design and delivery of training will be vital to the
success of the program. In addition, administrators and social workers from other agencies
involved in developing case management strategies will participate in in-service training
programs. Parents, youth, and other community members, as well as social welfare staff will be
targeted during the social assessment and throughout the project as beneficiaries who should be
contributing to service development and evaluating programs.
During preparation, the team has consulted with staff and documents from a range of
organizations and agencies, including Hope Village, The Egyptian Association for Societal
Safety, The Population Council, The Association for the Hard of Hearing and Deaf, The
Development Support Center, The Ford Foundation, The Center for Women's Legal Assistance,
the Alliance for Arab Women, the Arab Network of NGOs, the National Committee for NGOs
for population and development, UNICEF and UNDP.
The Implementation Plan will include a communication plan for seminars, workshops as well as
other appropriate fora to ensure a participative process of learning and feedback for all the
stakeholders.
F.   Sustainability and Risks
1.   Sustainability
Not applicable



10
2.   Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
RiffffLsk:L         Risk R   g R=   Minimization Measur
From Outputs to Objective
Economic climate does not stabilize   M       Increased emphasis on good fiscal practice,
and poverty increases                         integration and better targeting of public
services to achieve cost savings
Inter-agency coordination is not       S      Joint training, incentives, and positive signals
achieved                                      from central govemment encourage improved
coordination. Inter-agency dialogue
strengthened through coordinating conumittee.
From Components to Outputs
Supply of providers is not adequate.  M       Type of provider contracted by MISA is
expanded through competitive approach
Selection of programs and             S       Financial and procurement systems in place and
competitive bidding process is not            qualified PMU Director also in place to
expedited according to                        undertake contracting
implementation plan.
Learning from program development     M       Reports, workshops, client surveys continued
does not lead to changes in service           throughout the project create an environment of
delivery                                      interest and collaboration between service
providers and clients
Contractors do not undertake work     M       Good terms of reference, committed researchers
and analyze results in good time to           and training for MISA staff to understand the
produce useful reports                        need for baseline data.
Overall Risk Rating             S_I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3.   Possible Controversial Aspects
The project will touch on issues of personal and public sensitivity. These include the types of
service provided and attitudes towards disabilities, and the needs and attitudes of poor and
marginalized populations. In addition, the question of registration and control of NGOs is
currently a matter of intense public discussion. This may affect the number and types of
providers that might be able to access public funding for service provision.
G    Main Loan Conditions
1.   Effectiveness Condition
(a)  the Borrower, through MISA, shall have established the financial management system
referred to in Section 4.0 1(a) of the DCA;
(b)  the Borrower, through MISA, shall have adopted the project Implementation Manual; and
(c)  the Borrower, through MISA, shall have established the Steering Committee and Project
Management Unit pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of Schedule 4 in the
DCA.



11
2.   Other
(a)  the Borrower through MISA would further strengthen its financial management system by
March 31, 2000 to enable it to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports acceptable to
IDA;
(b)  the Borrower would submit annual financial audit reports to IDA within six months of the
end of the fiscal year.
(c)  the MISA Implementation Manual would remain acceptable to IDA at all times and MISA
would conduct its operations in accordance with the Implementation Manual;
(d)  the Borrower would carry out a mid-term review by about June 30, 2001, review the report
with IDA by September 30, 2001 and implement the recommendations of the review.
H.  Readiness for Implementation
] 1. The design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for
implementation.    N/A
[ ] 2. The procurement documents for the first six month's activities are complete and ready for
the start of project implementation; and a framework for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement during the project has been
established.     N/A
[x] 3. The LIC's implementation plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
[ ] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I.   Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]   2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The
project complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader:          Eluned Roberts-Schweitzer
Sector Manager/Director:     fris:Mannatos/Jacqsa       y
Country Manager/Director:    Richa  es           Aa, r'/4                   X



Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
Arab Republic of Egypt
Social Protection hnitiatives Project
Project Design Summary
Objectives                Key Performance Indicators        Monitoring and Evaluation             Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS goal
Developing human resources and    Socio-Economic indicators         Sector/Country/Poverty Assessment   Economic climate stabilizes and
poverty reduction                                                   Reports                            poverty incidence is reduced
National strategy and action plan
Development objective of "follow-                                   National Report                    Agency coordination becomes
on " operations                                                                                        standard practice
To provide programs for children                                                                       Macroeconomic conditions and price
with disabilities and youth at risk at a                                                               commitments enable continuing
national level                                                                                         support for social programs and
services
Project Development Objective     Outcome/Impact Indicators         Project Reports                    AssumptionsiRisks
(See Annex I a for expanded indicator
To develop and test prototype    listing)                           Quality assurance reports from     Supply of private providers is
integrated programs for children                                    service providers                  adequate in number and quality to
with:                             Improved services for disabled                                       contribute to service provision
children and youth at risk evolve  Report on standards and guidelines
a) disabilities                   from project activities and have better                              National consensus building process
outcomes for lower costs than     Evaluation reports                for strategy development continues to
b) youth at risk                  existing programs                                                    have high-level support
Lessons learned from sub-projects
feed into a national strategy
developed by the Ministry of
Insurance and Social Affairs (MISA)
and new program standards and
guidelines          _



Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
Needs assessments completed       Dissemination of results of Needs  Needs Assessment Report           Selection of programs and
Assessment in the form of workshop                                  competitive bidding process
for project stakeholders          Dissemination of Results          expedited according to
irnplementation plan
Draft standards and guidelines for  Prototype for service delivery  Standards & Guidelines Report and
service delivery developed, based on   developed                    Prototype Service Delivery Manual
needs assessment
Dissemination of Results
Field testing for prototype completed   Approval of prototype and   Field Testing Evaluation Report
and evaluation done in pilot sites  dissemination through a workshop
Dissemination of Results
Approved Service Delivery Prototype  Integrated Services delivered in  Supervision mission reports (semi-   Inter-agency cooperation achieved
implemented in selected sites     selected sites                    annually)                         and staff released by agencies to
attend joint training
Service Utilization Reports
Client Satisfaction Reports
Internalization by Ministry of    Development of new standards and    Issuance of new standards and   Ministry commitment continues to
improved planning, management, and  guidelines for regular operating  guidelines for regular operating  structural change and to incorporating
monitoring of regular operating   programs                          programs                          new learning into agency
programs on basis of prototypes
Expansion plan developed by       Commitment of funds in government  Budget Plans                      Government commitment to
Ministry for new programs based on   budgets for these funds                                          integrated services continues
learning experience
Service providers expand quality  Implementing Agencies improve     Reports and procedures            Skills are transferred to service
programs                          skills in raising funds and managing                                provider staff
quality programs
Project Components                Project Inputs                    Project Reports                   Assumptions/Risks
Disabled children and their families    Pilot projects funded to US$2.7  Project progress and disbursement  Project monitoring and evaluation
mnillion                          reports                           unit well functioning
Youth at risk                     Pilot projects funded to US$1.9   Semi-annual supervision missions (3   Services and studies contracted and
million                           in 1st year ) and annual audit reports   quality products delivered on time
Project Management                Funded to US$0.6 million



Annex la
Page 1 of 1
Arab Republic of Egypt
Social Protection Initiatives Project
Annex la
Expanded Indicator List
A. Disability
*  percent change in disabled children that access service-delivery facilities
*  percent change in disabled children receiving quality services according to new standards and
guidelines
*  percent of prototype service-delivery facilities used
*  percent of families of disabled children able to provide support for their children
*  percent of community target population groups' knowledgeable about disability and services
provided for them, according to information gaps identified in Needs Assessment
*  percent of change in community target population groups' attitudes about disability, according to
undesirable attitudes identified in Needs Assessment
*  percent of clients satisfied with the disability services provided.
B. Youth at Risk
*  percent change in youth at risk that access service-delivery facilities
*  percent change in youth at risk receiving quality services according to improved standards and
guidelines
*  percent of prototype service-delivery facilities used
*  number of children served by facilities who return to families
*  number of children served by facilities who return to normal schools
*  number of children served by facilities who enter formal labor market
*  percent of clients satisfied with services provided for youth at risk.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 6
Arab Republic of Egypt
Social Protection Initiatives Project
Project Description
SOCIAL PROTECTION INITIATIVES
The Ministry of Social Affairs is developing a long-term strategy for social development. It recognizes
the complexity of supporting social and economic growth, providing a safety net for the poor in a time of
economic stagnation. Social safety nets in Egypt inadequately serve the poorest of the poor. Families
suffer from the effects of rapid urbanization, social fragmentation, and alienation which are associated
with poverty. The illiterate and the poor have a worse chance than do others of obtaining financial
success in a tight labor market and can fall prey to crime and disease.
Through this project the International Development Association (IDA) aims to develop demonstration
services to update the quality and extend the range of service providers. The short-term assistance is part
of the groundwork for reforming Egypt's Social Insurance System and modernizing its social legislation.
Two interventions will provide baseline information, staff training and equipment, funding for an
appropriate intervention, and measured outcomes. This will enable the Government to make choices
about services which are accessible, suitable, and relevant to children with disabilities and youth at risk in
urban and rural areas.
Each intervention is a package of activities that will enable the Ministry to assess the effectiveness of the
intervention for the targeted population and to plan accordingly. Thus, the components are structured to
include:
* A baseline needs assessment to determine the number, type, and service needs of disabled children in
the governorates designated for intervention; the perceptions and knowledge of families and the
community about disability; and the number and type of services available at present for the target
population.
* A service program: see individual component description.
* Inter-disciplinary in-service training for social workers from education, health labor, and the interior
on case management. The vulnerable groups targeted under the program are all in need of inter-
agency services. Better case management will lead to more effective use of services from a range of
agencies and will enable workers to better serve their clients.
* A program to identify the extent and type of benefits which are accessed by single female heads of
household in areas included in the program. This program will help women without birth certificates
to acquire national identity cards. Without an identification card, a woman in Egypt does not legally
exist, except as a spouse where she is included on the family card. A personal identification card will
provide a woman access to social welfare benefits.
PROJECT COMPONENT 1
Initiative A. The initiative will support nursery-based services and outreach services for disabled
children and their families in three govemorates (US$2.7 million).
The social welfare Ministry in Egypt wishes to develop interdisciplinary and coordinated services for
children and families with disabilities. Access to these services is inadequate; services reach only about
1,000 children. As in many countries, the social stigma attached to disability prevents these children from
reaching their full potential. Families with disabled children also carry a burden of isolation and stigma
which impedes social and economic welfare. Significant efforts are being made by Egypt's First Lady



Annex 2
Page 2 of 6
and the non-formal sector to publicize the need to pay more attention to services for those who are
disabled.
Service provision varies across the country. The Ministry has a program to develop nursery services in all
govemorates over the last two five-year plans. This project will develop services in the remaining
govemorates not covered by this type of publicly funded provision. The project will provide funds for
information campaigns and home-based interventions for mothers together with nursery-based and other
interventions for children. The model being developed envisions the role of institutions both as service
providers and outreach centers, to educate society on the potential of those with disabilities and to
encourage community members to become involved in activities of the center. This will enable the
institution to become a facilitator for community-based services. The institution will then focus on
awareness raising, empowerment, confidence building and training.
Nurseries provide an opportunity for socialization and rehabilitation for children with a range of special
needs. At present they form part of a fragmented network of services provided by many ministries but
serve only about 1,000 children. One novel aspect of the project will be to encourage training in case
management and discussions of family and child needs between workers from more than one agency.
The programs will be implemented using non-governmental organizations specialized in this area.
Desired Outcomes. The initiative aims to achieve the following:
(a) Baseline survea. Determine more about the nature, extent, and type of childhood disability in Egypt
and benefits and services now being accessed.
(b) Service provision and training. Develop a combination of service provisions that is both institution-
and home-based in areas which do not have sufficient services, and ascertain the pros and cons of
doing this.
(c) Fund both existing and new providers. Provide an opportunity to broaden the spectrum of service
providers.
(d)  Information campaigns. Improve understanding of the potential for integration into society of
individuals with disabilities.
The program will fund: a) renovation and equipment of facilities and vehicles for transportation of
children, b) inter-agency staff training, c) information campaigns, and d) baseline and evaluation studies.
Disability Project Component Description
1. A detailed epidemiologicalVsocial study needs assessment of the target areas should be carried out as
the first step of the program to:
*  determine the prevalence of disability, and to evaluate the degree of disability involved
*  investigate their causes and the social context in which they are most likely to occur
*  identify avoidable disabilities and programs to prevent them
*  investigate the social consequences of physical and mental impairment for children and their
families as a first step in planning the best ways to ameliorate adverse consequences
*  estimate projections of the population by age to estimate the total number of disabled children
in Egypt by type of disability
*  map the service delivery and all activities done related to disability by different players
*  investigate the existing finance for these services and to explore the possible approaches for
finance
*  investigate the knowledge, attitudes and practices of the community and with families with
disabled children that are affecting the situation of disability



Annex 2
Page 3 of 6
* establish a baseline data for the project evaluation component based upon the project
component indicators.
2. Develop standards and guidelines for prevention, care, and rehabilitation and design special programs
for the most serious or prevalent problems, estimating the kind and extent of rehabilitation facilities
most urgently needed and the number of trained personnel needed to staff them.
* establish standard prevention/care/rehabilitation guidelines
* establish National Disability Planning standards and guidelines and developing a
governorate-planning module that integrates service delivery between all players
* propose a financing system for funding the module.
Two governorates will be selected as field testing sites for the development of the standards and
guidelines and model development before expanding activities in the other four governorates. The
two governorates are expected to represent urban and rural governorates to take into consideration
urban/rural differentials.
3. Implement service delivery projects in selected governorates on a rolling basis throughout the
program and feed lessons learned into each new operation and into the development of standards and
guidelines. Project activities include:
* remodeling of facilities according to the standards and guidelines (S&G)
* providing equipment and furniture for each facility
training staff
delivering services consisting of outreach to families on socialization, physical therapy,
nutrition, developmental aspects of early childhood for children with disabilities
* delivering services consisting of day care in-house nursery play facilities and rehabilitative
therapies (non-acute) for a range of pre-school disabilities.
4. Evaluate the project as pre- and post-situation in the selected governorates; compare models being
implemented in selected governorates and those of similar governorates (that are implementing the
previous fragmented system).
Initiative B. Youth at risk and street children in urban and rural areas (US$1.9 million)
The phenomenon of street children has been officially acknowledged as a social problem. The futile
debates about definitions distinguishing between children "on" and those "of' the street may distort the
discussion and create misleading images of the life of street children. These children, in fact, range in age
from 2 or 3 to 18 years, are of both genders, and often intermingle with young adults. Large numbers of
youth live in marginal neighborhoods, characterized by economic problems, crime, and the disintegration
of traditional forms of social cohesion. While resilient youth may emerge from the vicious cycle of
poverty, others require special assistance to achieve the same opportunities in school, in the labor market,
and in personal development. Street children are a subset of a larger group: children who risk falling by
the wayside, and many of whom have dropped out of school. Street children--either not old enough or
trained to enter the formal labor market-may either beg or peddle to survive. Not all street children seen
on the streets live on the streets; groups may live in railway stations, bus stations, or other public
facilities. Nonetheless, children without homes need a wider, different range of services than do those
still with families, but all risk becoming abandoned and marginalized.
At present children who need care are tracked through the juvenile justice system. A "halfway house"
program will provide an information and referral center on services for children at risk in Greater Cairo,



Annex 2
Page 4 of 6
Upper Egypt and Lower Egypt. These facilities will use existing buildings requiring minimal renovation
and can concentrate their efforts on referrals for young people deprived of family support. The aim of the
service will be to complement and coordinate with other existing services and with the social affairs
office.
Because these programs are difficult and sensitive to run, they will be monitored by the department of
social affairs but will be contracted to NGOs with a proven track record in the delivery of services to
youth at risk. One feature of these programs will be the development of an integrated case management
system that involves coordination with the education, health, labor and juvenile justice systems to provide
support to the involved child and his/her family.
Desired Outcome. The initiative should lead to: a) a decrease in the number of repeat offenders who
return to the juvenile justice system; b) an increase in access to families of children at risk; and c) an
increased number and type of services and programs.
Project Component Design. Few programs in Egypt address this type of need in Egypt and are not
funded by government agencies. Thus this small component is new for MISA. It will use the needs
assessment to design and build a combination outreach, screening, and referral center, together with a
recreational facility for children found on the street or otherwise at risk and in need of counseling.
Possible services offered might include:
*  provision of day shelters, reception facilities, washing facilities, and food
* counseling and referral: contacting families or short-term shelters (3 weeks to 3 months) or long-term
shelters (1 month to 1 year)
* re-integration into normal life through family, school and the formal labor market
PROJECT COMPONENT 2
Support for Project Management (US$0.7 million): A second component will support a Project
Management unit in the Ministry of Insurance and Social Affairs. See description of project management
arrangements in Annex 6b.



Annex 2
Page 5 of 6
PROJECT CYCLE
STEERING COMMITTEE
PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
|   National  >            |   ~~~~Needs Assessment               Prjc Daabs
Development *                             (Baseline Data)**    l
A_ 
v                _   Developing Standards and Guidelines & Program
National                          Design Development
Standards and              (Service Delivery Facility/Master Plan) **
Guidelines
Service Delivery
Model
Field Testing
(in one Governorate for the Disability
Pomponent and in one Govemorate for the
Youth at Risk component)
I           v                  l~~~I
.~ ~~~~1                Operational Phase
Finalized Servic e Delivery Model
to be expanded in the remaining
Pilot Governorates
* Funding provided by UNDP
** UNICEF interest and expertise



Annex 2
Page 6 of 6
OPERATIONAL PHASE
Selection of Implementing
Service Providers
Contract between Service
Provider and PMU
LIAtlocation of Funds
Information                Human resources
Facility Support                Education                    Development:
Communication Activities          Skills Training
F       EEvaluation     1



Annex 3
Page 1 of 1
Arab Republic of Egypt
Social Protection Initiatives Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Cost by Component
(US$ thousands)
Local         Foreign           Total
A. Targeted integrated services
Al. Programs for disabled children               1,968.0           314.9         2,282.9
A2. Services for youth at risk                   1,502.7            89.6         1,592.3
Subtotal targeted integrated services            3,470.7           404.5         3,875.2
B. Project management                              673.6              --           673.6
Total baseline costs                             4,144.4           404.5         4,548.8
Physical contingencies                           290.9            10.3           301.2
Price contingencies                              459.3            20.1           479.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                              4,894.5           435.0         5,329.5



Annex 4
Page I of 2
Arab Republic of Egypt
Social Protection Initiatives Project
Economic Analysis
Providing services for disabled children and children at risk
This section outlines the economic rationale for the project; no substantial economic analysis is possible
due to paucity of data. Estimates on disability vary considerably. For example, Egypt's Maternal and
Child Health Survey of 1991 found only 73 cases of children disabilities in a sample of 22,967 children
under age 15. The Egypt Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (EMICS) conducted by UNICEF, on the
other hand, found that 618 children under age 15 in the sample of 20,405 had some form of disability that
reduced or limited the child's activity. Sight problems and chronic health conditions were most
commonly reported each accounting for about one quarter of the disabled followed by hearing problems
(13 percent), speech problems (12 percent), and mental retardation (11 percent) and motor disability (i.e.,
inability to control the fine movement of body or hands). Extrapolating from these two surveys, the total
number of children by type of disability in Egypt ranges between 65,870 to 650,000.
Although these children have disabilities that limit their physical capacity, a large majority-especially
those with sight, hearing, speech or health problems--can be rehabilitated. The figures presented above
are crude projections of the extent of childhood disability using the estimates from the EMICS to generate
numbers for the population as a whole. The numbers indicate the extent of the problem. The total MISA
budget for rehabilitation services is currently EGP 16 million. Although this represents a two-fold
increase since 1991/92, it is roughly EGP 8,266 for disabled children in MISA rehabilitation centers.
Moreover, the average figure masks vast regional disparities. In the absence of precise numbers of
disabled children, by type of disability by region, it is almost impossible to target efficiently. At present
the facilities to care, rehabilitate, and educate disabled children are inadequate.  Even using the
Government's own estimates of disability prevalence, only about 1 percent of disabled children can be
served. This is inadequate for any form of serious rehabilitation, but expansion needs to take place after
the effectiveness and cost implications of interventions are assessed as the project proposes.
Although there are no data available on social and economic consequences of physical and mental
impairment of children or at-risk children at the macro level, it is easy to see that these consequences
include not just the direct cost of looking after the children which puts enormous social and economic
burden on the families and relatives but also the cost of exclusion--i.e., the opportunities forgone by not
rehabilitating these children with productive skills. The economic cost measured in the simplest terms
would be a measure of the production forgone on account of the unrehabilitated child plus that of the
caregiver or caregivers who is/are excluded from economic participation in society because of the
disability of the child.
The phenomenon of street children has been officially acknowledged as a social problem. These children
range in age from 2 or 3 to 18 years, are of both genders, and often intermingle with young adults. Large
numbers of youth live in marginalized neighborhoods characterized by economic problems, crime and the
disintegration of traditional forms of social cohesion. While resilient youth will emerge from this vicious
cycle of poverty, others require special assistance to achieve the same opportunities for advancement in
school, the labor market, and personal development. The rationale for investing in youth is based on the
following goals: avoiding negative externalities associated with risky behaviors (e.g. juvenile
delinquency, drug addiction, and school dropout) and alleviating poverty and strengthening social capital
(family environments, community networks).



Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
Egypt does not have a developed social risk management system. In the absence of social insurance
mechanisms, formal or informal/private or public, individuals and families bear the costs of adversities
which can arise in many ways, such as loss of employment that can lead to loss of income and poverty,
breaking up of families, injury, and disability. The economic and social conditions of the poor make them
both more prone to such risks, and they are less able to cope when these risks materialize due to low and
unsteady employment and incomes. This creates a vicious circle of poverty and burdens both the poor
and economic development. Private and informal mechanisms historically have been crucial, albeit far
from universal, in helping the poor. Similarly, existing social policies and competition for budgets limit
the ability of the Government to shelter all citizens. To better address the lack of social insurance, a
greater synergy between all actors is needed as well as a comprehensive framework and an approach that
would help prioritize needs and sequence the interventions at ground level.
The project gives priority to poor families with disabled children who must bear lifelong consequences.
Similarly, the project acknowledges that adopting the principle of prevention among youth at risk is
preferable to that of correction. At the same time, assistance in these two areas can be more or less
effective under different funding and implementation arrangements. Through its operations, the project
will innovate types of services and service delivery (institution or conmmunity/family based with different
shares of public involvement in provision) and will also help policy makers and providers identify which
areas are constrained by lack of Government help to provide the required leading role (this ranges from
narrow program-related issues to lack of regulation and broader strategic framework). As a by-product,
the project will also examine whether the access of the poor to social services is constrained by
administrative arrangements (such as identity cards) and will propose ways to avoid this effect.
Providing Identification Cards for Women
According to Egypt's 1997 Integrated Household Survey, female-headed households, which constitute 15
percent of all households, are 1.3 times as likely to be poor in urban areas than are male-headed
households, and 1.2 times more likely in rural areas. Besides, low levels of education and limited access
to regular employment, the social and public exclusion further heightens their vulnerability to poverty in
terms of lack of identification papers, lack of access to MISA's pension schemes, lack of political
participation, no right to vote, and lack of access to other social and economic benefits.
Women's identification in Egypt represents a considerable constraint to their independence and
development. Many more men than women have their own identification cards. By 1995, of adults 18
years and over, 5 percent of the men and 42 percent of the women had individual cards. Without a card, a
woman has less access to financial capital and land ownership than would a man; faces de facto
differences in property, tenure and title rights; and faces differences in pension entitlements. The project
will develop strategies for processing identification cards and will evaluate program participation and
socio-economic gains.



Annex 5
Page 1 of 1
Arab Republic of Egypt
Social Protection Initiatives Project
Financial Summary
(in US$ thousands, base year 2000)
Year
2000       2001       2002      2003      2004
Project Costs*
Investment Costs             965.3     1,386.6   1,469.8     850.2     321.8
Recurrent Costs               39.8        75.8     100.7     106.2      13.3
Total                      1,005.1     1,462.3   1,570.5     956.4     335.1
Financing Sources (% of
total project costs)
IDA                           94.7       94.1       93.8      92.1      94.7
Government                     5.3         5.9       6.2       7.9       5.3
Total                        100.0       100.0     100.0     100.0     100.0
*totals may not add up due to rounding.



Annex 6
Page 1 of 4
Arab Republic of Egypt
Social Protection Initiatives Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
A. Procurement
Under the project, a Project Management Unit (PMU) will be established at MISA headquarters. Among
its core staff, the PMU will have a Procurement Officer who will undertake the procurement activities at
the central level and oversee the procurement activities done at the local levels by service providers
through subprojects.
At the central level, procurement consists mainly of organizing study tours, contracting consultant
services for needs assessment, case management studies, and purchasing office equipment. At the local
levels, procurement will cover subprojects carried out by service providers and will include small-scale
renovation of buildings; the purchasing of small rehabilitation equipment, and vehicles; provision of
identification cards for women; and organization of awareness campaigns.
Procurement under the Credit will be carried out in accordance with IDA's guidelines, Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995 (revised January 1999), and the Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 (revised January 1999). However,
no International Competitive Bidding (ICB) or National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will be required
under this Credit, due to the very small contract values for works and goods which are geographically
dispersed and, therefore, unsuitable for either ICB or NCB. Instead, simplified competitive bidding
procedures and documents based, in principle, on IDA's Guidelines, will be developed and applied to all
procurement of works and goods. These simplified procedures and documents will be subject to IDA's
prior concurrence before their first application. The PMU will ensure that all service providers are
proficient in the use of these simplified procedures and documents.
Works. Civil works undertaken by service providers will comprise minor renovation of buildings or
rooms in dispersed locations. Due to the amount of the credit and the repartition of works among a
number of service providers with specialized field of services/expertise, each contract is estimated not to
exceed US$30,000. Therefore works will be procured through solicitation of competitive price quotations
from at least three capable local contractors.
Goods.   Goods and equipment consist primarily  of small rehabilitation  equipment, office
equipment/furniture, provisions of identification cards for women, and a mini-bus adapted for children
with special needs. At the local level, each contract is estimated not to exceed US$30,000; therefore,
goods will be procured through solicitation of competitive price quotations from at least three suppliers.
The contract for office equipment procured for the establishment of the PMU is also of small value.
Therefore, solicitation of competitive price quotations from at least three suppliers will also apply.
Services. Technical assistance will be needed: (i) to strengthen MISA's institutional capacities: studies
on.needs assessment, communication strategy, case management training and study tours; and (ii) to carry
out programs activities (handicapped children and youth at risk) by service providers. For (i) the
selection of these technical assistance contracts will be carried out in accordance with the Quality-Cost-
Based (QCBS) method in IDA's guidelines, if the estimated contract value exceeds US$100,000. For all
selections below this estimated contract value, the Consultant Qualifications (CQ) method will be used.
Under exceptional conditions and with IDA's prior concurrence, the Single Source (SS) method will also
be used. For (ii) the selection of service providers will be carried out in accordance with the Quality-
Based (QBS) method in IDA's guidelines.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
IDA's prior review. Conceming contracts which cover the procurement for works and goods and which
are executed by service providers, the first three contracts of Component "Programs for Disabled
Children" and Component "Services for Youth at Risk" will be subject to the IDA's prior review,
independent of their value. In addition, contracts above US$100,000 will be subject to the IDA's prior
review.
Concerning the selection of consultants through QCBS and QBS, the following will be subject to IDA's
prior review: terms of reference, budget, short list, requ;ist for proposals, and evaluation report. For all
other selections, only the terms of reference and the budget will be subject to IDA's prior review. IDA
will carry out post-reviews of procurement processes for wprks, goods and services on a random basis
during supervision missions.
Procurement Assessment and Recommendations
Procurement Function at MISA
Procurement falls under the responsibility of the Procurement and Warehouse Department within the
Financial Affairs. The Department's staff of 20 handles the procurement of works and goods for MISA
and applies the provisions and regulations governed by Egyptian Law No. 89 (1998). For works and
goods, the Procurement and Warehouse Department has been exposed to contracts of small value, not
exceeding US$300,000 per contract. Most of the time, it has applied national competitive bidding
procedures and has little experience in international competitive bidding. In 1998, it has procured goods
and works worth US$2.0 million. For consultant services, a list of individuals is available at MISA for
selection by the department in need of specialized technical assistance. Since this Credit is the first World
IDA credit to MISA, the Procurement and Warehouse Department has not been exposed to IDA
procedures and bidding standard documents.
Recommendations
The Credit will be the first collaboration between MISA and the IDA. Procurement planning and timely
implementation of activities will ensure the success of the Credit. To this end, the following actions are
recommended:
*  Staff PMU with a Procurement Officer with a background in engineering and who has worked in
positions dealing with national and international procurement, with strong procurement planning
skills.
*  Procurement Officer and other MISA staff to be trained in IDA's procurement procedures.
* Among his responsibilities, the Procurement Officer will have to (a) mentor the beneficiary service
providers in the implementation of their subprojects; (b) disseminate and train beneficiary service
providers on IDA's procurement procedures which govern the Credit, as well as the simplified
procedures and documents which will be applicable to most procurement under this project, and (c)
supervise closely the procurement undertaken by beneficiary service providers.
Table A lists the Procurement Arrangements, and Table B indicates Thresholds for Procurement Methods
and Prior Review.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 4
B. Disbursement
The allocation of credit proceeds are given in Table C.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOE): Until the Credit is ready for PMR-based disbursement as
indicated in the Financial Management Assessment Section, SOEs will be used for all expenditures,
except for works and goods above US$100,000, and for any services above US$50,000 for individual
consultants and US$100,000 for firms. The supporting documents would be retained by MISA and made
available for review by auditors and Bank missions upon request.
Special Account. A special account will be opened by MISA at a commercial bank with an authorized
allocation of US$500,000 with an initial deposit of US$250,000.
Table A
Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ thousands)
Procurement
Local      Consulting
Shopping      Services     N.B.F.          Total
WORKS                                1,004.0         -            -            1,004.0
(953.8)                                  (953.8)
GOODS                               2,789.6          -           -            2.789.6
(2,698.3)                                (2,698.3)
CONSULTING SERVICES                    -          1,200.0         -           (1,200.0)
(1,200.0)                   (1,200.0)
OPERATING                            220.7           -          115.1          335.8
(147.9)                                  (147.9)
Total                                2,972.1      2,242.3       115.1         5,329.5
(2,761.7)    (2,242.3)       -           (5,000.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA
/a Procured under Subprojects carried out by service providers.
/b Procured under Subprojects carried out by service providers and to equip PMU.
/c Include services under Subprojects and training for MISA management staff.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 4
Table B
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value       Procurement Method'      Contracts Subject to Prior
Category            (Threshold)                                          Review
US$ thousands
1. Goods, works         >US$100,000                NS/IS           First 3 contracts in Component
"Disabled Children" and
Component "Youth at Risk,"
independent of value.
Subsequently, all contracts above
US$100,000.
2. Services             >US$100,000                QCBS            All contracts above US$100,000.
Subject to prior review: tenns of
reference, budget, short list,
request for proposals, evaluation
report.
All contracts below US$ 100,000.
<US$100,000                 CQ             Subject to prior review: terns of
reference and budget.
'Consultants Qualifications (CQ), National Shopping/International Shopping (NS/IS), Quality and Cost-
Based Selection (QCBS).
Table C
Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category            Amount in US$            Financin Percenta e
1. Subprojects                                  3,460,000  90%
2. Goods for Part C of the Project                 92,000  100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory); 85% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally.
3. Consultant Services and Training               560,000  100%
4. Incremental Operating costs                    140,000  65%
5. Unallocated                                    748,000
Total                                           5,000,000



Annex 6 a
Page 1 of 1
Arab Republic of Egypt
Social Protection Initiatives Project
Report on the Assessment of Projects for
PMR-Based Disbursements
Inadequate Financial and/or Procurement Management System
Part I. Financial Management System
I have reviewed the financial management system relating to this project. The objective of the review
was to determine whether the project has in place an adequate financial management system as required
by the Bank/IDA under OP/BP 10.02.
My review, which included visits to the project implementation agency, was based on the World Bank
guidelines, "Review of Financial Management systems," which focused on the assessment of the project's
accounting system, internal control, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system, selection of an
auditor as well as the format and contents of the Project Management Report (PMR) to be submitted by
the borrower in support of Withdrawal applications.
In my opinion, the project does not satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
In the attachment, I have detailed the inadequacies that I found in the system and have included the
Borrower's agreed action plan to remedy the situation.
Signed by:
Rafika Chaouali
Financial Management Specialist                             P.( 
Date
Part H. Procurement/Contract Management System
I have reviewed the procurement/contract management system relating to this project. The objective of
the review was to determine whether the procurement/contract management system adopted by the
project conforms to the Bank/IDA guidelines for procurement in investment projects.
My review was based on the "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Project Procurement,
Setting of Prior Review Thresholds and Procurement Supervision Plan" guidelines issued by the
Bank/IDA.
In my opinion, the project does not satisfy the Bank's minimum procurement management requirements.
I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that I found in the system together with an agreed
action plan by the borrower to remedy the situation.
Signed by:
Christian Rey
Procurement Specialist



Annex 6b
Page 1 of 7
Arab Republic of Egypt
Social Protection Initiatives Project
Assessment and Proposal of
Project Financial Management Arrangements
A Bank mission appraised the financial management arrangements in order to assess their compliance
with IDA requirements for the proposed Social Protection Initiatives project funding of US$5.0 million.
The following assessment is based mostly on discussions with MISA counterparts and a limited number
of reports gathered during the mission.
A.    MISA's Current project management practices
1.    Organizational links within MISA
Five main divisions will have a relationship to the project. The NGO administration, the NGO and
indirectly the local MISA directorates in the districts where the project is being implemented.
2.    The Financial management and flow of funds at MISA
The financial management function is performed by two main departments: the finance department for the
management of the total MISA budget, and the NGO Administration Department that disburses and
monitors funds to the NGOs. The Government's Central Auditing Organization (CAO) audits MISA
annually.
a.    Current Accounting, Reporting, Auditing practices at NGO Level
MISA maintains accounting books and records on a cash basis. They disburse funds to NGOs based on
contractual agreements, usually in one or two installments per year. According to the existing standard
agreement, the funds are transferred to the NGOs in one up-front installment, and NGOs account for the
funds according to their own accounting system and as per the Government regulations. They keep all
supporting documents and must send annual financial statements. They must also send no later than 3
months after the closing of each fiscal year audited financial statements for that year for the total of their
operations to MISA. They, occasionally and on a sample basis, get audited by the government's Central
Auditing Organization (CAO). The NGO administration has an internal control department with about 10
internal controllers at MISA headquarters and 5 to 6 per governorate. These internal controllers
undertake supervision and control field visits to the NGOs. However, given the large number of projects
implemented by NGOs, the volume of work far exceeds the existing capacity. The priority is then given
to the control over the NGOs that receive annual grants to support their operations and are part of
MISA's annual budget.
b.    Internal Control
Financial policies and procedures
The NGO Administration uses a set of technical and governance criteria to evaluate the NGO's capacity
to manage projects. The evaluation is done rather informally, written guidelines or records exist on the
evaluations performed. To be eligible for funding from MISA budget or for recommendation by MISA
for international funding, an NGO should have an annual General Assembly, a board that meets monthly,
an administrative and technical staff structure, financial statements, clearance by the CAO, and should
have been established for a few years. MISA grant agreement refers to the Egyptian accounting law to be
applied by NGOs but has no written financial policies and procedures that govern its financial
transactions, accounting for grants, and or regular reporting. The technical progress reports vary in form,



Annex 6b
Page 2 of 7
frequency, and content. They range from monthly to bi-annually to annually. The financial reports are
received only once a year in the form of financial statements, in addition to any status report that is
prepared when a financial control is undertaken by an internal controller. No evaluation of projects is
performed. In most cases, once approved for funding, an NGO gets funded every year thereafter and its
annual grant becomes part of MISA annual budget.
Budgeting process
Project proposals with activities and budgets are presented by the different technical divisions (central and
local levels) to the Planning Department according to the divisions' respective assessment of community
needs. These are reviewed for a five-year plan period. Budget requirements are split between investment
budget and operating budget. The investment budget includes the acquisition of fixed assets such as the
purchase of equipment, rehabilitation of buildings, and the construction of new ones. These are in general
subject to central purchases then transferredL to NGOs on a loan basis. The recurrent costs of projects
implemented through NGOs are included as part of MISA's annual operating budget and transferred to
NGOs in the form of annual grant. While budgets are originally presented in the project proposal by the
respective technical units, they are reviewed and reduced when there are insufficient provisions in
MISA's budget and then sent back to the units. The signature of the grant agreement between MISA and
an NGO is not binding either for funding of the full amount stipulated in the agreement. The budget
analysis is very limited.
C.    Audit Arrangements
Internal Audit
To ensure that NGOs spend the funds according to their contractual agreement, MISA NGO
Administration department conducts field visits to undertake financial reviews. These reviews are
performed by a number of internal controllers at MISA's main office (at NGO Administration) and
through the local offices. This internal audit capacity is not enough to keep up with the current volume of
work and the annual increase in activities.
Annual External Audit of Projects
MISA is audited annually by the CAO, a government auditor. NGOs implementing projects funded by
MISA are required to submit annually their entity's audited financial statements for each fiscal year, to
MISA NGO Administration Department not later than three months following the close of the fiscal year.
The CAO also undertakes sample audits of NIJOs every five years or so. The audited financial statements
are reviewed by the internal controllers of MISA.
B.    The Project Management Arrangements
1.    Institutional Arrangements
a.    The Project Management Unit
Given its innovative nature and learning objective, the project will be managed by a Project Management
Unit created especially to this end. The PMU will be established to (a) enable more effective processing
of disbursement and level of responsiveness of the project management to project demands from the field
level; (b) have flexibility for innovation and, thus, isolate project output from being affected by aspects
related to logistical and or administrative capacity; and (c) build management capacity on a small scale
for learning purposes for replication of lessons, if deemed desirable.



Annex 6b
Page 3 of 7
b.    Organization Structure of the Project
The project's activities will be implemented through MISA agents and other service providers at the
field/community level. The proposed organization structure of the PMU is included as part of this
implementation manual. It comprises the following full time positions: a Project Manager, a Financial
Officer, an Accountant, a Procurement Officer, a Senior Researcher, two Research Assistants, and two
support staff members. The PMU will be responsible for the full implementation of the project and the
annual plan and budget, for monitoring, follow-up and evaluation of activities, and analysis of results and
lessons learnt; and for ensuring that credit agreement conditions are complied with. The PMU will report
to a steering committee that oversees the project implementation regularly and provides advice to the
Minister on policy issues as they relate to the project and/or the lessons learnt. The structure terms of
reference for the project management, is included in the implementation manual.
2.    Financial Management Arrangements
The project's activities will be implemented through a number of Service Providers. The PMU will be
responsible for the planning, budgeting, overall supervision of the activities, consolidating project
information, and reporting on these activities to all stakeholders. The PMU should ensure compliance
with the Bank credit and other donors agreements, ensure that the funds are spent per the agreement and
according to the regulations and procedures of the Bank and other funding agencies as required. The
PMU should put in place the regulations, operational procedures, and management structure that ensure
that the PMU and the implementing Service Providers have accounting and control systems capable of
reliably recording and reporting all financial transactions. This is important for MISA to fulfill its
fiduciary requirements towards its donors and to ensure that these systems provide the necessary financial
and physical progress information to the project management at each level. The following components of
such a system should be in place and operational prior to credit effectiveness, or as soon as possible
thereafter upon completion of the Action Plan.
a.    Accounting systems
IDA's financial policies requires that the borrower maintain and operate an accounting system to record
and report all the financial transactions of the project, according to the Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles. For this the recruitment of the financial officer and accountant according to the qualifications
specified in the attached TORs is a condition of effectiveness of the credit. These two officers will be
responsible for the implementation of an accounting system and designing the reporting requirements at
the level of the PMU and the Service Providers implementing project's components.
The PMU accounting system should be able to provide accurate, reliable, and timely accounting
information on project's funding sources and uses for the total of the project and for each individual
component and sub-component of the project and by implementing institution. It should also provide a
regular reconciliation of the credit special account with the IDA records. To allow better and faster
monitoring of financial, procurement, and monitoring and evaluation output indicators, an adequate
software capable of generating the required information and reports should be installed and in place at the
PMU.
b.    Internal Control System
The PMIU financial officer along with the accountant will be responsible for implementing an internal
control system compliant with Bank financial and procurement procedures and regulations. Some of
these procedures and regulations are included in the Procedures section of the Implementation Manual of
the Project. An operational manual should be developed detailing:



Annex 6b
Page 4 of 7
*  The authorization and payment system;
*  The process of approval of the project's activities within the PMU and when a proposal is submitted
by a service provider for funding under any of the activities of the project. This includes a clear
definition of the formation, role and responsibility of the ad-hoc committees;
*  The funding eligibility criteria for a service provider under each of the project components. Such
procedure should also be part of the documentation communicated to the service provider being
considered for funding;
* A revision of the funding contract between the PMU and a service provider by which an activity is
being carried out under any of the project's components. This should include a listing of proper
documentation detailing the activities being funded, the conditions of funding, and the reporting,
auditing and other requirements along with their periodicity, expected from them;
*  The description, development, and communication of reporting requirements from the project
implementing Service Providers;
* The receipt of copies of the Service Providers annual external audit reports, and the annual external
audit arrangement of the total project;
*  The periodicity and type of visits and other controls to be performed;
*  Other, as needed.
c.    Auditing Arrangements
IDA's financial policies require that an annual external audit be performed for the total project, which in
this case is the Social Protection Initiatives project implemented by MISA through the PMU and a
number of Service Providers. The audit should be conducted by an independent audit firm external to
MISA acceptable to IDA. A copy of such audit should be conmmunicated to IDA no later than six months
following the closing of the fiscal year subject of audit. The external audit report should encompass all
project's activities and should be in accordance with IDA auditing requirements as stipulated in the IDA's
financial documents conveyed to MISA by the mission. It will cover the project's financial statements,
the reconciliation and use of the special account, the use of, and withdrawal based on, Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs), when these are used, the fixed assets of the project, clear opinions on these, and a
management letter.  The audit should be conducted according to International Auditing Standards. A
sample audit TORs acceptable to IDA is included in the Implementation Manual. The TORs should be
prepared and a list of auditors acceptable to IDA should be submitted for clearance before credit
effectiveness. The auditors should be appointed inmmediately after and before credit disbursement takes
place.
d.     Special account
To ensure that funds are readily available for the project implementation, a special account denominated
in US dollars will be opened at a commercial bank in Cairo and will be operated by the PMU for the IDA
credit. Initially, an advance for the equivalent of six months expenditures will be transferred to the
special account upon effectiveness of the credit and receipt by IDA of a withdrawal application. The
maximum amount of this advance is estimated at US$500,000. The special account will be operated by
the PMU under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Disbursement applications will be prepared and
submitted by the PMU to IDA along with the Quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR). Each
disbursement application will be signed by two authorized representatives. Authorized signatories names
and corresponding specimens of their signatures will be submitted to IDA through MISA. Upon full
implementation of the action plan agreed upon as shown below, IDA team will review the financial
management arrangements to determine if the project can disburse based on quarterly submission of
PMRs. Once IDA provides formal certification, disbursements based on Quarterly Project Management
Reports can begin.



Annex 6b
Page 5 of 7
If the project is not considered compliant with all Bank financial policies to be eligible for PMR
disbursement, the special account will be replenished based on IDA's traditional methods of
disbursements, using SOE for those expenditures below the threshold and special account replenishments
with supporting documentation for the rest of the expenditures. A training on the above procedures will
take place during the project launch workshop. This procedure is detailed further in the annex 6 to the
PAD.
e.    Bank Reporting and Disbursement Arrangements
Bank Reporting and Disbursement Arrangements
The PIU will prepare annual financial statements and will submit annual audits of these financial
statements to IDA as specified above. In addition, the PMU will submit quarterly project management
reports upon full implementation of the action plan and when this procedure is declared acceptable by
IDA.
The PMR is a management tool as well as a reporting requirement to IDA. A sample PMR model is
attached. The PMR is a comprehensive document reporting on the last quarters activities in terms of
sources and uses of funds, progress of activities as shown by the procurement schedule and output
indicators for the quarter, a forecast of the next quarter and a status of the cumulative achievements to
date.
It comprises the following three main sections: (a) Section 1: Financial Statements. These will provide
information on sources and uses of funds by credit category and by project activity, forecasts of
expenditure, amount of disbursement requested and a reconciliation of the special account; (b) Section 2:
Project Progress Reports. These will provide information on project implementation progress in physical
and financial terms using monitoring indicators, including identifying deviations from plan and
explaining reasons for such variations; and (c) Section 3: Procurement Management Reports. These will
provide reports on the status of procurement and contracts subject to IDA's prior review, as well as post-
review contracts above US$100,000 equivalent.
Upon recruitment of all the PMU staff members, to generate the PMR, the director should form a task
force from the project, comprised of finance, procurement, and program staff, to work on developing the
project PMR. The Task force will define inputs and outputs to the PMR based on the model in the Loan
Administration Change Initiative (LACI) Implementation Handbook (or LACI Implementation
Handbook); propose forms and information to be generated by the various parties; and produce a draft
PMR to be submitted to IDA for approval.
Reporting and Disbursement Arrangements from PMU to Service Providers
Once the project is approved and contract/agreement is signed between the parties, disbursement can
begin based on request by the service provider. The service provider should open a special account in a
local commercial bank, and submit the account number and bank address, along with the names of two
signatories and a specimen signature to the PMU. The signatories are the only persons authorized to sign
the withdrawal application. The service provider will then submit a withdrawal application for an
advance, specifying the amount of funds needed for the first quarter, accompanied by a cash-flow forecast
for the quarter. The cash-flow forecast should be based on the budgeted activity. The format of the
withdrawal application and cash-flow forecast should be clearly communicated to the service provider
once the agreement is signed. The service provider is responsible for keeping proper accounting records
of all the funds received and used for the project. These funds include all sources: from PMU, own
sources (income generation, cost sharing), government funding, and other donors) and the uses of these
funds. Subsequent withdrawal applications should be submitted quarterly to the PMU accompanied by
financial and activity progress reports, and a bank reconciliation statement. The reports formats should be
clearly defined and communicated to the service providers by the PMU. In addition, the service provider



Annex 6b
Page 6 of 7
should submit monthly financial reports detailing the sources and uses of funds, along with a bank
reconciliation. The service provider should also submit no later than three months after the closing of the
fiscal year its annual independent audit report to the PMU. As part of the overall audit of the project, the
PMU appointed auditors will also undertake a review of the sources and uses of funds to form an opinion
on and to certify the financial statements of the project activity.
As needed and at their discretion, the PMU staff (the financial officer and/or the accountant) undertake a
visit to the service provider to review the accounting and procurement documentation and records to
ensure compliance with project agreement and its governing procedures. Upon receipt of the withdrawal
application and any of the reports mentioned above, the PMU reviews the documentation to decide on the
amount of funds needed to be transferred to the service provider. In case of doubts of the reliability of the
information contained in any of the reports, the PMU requests more information, supporting
documentation, and/or undertakes a visit to the service provider to review the documentation and the
accounting records. In case of failure to comply with agreement terms and or absence of reliable
information, the PMU should report the case to the SC. In this case the disbursement can be discontinued
immediately. The latter case should be clearly stated in the agreement contract. The receipt of other than
unqualified audit report should result in immediate suspension of the disbursements and should be
reported to the SC for decision.
C.    Action Plan for the financial management system set-up
1. Establish a Steering Committee, consisting of a Chairman, General Directors of MISA programs on
Women, Disabled Children, Social Welfare and other General Directorates involved in the Project,
representatives from the Ministries of Health, Education and Labor, the UNDP Project Manager, and
other technical specialists as needed and requested and communication to IDA of the list of members,
by January 15, 2000.
2. Establish the Project Management Unit, consisting of  the project manager, financial officer,
procurement officer, accountant, research officer, research assistant and support staff, and
communication to IDA of the list of members by February 15, 2000.
3. Design and install internal systems and procedures for the PMU by March 15, 2000. The system
should include at least the following. An implementation manual should be developed detailing:
* The authorization and payment sy stem;
* The process of approval of the project's activities within the PMt and when a proposal is
submitted by a service provider fior funding under any of the activities of the project. This
includes a clear definition of the formnation, role and responsibility of the ad-hoc committees;
* The funding eligibility criteria for a service provider under each of the project components.
Such procedure should also be part of the documentation communicated to the service
provider being considered for funding;
*  A revision of the funding contract between the PMU and a service provider by which an
activity is being carried out under any of the project's components. This should include a
listing of proper documentation detailing the activities being funded, the conditions of
funding, and the reporting, auditing and other requirements along with their periodicity,
expected from them;
*  The description, development, and communication of reporting requirements from the project
implementing Service Providers;
* The receipt of copies of the Service Providers annual external audit reports, and the annual
external audit arrangement of the total project;
* The periodicity and type of visits and other controls to be performed;
* Other as needed.
4. Develop the accounting procedures and system and install an accounting and monitoring software.
5. Open a special account in US$ for the project at one of the Commercial Banks in Cairo.



Annex 6b
Page 7 of 7
6. Engage external independent auditors acceptable to IDA to audit the accounts for the first year of
project's operations, by March 31, 2000. The auditors will also be assigned the review of the internal
control system being developed to verify compliance with IDA financial and procurement reporting
requirements. Auditors will issue by March 31, 2000, an interim management letter on the internal
financial control and make any recommendation to improve the system;
7. Implement all recommendations made by the auditors to improve the financial internal control by
April 15, 2000;
8. Ensure that above actions are implemented to allow IDA to certify that the financial and procurement
management system in place is adequate and ready for loan disbursement by April 30, 2000;
9. Ministry to submit first withdrawal application for the S/A advance of US$250,000 by May 1, 2000.
B. Actions to take place when project implementation unit is ready to upgrade financial
management system
Design IDA's reporting requirements: PMR and communicate a draft to IDA; submission to IDA of
the PMU's first PMR for replenishment of the special account advance



Annex 7
Page 1 of 1
Arab Republic of Egypt
Social Protection Initiatives Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Processing Budget (US$ 000s)            Planned              Actual
Bank BB Budget                                       90.0                102.6
Japanese Trust Fund                                  N/A                 N/A
B. Project Schedule
Time taken to prepare the project                   30 days             30 days
Appraisal mission                               May 17-27, 1999     May 17-27, 1999
Negotiations                                     June 12, 1999       June 12, 1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     April 2000
Prepared by: MNSHD and MNCEG
Preparation assistance: World Bank/IDA
Bank staff who worked on the project included
Name                                     Specialty
Alaa Mohamoud Hamed, MNCEG                             Public Health Specialist
Amira Kazem, MNCEG                                   Planning / Implementation
Badr Kamel, MNCEG                                    Disbursement / Procurement
Douglas Graham, MNCEG                                 Senior Operations Officer
Dung Kim Pham, MNSHD                                 Disbursement / Procurement
Elena Volpi, MNSED                                       Social Assessment
Eluned Roberts-Schweitzer, MNSHD                           Team Leader
Hisham Waly, MNCEG                                       Financial Analyst
Igbal Kaur, MNSHD                                Economic Analysis / Data collection
Rafika Chaouali, MNSHD                             Financial Management Specialist
Vivian Nwachukwu, MNSHD                                   Team Assistant
Zafiris Tzannatos, MNSHD                          Social Protection Sector Manager
Peer Reviewers
Andy Guth, ECSHD                                          Projects Officer
Miriam Schneidman, LCSHD                                 Operations Officer
*Estimates based on level of effort



Annex 9
Page 1 of 1
Arab Republic of Egypt
Social Protection Initiatives Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
Differe
Oriiral. P4t in UB$ Mtillcs             anS atL1           last P9R
Fiscal                                                                                             didserrts a/        Spesicn
Ratin_g b/
Promjet ID    Year        Borrmer                  DaEe
TEED     IDA       o.           U-dib.       Crig  Fn   Dv Uj          sp
Red                    Pcg
3lTber of Cls  Frcjets: 81
Pctive Projects
50-9E-5111    1991  BCS n5555ThREfN                         E          84.00    0.00      0.00            5.88      5.88     0.00    S        S
E5-PE-5152    1992   (IMZENr             S0lISS4¶ISIS Ca2r             0.00   26.84     0.00            16.87     14.43     3.56    S        S
0-9EE-5146    1992  (5RCFNr HOF      r 1GJaAL CMEADA                   45.00   75.00      0.00           20.84      -.90     0.00  SH         HS
5r-P9-5161    1993  TE                     E5SIC ED=CN ERJ              0.00   55.50      0.00           14.45     12.80       .11    S       S
E5-PE-5168    1993       (                PA   SEC   I95 I F  h ENV   260.00    0.00   188.00            19.79     69.12       .32    S       S
5-EE-5153     1993  G3TC 8 r  F  Er,=          ERtE    E RE r M.        0.00   22.00      0.00           12.69      7.95    -1.29    S        S
50-P955157    1994  (0-/EPEC              8CEiQLOOmL 3021[1            54.00   67.00      0.00           12.34    -33.84     0.00    S        S
EG-PE-5173    1995  39955                 HPr R        C   P           26.70   53.30      0.00           71.53     24.81      0.00    S       U
50-9E-43102    1996  OWERZEW              S00IIL FU  II                 0.00  120.00      0.00           26.63     -1.31      0.00   Nk       S
Er-E-5163     1996  (ME3                  E.IATICN                      0.00   17.20      0.00           15.04      7.25      -.91    S       S
50FE-5169     1997   6E ED. .WNMENr PROG.                               0.00   75.00      0.00           66.24     22.40     6.02    S        S
(-PE-57704    1998      14ENCr SETCtRM                                  0.00    2.00      0.00            2.03       .81     0.00    S        U
ES-eE-49166    1998                        ST E2I FA.SERV.              0.00   15.00      0.00           15.12      2.06     0.00    S        U
EG-PE-45175    1998  (30Ea0ENr CFBtgr E   EP.ZH SE=E                    0.00   90.00      0.00           85.03     -2.63     0.00    S        S
E:-PE-54958    1998   XE0NVMr CF Er   P;lIIICN ABEr                    20.00   15.00      0.00           34.85      1.04     0.00    S        S
50-PE-41410    1999  G7VM(    CF E3GfPT   P. S. le-AB. III            120.00    0.00      0.00          120.00      0.00     0.00    S        S
0-9PE-40858    1999                       Sam C5PAL 55V.                0.00   25.00      0.00           25.33      0.00      0.00
Ittal                                                                 609.70  658.84   188.00           564.66    129.87      7.81
Actave Pzrioj      OCld Pzz:jet          TDtal
T-tal Djs1ase  (ID and MIA)               504.69         3,621.14         4,125.83
of vuidl has besn repid:             11.68         2,070.49         2,082.17
Total r: hield by  =  and IA:           1,068.86         1,556.40         2,625.26
Anurt sald                  :               0.00             7.48             7.48
Of hidi reid                             0.00             7.48             7.48
Ttoal Uth5idrse             :             564.66             2.23           566.89
a. Iltad  disbJrssTets to dste nmaim aztnl diLJirsyajts  to dRte as prnjected at appraial.
b. Follairg te FY94 knal Revie.w of P8rtfol.io peotonrfre (l895), a letter hased system zas
irtir     0S = highly Satisfy, S = stis£ftoy, U = uatis y, H  = hi2ly
iiratisfatry)  see pcpased Inprvaits in Prie  and Portfolio Perfitarrre  Patirig  yndaofky
(Sed4-901), Stspt 23, 1994.
Diste:
Dishunt   data is tpted at thle Erf f tle fizst week of tlr nh.



Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
Arab Republic of Egypt
Social Protection Initiatives Project
Social Assessment Action Plan
Relevance of the proposed project for social development
1. Disabled and poor children are among the most vulnerable groups in all societies. They are the first to
suffer from limited or ineffective social expenditures. In Egypt, recent economic deregulation and the
changing role of the state in social protection might have increased the vulnerability of these categories.
Informal safety nets are weakening, especially in new urban communities and also in rural areas where
the very poor meet increasing economic difficulties. At the same time, public services and assistance are
not always adequate to meet the needs of problematic children and their families. Access is one of the
problems, as these groups tend to be excluded from legal entitlements.
2. This project can assist the government to better design services for the mentioned groups and to
improve accessibility. Innovation of public services can be enhanced also by learning from community-
based practices which have been successful in assisting disadvantaged categories.
Objectives of the Social Assessment
3. The Social Assessment will assist to identify and to tailor specific project activities, their sequence, and
which formal and informal institution to involve in project implementation. It will provide in-depth
knowledge on the perceptions, needs and resources of target groups and other project stakeholders.
4. The study will also establish indicators and benchmarks for on-going project monitoring and final
evaluation. During project life, periodical reviews will include social scientists (both national and
international) who will assess project activities based on the agreed-upon indicators.
5. Finally, the social assessment will highlight issues that could be further investigated in larger scale
studies and survey during project life, such as the one planned by UNICEF Egypt.
Issues for the Social Assessment
6. For both project components (disabled children and children at risk), the assessment will analyze how
the problem is perceived by concerned actors, actors' coping strategies and resources, and their demanded
actions. Specific topics will include:
*  How target groups and other community actors perceive and define mental and physical disability,
and "children at risk"
*  How children in difficult circumstances, their families, and their communities cope with the problem,
by using cultural and social resources (social capital)
*  Culturally rooted attitudes toward therapy and socialization of children with difficulties
* Socio-economic characteristics of disabled children, children at risk, and their families
* Disabled children and family relations: role of mother, father, other family members in taking care of
the disabled child
* Existing governmental and NGO programs addressing these categories in target areas, their access by
target groups, satisfaction and lessons learned
* Specific needs of children with problems, their families and communities, and indications for project
action.



Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
7. For each issue attention will be given to differences related to gender, economic conditions, and
rural/urban areas. Children at risk seem to be an emerging phenomenon in new urban settlements, where
community ties are particularly weak, but the study will also investigate specific manifestations of the
problem in rural areas.
8. The role of the mother and other female members is crucial, as they usually bear the burden of care and
socialization of children with problems. Promoting more opportunities and resources for women is key
for improving their children's life as well. Removing obstacles to acquiring legal status appears necessary
in this context. The study should assess whether and how this would facilitate the life of women and the
most appropriate ways to help them obtaining identification cards.
Methodology
9. The Social Assessment methodology will be mainly qualitative. Respondents are asked to express
perceptions on sensitive and emotional issues, not suitable for a questionnaire. The study will use tools
such as in-depth interviews, focus groups, case studies, narratives. A basic survey however will be
undertaken to collect data on target groups' socio-economic characteristics, their numeric dimension in
different areas, and their access to existing services. The study will take from one to three months,
according to the budget available.
10. National researchers should play a major role in the study. NGOs and other agencies dealing with
children with difficulties may provide human resources for social assessment planning and
implementation. In order to increase the capacity of MISA in dealing with community problems, central
and local officers should be involved in designing the social assessment and should be consulted on
several social assessment issues. However, researchers doing field work should not be affiliated with a
government institution, as this could limit the spontaneity of respondents' answers. Highly experienced
national researchers will be required, given the complex nature of issues investigated.
11. IDA's social scientists will assist in the design and implementation of the social assessment, by
ensuring quality control and adherence of the final report to project requirements.



Annex 1 1
Page 1 of 3
Arab Republic of Egypt
Social Protection Initiatives Project
Disabilities in Egypt
According to the law of 1975, No. 39, the disabled is any person unable to depend on her/himself in
carrying out their job or in carrying out another job and maintaining it, and that her/his abilities to do
that have decreased as a result of a physical or sensory or congenital impairment and that this individual
has become inflicted with a handicap which impedes his coping with his society or environment and
prevents his success in life. " (MISA - Internal Statute, 1980, cited in Osman H., 1988)
Introduction
Providing services for the disabled is a high priority for Egypt. The Government of Egypt (GOE) through
its ministries--Insurance and Social Affairs, Education, Higher Education, and Health-has provided
different services for the prevention, care and rehabilitation of the disabled. Egypt's First Lady has taken
a personal interest in this area. International and national non-governmental organizations provide
services, monitor the situation of disability, and advocate for more to be given to the disabled. A special
union for Disability and Special Needs was established in 1968 in Egypt and has 228 member NGOs.'
Problem Magnitude
Estimating the magnitude of the disability problem in Egypt is difficult, as it varies, depending on the
source of information. But all the figures denote the presence of a notable problem. The Ministry of
Insurance and Social Affairs reported that the disabled constitute about 10 to 20 percent of the population,
45 percent of which are children. Egypt's maternal and child health survey of 1991 collected information
on the prevalence of disability conditions among all the members of the households surveyed by asking
the following question: "Does anyone in this household, including very young children and women, have
any long-term condition or health problem which prevents or limits his/her participation in activities
normal for a person of his/her age?" Among 22,967 children under 15 surveyed, only 73 disability
conditions were reported.
UTNICEF conducted in 1995/96 a Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (EMICS) where it administered a set
of questions used in the first stage of epidemiological assessments, to provide a current, national,
population-based estimate of the reported prevalence of childhood disabilities. The estimates are based
on direct questioning of mothers by trained interviewers. The module of ten questions on disabling
conditions was administered to mothers about all their children under age 15. All interviewers were
university graduates, but were not qualified to make medical assessments of disabling conditions. This
module aimed to identify 6 different types of impairment: hearing, sight, speech, malfunction of upper
and lower limbs, mental retardation and chronic health conditions. Any positive response was followed
by specific probing questions to identify cases where the condition actually resulted in impairment of
daily activities or education, but not the specific degree of disability. Of the 20,405 children surveyed,
895 were reported to have one of these types of impairment. Of these cases, 617 children (1 in 33) were
reported to have conditions that limited their activities, compared with other children of the same age. Of
children between ages 5 and 15, 3.5 percent were reported to have a disabling condition. Sight problems
and chronic health conditions were most commonly reported, each responsible for one-quarter of reported
disabling conditions, followed by hearing problems (13 percent), speech problems (12 percent), and
mental retardation (11 percent) and motor disability (11 percent).
i Source: Conference proceedings of Sixth Conference on Federation for Handicapped and Special Needs, 1994



Annex 1 1
Page 2 of 3
Other non-governmental organizations working in the field of disability reported a disability prevalence
ranging from 3 to 5 percent of total population within the age group 0-18 years which could mean the
presence of a number that varies from 720,000 to 1,200,000 of Egypt's disabled children. It is expected
that those who are in the school age group could range from 450,000 to 750,000 disabled child where
only 2.8 to 4.7 percent are covered by the 3pecial Education Department in the Governmental Education
Sector.'
Provision of services for the disabled
Provision of services for the disabled is fragmented between the different providers of services in Egypt.
Mapping of the existing services shows that services are shared by governmental and non-governmental
organizations.
Governmental services are shared by the Ministry of Education, Department of Special Education;
Ministry of Higher Education: Teaching Hospitals; Ministry of Health: Primary level (PHC Units),
Secondary and tertiary level (general hospitals, specialized hospitals); Ministry of Insurance and Social
Affairs: Rehabilitation Offices, Rehabilitation Centers, Sheltered Workshops, Physiotherapy Centers, Day
Care Centers and Factories for Appliances besides Institute for Intellectuals and Special Centers for Deaf,
Blind, Motor and Visual.
Non-govermental organizations usually provide services through Special Centers and Community-Based
Rehabilitation approach.
The private sector provides its services through its structure of centers, hospitals, general practitioners and
specialists.
One form of non-governmental organization, sometimes referred to as a quasi-governmental organization,
is forming a collaboration with MISA. This type of NGO is contracted to manage and provide the services
for the disabled using MISA resources.
UNICEF states that "At present the facilities to care for, rehabilitate, and educate children with
disabilities are wholly inadequate." Other specialized organizations interested in disability state that the
lack of integration of services provision, the development of segregated approaches to address disability,
and the implementation of different models for provision of services impede care for the disabled.
Needs Identification
Given the consensus between the United Nations and international and national organizations, UNICEF
noted that "estimating the magnitude of the problem is the first step toward improving disabled children's
lives. Further investigation of the extent, causes and possible measures that can be taken to prevent these
conditions. As a first step, a detailed epidemiological study should be carried out to validate these
reported cases and to evaluate the degree of disability involved. The causes of disability and the social
context in which they are most likely to occur should also be investigated. Identification of avoidable
disabilities and programs to prevent them should be a high priority. The social consequences of physical
and mental impairment for children and their families also needs further investigation, as a first step in
planning the best ways to ameliorate adverse consequences." This can be done through the development
of a National Needs Assessment for Disability.
The need to develop an integrated National Strategy for disability was identified. Also, emphasis was on
a national, comprehensive and integrated system for disability, including a model of service delivery
2Association for Health and Environment Development



Annex 1 1
Page 3 of 3
and quality assurance according to national standards and guidelines for prevention, care, and
rehabilitation of the disabled. This system should define the different roles and responsibilities of the
stakeholders, such as GOE ministries and non-governmental organizations, for disability. The system
should also address the role of the community and how it can be involved and integrated in this system.
Possible ways to finance and fund these services should be investigated to make the delivery of this
system sustainable.



Annex 12
Page 1 of 2
Arab Republic of Egypt at a glance
M. East  Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             & North  middle-
Egypt    Africa  income        D e l * la p m e n t d in m   n d-
Population mid-1996 (millions)                          59.3       276    1,125                 Life expectancy
GNPpercapita 1996 (US$)                                1,080     2,070    1,740
GNP 1996 (US$ billions)                                 64.3       572    1,962
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Populabon(%)                                             2.0       2.6       1.4     GNP                             sross
Laborforce(%)                                            2.8       3.2       1.7     per                           pn rary
capita       \F  /         enrollment
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1990)                                     an
Poverty: national headcount index (% of population)
Urban populabon (% of total populadon)                   45         S7       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         65         67       67                A c c essto safe water
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 53         50       40
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                9
Access to safe water (% of population)                   64         71       75               Egypt Arab Rep.
Illiteracy (% of populaton age 15+)                      49         39       20
Gross primary enrollment(% of school-age population)    100         97      104       .          L wer-m iddle icoe m arop
Male                                                  107        102      107
Female                                                 93         91      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985       1995     1996
Ecenemic raties'
GDP (US$ billions)                            11.4      34.7      59.1     67.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 33.4      26.7      16.7      16.6                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP             20.2      19.9      24.2      20.6
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    12.3      14.5      12.1      12.1
Gross nabonal savings/GDP                       ..        ..      19.3      17.7                      T
Current account balance/GDP                  -21.2      -9.3       0.8      0.7      Savins                      Investment
Interest payments/GOP                          0.7       2.6       2.1       1.6      a i
Total debt/GDP                                42.3    104.1       56.5     46.4
Total debtservice/exports                     10.3      25.8      13.1      11.6
Present value of debVGNP                        ..        ..        ..    35.0
Presentvalue of debt/exports                    ..        ..        ..   117.0                   Indeb ted ness
197545   1986-96       1995     1996           -      pAoe
(average annual growth)                                                                 -F yP6 A tab Rep.
GDP                                            8.1       3.9       4.6       5.0             Lowe-rmiddle-iocome group
GNP per capita                                 5.1       2.5       2.9       3.5
3.8      6.9        1.5      8.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985       1995     1996
(%ofGDP)                                                                             Geowth of invaest mn etand GDP IY%
Agriculture                                   29.0      20.0      17.2      17.3      20
Industry                                      26.9      28.6      33.1      31.6
Manufacturing                               17.4      13.5       25.0     24.3
Services                                      44.1      51.5      49.7      51.1  2]               92   93   94   as   96
Prvate consumption                            62.9      68.2      77.1      77.5      40
Generalgovemmentconsumpton                    24.9      17.2      10.8      10.4              -GOI                a p
Imports of goods and services                 41.3      32.0      28.8      25.1
197545   1986-96       1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                               e fawth  f expo rts a nd imparts I% I
Agriculture                                    2.8       2.8       2.9       3.1
Industry                                       9.8       4.3       5.0      4.9
Manufacturng                                   ,.      4.8        7.1      6.9      o 
Services                                      11.7       3.7       5.0       5.6      s
Private consumption                            7.9       5.3       3.2       3.9                     /    -
General govemment consumption                  4.4      -0.2       5.7       2.4             o          en          x    xx
Gross domestic investment                      7.8      -2.8       9.1       9.7
Imports of goods and services                  3.9       1.2       1.0       6.4            -Exposta           O rtx
Gross nabonal product                          7.7       4.8       4.9       5.4     _
World Development Indicatoms 1998 CD-ROM, World Bank
Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared
with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will be incomplete.



Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
Arab Republic of Egypt
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975      1985      1995      1996      Inflation 1%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                           20
Consumer prices                                9.7      12.1       15.7      7.2    1s
Implicit GDP deflator                          9.9       9.2        9.5      9.1      1                     -
Government finance
(%4 of GDP)                                                                                  91   92   93   94   95   a9
Current revenue                               38.0      39.3
Current budget balance                        -8.3       0.4                                     GDP *1    c PI
Overall surplus/deficit                      -18.0      -10.4                                          _
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1975      1985      1995      1996      E xp o rt a n d im p o rt le vls I U SS m ill.)
Total exports (fob)                          1,402     1.838      3,444    3,534     ts ooo
Food                                         244       103        338      371
Agrcultural raw materials                    540       222        211      150
Fuels                                        132      1,253     1,280    1,681      10oo -                    _
Ores and metals                                7        75        221      210                1.1           1
Manufactures                                 477       185      1,391    1,118       5,003. *M              M U
Total imports (cif)                          3,934     5.495     11,739   13,020
Food                                        1,413     1,488     3,332    3,837          3
Agricultural raw materials                   216       375        828      794             go  91  92  93  94  s5  99
Fuels                                        272       208        144      186
Ores and metals                               75        71        319      408                  *Fupo,09    *Inporto
Manufactures                                1,957    3,352      7,115    7,793
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975      1985      1995      1996
(USS millions)                                                                        C urrent acco unt balan cea to  D P I%I
Exports of goods and services                2,503     6,866     13,470   15,245      12
Imports of goods and services                5,141    12,606     16,894   18,951
Resource balance                            -2,638    -5,741     -3,423   -3,706       s
Net income                                    -244      -991      -454       539
Net current transfers                          456     3,522      4,358    3,666       o
Current account balance,                                                                      E3               4
before official capital transfers          -2,426    -3,209       480      499
Financing items (net)                        1,878     3,022       274        72    .12
Changes in net reserves                        548       187      -754      -570
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         535     1,587     17,122   18,296
Conversion rate (locaVUS$)                     0.5       1.0        3.4      3.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
'1975     1985      1995      1996
(USS millions)                                                                        r c mpositioof 1996 dbtIlUSS mil.l)|
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         4,835    36,102    33.374   31,407
IBRD                                          14     1,048      1,320    1,075                  G   A   B
IDA                                           84       802      1,035    1,090             F 2347 1075 1090  c
Total debt service                             305     2,817      2,413    2,309            1482                 2 -
IBRO                                           1       147       312       272
IDA                                            1         8        21        23
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            1,123       734      1,006    1,224
Official creditors                         2,169     1,635       -76       -17
Private creditors                             49       559      -313      -435
Foreign direct investment                      8     1,178       598       636                        23371
Portfolio equity                               0         0         2    1,233
World Bank program
Commitments                                  132        59        80       172    | A 13RD                     E Bilator.l
Disbursements                                 62       269       125       108      C B ID A   0 -. 0 r4tilaOnral  F Prh.
Principal repayments                           0        70       212       192    |                                         11
Netflows                                     62        198       -87       -84
Interest payments                              1        84       121       102
Net transfers                                 61       114       -208     -186
World Development Indicators 1998 CD-ROM, World Bank



