Report No. PID7898
Project Name                     Egypt-Social Protection Initiatives...
Project
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Social Protection
Project ID                       EGPE66336
Borrower                         Arab Republic of Egypt
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Insurance and Social Affairs
19, El-Maraghy St. Agouza, Cairo Egypt
Tel:    011-20-2-360-4158
Fax:    011-20-2-337-8573
Date PID Prepared                June 17, 1999
Appraisal                        May 12-27, 1999
Projected Board Date             June 29, 1999
Background
1.      Country and Sector Background
The economic reform program has produced positive results, but the benefits
have been unequally distributed across the population. Previously unknown or
sporadic phenomena such as street children and juvenile delinquency are
increasing in part because of rapid urbanization, and because new social
strains that affect the traditional family framework of village life.
Efforts are fragmented in areas that require coordination of Ministries
operating in social welfare, health, education, and labor. Regulations and
service standards are out of date. The Government and the non-profit sector
are responding positively, but there is no comprehensive framework into which
these services fit. In addition, data on the cost-effectiveness of services
already provided are weak, and even the extent of the problem is largely
unknown.
The Egyptian government is making substantial strides to address social
conditions, especially those of the poor and of children. A National Council
for Childhood and Motherhood was established in 1989. The Ministry of Social
Affairs (MISA) is making strong efforts to strengthen policy and strategy
formation, regulation, and the monitoring and evaluation of its programs with
the assistance of donors, such as UNDP and UNICEF.
MISA requested the Bank for assistance in piloting innovative modes of
service delivery in key areas of disabled and at-risk youth - a desire to
borrow for improving these services indicates the importance of these issues
to the Government. At present, services for disabled children or those in
difficult circumstances are neither mapped nor coordinated.
2.      Objectives
The project aims to develop and test integrated programs for children with
disability and youth at risk, through a range of providers, and to inform the
development of a new Government strategy for improving these services.



3.      Description
This learning and innovation project targets poor children with disabilities
or those at risk of street life. Specifically, the project would develop new
service delivery strategies, in particular through integrated services
requiring multidisciplinary and inter-agency cooperation. Emphasis would be
put on providing information on consumer needs and on the cost effectiveness
of different interventions, improving service delivery practices and
strengthening the management and administrative skills of MISA. This bottom-
up approach is the most appropriate for a project aiming to develop capacity
for service delivery, in a context where other donors were already involved
in policy development. Learning from this project will feed into UNDP-
supported efforts on strategy formulation.
4.      Financing
Component                Category        Indicative   W of   Bank-    W of
Costs       Total   financi  Bank-
(US$M)             ng        financing
(US$M)
Component 1.            Piloting,        2.7           51-    2.6      95t
Support for             Monitoring
services for            Evaluation and
children with           capacity
disabilities and        building
their families
Component 2.                             1.9           35t     1.8       96t
Initiative for
youth at risk
0.7          14t      0.6        83t
Total Project Costs                      5.3           100t    5.0        94t
5.      Implementation
The project would be implemented in 4 years (from 2000 to 2004). It will be
overseen by a Steering Committee (SC) of about 12 members, setting the
overall policy guidelines and direction of the project and reporting to the
MISA Minister. To assist the SC, a Project Management Unit (PMU) will be
established and fully staffed, as a condition of IDA credit effectiveness.
The PMU will consist of four key members, a Project Manager, a Financial
Officer, a Procurement Officer, and a Planning and Monitoring and Evaluation
Officer, as well as administrative and research support staff. Project
activities will be executed by: (i) MISA for capacity building activities,
such as social studies on needs assessment, evaluative studies, organizing
training in case management, and (ii) service providers at the community
level for program activities of the project, through contracts signed between
MISA and the service providers, and based on set eligibility criteria.
6.      Sustainability
N/A
7.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Previous projects, and in particular the Social Fund, have shown the
- 2 -



difficulties of reaching the poorest of the poor. It was therefore opted for
this prudent pilot approach, which will build on the existing NGO capacity
and focus on inter-agency cooperation, as a means to overcome these
difficulties. This will be the first Bank project with MISA. Experience
around the World has also shown that starting with a small project is an
efficient way to build up capacity and knowledge of Bank procedures.
8.      Poverty Category
Poverty Targeted intervention
9.      Environmental Aspects
The project is category C. The proposed project would have no significant
environmental risks.
10.     Program Objective Categories
The proposed project will contribute to service delivery of essential social
services and institutional building.
11.     Contact Points:
Task Manager
Eluned Roberts-Schweitzer
(202)473-3644
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 25, 1999.
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
- 3 -



