             Document of
          The World Bank




                                        Report No: 31607

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
         (IDA-32730 TF-52886)

                ON A

               CREDIT

  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.6 MILLION

     (US$5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

               TO THE

       ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT

               FOR A

SOCIAL PROTECTION INITIATIVES PROJECT




             June 22, 2005

       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

     (Exchange Rate Effective June 1999)

         Currency Unit = Egyptian Pound (L.E.)
              L.E. 3.41 = US$ 1
              US$ 0.29 = L.E. 1

               FISCAL YEAR
               July 1 - June 30

   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


   CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
   CDA             Community Development Association
   CWD             Children with Disability
   ICB             International Competitive Bidding
   LIL(C)          Learning and Innovation Loan (Credit)
   MISA            Ministry of Insurance and Social Affairs
   NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
   NCB             National Competitive Bidding
   NCCM            National Council for Childhood and Motherhood
   NS              National Shopping
   PMU             Project Management Unit
   PSR             Project Status Report
   SFD             Social Fund for Development
   UNDP            United Nations Development Program
   UNICEF          United Nations International Children Emergency Fund
   YAR             Youth at Risk



        Vice President:     Christiaan J. Poortman
     Country Director:      Emmanuel Mbi
Acting Sector Manager:      Setareh Razmara
    Task Team Leader:       Alaa Mahmoud Hamed

                               EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF
                                 Social Protection Initiatives


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
Annex 8. MISA Minister's Project Closing Speech                                  27
Annex 9. Borrower's Report                                                       29

Project ID: P066336                                                  Project Name: Social Protection Initiatives
Team Leader: Alaa Mahmoud Hamed                                      TL Unit: MNSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 22, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Social Protection Initiatives                            L/C/TF Number: IDA-32730; TF-52886
   Country/Department: ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                                             Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (87%); Central government administration
                            (13%)
                  Theme: Social safety nets (P); Improving labor markets (P); Vulnerability
                            assessment and monitoring (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/17/1999                                     Effective: 03/08/2000                05/23/2001
     Appraisal: 05/17/1999                                         MTR: 06/30/2001                  12/27/2003
      Approval: 06/29/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 03/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF EGYPT/MINISTRY OF INSURANCE AND SOCIAL
                                           AFFAIRS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Emmanuel Mbi                                   Inder Sud
Sector Manager:                 Setareh Razmara                                P. Zafiris Tzannatos
Team Leader at ICR:             Alaa Mahmoud Hamed                             Eluned Roberts-Schweitzer
ICR Primary Author:             Dung-Kim Pham


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
At project inception in 1999, economic growth in the second half of the 1990s had improved the living
standard for most of the population and reduced the overall incidence of poverty. However, there were
groups of the population that did not benefit. Vulnerable children and youth (including "children with
disabilities" and "children at risk") were a new and disturbing phenomenon among this population and were
predominantly poor. The Government of Egypt (GOE) was working to address the social conditions of the
poor. However, the conditions of vulnerable children were not adequately addressed and GOE did not have
a clear policy direction.      In addition, the Ministry of Insurance and Social Affairs (MISA), with
responsibility for programs for the vulnerable poor, lacked implementation capacity and had been
managing the same "categorical" programs for many years, as opposed to a needs-based approach, which
is now global good practice. It had minimal experience with donors and had only recently begun to receive
support from UNDP and UNICEF to strengthen its policy making capacity. Other parts of the social
safety nets in Egypt, including Bank-financed projects such as the Social Fund, were also not structured to
reach the poorest of the poor.

The year 1999 was also Egypt's last year of eligibility to borrow on International Development Association
(IDA) terms. The GOE wanted to take this last opportunity and made a direct request for assistance to the
Bank. The Bank, itself, saw a window of opportunity to work with the GOE in addressing child welfare,
which was a novel sector for the Bank in which it did not have much experience. Issues related to disability
and youth have only become prominent in Bank's operations very recently.

Against this background, the project was conceived and processed in a three-month period (April-June
1999). Supported by a Learning and Innovation lending instrument (LIL), the main project objective was
to develop and test integrated programs for children with disabilities (CWD) and youth at risk (YAR),
through a range of providers, and to use the experience of these programs to develop a new strategy for
improving services.

The project objective was therefore commendably timely and strategic. Through the development of new
service delivery strategies, the project would provide information on the needs of the target groups and the
effectiveness of the different interventions. This bottom-up method is appropriate for a project that was
aiming to develop capacity for service delivery. The use of a pilot operation through a LIL was the right
response to seize the opportunity to address issues that were new. It provided a small credit amount to
MISA to experiment and pilot interventions before a full-scale expansion. At the same time, it allowed the
GOE to access the last IDA funds available to Egypt. This approach was endorsed by a Quality Assurance
Group (QAG) upstream review (see Section 3.5).

Although not included in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), the project objective remained
relevant throughout project implementation and fits well within GOE's current Five-Year Plan for
socio-economic development (2002-2007), which emphasizes the "alleviation of poverty and attenuation of
income disparities" as one of its key development priorities. The Plan seeks to strengthen the efficiency of
the provision of public goods (basic education, public health, social protection, etc.) by the public sector,
through new mechanisms, such as decentralization, community-based approaches, partnership with NGOs,
and cooperation with the private sector.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objective was not revised.




                                                     - 2 -

3.3 Original Components:
The project had two components: (i) Component A - Provision of Services which comprised two
subcomponents, Children with Disabilities Initiative and Youth at Risk Initiative, and (ii) Component B -
Project Management.

Component A (US$4.6 million total) - Provision of Services: this component would develop models of
service delivery to improve the quality of service and extend the range of service providers. Through the
development and implementation of the models, the component would provide the following learning
experiences: (i) the kinds of service mechanisms that best reach the target populations, (ii) how services
integration for these targeted groups could be improved, and (iii) the development of improved service
standards. With its learning focus, this component supported the objective of the project appropriately.

Subcomponent A1 (US$2.7 million) - Children with Disabilities (CWD) Initiative: this subcomponent
would support nursery-based services and outreach services for disabled children and their families in three
governorates by: (i) carrying out a detailed epidemiological/social study needs assessment; (ii) developing
standards and guidelines for prevention, care, and rehabilitation, and designing special programs for the
most serious or prevalent problems, including an estimate of the type of rehabilitation facilities most
urgently needed and the number of trained personnel required to staff them; (iii) implementing service
delivery projects on a rolling basis and applying lessons learned to each new operation and to the standards
and guidelines; and (iv) evaluating the pre- and post-situation and comparing models being implemented
within the three governorates.

Subcomponent A2 (US$1.9 million) - Youth at Risk (YAR) Initiative: this subcomponent would support a
needs assessment to design and build combination outreach, screening, and referral centers, together with
recreational facilities for children found on the street or otherwise at risk and in need of counseling. These
could include such services as: (i) day shelters, reception and washing facilities, and provision of food; (ii)
short- and long-term counseling and referral; and (iii) reintegration into normal life through the family,
school, and formal labor market.

Component B (US$0.7 million) - Project Management: this component would support the establishment
of a Project Management Unit (PMU) in MISA to: (i) handle disbursements; (ii) reduce logistical and
administrative constraints; and (iii) build management capacity. The PMU would be composed of: (i) a
project manager; (ii) a financial officer; (iii) an accountant; (iv) a procurement officer; (v) a planning,
monitoring and evaluation officer; and (vi) administrative and research support staff. The PMU would
report to a steering committee in charge of overseeing implementation and providing policy advice to
MISA.

The objective of this component was relevant in view of MISA's weak capacity and its administrative
structure, which was not conducive to implementing a LIL that requires efficient and flexible
implementation mechanisms. However, the PMU could have been better staffed by including technical
experts in the fields of disability and youth. Its initial design responded primarily to the Bank's fiduciary
and monitoring requirements. In 2003, MISA rectified this weakness by adding two senior technical staff
to provide expertise in the fields of disability and youth (see Section 4.2, Component B).

3.4 Revised Components:
Two minor aspects of the project were revised, with no impact on the project objective. (i) the geographical
coverage of the CWD initiative was expanded to include NGOs with the respective capacity.                 This
expansion contributed to accelerating project implementation. (ii) the activity to provide identification
cards for women was dropped from the project. The ICR mission was informed that the activity fell under



                                                      - 3 -

the scope of other better suited government entities.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Overall quality at entry is rated satisfactory. In June 1999, an "on demand" upstream review of the project
during preparation by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) indicated that it "endorsed the selection of the
proposed LIL as a strategic and timely intervention".

Relevance of project development objective. At a time when Egypt's overall economic performance had
improved, there were population groups who were left behind, of whom vulnerable children and youth at
risk were a new and disturbing phenomenon. The rationale for the project objective is therefore clear. In
addition, in a context where UNDP and UNICEF were already supporting MISA with policy development,
the project correctly focused on developing improved capacity for service delivery.

Quality of project design. The project was designed to address the weak implementation capacity as well
as the lack of proven models for delivery of services to vulnerable children. The choice of a LIL as the
lending instrument facilitated experimenting with different service delivery models and the building of
consensus among stakeholders prior to a large scale expansion. Following on the recommendations of the
QAG, the PAD had stated clearly the learning objective and elaborated an approach to monitor and
evaluate the results of the pilot interventions. The different steps of the monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
process were spelled out. But, the M&E system was designed with insufficient attention to the institutional
capacity of MISA to manage the system. In addition, M&E focused primarily on the pilot interventions,
with no provision to monitor the process of change in the way that MISA and its local offices operated.

Participation and dialogue during preparation. Dialogue with MISA took place and MISA was involved
in program development but the short preparation time may have affected the ownership of the project.
There were also intensive technical discussions with the donors working with GOE to ascertain that there
was no program overlap. Knowledge of the environment in which the vulnerable children subsisted was
also gained through consultations with a number of large NGOs. But time constraints precluded the
in-depth evaluation required to better understand NGO numbers and capacities, and to strengthen
implementation mechanisms.

Project risk evaluation. The project identified the risks associated with the LIL together with proper
mitigation measures, in a comprehensive manner. It appropriately rated the overall risk as "substantial".
However, and as shown during implementation, one specific risk related to the number of the service
providers was underestimated. The risk turned out to be higher and pertained not only to the number, but
more importantly to the experience of the NGOs. The Bank supervision team identified the level of risk and
rectified the problem by providing training and technical assistance support (see Section 7.2).

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the outcome is rated moderately satisfactory. The project responded to a direct request of the
GOE and received a high degree of commitment from GOE and MISA during the preparation stage. A
ministerial change led to a diminution in MISA's interest in the project, leading to a period of very slow
project execution in the early years. Subsequently, as Egypt's social development agenda received greater
attention and MISA understood the potential of the project to advance the social agenda, MISA renewed its
commitment with the result that all project achievements were virtually accomplished during the last 15
months of the project. The delayed start to the execution of the project led to an abbreviated period of
testing the new approaches to service delivery; nevertheless, the project exposed MISA to different



                                                     - 4 -

approaches in service delivery for CWD and YAR, and raised awareness of issues to be addressed for the
process of policy formulation.

Exposure to new approaches. A holistic approach to developing service delivery programs was introduced
and principles of inclusive development and child protection were instituted, which superseded the
fragmented services that had been available. This new approach exposed governmental agencies and
stakeholders to service delivery models that promoted integration of services, community-based services
and outreach, empowerment of vulnerable children and their families, and special protection strategies for
youth at risk. Because it was a demand-driven project, the project did not have baseline information. The
models were either new or improved versions of existing services. Integration of services and partners was
modeled in the majority of subprojects: (i) of the 36 CWD subprojects developed, 28 models supported
integration of services and 31 supported integration of partners, and (ii) 100 percent of YAR models
supported both. In addition, 30 models introduced new concepts to improve existing services and 6
subprojects created models that were altogether new to Egypt.

Awareness of issues for policy formulation. The project provided insights into managing the social
development agenda and clarified the vision for disability and YAR. Different stakeholders have come to
agreement on the need for Egypt to have a common national disability policy where the various
governmental and non-governmental agencies are involved comprehensively and coordinate closely. For its
part, MISA has recently advanced a strategy to base disability policy and issues facing YAR on the lessons
learned from the project, the first intent being to engage in an intra-agency and multi-sectoral coordination
among ministries, and to advocate for the principle of inclusive development and child protection. (See
MISA minister's speech during the project closing ceremony in Annex 8.).

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component A - Provision of Service. This component is rated satisfactory. Even though development and
implementation experienced delays, all 44 subprojects provided service delivery models that used
innovative approaches to promote principles of inclusive development and child protection, and effectively
expanded the range of service providers.

Subcomponent A1 - Children with Disabilities Initiative (rated satisfactory). A total of 36 subprojects
were developed; 25 stemmed from NGOs and 11 from community development associations (CDA). The
subprojects were approved for execution, with an average cost of approximately US$100,000 per
subproject. Developing the subprojects in three phases, with each phase capitalizing on the experience of
the previous, allowed 16 subprojects to benefit from the technical assistance of an international NGO
specialized in disability. The models promoted:

(i) Outreach services which facilitated increased accessibility and utilization of services. Subprojects
with a community-based approach mobilized the local resources to act as catalysts for the rehabilitation
and empowerment of disabled children. They succeeded in reaching out to more children and to provide
quality services with the participation of the communities and the empowerment of the children and their
families. At least 2,000 disabled children were served in 30 communities, mostly in remote areas.
Subprojects with an inclusion strategy advanced models that included disabled children in existing
mainstream services, such as kindergartens, public libraries, youth centers, literacy classes, MISA social
and cultural clubs, etc. Targets set for the subprojects were reached: disabled children constituted 5% of
the group of children in community schools, 3% in libraries, 4% in literacy classes and 15% in youth
centers. Physical and material adaptations as well as training of personnel working at the facilities were
included in the models. A noticeable result was the change in attitude of personnel and users of the
mainstream services who had resisted the inclusion of the disabled. NGOs met during the ICR mission



                                                      - 5 -

indicated that the project had been a catalyst for inclusion, starting to change people's attitudes toward
disability, and empowering disabled children and their families.

(ii) Integration of Services. Subproject models brought together multi-disciplinary teams to support the
provision of integrated early intervention and rehabilitation services for disabled children, both in health
centers and the MISA rehabilitation centers. They also presented models that involved the coordination of
several governmental agencies to agree on a common approach for detection, referral, and intervention for
disabled children subjected to abuse and maltreatment.

With respect to physical outputs, a total of 1,028 facilities were rehabilitated to adapt the infrastructure to
the needs of disabled children. In addition, numerous resource materials were developed to support similar
interventions in the future, many of which were introduced for the first time in Egypt. A few notable
materials were six manuals on community-based rehabilitation programs, 41 films showing simplified
rehabilitation technologies for families of disabled children, and a set of simple visual training manuals for
prevention and detection of abuse and maltreatment of disabled children. Mapping of available services
and personnel involved in the field of disability was also developed. The subprojects also supported the
creation of different entities that contributed to raising the standards of service delivery; noteworthy was the
establishment of a National Network for Disabled Youth, which was created for the first time in Egypt and
the Middle East.

The 11 subprojects stemming from CDA, using the approach of service integration, complemented the
delivery of services. They provided medical and educational equipment (audiogram, audio computer
reading programs, speech therapy devices) to the service centers and medical goods to needy children
receiving the rehabilitation services. These subprojects were developed in response to demands from CDAs
and implemented by the General Administration for Social Rehabilitation Department of MISA, using
established criteria. The subprojects supported the provision of 624 hearings aids, 1,700 wheel chairs, 89
software programs for the blind, 13 audiograms, and two speech therapy apparatus.

Subcomponent A2 - Youth at Risk Initiative (rated satisfactory). A total of eight subprojects were
developed and approved, with an average cost of approximately US$140,000 per subproject. Issues facing
YAR are complex, and actions to deal with them fall outside the purview of standard social services and
require cooperation with the police and other agencies, such as the criminal justice system. Furthermore,
little experience with youth at risk was found in Egypt. There were programs providing remedial measures;
however, they provided partial solutions and often the interventions were provided after the problems had
occurred. The development and implementation of the subprojects under this subcomponent was
challenging and had to go through many revisions to ensure that the scope of the subprojects would be in
line with the capacity of the NGOs, and most importantly that the subprojects would present models of
service delivery that were comprehensive and encompassed the principle of child protection, providing
preventive and remedial measures.         In addition, because of the extent of the notion of "risk," the
subprojects had to limit the interventions to three categories of children: (i) street children; (ii) working
children; and (iii) children with psychological and/or behavioral problems.

With the technical assistance of a local firm specializing in social development, the subprojects applied the
principle of protection of youth and promoted models that tackled the causes of vulnerability rather than
just providing services. With respect to the phenomenon of street children, subprojects provided models
that established an inter-governorate network of NGOs to round up street children who moved from
governorate to governorate and to reunite them with their families. Other subprojects would identify street
children and encourage them to visit the shelters where a comprehensive rehabilitation program, including
literacy and occupational training, was provided with the aim of promoting community or family


                                                        - 6 -

integration. Preventive measures were also built into those models. NGOs worked with the communities,
the children and the families to create awareness and support. Several subprojects promoted models that
included actions for the prevention of school dropout and the elimination of child labor in hazardous
occupations. The subprojects providing interventions for street and working children were successful in
re-integrating 85 youth to their families, 235 youth back into schools, 160 in literacy classes; in addition,
325 youth working in hazardous environments found a better environment. A couple of subprojects
provided models to tackle the psychological and behavioral problems facing youth through risk prevention
actions, such as awareness campaigns, a hotline for youth to discuss their problems, and engaging youth in
activities which advocate positive values (art and participation in community development activities).

All the subprojects promoted collaboration and coordination between different service providers and actors,
including local administration authorities, communities and families. Local community committees for
child protection were formed and worked with the authorities to activate special services (exempting poor
children from payment of school fees, free medical care, establishment of literacy classes). There were also
agreements and protocols signed with the local authorities (education, labor, social affairs) to raise
awareness about the prevention of school dropout and the elimination of child labor in hazardous
occupations. Networks with influential local supporters were also created.

In terms of physical outputs, there were 404 facilities rehabilitated and a large number of awareness
campaigns took place. The outputs also included the production of manuals and tools to transfer the
experiences.    Examples included:     a database on street children and children working in hazardous
occupations, and animators' manuals.

Capacity building of MISA
Another output worth noting is the comprehensive training program for technical and management skills
that was designed and administered to MISA staff. The training program was developed based on a
thorough needs assessment and was comprised of two phases dedicated to different levels of staff (heads of
department, social/case workers and staff of MISA social protection clubs).          The training program
benefited 84% of the staff of the Social Defense Department (responsible for YAR), and 48% of the staff
of the Social Rehabilitation Department (responsible for CWD). Evaluation from the participants was
positive.     Capacity building also took place, in a practical manner, during the development and
implementation of the subprojects. A number of the CWD subprojects included in their models a capacity
building element for MISA staff at the local level. MISA staff were able to learn and exchange experiences
in the delivery of services with the beneficiary NGOs.

Component B - Project Management.
Overall project management is rated satisfactory.         At the start of project implementation, project
management was weak due to a lack of strategic direction and staff turnover. Project management
improved in 2003 when MISA changed management of the PMU and included two MISA senior technical
staff, one from the Rehabilitation Services Department (dealing with CWD) and one from the Social
Defense Department (dealing with YAR). The PMU recruited the following to revamp the subprojects
pipeline:   (i) two experienced entities (an international NGO with strong experience in CWD and a
consulting firm specializing in social development) to assist local NGOs in the development and
implementation of subprojects; and (ii) a national consulting firm to gather information on the subprojects
and undertake a first-cut evaluation of the results. Progress reports were produced systematically. The
PMU also liaised with Bank project team to solve procurement and implementation problems.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No economic analysis was undertaken at the time of project appraisal. By the end of the project, with the



                                                    - 7 -

assistance of a local firm, MISA undertook a cost analysis of a number of subprojects. The results showed
a cost per beneficiary ranging from L.E. 130 (approximately US$21) to L.E. 1,280 (approximately
US$213). These figures should be viewed as preliminary until the subprojects undergo a stable phase of
implementation. Annex 3 provides detailed information on the analysis.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is rated modest. The ICR assessed the impact of the project on: (i)
MISA; and (ii) the service providers and the communities in which the subprojects took place. While there
has been a clear impact in that MISA and the service providers are learning different approaches to address
CWD and YAR, and are operating under a partnership/contractual model, much work remains to be done
to apply the learning more broadly within MISA.

Impact on MISA. Under the project, MISA was for the first time exposed to international standards for
service delivery in disability and to new concepts in program design for disability and youth at risk. In
addition, capacity building took place through a comprehensive training program and during the
development and implementation of subprojects, in partnership with the NGOs (see Section 4.2). All of
this has broadened MISA's technical staff outlook in how to serve the needs of vulnerable children. The
project also heightened MISA's contribution to Egypt's social agenda. In her speech at the closing of the
project, the minister announced her intention to activate a multi-sectoral policy dialogue and to engage in
strategic interventions that are based on experiences acquired through the project (see Annex 8).

As part of the steering committee and the PMU during the peak stage of project implementation, MISA
also acquired good experience and built up its capacity in planning and managing a pipeline of subprojects.
The pipeline of CWD subprojects managed under the project amounted to about L.E. 20 million,
representing 275% of MISA's budget for CWD in 2004. For YAR, the pipeline was about L.E. 7 million,
representing 49% of MISA's budget for YAR.

Impact on the service providers and the communities. At the level of the service providers, the project
instilled multi-sectoral coordination and collaboration between governmental and non-governmental entities.
Protocols were signed between NGOs and local authorities that would foster inter-agency collaboration at
the national level, and an agreement on common approaches for child protection was reached between the
NGOs and different ministries (health, education, and interior). Most importantly, the project introduced a
different working relationship among service providers and society. MISA (central and local levels),
NGOs, and the communities were bound in operational partnerships instead of relating to one another
through administrative structures, as existed prior to the project. At the level of the communities in which
the subprojects took place, the inclusive development promoted by the project started to change people's
attitude toward vulnerable children. Thus, the impact on the service provider NGOs under the project was
significant; but lessons from the project still need to be more widely diffused.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
At the outset, the project faltered because it assumed that the existing NGOs met the criteria to develop and
implement subprojects.       Their weak experience in addressing disability and YAR issues using a
comprehensive approach and limited numbers became a primary factor in delaying implementation. In
addition, the Bank was not sufficiently attentive to the challenges facing the project in the first years of
implementation.


                                                       - 8 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government's diminished commitment at the onset of project implementation delayed the ratification of
the Credit Agreement and the provision of counterpart funds. Subsequently, its renewed commitment led to
the turnaround of the project. Another positive impact was the First Lady's sponsored initiative "Reading
for All" in 2004, which promoted the inclusion of disabled children in classrooms and raised the momentum
in the country for greater action toward the disabled.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
At the onset of project implementation, a change of ministers resulted in a decline in MISA's interest in the
project. During that time, MISA did not maintain the stability of the PMU staff. There was high staff
turnover that caused disruption in project execution. MISA's renewed commitment in 2003 led to the
revitalization of the project. MISA strengthened project management with a change in leadership and with
the addition of two senior technical staff in the PMU (see Section 4.2, Component B).

5.4 Costs and financing:
At the time of appraisal, total project costs were estimated at US$5.3 million. At the end of the project,
costs amounted to US$5.8 million, taking into account contributions from NGOs. IDA provided a credit in
the amount of US$5.0 million equivalent. As of May 15, 2005, disbursements amounted to US$4.6
million. It is expected that the credit will be fully disbursed by the end of the grace period. Reflecting the
pace of implementation, disbursements lagged in the early years, started to increase at the end of 2003 and
accelerated thereafter.

Amendments to the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement was amended twice: (i) in August 2003, to
expand geographical coverage and include NGOs with the respective capacity to meet demand; and (ii) in
March 2004, to increase the authorized allocation of the Special Account from US$0.25 million to
US$0.50 million in response to project financing needs.

Extension of the project closing date. A three-month extension of the closing date was granted, from
December 31, 2004 to March 31, 2005, to allow MISA to complete activities and to consolidate the lessons
learned that will serve the process of a policy formulation. The decision to extend the closing date was
prescient, in that subsequent event, notably the minister's speech on March 29, 2005, provided indication
of MISA's commitment to sustain the achievements of the project.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability was not analyzed in the PAD because the project was a Learning and Innovation Credit.
The ICR judges that, for the overall project, sustainability is likely. Institutional achievements will
probably be maintained due to the fact that Egypt's political commitment towards vulnerable children's
programs remains strong. Egypt has extended the Presidential Declaration of the Decade of the Protection
of the Egyptian Child to a second decade, covering the period up to 2010. The project helped sensitize the
Government to the need to mainstream vulnerable children and in 2005, the Ministry of Education issued a
policy decree on the enrollment of disabled children in formal schools. The sustainability of project
achievements is also helped by MISA's commitment to use the practical lessons drawn from the project to
revise its overall strategy in the delivery of services (see Annex 8). The experiences acquired through the
project will also be applied in MISA's joint program with the National Council for Childhood and
Motherhood (NCCM) (see Section 6.2).

It is also useful to note that the GOE is also considering reforms to its overall safety net, by phasing out



                                                        - 9 -

some of the more poorly targeted subsidies and replacing them with programs that are better targeted to the
most vulnerable groups. Since the project targeted two of the most vulnerable groups, the lessons learned
are being taken on board by the GOE in its policy reform. In addition, the GOE has also asked the Bank to
finance a fourth Social Fund project, which is expected to have a component that, inter alia, will support a
scaling up of the project as well as enhanced close collaboration between MISA and the Social Fund, two
of the key institutions for delivery of social safety net programs in Egypt.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
MISA entered into discussions with the NCCM on measures to strengthen a national policy on disability
and advocated for multi-sectoral coordination across ministries as well as coordination with NGOs.
Experiences drawn from the disability component will be mainstreamed in joint operations with the NCCM
to implement a new EU program for children's rights. In addition, MISA institutionalized the PMU into an
international cooperation unit to work with donors and civil society.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
On balance, Bank performance during project preparation and appraisal is rated satisfactory. The QAG
quality at entry panel in June 1999 noted that "the Bank was working under a very tight time constraint,
and in these circumstances, was demonstrating exceptional productivity and dedication".

The Bank was responsive to the Government's request for a fast track project in the social sectors to use
the last IDA funds available to Egypt. It was enterprising in supporting a ministry with weak capacity
requiring new implementation mechanisms through NGOs. And it was strategic to target vulnerable
children, a newly emerging phenomenon. The Bank was the first major donor to provide direct financing to
MISA. The Bank also applied good judgment in designing a small operation financed through a LIL given
that it was MISA's first experience working with the Bank and the short timeframe of project processing.
Despite the time constraints, the Bank organized a quality at entry review of the operation during project
preparation.

7.2 Supervision:
Overall Bank supervision is rated satisfactory. This rating takes into account the work done by the Bank
since 2003 to put the project back on track. In the early years of project implementation, supervision
missions took place regularly but did not focus on strategic issues to assist MISA in moving the project
forward. Issues were raised, especially with respect to the scope of the YAR component, but there was no
follow-up. The quality of the PSRs was generally poor, providing repeated information with ratings that
did not reflect project performance. The Bank did not include in its supervision team staff with relevant
technical skills in disability and YAR. However, it should be indicated that during those years, Bank
performance was also hindered by a ministerial change resulting in MISA's resistance to the project. In
2003, the Bank made a strategic decision to decentralize the management of the project to the Egypt
Country Office and selected a new TTL to lead supervision.             The decentralization facilitated closer
supervision and monitoring of the project. The project team focused on actions deemed necessary to lead
the project toward its development objective. But most significantly, it invested time exchanging views
with a ministry that had shown resistance, and the project team succeeded in convincing MISA to have
specialized advisory assistance for disability and YAR. To address MISA's implementation capacity, the
team also worked on project management issues to establish business standards that led to stronger
monitoring of subproject results, and also to an increase in disbursements during the last year of the
project. In addition, the subject of M&E received attention and technical assistance was sought to gather
information on the subprojects. Ratings in PSRs were revised to reflect project performance, including the


                                                      - 10 -

critical risks (which seldom received consideration). Without the above endeavor, the project would not
have attained the level of achievement that it did.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Government performance in preparing the project is rated satisfactory. The GOE was very much committed
to improving its social programs but lacked the know-how and therefore mostly relied on the Bank.
However, MISA participated in program development and accompanied the Bank on appraisal site visits.
It facilitated the Bank's contact with governmental agencies in charge of social programs and shared
experiences undertaken with UNDP and UNICEF. It also aided the contact with a number of large NGOs.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory. There were delays in the ratification of the
Credit Agreement and the provision of counterpart funds in the early years, resulting in a slow start of the
project. However, the turnaround of the project in 2003 was attributable to the Government's restored
commitment (see Section 7.6). The Government subsequently provided counterpart funds in a timely
manner and responded to the project by requesting two needed amendments of the Credit Agreement (see
Section 5.4).

7.6 Implementing Agency:
On balance, MISA's performance is rated satisfactory. MISA's performance and that of the Bank mirrored
each other. When project implementation began, a change in ministers resulted in a decline in MISA's
interest in the project. This created a leadership void and the PMU functioned with no clear direction.
With the subsequent stabilization of the ministry's work agenda, MISA revamped the PMU in 2003 with a
new management that was dynamic and action oriented. MISA carried out a number of other actions that
put project execution back on track: (i) it strengthened the technical capacity of the PMU with the addition
of two senior MISA staff; (ii) it applied the "umbrella" concept by having solid NGOs assist smaller NGOs
in the development and implementation of subprojects; (iii) it contracted two entities experienced in
disability and social development for technical advisory functions; (iv) it acknowledged the importance of
monitoring and evaluation and took action to collect data on the subprojects for a first-cut evaluation; and
(v) during the final period of project implementation, it applied a participatory approach to collect views
and lessons from stakeholders in order to initiate the process of policy formulation. Project results would
not have attained this level without MISA's forthright dedication during the last years of implementation.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Taking into account the above, overall performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

1.    Developing and implementing a social development agenda for vulnerable children is a
multi-stakeholder responsibility that is shared by central ministries and regional authorities as well as
NGOs and communities. The mandate to implement such an agenda should be conferred on an entity with
a multi-sectoral vision and with the authority to obtain the cooperation of all stakeholders.

2. NGOs are sound mechanisms for delivery of services the vulnerable children, which is made more
effective through a shift from a "grant" approach to a "contracting" approach. Under the project,
NGOs were the main executing entities of the pilot interventions. Deliverables and target results were



                                                    - 11 -

discussed and agreed upon prior to the undertaking of the interventions. The project demonstrated that
contracting with NGOs contributed to the effectiveness of the delivery of services, particularly in remote,
poor and marginalized areas, and should be based on deliverables and targets established at the onset of the
interventions. For decades, the government has supported NGOs with grant resources for which there is no
notion of accountability for results.

3. A strong but simple monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system is essential for learning and
accountability. It should be established at the onset of a project. An adequate system will include
measurement of costs, the intervention delivered, stakeholder and beneficiary consultation, outputs
and outcomes expected. An M&E system is essential so that the results of the pilot interventions can be
evaluated and lessons can be drawn to adjust or expand the interventions to a larger scale. However, in
order to ensure its utility and sustainability the design of an M&E system should be commensurate
with the needs and degree of sophistication of the users. MISA should review the coherence of its M&E
framework and gradually expand the use of M&E in its operations.

4. A learning and innovation lending instrument (LIL) is effective to pilot and test initiatives, and to
build consensus around new approaches prior to large scale interventions. In the project, the LIL
allowed MISA and other service providers to learn from the different pilot models of service delivery, and
to find common approaches before designing programs and formulating policies to address the needs of
these groups of children.

5.   In the case of "fast track" projects, project preparation work can continue until project
effectiveness. This is particularly appropriate for a LIL which is processed in a short period of time.
Under the project, there was a period of almost one and a half year between the signature of the project
Credit Agreement and its effectiveness. The Bank could have used this period of time to continue to
provide technical support, notably a baseline survey on the target groups of children and available services,
and M&E, etc.

6. Field-based management is particularly effective for this kind of pilot project that requires quick
response and support to unforeseen needs. The delegation of the management of the project to the Cairo
office staff enabled regular and close contact with the Government as well as quick responses to the needs
of the project. This arrangement helped put the project back on track.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
By a fax message dated June 8, 2005, the Borrower informed the Bank that it does not have any comments
on the Bank's report. It also transmitted its own report of 99 pages, including 12 annexes. The core
evaluation is presented in Annex 9. The entire report is filed in the Bank's filing system (IRIS) and is
available upon request.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                    - 12 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate



Number of models to demonstrate integration 8 models for disability                          (i) 28 models for disability showed integration
of services                                    3 models for YAR                              of services and 31 models integration of
                                                                                             partners (including the models providing
                                                                                             medical goods to complement the services
                                                                                             delivered).
                                                                                             (ii) 8 models for YAR showed integration of
                                                                                             services and integratio of partners.

Number of models to demonstrate improved       8 models for disability (100 percent)         28 models for disability (including the models
services                                       3 models for YAR                              providing medical goods to complement the
                                                                                             services delivered).
                                                                                             2 models for YAR.

Number of models reached the target            5 models for disability                       8 models for disability (100 percent)
population                                     2 models for YAR                              3 models for children at risk (100 percent)

Number of new models                           (data not provide)                            2 models for disability
                                                                                             4 models for YAR

A Policy report developed including            One report for disabled children and children A 3-day workshop was organized by MISA
recommendations for MISA                       at risk                                       with the participation of beneficiary NGOs. A
                                                                                             report was prepared on this event and formed
                                                                                             the basis of the Minister's speech during the
                                                                                             Project closing ceremony on March 29, 2005.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Percent disabled children included in the      5 percent in schools                          5 percent in schools
community. (This indicator is set at the       3 percent in libraries                        3 percent in libraries
subproject level for subprojects that have an  4 percent in literacy classes                 4 percent in literacy classes
inclusion objective)                           4 percent in youth centers                    15 percent in literacy classes
                                               4 percent in nurseries                        4 percent in nurseries
                                               80 persons in labor market                    80 persons in labor market




Number of youth reintegrated in the            235 person in schools                         235 youths in schools
community. (This indicator is set at the       160 person in literacy classes                160 youths in literacy classes
subproject level for subprojects that have an  85 person in families                         85 youth in families
integration objective)                         325 person in labor market                    325 youth working in less hazardous
                                                                                             environment




Number of service delivery facilities for      Total 54 disability facility: 8 Schools, 7    A total of 1,028 facilities were rehabilitated for
disability/YAR improved and equipped           libraries, 20 literacy classes, 1 Nursery, 3  disability
                                               youth centers, 15 activity classes            A total of 404 facilities for YAR
                                               3 YAR facilities: one day shelter, 2
                                               counseling centers


# of houses physically rehabiliated for use by Disability: 600 house                         see above
disabled children and for preventive           YAR: 200 house
measures for YAR


Tools developed for disabled children and                                                    Three tools for disability: Booklet of inclusive
yourth at risk                                                                               activities, a tool for discovering abuse, six
                                                                                             CBR manuals for field workers.



                                                                   - 13 -

                                                                                            Two tools for YAR: Manual for security
                                                                                            arrest, manual for social workers/ teachers.


Number of staff trained on disability and   Disability: 30 on CBR provision, 110 on         Disability: 50 on CBR provision, 60 on
YAR.                                        inclusion, 90 on advocacy, 56 on protection,    inclusion, 90 on advocacy, 56 on protection,
                                            50 on early intervention, 20 on vocational      60 on early intervention, 20 on vocational
                                            training, 40 families on life skills, 175 media training, 40 families on life skills, 175 media
                                            personal on disability issues.                  personal.
                                            At risk: 150 social workers and teachers        At risk: 150 social workers and teachers, 25
                                                                                            media personal.


Establishment of empowerment bodies for     A national body representing disabled           A national body representing disabled
disability                                  children                                        children
                                            Parents association for visually impaired       Parents association for visually impaired
                                            children                                        children (Established)
                                            Three groups formed to empower disabled         Three groups formed to empower disabled
                                            children                                        children (groups developed in Assiut, Sohag,
                                                                                            and Qena)


Procurement and distribution of disability  Hearing aids (340), Wheeling chairs (723),      Hearing aids (624), Wheeling chairs (1700),
devices                                     Software for visually impaired (11),            Software for visually impaired (89),
                                            Audiograms (6)                                  Audiograms (13), and speech therapy
                                                                                            equipment (2)


Capacity building for MISA:
Number of staff trained to provide TA for   28 for disability and 60 for children at risk   2 phases of training were developed,
service providers                                                                           benefiting 84% of the staff of the Social
                                                                                            Defense Department and 48% of staff of the
                                                                                            Social Rehabilitation Department.

1End of project




                                                                - 14 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                            Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal
                     Component                              US$ million   US$ million
Component A - Provision of Services:
Subcomponent A1 - Children with disabilities Initiative        2.30             3.70           161
Subcomponent A2 - Youth at Risk Initiative                     1.60             1.20            75
Component B - Project Management:                              0.70             0.90           128

Total Baseline Cost                                            4.60             5.80
 Physical Contingencies                                        0.30
 Price Contingencies                                           0.40
                        Total Project Costs                    5.30             5.80
                  Total Financing Required                     5.30             5.80


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB               NCB                2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                          0.00                0.00         1.00          0.00        1.00
                                  (0.00)             (0.00)      (0.95)          (0.00)     (0.95)
2. Goods                          0.00                0.00         2.80          0.00        2.80
                                  (0.00)             (0.00)      (2.70)          (0.00)     (2.70)
3. Services                       0.00                0.00         1.20          0.00        1.20
                                  (0.00)             (0.00)      (1.20)          (0.00)     (1.20)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00                0.00         0.20          0.10        0.30
                                  (0.00)             (0.00)      (0.15)          (0.00)     (0.15)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00                0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)             (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00                0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)             (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                          0.00                0.00         5.20          0.10        5.30
                                  (0.00)             (0.00)      (5.00)          (0.00)     (5.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB               NCB                2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                          0.00               0.00         0.03           0.00       0.03
                                  (0.00)             (0.00)      (0.02)         (0.00)     (0.02)
2. Goods                          0.00               0.00         2.10           0.00       2.10
                                  (0.00)             (0.00)      (1.90)         (0.00)     (1.90)
3. Services                       0.00               0.00         3.30           0.40       3.70
                                  (0.00)             (0.00)      (3.09)         (0.00)     (3.09)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00               0.00         0.00           0.00       0.00

                                                  - 15 -

                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
        Total                               0.00               0.00              5.43             0.40              5.83
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (5.01)            (0.00)           (5.01)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Component A - Provision
of Services:
Subcomponent A1 -               2.60         0.20                     3.20         0.60                  123.1    300.0
Children with disability
Initiative
Subcomponent A2 - Youth         1.80         0.04                     1.00         0.10                  55.6     250.0
at Risk Initiative
Component B - Project           0.60         0.10                     0.80         0.10                  133.3    100.0
management:




                                                           - 16 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

No economic analysis was undertaken at the time of Project appraisal.

By end of the Project, with the assistance of a local firm, MISA undertook a cost analysis study of the
Project. As shown in the tables below, the cost per beneficiary ranges from L.E. 130 (approximately
US$21) to L.E. 1,280 (approximately US$213). These results should be considered with care until the
subprojects undergo a stable phase of implementation.

Cost per beneficiary by subprojects

  FEDA
Description
Operational Costs                         201,517
Program Costs                              96,688
Total Costs                               298,206


 Total Number of Beneficiaries                 240Children and Families

 Total Number of Participants                  115Workers,
                                                   Communities and
                                                   other participants
 Total Number of Recipients                    355
Program Cost/ Beneficiary                      403
Program Cost/ Participant                      841
Total Cost/ Beneficiary                     1,243
Total Cost/ Participant                     2,593
Total Cost/ Beneficiary + Participant          840
Other Outputs
 Cooperation Protocol with Al-Hakim
 Center
 Creating a database for children and
 their families
 Creating a phased program for each
 child



  Social Rehabilitation Association in Qena
 Description
Operational Costs                                          43,453
Program Costs                                            121,573
Total Costs                                              165,026


 Total Number of Beneficiaries                                140Children and Families

 Total Number of Participants                                 537Workers Communities



                                                    - 17 -

                                                            and other participants

Total Number of Recipients                               677
Program Cost/ Beneficiary                                868
Program Cost/ Participant                                226
Total Cost/ Beneficiary                                1,179
Total Cost/ Participant                                  307
Total Cost/ Beneficiary + Participant                    244
Other Outputs
Installing Evaluation tools in 7 offices
Market Research
Developing a database for disabled children
Measuring the impact of the program on the social
and economic livelihoods of children and their
families



 Horizons Development Association
Description
Operational Costs                                   144,092
Program Costs                                       473,885
Total Costs                                         617,977


Total Number of Beneficiaries                            760Children and
                                                            Families
Total Number of Participants                               9Workers
                                                            Communities and
                                                            other participants
Total Number of Recipients                               769
Program Cost/ Beneficiary                                624
Program Cost/ Participant                             52,654
Total Cost/ Beneficiary                                  813
Total Cost/ Participant                               68,664
Total Cost/ Beneficiary + Participant                    804
Other Outputs
Opening adult literacy classes for mothers
Starting a club for the working child
Registering children's certificates



 Hope Village Association - Alex
Description
Operational Costs                        108,124
Program Costs                            450,570
Total Costs                              558,694



                                                - 18 -

Total Number of Beneficiaries                59Children and Families
Total Number of Participants                112Workers, Communities
                                               and other participants
Total Number of Recipients                  171
Program Cost/ Beneficiary                7,637
Program Cost/ Participant                4,023
Total Cost/ Beneficiary                  9,469
Total Cost/ Participant                  4,988
Total Cost/ Beneficiary + Participant    3,267
Other Outputs
Establishing a Bakery for disabled
children to work in
Establishing 7 Green Houses for
disabled children to work in
Undertaking a major PR campaign to
make the community aware of the role
of the disabled
Establishing a sales point for products

Designing a manual for training the
disabled



 Terre des Hommes
Description
Operational Costs                       178,730
Program Costs                           238,861
Total Costs                             417,590


Total Number of Beneficiaries            3,200Children and Families
Total Number of Participants                109Workers, Communities
                                               and other participants
Total Number of Recipients               3,309
Program Cost/ Beneficiary                    75
Program Cost/ Participant                2,191
Total Cost/ Beneficiary                     130
Total Cost/ Participant                  3,831
Total Cost/ Beneficiary + Participant       126
Other Outputs
Developing a database for disabled
children needs, and services available
for them
Technical Assistance to 3 CDAs; two
in Assiout and one in Sohag



                                               - 19 -

Printing 2000 brochures
3 theatrical plays aiming at advocacy
and integration of the disabled
Improving the infrastructure for 12
schools
Lessons learned report
Developing the declaration of rights



 Hope Village - Cairo
Description
Operational Costs                      101,791
Program Costs                          426,927
Total Costs                            528,718


Total Number of Beneficiaries              550Children and Families
Total Number of Participants                15Workers Communities and
                                              other participants
Total Number of Recipients                 565
Program Cost/ Beneficiary                  776
Program Cost/ Participant               28,462
Total Cost/ Beneficiary                    961
Total Cost/ Participant                 35,248
Total Cost/ Beneficiary + Participant      936
Other Outputs
Contracts with Hospitals
Developing training program
Expanding the geographic area served
by the project



 New Al-Fostat Association
Description
Operational Costs                      104,794
Program Costs                          127,988
Total Costs                            232,782


Total Number of Beneficiaries              100Children and Families
Total Number of Participants                65Workers Communities
                                              and other participants

Total Number of Recipients                 165
Program Cost/ Beneficiary                1,280
Program Cost/ Participant                1,969
Total Cost/ Beneficiary                  2,328



                                            - 20 -

Total Cost/ Participant                            3,581
Total Cost/ Beneficiary + Participant              1,411
Other Outputs
Developing a database
Health insurance cards for children
Enrolling children in youth clubs
 Organizing literacy classes for 90% of
 children
Advocacy campaigns against child
labor



A cost effectiveness analysis was hindered by a number of constraints and limitations, as presented below.
However, these constraints and limitations served as factors to be considered for a stronger analysis in the
future.

        The Project, as a learning and innovation experiment, went through a difficult period of
implementation until 2003. A number of the subprojects had to be retroffited and had not been through an
adequate implementation phase; therefore, their cost structures and impact had not yet been stabilized.
        The Child Disability and Youth at Risk sectors were previously underserved with little intervention
by MISA. Also, funding was not readily available to local Community Development Associations (CDAs).
This causes difficulty in finding comparative data to compare the cost effectiveness of the subprojects.
        Statistics and data were not available about the situation of the target groups in communities prior
to starting interventions. This makes it difficult to measure the actual effectiveness of developed
interventions (subprojects) in reaching target populations.
        The lack of baseline research on the kinds of disability and service providers in the different
governorates did not allow to evaluate whether the proposed interventions were the most cost effective in
terms of serving available needs.
        The weak financial monitoring and reporting systems at both the PMU level (particularly in the
early years of Project implementation) and at the sub-project levels made it difficult to ascertain and
quantify the amount of resources (in financial terms) allocated to the different interventions.




                                                      - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              April-May 1999            5    TTL (1); SECTOR MANAGER
                                             (1); HEALTH SPEC (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION/PROC.
                                             SPEC. (1); FINANCIAL SPEC.
                                             (1); RESEARCH ASSISTANT
                                             (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              May-June 1999             5    TTL (1); SECTOR
                                             MANAGER (1); HEALTH
                                             SPEC (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION/PROC
                                             . SPEC. (1); FINANCIAL
                                             SPEC. (1); RESEARCH
                                             ASSISTANT (1)

 Supervision

              11/30/2000                2    TTL (1); IMPLEMENTATION          S               S
                                             SPECIAL (1)
              05/15/2001                2    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)
              02/21/2002                6    LEAD OP. OFFICER (1); SR.        S               S
                                             EDUCATION SPEC. (1); SR.
                                             FINANCIAL OFFICER (1); SR.
                                             HEALTH SPEC. (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             TEAM ASSISTANT (1)
              07/05/2002                3    PROCUREMENT (1);                 U               S
                                             FINANCIAL MANANGEMENT
                                             (1); TTL (1)
              05/23/2003                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             SECTOR SPECIALIST (1);
                                             IMPLEM.AND
                                             PROCUREMENT (1)
              12/27/2003                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            U               S
                                             SECTOR SPECIALIST (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPEC.(1);
                                             MANAGEMETN SPEC.(1);
                                             M&E SPEC. (1)
              09/15/2004                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            U               U
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1);
              12/15/2004                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1);
                                             M&E SPEC. (1)

 ICR



                                              - 22 -

                 01/09/2005                        5     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                                         IMPLEMENTATION
                                                         SPEC. (1);M&E SPEC. (1);
                                                         COMMUNICATION
                                                         OFFICER (1); AUTHOR
                                                         OF ICR (1)



(b) Staff:

        Stage of Project Cycle                            Actual/Latest Estimate
                                              No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                            --                      154.8 (a)
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                 --
  Supervision                                           --                        290.3
  ICR                                                   --                          34.3
  Total                                                 --                      479.4 (b)
Note:
(a) Includes Appraisal/Negotiation
(b) Costs are as of 05/19/2005 and exclude TF funds




                                                         - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

- Project Appraisal Document, June 16, 1999
- Credit Agreement, September 9, 1999 and its amendments
- Bank mission aide-mmoires
- Project Status Reports
- Save the Children UK Progress Reports
- Community & Institutional Development (CID) Progress Reports
- Center for Development Services (CDS) Reports




                                                - 26 -

Additional Annex 8. MISA Minister Project Closing Speech, March 29, 2005

                                                  Statement by
                                     Her Excellency Dr. Amina El Guindy
                               Minister of Insurance and Social Affairs (MISA)
                                         at the Closing Ceremony of the
                                        Social protection Initiative Project

Welcoming remarks to the World bank, NGOs

        The implementation of the Social Protection Initiatives project (SPIP) represents a new milestone
within the scope of development in the field of Disability and Youth At Risk in Egypt. The SPIP
experience has adopted a number of principal approaches based upon which subprojects were implemented.
These are the same principles that the Ministry will be relying upon in the next phase. Most importantly
the lessons and priorities that have emerged as a result of the SPIP experience represent an agenda for the
MISA in the coming period. These include the following:

        Supporting the critical role that the NGOs undertake in the two fields in partnership with MISA
while paying closer attention to the capacity of community development associations to expand the range of
outreach that is accessible to service providers and service users in poor and remote areas

        Relying on the next phase of planning on realizing full and realistic integration of concerned
stakeholders in the fields of disability and youth at risk including ministries and concerned government
entities as well as NGOs and representatives of the target populations and their families

        Partnership and collaboration with planned and ongoing initiatives and projects that are being
implemented at the national level by availing expertise, experiences and lessons learnt that have resulted
from the SPIP project.

        Partnership and collaboration between the department for social rehabilitation and the social
defense department with other departments across the ministry to effectively realize the objective of
inclusion and integration for disabled and youth at risk groups.

        Support to disabled and youth at risk groups including support to their families to empower them
and create the necessary space for them to assume their rights and responsibility toward their communities

        Setting standards for an operational framework for child protection that is consistent with Egyptian
values and traditions

        Ensuring that the capacity building program that started with the SPIP continues in the short and
the long term based on a scientific basis to develop new approaches and ensure that new skills are acquired
to deal with youth at risk and disability.

    Priorities in the field of Disability:
        In the next phase, and based on the SPIP experience we will be prioritizing the following:

        Setting up an integrated information department on disability at the ministry that includes the
compilation of a database to monitor all types of disability and means of preventing it and location for



                                                       - 27 -

service providers nationwide.

        The Ministry will adopt a strategy for community-based rehabilitation and supporting NGOs to
implement it in such a way where the role of the Ministry complements that of NGOs to ensure effective
delivery of services to disabled children and youth

        Supporting an environment for the disabled that is conducive for their inclusion in society that
starts with complying with the Egyptian code for physical adaptation in buildings.

        Enforcement of legislations and ministerial decrees that relate to the disabled and working on
improving the rehabilitation law so that it can be better adapted to the social, economic and cultural
changes impacting the Egyptian Society.

        Developing the role of rehabilitation offices in all governorates through allocation of resources and
enhancing capacity to enhance coordination and cooperation with other entities

In the field of Youth At Risk:

        Equally important is the work that the SPIP has demonstrated in the field of Youth At Risk. We
are currently facing challenges that will grow unless action based on experience, lessons and successfully
tested approaches, is taken. The phenomenon of street children is a symptom of poverty and the
government is working very diligently to find solutions to address the poverty situation within the context of
this transitional period.

        The Ministry will be playing an important role during the next phase where we would like to share
lessons and approaches emerging from the SPIP as a strong feature in this coordinated effort. One
important lesson that I would like to take this opportunity to communicate is that we cannot resolve youth
at risk problems using piece meal solutions. For example, providing one-day shelter may be an important
protection input, but cannot offer the children/youth at risk the range of protection nor development that
they need. This project has offered us many examples of how integrated services can be provided to
children and their families and we should not prioritize any one aspect over the other as we move forward.

        Finally, I would also like to acknowledge that this project faced a number of challenges which we
have been able to overcome as part of the learning experience. In this respect, I would like to congratulate
the PIU and the World bank Team for an effective effort to overcome the critical challenges that this
project went through during its initial phase and indeed what we see today is a very rewarding outcome for
the Ministry, the World bank and our partners from the NGO community.




                                                     - 28 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Report




                    Ministry of Insurance and Social Affairs
                       Social Protection Initiatives Project



                         Implementation Completion Report

                           Social Protection Initiatives Project

                                 (WB/IDA Credit no. 3273-EGT)




                                        Submitted to

                                Project Management Unit

                          The Social Protection Initiatives Project

                        The Ministry of Insurance and Social Affairs

                                         Prepared by




                               Center for Development Services

                                         January 5, 2005




                                            - 29 -

C. Assessment of Development Objectives and Design of Quality at Entry

C.1 Original Objective

According to the PAD (A.1), the SPIP aimed to "develop and test integrated programmes for children with
disabilities and youth at risk, through a range of providers, and to inform the development of a new strategy
for improving services."

C.2 Revised Objectives: Does not apply

C.3 Original Components:

According to the PAD the components were structured to include:

1.       A baseline needs assessment to determine the number of, type, and service needs of disabled
children in the governorates designated for intervention (Greater Cairo and three governorates in Upper
Egypt) ; the perceptions and knowledge of families and the community about disability; and the number
and type of services available at present for the target population.
2.       A service program (to be outlined below in the components' description)
3.       Interdisciplinary in-service training for social workers from education, health, labour and the
interior on case management.
4.       A programme to identify the extent and type of benefits which are accessed by single female heads
of households in areas included in the programme. This goal focused on issuing ID cards for women
without legal documents.

The Components themselves were divided into

Component 1, divided into 2 initiatives:

Initiative A: Aimed to support nursery-based services and outreach for disabled children and their families
in three governorates. Desired outcomes were:

a)       Baseline Survey
b)       Service Provision and Training
c)       Funding both existing and new providers
d)       Information Campaigns

Initiative B: Targeted youth at risk and street children in urban and rural areas. In the PAD, this initiative
was designed to start with a needs assessment to guide the design of integrated service schemes that
combine outreach, screening, referral centres, together with a recreational facility for children found on the
street or otherwise at risk or in need of counselling. Possible services offered, according to the PAD, may
have included:

1-       Day shelters
2-       Counselling and referral
3-       Re-integration into normal life through family, school and the formal labour market

Project Component 2

Support for Project Management: To support the Project Management Unit (PMU) in MISA.



                                                      - 30 -

It is worth noting that an essential element of the activities listed above, namely the baseline needs
assessment, was never conducted due to the delays the project faced in its beginnings, which will be
discussed below. Instead almost half the NGOs involved conducted smaller scale surveys and needs
assessment of the target groups at their local level at the start of their initiatives. The target of identifying
women without ID cards was also dropped, as, according to our consultations with MISA and the WB in
Cairo, it was not in harmony with the overall objectives of serving youth at risk and the disabled children.

C.4 Revised Components: does not apply.

C.5 Quality at Entry: not available

Although no Quality at Entry Review was available to the evaluation team, the overall quality at entry of
project preparation can be considered satisfactory. The project addresses issues that are highly relevant to
the CAS and to GOE's development strategy. It is common knowledge that various forms of disability,
particularly mental, are underserved and understudied in Egypt. It is also widely accepted that efforts
exerted so far in Egypt to tackle issues of working and street children, and the various risks youth face at
large, are far from sufficient. The significance of addressing these two target groups can hardly be
exaggerated.

Moreover, the lack of sufficient efforts for dealing with these two under-served, un-empowered groups is
inseparable from the lack of new approaches. This project proposed experimentation as an essential means
for learning, and hence for providing new and innovative approaches. It also aimed to provide a base of
learning for MISA itself as one of the bodies mainly responsible for these two target groups. Last but not
least the emphasis on integrated services provided through a range of institutions implied concern for
strengthening further collaboration between the various actors in the field, which ultimately can only
change the existing reality and alter the macro situation as far the two target groups are concerned.

D. Achievement of Objective and Outputs: satisfactory

D.1 Outcome/Achievement of Objectives: satisfactory

The project managed to provide integrated and innovative new services to the disabled and youth at risk as
outlined in its objectives. It worked across a number of governorates larger than that originally designated
in the PAD. While the latter specified Greater Cairo and three governorates in Upper Egypt as the focus for
the project, SPIP funded initiatives based in 5 governoreates, in addition to its initiatives in greater Cairo.
Some of these initiatives worked across a number of locations beyond their home governorates in
collaboration with other NGOs. In total the project supported 33 initiatives, 25 targeting the disabled and 8
targeting youth at risk.

The project brought together NGOs, governmental bodies and the target groups (or parties concerned about
them such as parents of disabled children) into a working relationship that has the potential of
sustainability. In the field of youth at risk examples of cooperation among NGOs are clear in the work of
CARITAS Alexandria, which coordinates a web-based network of NGOs following up, and caring for,
street children across a number of governorates. The integration of NGOs' work with private capital is a
cornerstone of the work of New Fustat Society (Cairo) which aims to raise the safety standard of working
children through re-training for safer jobs.

As for disability projects, Minbar el-Islam Association worked with 3 other NGOs in one of Cairo's



                                                    - 31 -

neighbourhoods. They conducted a needs assessment for the disabled and collectively provided services
aiming at empowerment of, and community based inclusion for, the disabled. In Upper Egypt, CEOSS
worked with 14 NGOs across 3 governorates to provide services to the target group, also aiming at
empowerment and inclusion. It also, among other activities, started a National Network for the Disabled.

Moreover, SPIP-supported NGOs worked closely with governmental bodies. The aforementioned New
Fustat Society and the New Horizons Association, both dealing with working children, worked closely with
the Ministries of Labour and Environment respectively. In Alexandria, working on the mentally disabled,
the Bright Tomorrow Society established working relations with the ministries of Justice, Health and
Education, in addition to schools in the city's poorer neighbourhoods. Other NGOs, such TDH in Upper
Egypt, working on disability, collaborated with schools and trained their staff. It also established working
relations with the Governorate of Assiut, and ministries of Health and Education (these are only examples
of initiatives, more details on these and other sub-projects see the project's database). Yet it is worth noting
that not all concerned government bodies proved willing to cooperate. Both the Hope Village in Cairo,
working with street children, and the Bright Tomorrow Society in Alexandria, working on protecting
endangered mentally disabled children, failed to persuade the Ministry of Interior to cooperate with their
Initiatives. The evaluation team's work made it clear that this failure was not for lack of trial.

At the initiatives' level, and in line with the project's objective, each provided more than one service. For
youth at risk the services included counselling, referral, follow-up, and systems for integration back into the
family. These are added to the comprehensive services of the day care centres that the project supported. As
for disability, the beneficiaries of each initiative benefited from a host of services that included
rehabilitation, educational services, professional training and inclusion into the labour market. Any of the
service delivery models (see the project documents) makes clear their comprehensive multi-layered nature.
Last but not least some of the sub-projects provided ideas hardly tested before in Egypt (e.g. inclusion of
mentally disabled children into the labour force in Hope Village Society, the use of computer networking
for tracking and rehabilitating street children by CARITAS Alexandria, computer training for the blind by
the Blindness Prevention Society ... etc.).

Thus the project managed to provide, test and promote innovative, comprehensive and integrated delivery
models for the target groups, as stated in its objectives. Moreover, the new experiences the initiatives
provided will serve the two target groups on the long run. According to the survey of the initiatives' staff
members conducted in the context of this evaluation 98% and 97% of those working with youth at risk and
disability respectively expressed their commitment to remaining in their field of work on the long run.

What the project so far had little time to achieve, defined as a cornerstone of its objectives, is input into
national strategy. The project provided a range of trainings to MISA's staff (for details see attachments).
Its subprojects became venues of cooperation, exchange of experiences and learning for a host of
governmental and non-governmental parties. However, and in spite of the good signs pointing in this
direction, the full long-term impact of SPIP's experiments in directing MISA's policies in general and the
policies of other institutions dealing with the two target groups is yet to be seen.

D.2 Output by Components

D.2.1 The Project's Management Unit (PMU): Satisfactory

As indicated elsewhere in this report (particularly under Borrower's Performance), the PMU had numerous
difficulties at the project's inception. The Unit was hampered by procurement delays due to the noted
discrepancies between the Ministry's regulations and those of the Bank. Another difficulty the project


                                                     - 32 -

encountered during the first two years of its lifetime has been hiring qualified staff at the PMU to manage
the project, whether new hires or from among the MISA staff. The change of the PMU's leadership
coincided with change in the WB mission in Egypt some 18 months before the project's end. The Bank's
interference grew less and the Unit benefited from external technical assistance. The PMU managed to
salvage the local contribution to the project, which was inexplicably late. Ultimately the Unit managed to
achieve the project's objectives.

D.2.2 Initiatives A (support for disabled children) and B (youth at risk) Satisfactory

The SPIP produced 33 initiatives implemented in 12 governorates:

In the Field of Disability the SPIP implemented 25 initiatives; 24 out of them reached the target
population.

Through these initiatives, SPIP achievements included the following outputs:

       1028 Facilities rehabilitated for service provision (schools, libraries, streets, houses, etc...).
       832 advocacy, awareness and dissemination events.
       9 networks started.
       24 different tools developed: 5 booklets and 19 manuals.
       15 Baseline surveys and studies.
       1939 local staff, practitioners and professionals who work for the service providers were trained.
       2030 of the target groups and their families were trained.
       1989 disability devices distributed.

Moreover a training needs assessment was conducted for MISA staff involved in the field of disability. The
implementation of the training program for this component was postponed to the project's extension period.

Youth at Risk

Through 8 initiatives SPIP achievements included the following outputs:

       404 Facilities rehabilitated for service provision (schools, libraries, streets, houses, etc...).
       52 Advocacy, awareness and dissemination events.
       2 Networks developed.
       5 manuals developed.
       5 Baseline surveys and studies.
       585 local staff, practitioners and professionals who work for the service providers were trained.
       92 of the target group and their families trained.



Moreover SPIP conducted a training needs assessment (TNA) for MISA staff's working with youth at risk.
Based on the TNA findings, training curricula were developed for 35 training programs on the various
topics needed by professionals in this field. Accordingly, a training program was implemented consisting of
13 workshops over 73 training days that were attended by 286 participants from MISA.

Yet it should be mentioned that, and in spite of these impressive achievements, some technical aspects of
these schemes, dealing with disability and youth at risk alike, lacked clarity. As far as disability is
concerned, the standards to comply with, and the technical knowledge to reach these standards, seemed
scarce if not totally absent. In the field of youth at risk, the same problem existed, albeit here it was even


                                                     - 33 -

more difficult to define the target group. It would hardly be disputed that working and street children are
normally considered part of this category. However some of the projects (e.g. Ahbaa el-Toffoulah) seemed
to have considered all teenagers to be at risk. A clearer definition of the target group would have certainly
helped (refer to the Annexes 1 and 3 for Matrix of SPIP's Key Performance Indicators and the Analytical
Review of the SPIP initiatives/sub-projects).


D.3 Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return

For the SPIP approach to be replicated it is important to demonstrate that it is economically sound for GOE
and MISA. As the project does not have cash flow statements on which NPV and ERR calculations can be
made, a cost effectiveness model should be followed in measuring the economic rate of return.

The cost effectiveness of the SPIP approach will be assessed in comparison with the costs associated with
the delivery of regular MISA programs for setting up and monitoring social interventions of similar scale.
The cost effectiveness analysis will not provide a cost-benefit analysis of the two approaches but rather
compare their relative efficiency (measured in financial terms) in producing social outputs that benefit the
target group i.e. children with disability and youth at risk.

Suggested Benefits include:

        Better understanding of the structure of costs incurred by MISA in setting up and monitoring social
interventions for children with disabilities and youth at risk.
        Better understanding of the differential impact of resource inputs in the social outcomes of target
groups
        Identification of locations with resource effectiveness and wastage
        Improving the managerial capacity of MISA to better manage scarce resources

Due to time constraints and issues explained in previous sections, stating conclusions about the project's
actual cost effectiveness at present is difficult. Many of the activities have not yet been completed and the
ability to assess the cost effectiveness of these activities is severely affected by the lack of appropriate data.
This is particularly true given inability to gather reliable data from the concerned government bodies
traditionally dealing with child disability and youth at risk. The cost effectiveness of this project must be
addressed using a unit of output approach.

Children with disability and youth at risk have received very little attention in the past. The project has shed
the light on these two important groups within the Egyptian Society. That is why the marginal utility for the
project seems to be very high. Preliminary results show the following:



        Although project disbursements at the beginning of the project were much less, results achieved
were far less than desired. This causes us to believe that the cost effectiveness per unit of output at the end
of the project is much higher than at the beginning of the project.
        The project's financial records have not been closed yet. The cost of administering this kind of
initiative and its relative effectiveness and efficiencies will be clearer once the end data is available. It
should be noted that the project has only spent about 65% of its allocated funds. The remaining balance is
expected to be disbursed over the next 3 months.
D.4 Financial Rate of Return: Does not Apply




                                                       - 34 -

D.5. Institutional Development Impact Satisfactory

In light of its nature as an experimental project particularly concerned with the integration of services, the
SPIP managed to make significant strides. A number of the NGOs the SPIP funded were new to working
with the target groups, thus they gained completely new experiences. Some of the initiatives addressed
issues hardly touched upon before by any institution in spite of their importance. For example, the
Association of Bright Tomorrow in Alexandria pioneered work in Egypt on protecting mentally retarded
children from sexual abuse. Its work involved officials from ministries of Education, Health and Justice. In
addition to producing training materials on the subject, it worked closely with, and trained school teachers.
In Cairo the youth at risk sub-projects worked closely with, and trained, the social counsellors in schools.
Moreover, the SPIP reinforced the trend of collaboration between NGOs for services provision as discussed
above (under D.1).

In addition to new models of integrated services, tested and planned to be replicated, the project led to the
production of 24 training and implementation manuals. The sub-projects provided training to 1939, and
585, professionals from various institutions and disciplines, working on disability and youth at risk
respectively. Last but not least, SPIP, through 13 training schemes and 73 training days, provided training
for 286 MISA staff members. The impact of these documents and trainings will certainly outlive the
project's lifespan.

E. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

E.1 Factors Outside the Control of the Government or the Implementing Agency:

At its inception, SPIP's financial regulations of the project, as agreed upon with the Bank, necessitated the
approval of the Bank for the procurements of the various sub-projects. This caused significant unnecessary
delays. Between late 2001 and early 2003, it was the norm that any procurement request had to go to the
PMU, then to the WB mission in Cairo, then at times to the WB headquarters in Washington DC for
approval. It is surprising that the project managed to support even the few sub-projects it did at this stage.
This all changed when the project's team in the WB mission in Cairo changed. The new leadership moved
the control over finances back to Cairo, gave the PMU far greater leeway in managing the sub-projects,
and brought much needed expert technical assistance. The result was the impressive increase in the number
of sub-projects in the last year of the project's life time.

Nevertheless, the complexity of the financial system continued to cause various delays. Some of the
sub-projects the evaluation team visited received their SPIP funded equipment days before the end of the
project. NGOs, almost unanimously, complained of the extreme rigidity and inflexibility of the PMU's
approach to procurement and financial issues. It is hard to put the blame on any one side here alone, yet it
remains fair to argue that the Bank was always the strongest party, particularly that it had the final say
over financial matters. It is also worth noting that the Bank, according to the data available for the
evaluation team, did not train the PMU's staff on its financial regulations. As a consequence, much effort
has been directed toward making the Bank regulations compatible with those of the MISA.




                                                        - 35 -

E.2 Factors Generally Subject to Government Control:

The local contribution to the total cost of the project was delayed for more than a year. While Egypt's
People's Assembly approved the provision of the local contribution in accordance with the loan agreement
with Bank in February 2002, such contribution was not secured until April 2003 when the Ministry of
Finance transferred the local contribution. This in its own turn caused a significant delay in the project's
implementation. The local component, it ought to be mentioned, covered aspects that the Bank, in
accordance with its agreement with GOE, would not cover.

E.3 Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control:

The project agreement was signed in September 1999. Yet only a few months later Egypt witnessed a
cabinet change. The new minister and her staff had to revisit the subject, which delayed the issuance of the
manuals the Bank required for the launch of the project. In turn, this delayed the agreement ratification that
had to be carried out in the People's Assembly. The result was (roughly) a total of 20 months delay for the
official launching of the project.

F. Sustainability

F.1 Sustainability: Does not apply

The project was designed as a learning and innovation exercise. It aimed to develop and test new models for
serving the target groups. As such, one of the project's main objectives was its demonstration effect,
whereby it would provide feedback and lessons learned to assist in the design of future interventions with
the target population, as well as national strategies of dealing with these groups.

Some of the sub-projects funded under Component 1 may have generated partially economically
sustainable service delivery models (e.g. Hope Village Association in Alexandria: a bakery operated by
mentally disabled children). In general, however, little attention was paid to the long-term sustainability of
these models in light of the emphasis on the learning and innovation aspects of the project. Nevertheless the
overall impact of the project will persist. More than 280 of MISA's employees received SPIP-funded
training for dealing with youth at risk. A number of the sub-projects produced training and implementation
manuals to disseminate the impact of their experience. And, as made clear above, the overwhelming
majority of the sub-projects staff members indicated their desire to remain in the same fieldwork, i.e., of
working with the two target groups. Henceforth, it is safe to argue that the new ideas the project managed
to present and test, and the culture of integrated services it emphasized, is almost certain to outlast the
project's short life span.

F.2 Transition Arrangements to Regular Operation: Satisfactory

It is seen that due to the time constraints that model development was subject to, the project was not able to
fully integrate its self within regular MISA operations. Little has been done to streamline project operations
into regular operations, however project documentation, lessons learned and results will be disseminated in
a large conference within the next six months. This conference is supposed to contribute towards showing
MISA staff the advantage of the project approach in serving the target group over regular operations.

Longitudinal and baseline studies are needed to measure the progress of system indicators and the in-depth
of intervention impact on target communities. This will give a more appropriate measure of intervention
effectiveness within those communities



                                                      - 36 -

It is also seen that since MISA by now has accumulated more experience in dealing with such projects and
identified those skills required for its implementation, it may be worthwhile pursuit to support future
expansion based on current initiatives, appropriately document outcomes and provide inputs into
developing a long-term national strategy for with children with disability and youth at risk.

F.3 Costs and Financing

The credit of SDR 3.6 (US$5.0 million equivalent) was to finance 90% of the total project costs (US$5.6
million) including contingencies but excluding taxes and duties. The proceeds of the credit were allocated
as shown in the bale below, actual expenditures as of December 23, 2004 represented 91% of this amount.
It is expected that since the project has been approved a 3 months-no-funds-needed extension that the
balance will also be expended during that period. Thus there will be no significant difference between
actual and estimated expenditure.

In spite of a long delay at the beginning of the project, project management and the Bank agreed on
measures to speed up the process. This has been very successful in bringing the project back closer to
estimates.

A favourable exchange rate between SDR and the Egyptian pound resulted in the availability of more funds
(in Egyptian Pound terms) than originally expected during the life of the project.




Project Costs by Components (in USD)
                                 Estimate     Disbursement     % of         Expenditure     % of
                                                               Estimate     Commitment      Estimate
  Project Management Unit
              Costs
             Goods                  69,052        57,644           83%         58,924          85%
             Services              748,062       416,731           56%         748,062        100%
  Incremental Operating Cost        78,019        45,559           58%         50,712          65%
            Sub-total              895,133       519,934           58%         857,698         96%
      Sub-Projects Costs
             Works                  24,378         2,048            8%         21,940          90%
             Goods                 933,374       452,327           48%         840,035         90%
             Services             2,973,441      1,963,796         66%        2,676,096        90%
       Unallocated Funds           962,371       372,099           39%         866,134         90%


                                                     - 37 -

            Sub-total             4,893,564     2,790,270         57%         4,404,205         90%
              Total              5,788,697      3,310,204         57%         5,261,903         91%


It should be noted that:

1.       During the period from 5/23/2001 up to 10/31/2003 only 6.6 was actually disbursed.
2.       It can also be seen that the PMU costs amounted to 16% of total costs, a percentage within the
internationally accepted standard overhead rates for projects of a similar nature and is inline with original
appraisal estimates.
3.       The PMU has also asked to reallocate US$923,451 from Goods under part C, incremental
operating costs and unallocated costs to subproject costs and consultant services for the PMU. This is
thought to increase project effectiveness even more.

G. Bank and Borrower's Performance

G.1 Bank

G.1.1. Lending: Satisfactory

The Bank's decision to provide support to the intended beneficiaries of the project at a time when they
seemed fairly under-served increased the marginal utility of the project. Although the project is not part of
the CAS it is consistent with Egypt's development objectives and with GOEs focus on establishing a solid
base for children's rights and services. The Bank's preparation effort was consistent and timely. Overall,
missions were appropriately staffed.

G.1.2. Supervision: satisfactory

The long decision cycles within the Bank and the implementing agency at the start of the project with
regard the procurements of the sub-projects caused significant delays, as mentioned above. In the last 18
months of the project, the causes of such delays have been addressed and eliminated. The local Bank
mission was allowed far more control. Much of the management process was moved to the PMU and the
whole supervision approach grew far more flexible. Technical aspects of disability and youth at risk were
also outsourced to expert institutions on the subject. This gave the Bank more time to focus on assisting the
PMU in project implementation including on-the-job guidance as to Bank policies, and suggesting the most
appropriate ways to handle encountered difficulties. Such a radical change in policy, which ultimately
allowed us to judge the Bank's supervision as satisfactory, should have come far earlier in the project's life.


G.1.3. Overall Bank performance: Satisfactory

The Bank's overall rating is satisfactory. The Bank's team benefited from, took into account, and acted
upon, lessons learned during the life of the project. In the last 18 months, the Bank managed to draw the
line between implementing the project and the close guidance of the implementing agency, which needed
such guidance to adequately complete the project.

G.2 Borrower

G.2.1 Preparation Unsatisfactory

It was MISA who approached the WB for funding the idea of the SPIP. However its role in the initial stage



                                                    - 38 -

of preparation, prior to the Bank's approval, was minimal. Following the approval, and as explained
earlier, it took MISA approximately 20 months to prepare the documents the WB required for launching
the project, and get the required approval they needed from the GOE. In the preparation stage, MISA failed
to hire sufficiently qualified staff members in areas of disability and youth at risk.

G.2.2 Government Implementation Performance unsatisfactory

An essential cause of delays was the delay of the national contribution to the project. The latter was
essential for covering basic running expenses the Bank would not cover (in line with its agreement with
GOE). The local contribution ultimately came through in 2003. The evaluation team could not find a
satisfactory explanation for this paralysing delay.

G.2.3 Implementing Agency Satisfactory

MISA had a new leadership for the project by 2003. The change in the PMU coincided with change in the
Bank's local mission and its approach to the project (see above). In collaboration with the Bank, and after a
stifling two years, the PMU managed to move the project forward. This came at the expense of some of the
PAD's original components. Most important, the baseline needs assessment was overlooked. Yet in view of
the fact that this was replaced by smaller assessments conducted by some of the implementing NGOs, and
that time was running out, the decision seems to have been the most logical. The PMU, in collaboration
with the Bank resorted to a number of external agencies for technical support. Moreover, the new
leadership managed to steer more funds to direct training of MISA's staff in the last weeks of the project's
life. True, complaints of inflexible management remained, yet things in the last months of the project life
moved at an almost blinding pace. Overall, MISA, presented by the PMU, and with help from the Bank,
and only in the last year and a half of SPIP's life managed to serve the target groups, achieve the
experimentation, and move towards the dissemination, required.

G.2.4 Overall Borrower Performance Satisfactory

Given what the project achieved in its last few months, as detailed above, despite the earlier delays, it is fair
to judge MISA's overall performance as satisfactory.

H. Lessons Learned

1.       Means to overcome the stringent restrictions on procurement from the very start would have aided
the project and quickened its pace.
2.       In accordance with the original PAD design, the implementation of the baseline survey would have
been the most logical start. It would have provided a comprehensive picture that would have better
informed the choice, design and implementation of initiatives.
3.       A clearer base of technical information and definitions would have aided the project greatly. For
those working on disability the concepts they work with, and the standards, international ones included, to
comply with, were not always clear. As for youth at risk the term is certainly far cloudier.
4.       This project shed light on the importance of integration and collaboration at every level:
i.        Integration at the level of services provided by a single or multiple providers, i.e. their
multidimensional and comprehensive nature.
ii.       Collaboration among NGOS working in one or multiple locations, targeting the same group(s).
iii.      Collaboration between NGOs and governmental bodies working with the target groups.
iv.       Integration among the various concerned government bodies. Youth at risk need the intervention
and care of the ministries of Interior, Education and Justice. While the disabled need the support of the



                                                      - 39 -

Ministries of Health, Education, Social Affairs and Local Government. All these parties must be brought to
work together.
5.       A direct and highly motivated involvement of MISA's staff in the project's management and
implementation from the very start would have greatly facilitated implementation. Moreover, it would have
further helped achieve the learning process the SPIP aimed at through the involvement of MISA's staff in
the project's activities. The Bank was adamant not to pay for MISA's staff, while the local contribution,
which came late, had no line-items for personnel. The involved sides ultimately reached a compromise in
the last two years of the project's life. Incentives for the under-paid MISA staff should have been made
available earlier.
6.       The role of MISA should move from that of a supervising body to that of an enabling one. The
SPIP makes clear the ability of NGOs to plan and conduct projects, and to share their experiences.
Moreover, the SPIP initiatives became venues of collaboration between various governmental and
non-governmental bodies. This experience makes clear the NGOs' ability to become active advocates. And
it demonstrates their potential for shaping polices dealing with their target groups. MISA should move into
the direction of partnership with (rather than supervision of ) active and advocacy-geared NGO's.




                                                       - 40 -

- 41 -

