CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 820 ME
Guarantee Agreement
(Ports Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED MAY 17, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 820 ME
Guarantee Agreement
(Ports Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED MAY 17, 1972


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 17, 1972, between UNITED MEXICAN
STATES (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and Nacional Financiera, S.A. (hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed
to make to the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to. twenty million
dollars ($20,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement,
but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to undertake certain obligations
in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake such obligations as
hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Guarantee Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth
in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Guarantee Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in
Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE H
Guarantee; Bonds; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation o restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally


﻿4
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punc'Jal
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and
the Bonds, the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan or the redemption
of the Bonds prior to their maturity and the punctual performance of all the other
obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement and in the
Bonds.
Section 2.02. The Guarantor shall endorse, in accordance with the provisions
of the General Conditions, its guarantee on the Bonds to be executed and delivered
by the Borrower. Nacional Financiera, S.A. and such other person or persons as
it shall appoint in writing are designated as authorized representatives of the
Guarantor for the purposes of Section 8.10 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section
2.01 of this Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes to provide,
or to make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank promptly to provide or cause
to be provided, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, all such funds
as shall be needed to meet the expenditures required for the carrying out of the
Project.
ARTICLE IHl
The Project
Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall carry out Parts A, B, C, D, F and G
of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, financial and engineering practices.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Guarantor in the carrying out of
Part F of the Project, the Guarantor shall employ consultants acceptable to the
Bank upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall employ,
in accordance with paragraph (a) above, the consultants for Part F (ii) of the
Project by not later than June 30, 1972 and the consultants for Part F (iii) of
the Project by not later than June 30, 1973.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods and services
(other than services of consultants and staff training) required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured as provided
in Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement.


﻿5
Section 3.04. (a) The Guarantor shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports and work schedules, for the
parts of the Project to be carried out by it, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Guarantor: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the parts of the Project to be carried out by it (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods and, services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in such parts of the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's representatives to inspect such parts of the Project, the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the installations and equipment of the
ports affected by the Project and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning such parts of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. (a) The Guarantor undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Guarantor to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. Except as the Bank shall cnerwise agree, the Guarantor shall
by not later than July 1, 1972:
(a)   employ qualified managerial staff for each of the following functions
in the Direccion General de Operacion Portuaria of Marina: office of the chief
executive, port facilities and equipment, port operations, economic studies, tariffs
and administration; and
(b)   at each of the Project Ports employ qualified individuals for the posts
of Superintendent, Port Captain, Resident Engineer and Administrator/Accountant.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor, in
pursuance of its policy of achieving financial viability for its ports, shall from time


﻿6
to time make such adjustments in the port charges levied by the Guarantor in
each Project Port, and shall take all other action as may be necessary to provide
for each Project Port revenue sufficient to produce for the year 1974, and each
year thereafter, an annual rate of return for each Project Port on the value of
its net fixed assets in operation satisfactory to the Guarantor and the Bank and
sufficient to enable each Project Port, out of its internally-generated Funds: (i)
to meet interest and other charges on and amortization of funds provided by the
Guarantor and (ii) to finance a reasonable portion, satisfactory to the Guarantor
and the Bank, of future capital expenditure, including replacement of assets, all
determined in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Guarantee
Agreement.
Section 4.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall
cause the charges to port users for port services provided by Marina in each of
the Project Ports to be reasonably related to the operating expenses (as defined
in paragraph 2 (iv) of Schedule 1 to this Guarantee Agreement) of providing the
respective service in the respective Port.
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall
cause the port charges referred to in Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this Guarantee
Agreement above to be applied to any and all port users, subject only to (i)
exemptions required by international courtesy rules and (ii) reductions in such
charges deemed necessary by the Guarantor and the Bank to offset adverse
economic effects which have resulted or would result from the implementation
of port charges referred to in such Sections 4.01 and 4.02. In the case of reductions
in charges under clause (ii) of the foregoing sentence, port charges shall be set
at not less than the level necessary to recover those costs which would be avoided
if the service were not provided.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall
make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank so that after January 1, 1973 Marina
shall compute and invoice port charges levied by the Guarantor.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall
by January 1, 1973 cause cargo-handling charges applicable to the Project Ports
(except charges resulting from agreements which are not subject to regulations of
the Guarantor) to be revised so as to provide revenues to cargo-handling
concessionaires adequate to cover the costs of cargo-handling services and to provide
a reasonable level of profit.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall
by not later than January 1, 1973 establish and maintain in effect an accounting


﻿7
system acceptable to the Bank within the Direcci6n General de Operacidn Portuaria
of Marina and in each of the Project Ports.
Section 4.07. The Guarantor shall cause the works, installations and
equipment used in the port operations of the Guarantor to be adequately
maintained and all necessary repairs thereof promptly to be made, all in accordance
with sound engineering practices.
Section 4.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall,
promptly after completion of Part C of the Project, cause the free time period
for imports under the demurrage rates at the ports of Manzanillo, Tampico and
Veracruz not to exceed ten days.
Section 4.09. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Guarantor and the Bank
that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority over the Loan by way of
a lien on governmental assets.
(b)   To that end, the Guarantor (i) represents that at the date of this
Guarantee Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets as security for
any external debt; and (ii) undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, if any such lien shall be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably secure
the payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and
the Bonds, and that in the creation of any such lien express provision will be
made to that effect. The Guarantor shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation
of any such lien.
(c)   The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (ii) any lien arising
in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date.
As used in this Section (a) the term "governmental assets" includes the assets
of the Guarantor or of any of its political subdivisions or of any agency, and
(b) the term "agency" means any agency or instrumentality of the Guarantor or
of any political subdivision of the Guarantor and shall include any institution or
organization which is owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the Guarantor
or by any political subdivision of the Guarantor or the operations of which are
conducted primarily in the interest of or for account of the Guarantor or any
political subdivision of the Guarantor.
Section 4.10. The Guarantor shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting


﻿8
practices the operations and financial condition in respect of the Project of the
departments and agencies of the Guarantor or other entities responsible for carrying
out Parts A, B, C, D, F and G of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Consultation and Information
Section 5.01. The Guarantor and the Bank shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end the Guarantor
and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party: (i) exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under the Guarantee Agreement and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) furnish to the other all such information
as it shall reasonably request with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Guarantee Agreement and the general status of the Loan.
On the part of the Guarantor, such information shall include information with
respect to financial and economic conditions in the territories of the Guarantor,
including its balance of payments, and the external debt of the Guarantor, of any
of its political subdivisions and of any agency of the Guarantor or of any such
political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Guarantor shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan or the maintenance of the service thereof.
(b)   The Guarantor shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Bank to visit any part of the territories of the Guarantor
for purposes related to the Loan.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan
and the Bonds shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes
imposed under the laws of the Guarantor or laws in effect in its territories; provided,
however, that the foregoing shall not apply to taxation of payments under any
Bond to a holder thereof other than the Bank when such Bond is beneficially
owned by an individual or corporate resident of the Guarantor.


﻿9
Section  6.02. The Guarantee Agreement, the Loan Agreement, any
instrument made pursuant to Section 4.09 of this Agreement and the Bonds shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Guarantor
or laws in effect in its territories on or in connection with the execution, issue,
delivery or registration thereof.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls
or moratoria of any nature imposed under the laws of the Guarantor or laws in
effect in its territories.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 7.01. Nacional Financiera, S.A. is designated as representative of the
Guarantor for the purposes of Section 10.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
United Mexican States
c/o Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Isabel La Cat6lica 51
M6xico 1, D.F. M6xico
For the Bank:
Inkernational Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿10
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
BY NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
By /s / Manuel Calder6n de la Barca
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Provisions for Determining
Financial Performance of Project
Ports under Section 4.01
1.    This Schedule supplements Section 4.01 of this Guarantee Agreement and
sets forth certain definitions and other provisions to clarify and amplify the
requirements of Section 4.01.
2.    For the purposes of Section 4.01 and of this Schedule:
(i)         the rate of return shall be calculated by relating the Guarantor's
net operating revenue at each Project Port for the year in
question to the average of the value of the Guarantor's net fixed
assets in operation at the respective Project Port at the beginning
and at the end of such year;
(ii)        the term "value of the net fixed assets in operation" shall mean
the gross book value of such assets, less the amount of
accumulated depreciation, as revalued from time to time by the
Guarantor in accordance with sound accountancy principles;
(iii)       the term   "net operating revenue" shall mean the difference
between:
(A)   gross operating revenues from    port service and other
charges accruing from the Guarantor's port services and
use of its port installation; and
(B)   operating expenses of the Guarantor for port services,
including adequate maintenance and depreciation, but
excluding interest and other charges on funds provided
by the Guarantor;
(iv)        the term   "operating expenses" shall mean:
(A)   working expenses of the port manager office, port
captaincy, resident engineer office, and administrative
unit, in each Project Port but excluding expenses related
to the registration and certification of craft;


﻿12
(B)   operating expenses of the Direccion General de Operaci6n
Portuaria of Marina in Mexico City directly related to port
operations and apportioned among all ports on the basis
of costs under subparagraph (A) above;
(C)   maintenance and depreciation of the Guarantor's port
installations; and
(D)   operating expenses, including depreciation of dredging
equipment, of the Direccidn General de Dragado in Marina
apportioned among all ports in accordance with sound
accountancy principles;
(v)        the term "depreciation" shall mean depreciation on assets in
operation, calculated on the basis of the replacement cost of
such assets and their useful life, in accordance with sound
accouniUncy principles consistently applied;
(vi)       the term "internally-generated funds" shall mean net operating
revenue plus depreciation; and
(vii)      the term "funds provided by the Guarantor" shall mean the
funds used for port investments in the respective Project Port
on or after January 1, 1972 in excess of the respective Project
Port's   accumulated    internally-generated  funds   after
January 1, 1972 less the accumulated interest and other charges
on and amortization of funds provided by the Guarantor.
3.   Funds provided by the Guarantor shall be charged by the Guarantor to the
respective Project Port on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
4.   The Guarantor shall by not later than January 1, 1973 establish and
maintain within the Direccidn General de Operacidn Portuaria of Marina an account
for each Project Port in which will be recorded at least annually the
internally-generated funds, the funds provided by the Guarantor and the interest
and other charges on and amortization of funds provided by the Guarantor, of
the respective Project Port.


