Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 205 83-CHA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(24110)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 107.7 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
SICHUAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 23, 2000
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their 
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.l



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective As of April 2000)
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
I Yuan = US$ 0.12
US$ 1.00 = Yuan 8.28
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC            Agricultural Bank of China
ACWF           All China Women's Federation
BAC            Branch Arterial canal
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP         FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDA            International Development Association
IMO            Irrigation Management Office
MTR            Mid-Term Review
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
NPK            Nitrogen, Phosphorus and Potash Fertiliser
NPV            Net Present Value
OD             Operational Directive
OP             Operational Manual
O&M            Operation and Maintenance
QAG            Quality Assurance Group
PLG            Project Leading Group
PMO            Project Management Office
PPMO           Provincial Project Management Office
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SP             Shengzhong Project (Irrigation Scheme)
SIDD           Self-financing Irrigation and Drainage District
TCG            Technical Consultation Group
WB             The World Bank
WP             Wudu Project (Irrigation Scheme)
YP             Yangjiaba Project (Irrigation Scheme)
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din-Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:    Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager/Director:    Geoffrey B. Fox, EASRD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    John Stemp/Zhong Tong, EASRD



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA
SICHUAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   10
6. Sustainability                                                                       11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      13
9. Partner Comments                                                                     15
10. Additional Information                                                              15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P003561                                       Project Name: SICHUAN ADP
Team Leader: John G. Stemp                                TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 23, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: SICHUAN ADP                                     I/C/TFNumber: 24110
Country/Department: CHINA                                                Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: Al - Irrigation & Drainage; AM - Agro-Industry &
Marketing; AP - Perennial Crops; VM - Natural
Resources Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  06/28/90                                 Effective: 10/01/91           10/09/92
Appraisal:  11/05/91                                  MTR: 03/01/95              03/10/96
Approval:  07/07/92                                Closing: 12/31/99             12/31/99
Borrower/Implementing Agency: Peoples Republic of China/Sichuan Province
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        A. Karaosmanoglu
Country Manager:     Yukon Huang                                Shahid Javed Burki
Sector Manager:      Geoffrey B. Fox                            Joseph Goldberg
Team Leader at ICR:   Zhong Tong                                Hoonae Kim
ICR Primary Author.   John Weatherhogg (FAO)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project objectives were:
*   to increase productivity of existing crops, especially rice, by increasing the land under irrigation
and by providing a more reliable water supply for drought protection;



*   to provide a complementary package of integrated agricultural inputs, support services, adaptive
research, training and technical assistance;
*   to develop operational and maintenance plans and establish policies for the proposed irrigation
systems, including the collecting of water charges for full recovery of cperation and maintenance
cost;
* to expand soil conservation measures and reduce soil and water losses t:o reduce long-term siltation
of major rivers, maintain soil fertility, and improve productivity of already eroded areas;
* to expand agro-processing activities utilizing locally available raw materials; and
* to increase farmers' incomes in selected poor and remote areas where they are less than 50 percent
of the national average, with particular emphasis on helping women.
The above project objectives were clear and well understood by the implementing agencies. The projects
objectives were fully in line with central and provincial policies and strategies as well as the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy. The project had been officially proposed in 1987, some four years before
appraisal and the intervening period had given adequate time for a careful assessment of project objectives
and the design of appropriate components for their achievement. Design, however, was in the style referred
to in China as 'comprehensive agricultural development' with four main components, but no fewer than 24
sub-components covering 26 counties of Nanchong, Mianyang and Guangyuan prefectures in the north and
Qianjiang prefecture, originally in the south east corner of Sichuan, but since 1997 under the administration
of the Chongqing Autonomous City. This degree of complexity and wide area coverage was highly
demanding of project management. The project was identified, prepared and appraised over the period 1987
to 1991 with loan negotiation in April 1992 and credit effectiveness in October 1992. Total project costs
were estimated at US$287.6 million, including an IDA credit of US$147 million (SDR 107.7 million).
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's objectives remained unchanged throughout the extended implementation period.
The project development objective is to remove key constraints to agricultural productivity in selected poor
areas of Sichuan Province and Chongqing Municipality. Outputs to achieve this objective are: (a)
Increased reliability and productivity of existing crops through provision of a mrore reliable water supply,
and strengthened agricultural supporting services. (b) Expanded soil conservation to improve productivity
of already eroded areas, including stabilized soil fertility, increased year round soil cover and reduced river
siltation. (c) Increased farmer income through sustainable sericulture and livestock production activities in
selected poor and remote areas, with particular emphasis helping poor rural women. (d) Modernized
existing agroprocessing facilities and introduction of new technologies, including improved treatment of
wastes, and management methods more responsive to market demand rather than raw material supply.
3.3 Original Components:
The project had the following components:
(a) Irrigation. Design, construction and initiation of operations of the irrigation conveyance systems
for the intermediate development phases of three irrigation schemes; the Shengzhong Project (SP), the
Wudu Project (WP) and the Yangjiaba Project (YP), and provision of agric.ultural support services
within the areas served.
-2 -



(b) Soil Conservation. Establishment of two soil conservation demonstration areas and planting
paulonia, Chinese toon, other fast growing trees, gall, Chinese alpine rush, and medicinal plants.
(c) Income generation. Production of mulberry and silk cocoon with expansion of supporting
services, rehabilitation of tea gardens and establishment of livestock production bases for goats, geese
and rabbits, combined with planting pastures.
(d) Processing. Rehabilitation and expansion of two paper mills and establishment of a rabbit hair
spinning mill as well as gallnut, goat and geese processing plants.
The components were generally well related to achieving the project's objectives. Although the project had a
fairly high degree of complexity and a project area covering some 60,000 km it proved to be within the
capacity of the implementing agency. Overall direction was vested in a Project Leading Group (PLG) at the
province with subsidiary PLGs at prefectural and county levels. A similar hierarchical structure was
developed for Project Management Offices (PMO). Lead responsibility for the multi-agency PMOs rested
with the Planning Commission. In general these arrangements worked well, the only significant difficulty
being the ability of the more poverty affected prefectures and counties to raise the necessary counterpart
finance required. In a similar way the requirement of full cost recovery for soil conservation works
undertaken by poor farmers in resource poor locations also led to difficulties.
3.4 Revised Components:
At the mid-term review in 1996 there was some adjustment of the project components. The most significant
change was to drop the proposals for rehabilitation and extension of the paper mill in Mianyang prefecture
and use the funds so released (US$15.8 million) for further development of the Wudu irrigation scheme.
Other changes included a reduction of US$1 million funding to the Shengzhong irrigation scheme where
development had moved ahead fast and local raising of funds had been more successful than originally
planned; marginal increased expenditure (US$0.4 million) on the Yangjiaba irrigation scheme; small
increases in the investments for the Shizhu rabbit hair spinning mill and the Xiushan goose processing
plant; and dropping of the stone terracing on farmers' land as part of the soil conservation component.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The rating of the project at completion is satisfactory, since the project was fully in line with the
Govemment policies and strategy, targeted at one-third of the poverty counties in Sichuan. The project
included the financing of a small resettlement component for 157 families displaced as a result of
construction of a dam, associated with the Yangjiaba scheme but not included in the project. This was
undertaken in conformity with OD 4.20. The project also included establishment of a dam safety panel in
line with OP 4.37 and regular environmental monitoring in accordance with Bank guidelines including OP
4.01.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project has successfully achieved its objectives. Performance in project implementation is generally
uniformly successful, but shows some variation from highly successful performance for much of the
irrigation system construction, to more marginally satisfactory in the soil conservation component.
Implementation performance of the agro-processing component has been successful, although the Pengshui
pulp and paper mill investments cannot be at present considered satisfactory. The project objectives and
achievements were completely in line with the Government's Ninth Five Year Plan (1996-2000) and with
the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS of February 25, 1997) with emphasis on poverty reduction.
- 3 -



4.2 Outputs by components:
Irrigation Component Net irrigated area developed of some 155,290 ha (against 135,200 ha envisaged at
appraisal), represents about 7 percent of the total for Sichuan. In future a further 105,300 ' ha are expected
to benefit from the conveyance systems constructed by the project. The Shenzhong, Wudu and Yangjiaba
subprojects covering 12 counties within the relatively poor prefectures of Nanchong, Mianyang and
Guangyuan have been successfully completed. Also all three schemes provides raw water for domestic and
industrial uses.2 Incremental irrigated area in each of the three areas and cost per incremental hectare are
set out in the following table.
Incremental Area and Cost per Ha.
Irrigation Schemes           Incremental Area (Ha)            Cost er Ha in US$
SAR Estimate    At Completion   SAR Estimate    At Completion
Shenazhong Project         70,000          73.340          983            1,100
Wudu Project              61,500           78,200          1,895          2,129
Yangiiaba Project          3,700           3,750           1,524          2,267
Total             135200          155,290                    _-
Total cost for the irrigation component at completion exceeds the original SAR estimates by Y982 million
or 95 percent, or in US dollar terms exceeds by US$64.6 million or 33.8 percent, as shown in the following
table:
Cost of the Irrigation Component
Irrigation Schemes      SAR Estimate    At Cornletion   SAR Estimate    At Completion
RMB Million                    US$ Million
Shengzhong Project        370.10          594.97          68.79          80.67
I Wudu Project             627.16         1,353.04        116.57     _   166.50
YangiabaProect            30.33            61.60           5.64           8.50
Total             1,028            2,010            191          255.7
The cost increases are due to the 20,090 ha larger area developed for irrigation than originally planned,
higher labor and material prices, inflation, floods in 1998 which damaged parts of the Wudu scheme,
delayed procurement of civil works contracts and materials, construction problems encountered during
implementation because of geology of the region, inclusion of drainage works, and inadequate provision for
physical contingencies (only 10%) at appraisal.
Design of the three irrigation conveyance systems is gravity flow with some pumping in mountainous
terrain of varying geology. The complexity of the designs and engineering required is impressive. Due to
the hilly and sometimes mountainous topography there are more than 170 km of tunnels and over 12 km of
aqueducts/siphons down to the branch canal level. Both the Shengzhong and Wudu schemes include
pumping covering respectively about 14% and 30% of the incremental irrigated area developed.? The
hydraulic and structural designs are based on standards without calculation of optimized designs and
although they are generally adequate and appropriate to the local conditions, will require heavy
maintenance. With the benefit of hindsight perhaps more could have been done to explore design options,
maximize gravity irrigation area and analyze more closely both the geological situation and possible
difficulties for construction as well as the costs and benefits of canal lining and pumped irrigation. About
20% of farm and sub-farm ditches serve for both irrigation and drainage. This has the big advantage of
saving scarce cropland, but means that the water has to be lifted for irrigation, either by means of a gate, or
by blocking off the ditch, or by pumping, or manually.
- 4 -



Construction by labor-intensive methods is of good quality and quality testing was regularly carried out
during construction. Procurement was generally satisfactory, except for two international competitive
bidding (ICB) and a package of five national competitive bidding contracts (NCB) for the Wudu
sub-project, where delays in review, amendment and their approval by the Bank delayed the Wudu
sub-component by two years. Comparison of experience between Shengzhong and Wudu shows that the
former, which relied mainly on contracts giving total responsibility for machinery and material supply
generally had fewer problems and less price escalation in individual contracts than was the case in Wudu,
where, in some cases equipment and materials were purchased by the project and provided to the
contractor.
Implementation was generally carried out on schedule, except for the difficulties in the Wudu sub-project
due to delays in awarding contracts and the 1998 floods. Following the latter, and at the recommendation of
the Bank, increased cross-drainage structures were built. A notable feature of the project has been the
excellent coordination between the completion of construction of irrigation infrastructure and its immediate
exploitation for irrigated agriculture. Irrigation system operation and maintenance (O&M) is already well
developed, although at present the road infrastructure is poor and access to the canals often difficult.
Project financed training included workshops on irrigation O&M, hydraulic survey, design, supervision and
management, as well as domestic and overseas study tours.
Agricultural support services. The project successfully strengthened support services in 12 counties
under the three irrigation schemes by 3 county and 109 township agro-technical extension centers and ten
seed companies. With research support these have provided effective extension and input supply services to
farmers. Total cost of the component, estimated at Y64.5 million at appraisal in fact increased to Y90.9
million, of which roughly half was for purchase of fertilizer and agro-chemicals. The main reasons for the
cost increase were higher prices of imported materials and equipment, due to devaluation of the Yuan,
general domestic inflation and increase in labor and service costs. "
The impact of both improved irrigation and support services has resulted in increased crop yields, outputs
and cropping intensities that meet full development appraisal expectations. The main change in the farming
system has been to bring into double cropping about 30% of land which was previously kept fallow in the
May-September period to conserve water for the subsequent paddy crop. As a result overall cropping
intensity has increased from 188% pre-project to in excess of the appraisal estimate of 210%. Crop yields
have also substantially increased since 1992 and are currently not far below those achieved on research
stationsS virtually all the paddy and rape grown are hybrid and standards of husbandry are generally
excellent. There are no identified constraints to input supply and extension is well informed and effective.
All farmers use chemical fertilizers and substantial amounts of compost. & Net farm income per capita is
estimated to have increased by over 100% in surveyed counties since project inception2' and with assured
water supply production risks have greatly diminished. Marginal additional investment in equipment could
significantly improve training quality and retums to investment made in buildings, which at present are
generally poorly equipped and without modem audio-visual aides. Overall the technical aspects of
agricultural production appear excellent except for some seed impurity in wheat populations, probably due
to farmers retaining home grown seed for too many years. Extension needs to correct this. Fertilizer and
crop chemical imports were about half appraisal expectations due to increase in cost and falling ABC
interest rates which made borrowing from the revolving fund unattractive to farmers.
Soil conservation component. The main aspect of the component was establishment of a
120 km demonstration area in Guangyuan prefecture and another 45 km in Qianjiang. It aimed at
developing an expanded menu of technological options for land management, training a cadre of technical
- 5 -



staff and setting up a revolving fund. Re-afforestation/grassing of un-cultivated hillsides and planting
various tree species on contours within arable areas have been successful, exceed SAR expectations and
have developed into replicable models. However, physical conservation works have been scaled down,
especially small conservation works and terracing in Qianjiang. Clearly the cost of land terracing and small
conservation works models tested have not proved affordable,; farmers have difficulty repaying loans and
as a result the revolving fund is not operational. The lower cost earth terrace model ' combined with a cash
tree crop planting on the contour, tested in Chaotin showed most promise as a replicable option. A soil
conservation training center has been developed in Guangyuan and a substantial training program of staff
and farmers completed. The Center could be significantly improved by modest investment in more modem
audio-visual training aides.
Agricultural research. The Mianyang Agricultural Research Institute's breeding work for its' mandated
crops is impressive. Adoption of research output is quick and significant, for example over 80% of wheat
and paddy is planted to new Mianyang series varieties. The Institute has significant income from seed
multiplication and sales to seed companies and with a virtual monopoly on hybrid seed production it is able
to repay project loans and to finance its' operations. Other research disciplines with less opportunities to
generate income have not been able to make full use of research loans available under the project. Of the
Y2.2 million provided under the project, only Y1.2 million is reported utilized with research on sericulture,
livestock and soil conservation most affected. SAR research allocation was equivalent to about 3% of the
total cost of the agricultural services component. Actual expenditure was aboul 1%. By any standards both
research allocations and expenditures are very low.
In the current situation where irrigation water is no longer a constraint, where land is fully utilized and
where farmers are already exploiting easily available gains from NPK fertilizatilon, future growth will have
to be technology/research led. It will have to be more focused on fine tuning crop and livestock husbandry,
improved production efficiency and product quality and on diversification to higher value crop and
livestock enterprises. This will require greater investment in areas of research that cannot derive short term
income to repay loans. As the current funding mechanism for research under World Bank loans is not
conducive to support future research priorities that are not readily self financing there will be a need to
employ more flexible on-lending terms.
Income generation. The project's impact on poverty alleviation through support to sericulture, goat, rabbit
and goose keeping, and tea rehabilitation has been significant. The beneficial effect, particularly on
women's income was noted by the ACWF. The project has successfully developed the supporting
infrastructure such as hacheries and specialized rearing households for sericulture and breeding
farms/training centers for angora rabbits, goats and geese. These type of enterprises which can provide
lighter employment and addition income are popular so long as sale prices remain attractive. Due to steady
reduction in ABC's interest rates the poverty alleviation revolving fund has not latterly been very popular.
Agro-processing component. Overall the agro-processing component in Qianj iang prefecture has been
successfully implemented. Total investment cost of Y194.6 million is 117% of ithe MTR estimate. The
recurrent difficulty of raising adequate counterpart funds has been resolved by linding commercial partners
for all the enterprises except the Pengshui paper mill. The Shizhu wool mill designed to absorb the angora
rabbit wool produces a range of cashmere, silk and wool blended yams and operated at more than 85%
capacity in 1999. The factory is run as a Limited Company and is a good example of WB investment in
small industry. Similarly, the Xiushan goose products plant operated at slightly above design capacity in
1999, has formed a joint venture with a local partner and appears to be in a satisfactory financial condition.
Limited additional finance is required to add a sorting tower for the feathers. The Youyang tannic acid
-6 -



plant has suffered from the marked decline in tannic acid prices, but is currently operating with a small
profit margin. Further modest investment is required to increase evaporator capacity and convert the air
heater from electricity to steam. In view of the fluctuation in price of tannic acid it is recommended that the
plant should diversify 40% of its capacity into other products. The Youyang abattoir is operating at an
acceptable level throughout and at a profit. However the steelwork supplied is of obsolete specification and
not stainless and modest investment is required to replace the latter and provide stainless steel tables and
barrows. The Pengshui pulp and paper mill has major problems, including design for a paper quality
which has become unprofitable, lack of raw material, an incomplete and inadequate effluent treatment
plant, dilapidated or inadequate equipment and lack of working capital and a commercial partner. Some
Y107 million have been invested in the mill and it is essential that an attempt is made to realize some
benefit, either through quite substantial further investment, or through at least rehabilitating and operating
the paper making line using purchased pulp.
Technical assistance, monitoring and evaluation. Regular assessment of the effect of the project on the
environment by the Sichuan Research and Monitoring Institute of Environmental Protection has been
satisfactory. Assistance was provided in project design and preparation by domestic design institutes.
However, due to budget constraints no attempt was made to retain a senior irrigation engineering consultant
to review the design proposals and to attempt optimization of designs. Similarly project monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) relied largely on normal seasonal statistical crop surveys and monitoring by project
staff, rather than contracting M&E studies to a suitable agency.
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Net Present Value (NPV). The ERR for the whole project is
re-estimated at 25%, compare to 26% at appraisal (see annex 3). ERR for irrigation component is
recalculated at 29%, slightly higher that the appraisal estimated of 24%. ERRs for other three component
did reach the target estimated at appraisal, which contributed to the lower ERR for the whole project. The
NPV for the whole project at a 12% discount rate is estimated at Y2.3 billion.
Financial impact. The financial analysis shows that for the irrigation areas and income generating
activities family incomes with the project have exceeded those made at appraisal, revalued in 2000 prices,
as shown in the following table.
Incomes from Irri_ated Agriculture and Income Generating Activities
(Yuan)
SAR                ICR 
W/O, in   With, in   With,  With, in  ICR With/
1992 Y    1992 Y   in 2000  2000 Y   SAR With
Irrig. Shenezhon-   1.220     2.023    2.165    2,530      117
Irrig. Wudu      1.438     2.458    2.630    2,750      105
Irrig. Yangiiaba   1.588    2.591    2.772    2.905       105
Goat raising       -        1112    1.190    1.779      149
Rabbit raisin             .1.54 11%620         22        125
Geese raising       -        357     379      400        106
Sericulture       56        366     392      554        141
Financial rates of return of the three irrigation schemes range from 16% for Yangjiaba to 28% for Wudu,
averaging 25%. Of the other components Soil Conservation, including toon and paulonia planting, fast
growing trees, Chinese medicine, alpine rush and gallnut planting show an average financial rate of return
of 29% and Income Generating Activities 25%. The overall financial rate of return of the agro-processing
- 7-



component of 9% is significantly lower that the 17% projected at appraisal, mainly due to the lack of any
presently measurable benefits from the Penshui Paper mill and lower than expected returns from the other
sub-components, with the exception of the Shizhu Spinning Mill. The latter in fact has a re-estimated
financial rate of return of 29%, significantly above the 19% projected at appraisal
Institutional Development Impact
Project impact on institutional development has been positive and substantial. Staff at all levels in the
concerned bureaus have acquired valuable experience in project planning and implementation. The PLG
included representatives from the Planning Commission and the bureaus of Finance, Water Conservancy,
Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, Environment, Light Industry and Textiles as well as the Silk Corporation,
domestic banks and the All China Women's Federation (ACWF). Specific project financing was directed at
the Water Conservancy, Agriculture and Animal Husbandry Bureaus in order to strengthen their operating
capacity and their ability to provide services to farners. This support has been highly successful, although
as described above more remains to be done, particular in regard to provision of a]ppropriate equipment to
the training facilities. Creation of Irrigation Management Offices (IMOs) for each scheme, responsible for
O&M down to the trunk ditch level has been very positive in improving budgeting, revenue collection and
coordination of the work program.
U
The Shengzhong project = 46,700 ha; and The Wudu project = 58,600 ha.
2/                                             3
TFhe Shengzhong project provides 60 -70 million m of water for domestic/industrial use
annually, Wudu some 200,000 m3 per day and Yangjiaba 10,000m per day. In addition
many communities in the scheme areas draw their water from ponds fed by the system or
from the canals themselves.
3/
Further details of the engineering of the three schemes are given in the Project File, namely in
Document 2: Irrigation Component, and in the draft ICR prepared by the Sichuan Provincial
Agricultural Development PMO (October 1999).
4/
Further details in the Project File, Document 3: Agricultural Support Services and Soil
Conservation, and in the drafti ICR by the project staff referred to in the previous footnote.
5/
Yields at Mianyang Research Station: Paddy: 9 t/ha; Wheat 6 t/ha; Corn 6.5 t/ha.
6/
Up to 22 tons of mostly rice straw based compost per ha.
7/
For example in Jiang You County per capita income per annum increased from Y753 in 1992
to Y2,450 in 1999 and in Zitong from Y560 to Y1441 over the same period.
8/
For example stone terracing cost of Y 600 per Mu. and of drainage/stilling basin/ pond
development costing Y 270 per Mu.
9/
Cost Y120 per Mu for works and Y290 for tree saplings.
10/
ABC's interest rate is reported to have been progressively reduced eight times from almost 11% to currently about 3%.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The ERR for the whole project is re-estimated at 25%, compared to 26% at appralisal (see Annex 3). ERR
for the investments in irrigation are recalculated at 29%, slightly higher than the appraisal estimate of 24%.
The NPV for the whole project at a 12% discount rate is estimated at Y2.3 billion.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial analysis shows that for the irrigation areas and income generating activities per capita with
the project have exceeded those made at appraisal, revalued in 2000 prices, as shown in the following table.
- 8 -



Incomes from Irrigated Agriculture and Income Generating Activities
(Yuan)
SAR                ICR        %     I
W/O, in   With, in   With,  With, in  ICR With/
1992 Y    1992 Y   in 2000  2000 Y   SAR With
Y
Irrig. Shengzhong  1 220     2023  2_2165    2.530 _      117
Irrig. Wudu      1.438     2,458  I2630    2750_   105
Irriz. Yanaiiaba   1,588     2.591   ~2772 _  2.905      105
Goat raising       -_          111    9 llgo_i779       149
Rabbit raising              1 514_  _1i620    2.027      125
Geese raising      -         357     379      400        106
Sericulture       56        366   _ 392      554        141
Financial rates of return of the three irrigation schemes range from 16% for Yangjiaba to 28% for Wudu,
averaging 25%. Of the other components Soil Conservation, including toon and paulonia planting, fast
growing trees, Chinese medicine, alpine rush and gallnut planting show an average financial rate of return
of 29% and Income Generating Activities 25%. The overall financial rate of return of the agro-processing
component of 9% is significantly lower that the 17% projected at appraisal, mainly due to the lack of any
presently measurable benefits from the Penshui Paper mill and lower than expected returns from the other
sub-components, with the exception of the Shizhu Spinning Mill. The latter in fact has a re-estimated
financial rate of return of 29%, significantly above the 19% projected at appraisal.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Project impact on institutional development has been positive and substantial, Staff at all levels in the
concerned bureaus have acquired valuable experience in project planning and implementation. The PLG
included representatives from the Planning Commission and the bureau of Finance, Water Conservancy,
Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, Environment, Light Industry and Textiles as well as the Silk Corporation,
domestic banks and the All China Women's Federation (ACWF). Specific project financing was directed at
the Water Conservancy, Agriculture and Animal Husbandry Bureau in order to strengthen their operating
capacity and their ability to provide services to farmers. This support has been highly successful, although
as described above more remains to be done, particular in regard to provision of appropriate equipment to
the training facilities. Creation of Irrigation Management Offices (IMOs) for each scheme. responsible for
O&M down to the trunk ditch level has been very positive in improving budgeting, revenue collection and
coordination of the work program.
Economic Impact. The project brought great economic benefits to the project areas. The total incremental
irrigation areas reached to 158,700 ha, grain production increased by 10,960,000 tons and total output
value was Y5,183,560,000. The incremental timber was 25,500 mi, herbal medicines 7,370 tons, firewood
12,277 tons, Chinese alpine rush 29,080 tons, paulownia and toon wood reserves
583,400 m gallnut 3,645 tons, tea 8,930 tons, and the output value was Y171,630,000, The farm
households raised 1,543,600 heads of goats, 3,310,000 birds of white geese, 4,134,000 heads of long hair
rabbit, which produced 1,213.4 tons of rabbit wool, and 35,825.54 tons of fresh cocoon, and incremental
output value is Y946,200,000. Most of agro-processing plants are in operation, the total output value is
Y271,940,000.
Social Impact. The implementation of the project created 650,000 jobs for the project area, including
350,000 jobs for women. The project greatly extended the opportunities of employment, income generation
-9-



and poverty alleviation for the beneficiaries under the project. Droughts have been thoroughly eliminated,
forest coverage increased, soil conservation capacity and ecological environment improved, agro-technical
service facilities established, the advanced agro-technologies extended, advanced foreign productive and
managerial experiences introduced and adopted, agro-processing capacity raised, product market rapidly
developed, as the result the income of beneficiaries under the project significantly increased. The sampling
shows that the implementation of the project made the annual average per capita grain output increased by
122 kg, and income by Y504. The annual average per capital income increase for 10% households under
the income-generation components was over Y1,000. The project has made 4,670,000 people break away
from poverty. The coverage of poverty in the project area has been reduced from 3 3.01% at appraisal to
7.5% at present.
Environmental Impact. The vegetation coverage has been raised. Through the construction of soil
conservation, forestry and income generation components, the vegetation coverage in the project area has
been raised from the pre-project 10.8% to 46% in 1998, an increase of 35.2 percenlage points. Soil erosion
has been reduced. The measured data indicates that in the 2 soil conservation demonstration areas, the soil
2         ~~~~~~2
erosion modules decreased from 5,336 t/'kM.y to 3,162 t/km .y; the area of soil erosion was reduced from
2         2
165 km to 29.8 km . The quality of water in the project area remains good.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency.
Irrigation canals were several times damaged by floods, which resulted in increased construction costs.
Beneficiaries in the soil conservation areas were less enthusiastic than expected. They found that the works
proposed on their farms, which included stone-facing of terraces, had a high investment, relative to their
means and slow and rather modest returns. This resulted in modifying the component to a lower cost soil
conservation prescription.
Devaluation of the Yuan relative to the US dollar also presented problems, in particular in the case of
delays in purchase of imported equipment where eventual buying at a significantly higher price in Yuan
terms than originally anticipated placed a considerable strain on the raising of the necessary counterpart
finance. Rapid changes in both export and local markets also created considerable difficulties for the
processing components. In particular the growth in production of synthetic tannic acid resulted in a sharp
fall in the value of the natural product and rapid changes in demand towards higher quality papers
effectively rendered the Pengshui pulp and paper mill obsolete before it was able to start production.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government compliance with covenants was satisfactory, but raising and allocation of counterpart funds
was sometimes difficult for the poorer prefectures and counties. The organization and administrative
arrangements made for the project with PLGs and PMOs at each level from province to county, further
supported by a Technical Consultation Group (TCG) at each level worked well and was a major factor in
successful project implementation. The resulting close inter-departmental cooperaticin was further
strengthened by involvement of the domestic banks, that provided a part of the counterpart finance and has
enabled greater flexibility in raising of counterpart funds. Insistence on full cost recovery of on-farm works
in soil conservation in poor areas resulted in a lower level of uptake by farmers than originally expected.
Although full cost recovery is generally a healthy and sensible provision it may not always be reasonable in
the case of poor farmers in resource poor areas. In a similar fashion the project funds disbursed for
research development were less than expected since such funding was given lower priority as the research
institutes were unlikely to be able to repay. Adequate financing of research is essenti.al if agriculture is to
continue its growth in productivity.
- 10 -



5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Implementation agency performance was generally excellent and contributed strongly to successful
implementation of the project. Tendering procedures were mainly handled in a timely and expeditious
manner. With the benefit of hindsight it appears that in some instances the project management's desire to
contain costs led to false economies. For example, (a) hiring highly skilled consultant specialists to review
the irrigation proposals and optimize designs could well have resulted in cost savings; (b) involvement of
high level specialists, deeper analysis of market prospects and early identification of commercial partners
would have enabled the agro-processing components to get off to an earlier and surer start; and (c)
expenditures on monitoring and evaluation have been too meager to provide project management with
adequate information for efficient implementation and direction of the project.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Total project cost at completion is estimated at US$339.5 million or about 118% of the appraisal estimate
of US$287.6 million. Most of the cost overrun was due to increased cost of construction of the irrigation
works, despite the significant depreciation of the Yuan.- The higher than expected costs created some
difficulties for the prefectural and county governments, particularly the poorer ones, whose fund raising
abilities were already stretched by the project. The entire IDA credit of SDR107.7 million (US$152.5
million)- has been disbursed.
,,,
f rom Yuan 5.82 per US$ in 1992 to Yuan 8.28 per US$ in 1999.
121
At SAR the SDR 107.7 million credit was equivalent to US$147 million.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is highly likely. Government commitment to the project continues to be high and
policies for rural development aimed at increasing farm incomes and living standards have priority.
Financial analysis shows that the project has already had a very significant impact in improving farm
incomes and these benefits are likely to be maintained or increased in the future. In addition to the financial
benefits the project also has social benefits, particularly in income generating activities to provide
additional income to women and environmental benefits, which have been confimned by monitoring
financed by the project. Good arrangements are already in place for operation and maintenance of the
irrigation systems and the majority of farmers pay water charges which cover the full cost of O&M.-
Adequate arrangements have also been made taking care of the soil conservation and tree planting activities
financed by the project. And in agro-processing all the units, except the Pengshui pulp and paper mill,
have found commercial partners.
-13/
In the case of the Wudu scheme the water charges collected cover all operating costs except Water Conservancy Bureau staff
salaries.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Arrangements have already been made for responsibility for the various components to be handed over to
the relevant bureau or commercial entity for operation. Detailed operation plans have already been
prepared for the irrigation and agricultural support services components and are under preparation for the
other project components. In the future steadily more attention will be required to further improve water
management, particularly through water-saving technology in pumped irrigation areas and to still tighter
-11 -



linkages between water charge payments and responsibilities for scheme O&M - perhaps through the
Self-financing Irrigation and Drainage Districts (SIDD) concept.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
Through identification, preparation and appraisal, Bank performance was generally satisfactory. However,
with the benefit of hindsight the experience of implementation shows that the initial plans for irrigation
infrastructure construction were inadequately developed for the complex and challenging development of all
three schemes. Greater attention could have been given to finalization of designs including insistence on
more test results and ultimately a larger allowance made for physical contingencies. The possibility of risk
of technical difficulties in irrigation scheme development was not recognized at appraisal. Other aspects of
project preparation, including technical, financial and institutional concerns were generally well covered.
The agro-processing components have proven difficult to implement. In retrospect it would obviously have
been desirable for the partnerships finally developed with commercial entities to have been encouraged, or
perhaps made a condition, much earlier in implementation - if possible during the planning phase.
7.2 Supervision:
Project supervision by the Bank was regular, appropriately staffed and generally constructive and
supportive of project implementation. The project launch workshop was not as. successful as it should have
been in informing project staff on Bank procedures for agreeing contracts and submission of requests for
reimbursement. In order for staff to be well briefed consideration could be given to a longer period for the
workshop duration.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance was satisfactory. Project objectives were relevant to the country's needs and
Government and Bank development priorities and strategy; project preparation and appraisal were sensible
and mostly pragmatic; and project supervision was sensitive, supportive and eflective.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Project design was undertaken by the local teams and design institutes. The project was officially proposed
in 1987 and there was therefore adequate time for developing a sound design. Experience of implementation
has shown that the initial plans and cost estimates underestimated the difficulties of construction in the
scheme areas, all three of which include a significant portion of scattered hill areas. Project scope in terms
of overall size and number of components was ambitious. Total local finding required and the difficulties
in establishing the agro-processing enterprises were both underestimated.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government commitment and support for the project has been good and consistent throughout
implementation. Difficulties in raising local counterpart finance, particularly from relatively poor
prefectures and counties and strains imposed by inflation were successfully overcome. Government has also
shown flexibility in involving domestic banks in order to overcome funding constraints and in allowing
more extended cost recovery terms for poor areas embarking on soil conservation works which produce
only modest financial benefits. The government decision to split off Chongqing - including the Qianjiang
prefecture - from Sichuan and to give it autonomous zone status was a further challenge to project
management, albeit one successfully overcome.
- 12 -



7.6 Implementing Agency:
The institutional arrangements for project implementation have worked well. Close coordination between
the participating bureaus has been good and the timeliness of agricultural development following
availability of irrigation has been excellent. Raising and applying counterpart funds has generally been
satisfactory, particularly in view of the difficulties experienced by poorer prefectures and counties, as well
as the problem of rapid inflation. Arrangements made for future project operation and maintenance are
satisfactory and regulations for operation and maintenance of the irrigation infrastructure are excellent.
Although overall performance of the implementing agency is rated satisfactory, and in many aspects is
highly satisfactory there have been some weaknesses, particularly in regard to false economies. In
particular these are the reluctance to spend project funds on non-directly productive activities, from which
cost recovery is difficult or impossible, namely technical assistance in complex irrigation system design,
research, and monitoring and evaluation (M&E). Both of the latter two aspects are essential for the further
future development of agriculture in Sichuan and good M&E is an essential tool for efficient project
implementation and management.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance was satisfactory since the Government continued to support the project
throughout the implementation period. All covenants were complied with in a timely manner.
8. Lessons Learned
Lessons learned based on the review of the ICR mission are as follows:
(a) Strong, stable and consistent management is the basis for successful project implementation
(b) Close attention to development of sound plans for O&M from preparation onwards can be of great
benefit during project operation.
(c) Where conveyance systems are complex the independent review of designs and optimization of
designs can provide significant cost savings.
(d) Use of contractors on contracts giving the contractor responsibility for machinery and material
supply can have significant advantages in cost and timeliness over contracts in which the project
purchases equipment and materials separately and there are cost escalation clauses in the contract.
(e) Project staff should receive more substantial training in contract management, ICB and WB
procurement procedures at or before project commencement if delays in implementation are to be
minimized.
(f) Sustainable revolving funds cannot be operated successfully or be sustained if their lending rates
are not competitive with mainstream credit institutions. Having divergent credit systems and lending
rates for the same product in the same location is also a questionable approach meriting further
consideration in future operations.
(g) Current on-lending arrangements to prefectures, counties and townships for research and training
activities that have limited revenue generating potentials and under which full development costs and
interest charges are repayable, can constrain implementation of important research activities (e.g.
- 13 -



livestock and land management) and impact on training efficiency as training centers are unable to
invest in modem equipments.
(h) Similarly adequate funding and priority has to be given to monitoring and evaluation if project
management is to have good information for project operation.
(i) Given the low resource status of farmers in the hilly areas of Guangyuan and Qianjiang replicable
soil conservation models developed have to be low cost and affordable; whilst individually owned
conservation works should continue to be at the cost of the beneficiary (to ensure ownership and
sustainability the financing of communal/public environmental protection works such as waterway and
river bank protection and un-cultivated mountain area re-vegetation could be under softer terms,
possibly through an interest free cost sharing facility.
(j) Returns from prevailing rain-fed farming systems in hill areas of Guangyuan and Qianjiang
(dominantly wheat and corn) are unlikely to be adequate to cover costs of on-farm terrace
improvement which is essential if erosion in cultivated areas is to be arrested. Therefore future
programs to promote on farm terracing should be integrated with parallel income generation initiatives
such as orchard and vegetable crop and livestock development, where feasible exploiting market niches
offered by off-season production opportunities.
(k) A positive lesson exemplified by the project is that as soon as irrigation developments were
complete and incremental water made available; appropriate technologies were already on-stream from
research, extension staff well trained with relevant technologies and farm inputs available at town and
village levels when needed. With no weak links in the support supply chain, farmers were in a position
to respond fast to the new situation and derive benefits quickly. It is also clear that in such
circumstances that agricultural support services enjoy a higher degree of credibility amongst the
farming community enhancing performance.
(I) Several processing plants would have been more profitable in operation if their process technology
and equipment standards had been updated during the project implementation lperiod. Any future
projects involving agroprocessing should encourage regular review of technological standards and
market requirements for products, and should make the necessary adjustments to the plant and
equipment design, during project implementation.
Future Operation Plan. Completion of project implementation is not the end but the very beginning of the
project, so the government and the PMOs in the project area attached great importance to the
post-implementation operation. The governments at provincial, prefecture (municipal) and county levels
formulated special documents, which gave demands to the governments at lower levels that the high
attention should be paid to the post-implementation operation. It was also demanded that separate operation
and maintenance plans be made for each sub-component; the management institution be set up; personnel
determined; overheads, necessary facilities and equipment guaranteed and the relevant policies be carried
out, so as to ensure a smooth operation and better benefit output. The various relevant departments in
charge of different components take major responsibility for the post-implementation operation of relevant
sub-components.
- 14 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Opinions on the ICR:
l. About the rating of the project output, we suggest it should be highly satisfactory comparing with
others.
2. In the No. 30 item, the project character of large investment, a few components, wide project area,
numerous project participants, many involving departments and difficult project management and
coordination should be emphasized. The successful implementation of this project is really not easy to
achieve.
3. In the No. 36 item, we suggest the sentence Performance in project implementation is generally
uniformly successful should be Performance in project implementation is uniformly successful, the
conservative word might be got rid of.
4. In the No. 51 item, about the sentence the ERR for the whole project is re-estimated as 25%,
compared with 26% at appraisal. It is true that the ERR was 26% at appraisal, and it is 1% lower at
completion. But please note that the FRR was 20.4% at appraisal, while it is 25.99% at completion.
5. For the Borrower's performance, we suggest that following sentence be added: the borrower does
not only think highly of the direct economic benefit, but during the corporation with the Bank and the
implementation of the project, also pay specific attention to training and establishing a project
management team who know well the international practice, and this work is very successful.
6. The PMO staffs attitude of enthusiasm, responsibility and working in earnest, and their correct
understanding and implementation of the management regulations, procedures, experience and the
methods of the project financed by the Bank, make great contribution to the successful implementation
of the project. Hope our suggestions could be adopted.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 15-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Qtoaedo acU ndlicat                          I                        .
lntict                              ProeC   SnAcRnAn    rRaed at Mt,id    Ac,ln atmst Estimaute
. Term Revm
Increase crop productivity, particularly   Paddy yield   Cropping Int.     Paddy yield   Cropping Int.
paddy                            (frorto t/ha)  (fromnto ON)                (1999 tha)    (1999 O)
Shenqzhonq       .                  7.0- 8.5     188 - 211                     7.8          267
Wudu                               6.8 - 8.25    182 - 209                     8.2          208
Yanaiiaba                           5.9- 7.5     189-216         -            88.4          200
Provide reliable water supply for          135,200             151,900             155,290
irnigaton (ha)
Provide agricultural inputs, services,  As desaibed in Output     -          As described in Output
research, training and TA              Indicators, below                       Indicators, below
Develop O&M plans and policies for the   O&M plan to be developed.        Satisfactory O&M plan in place.
irrigation systems, inc. water charge    Water charges to cover at least  Water clharges cover full O&M,
collecton.                          1000/o 0f the O&M costs.              exceot WCB salares in Wudu.
Expand soil conservation and reduce  As described in Output   As below       As described in Output
soil and water losses.                 Indicators, below                       Indicators, below
Expand agro-processing activities   As described in Oulput    As below       As described in Output
Indicators, below                       Indicators, below
Increase farm incomes:            NWthout project VWith project           WthoLt project Wth project
Y per famrily(a)                         Y per family
Shesazhong               T_i1.2              L       2.023                    1,220        2,530
Aidu       _1.438                                  2,458                      1,530        2,750
Yanaiiaba                            1588         2 2591                     1.9B0  -      2,905
1j ifjm*In i1tr                    ___ _ _ _ __  _ _ __ _ _   __ _ _ _ _   _ _ __  _ _  _ _ _  _ _
ndiXator (b)                        pro        SAR/PAD    RevisedatMiid    Actal. ats Fstimate
TennRe_ew
I inrialaSor omrxmneit-
ChIlW odis
Shenrzhona subproiect                                                   _____
I- inirgated area (ha)                    70.000           _                       73.340
-Branch arterial canal (km) _              109                  101                 101
Branch canal (km)                           29                   -                   29
Subbranchcanal(km)                          66                 61.6                 62
-Trunk canal (km)                          285                  265                 265
-Farm ditch (km)                           1,327               1.694               1,694
-Sub-farmn ditch (km)                      1.298               1.055               1,055
- Inc. drained area (ha)                                                           14,670
- Roads (km)                                                                        735
- roads alonc canals (km)                -                                       235
- acoess roads (km)                                                              500
- 16-



Wudu suborolect
- Inc. irrigated area (ha)                   61.500                78 200                78.200
- General arterial canal (km)                  12                     -                    12
- Arterial canal (km)                          70                     -                    7
- Branch arterial canal (km)                   40                   93.5                   94
- Branch canal (km)                            76                     -                    76
-Sub branch canal (km)                         103                   164                  164
- Trunk canal (km)                             398                   504                  504
- Farm ditch (km)                             1,163                 2.383                22383
- Sub-farm ditch (km)                          714                  2.125                 2.125
- Inc. drained area (ha)                                                                 15.640
Yannilaba subproiect                                    .
- Inc. irriaated area (ha)                    3.700                   -                   3.750
-Sub branch canal (km)                         15                     -                    15
- Trunk canal (km)                             36                     -                    39
- Farm ditch (km)                              108                    -                   108
- Sub-farm ditch (km)                          72                     -                    72
- Water suoolv pipe (km)                       25                     -                    25
- Inc. drained area (ha)                                                                  750
KeY In,fictors (Annex 1) (continued)
7 A        _nilhiral S i_pnrt
Inputs: Potash fertilizer (tons)              28.000                20.000                20.000
Agrochemicals (tons)                      240                   172                   172
Buildinas/Eouio: Seed company (no.)             11                    11                    11
County AoroTech Center (no.)               3                     3                     3
TownshiD Aa.Tech Center (no.)               109                  109                   109
3SoCil ConsePruai
_0 _ _ _ _ _ _ __
i. Guanovuan Demonstration Area     ____________
Ecological measures (ha)                    11.530                11.530                11.530
Terracina (ha)                                467                   467                  467
ii. Cianilang Demonstration Area
Ecological measures (ha)                     3.210                 4.083                4.083
Terracing (ha)                                133                   33                    33
iii. Paulonia and Toon planting (ha)           8.700                 8.700                 9.352
iv. Gallnut (ha)                               6.006 6.0             6.000                 6.000
v. Chinese medicine (ha)                       2.667                 2.667                 3.200
vi. Alpine rush (ha)                           1.800                 1.800                 1.800
vii. Fast arowino trees (ha)                   6.667                 6.667                 6.922
4 Income Generation
i. Silk: Mulberrv planting (ha)                7.675                 7.675                 7.675
Households (no.)                         115.000               115.000               115.000
Breeding stations (no.)                     7                     7                     7
Incubation rooms (no.)                      9                     9                     9
Co-oD rearmn rooms (no.)                  2 450                 2.450                 2.450
Tech. Serv. Station (no.)                  117                   117                   117
Training Centers (no.)                      8                     8                     8
ii. Tea rehab (ha)                             2.333                 2.333                 2.333
iii. Goat raising (Youyang)
Households (no.)                            15.000                15.000                15.000
Trainina Centers (no.)                        1                     1                     1
iv. Goat raising (Penashui)
Households (no.)                            6.100                 6.100                 6.100
Training Centers (no.)                         1                     1                     1
v. Geese Raising (Xoushan)..
Households (no.)                            10.000                10.000                11 775
Trainina Centers (no.)                         1                     1                     1
vi. Rabbit Raising (Shizhu)
Households (no.)                            5.000                 5.000                 5.000
Training Centers (no.)                        1                    I                      1
- 17 -



5 AnoRvcemsina (c)                                                _
i. Paper Mill(Mianyana)(t/p.a. capacity)   10,200            Cancelled   _-
ii. Paper Mill(Penashui)(tp.a. capacitv)   10200               10.200            10200(0D%o)
iii.SDinnina Mill(Shizhu)(t/p.a. cap.)      300                 300              300(>85%)
iv.Gallnut(tannic acid Vl.a. caoacitv)      500                 500             500(>100%)
v. Abattoir(Youvana)(Beef head/o.a.)       7,000               7.000             7000(40%)
(Goat head/p.a.)           60.000              60,000            60000(40%)
vi.Goose proc.Xiushan)(head p.a.)         800,000             800,000          800,000(100%/o)
(Goosemeat tp.a.)                1.900               1,900            1,900(100%)
Ft Training 
i. Total Trainees (no.)(of which women)   333.783                -            405.727(201,593)
ii. Total days (no.) (of which women)    1,715,589                            1,838   828.289)
(a) In 1992 prces.
(b) Based on Table 1-1, Kev Indicators for Proiect Operations of the draft ICR prepared bv the Sichuan
as sources of seednuts.
(c) The fioures in brackets in the final column refer to present (Apdril 2000) use of installed caoacitv
- 18 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Pro ect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Ap-W          AsallLtt   Pwcntage of
.--n-a-t.      Appl
Project Cost 8y Component              U$$ ailion      U!S$ million
Irrigation of which:                                  191.00          255.67            134
Shengzhong (App. US$68.79/80.67)                                                      117
Wudu (App. US$116.57/166.50)                                                          143
Yangjiaba (App. US$5.64/8.50)                                                         151
Agriculture support                                    11.99            12.83           107
Soil conservation                                      17.63           20.97            119
Income generation                                      24.61           25.90            105
Agroprocessing                                         42.39           24.09             57
Total Baseline Cost                                   287.62           339.46
Physical Contingencies                                                                0.84
Total Project Costs              287.62           339.46
Total Financing Required               287.62          339.46
Project Costs. by Procuremen Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurenwut Meth-
E1pMdIt-we COtey          K:B        NB         '       X        -N..F.      Total, Coot
1. Works                     52.10        84.30         62.20        0.00         198.60
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                     29.40         7.00         11.80        0.10         48.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Land Acquisition          0.00          0.00         0.00         12.80         12.80
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Technical Assistance      0.00          0.00         3.80         0.00          3.80
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         24.10        24.10
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                     81.50         91.30        77.80        37.00        287.60
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
*Includes design, engineering, management, farm labour, working capital and constructions costs.
- 19 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) US$ million equivalent)
ed     C     Totl
1. Works                         26.86          183.18          74.87          0.00           284.91
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
12. Goods                         12.44          11.05           8.10           0.00           31.59
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
3. Services                      0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
4. Land Acquisition              0.00            0.00           0.00            0.14           0.14
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Technical Assistance          0.00            0.00           2.96           0.00            2.96
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           19.86           19.86
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         39.30          194.23          85.93          20.00          339.46
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
- Includes design, engineering, management, farm labour, working capital and construction costs.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
I Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local goverrnent units.
Project Financing b  Com  onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
1 ff f; iAST WSUSUd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~erce nLtae of Apatsa
Raul~~  G#~t.   ~F.  Bask  Govt    CoIl.    Dank   G~ovt ~CoP
Irrigation of which       87.57     103A43               107.95     147.72              123.3  142.8   0.0
Shengzhong              29.06      39.73                35.64      45.03              122.6  113.3   0.0
Wudu                    55.32      61.25                68.20      98.30              123.3  160.5   0.0
Vangjiaba                3.19      2.45                 4.33       4.17               135.7  170.2   0.0
Agriculture support       8.34       3.65                 8.21       4.62               98.4   126.6   0.0
Soil conservation         9.16       8.47                 12.05      8.92               131.6  105.3   0.0
Income generation         13.25     11.36                 16.85      9.05               127.2  79.7   0.0
Agroprocessing            22.69     19.70                 14.34      9.75               63.2   49.5    0.0
TOTAL                    140.77     146.85               158.34     181.12              112.5  123.3   0.0
* Includes central government, provincial/prefecture govts, county govts, local banks, special poverty
alleviation funds, enterprises and farmers.
- 20 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Cost Benefit Analysis
___________                   Present Value of Flows
Economi  Analvsis                   Financial Arasi
Appraisal     Latest   Appraisal        Latest    Appraisal Latest
_Estma_es  _Emates                     m_Esmats.
ERR %       ERR %    IncomelHH/I  lncomelHH       FRR%      FRR %
I   Yuan         Yuan
1. lrniation              23.8        29.1_   N/A.          N/A            20.6   24.6
=  Sheolonaq         32.1          2C      2.164.6       2.530.0      28.1      19.0
Wudu                 18.7         36.      2.630.1        2.750.0      15.8     28.2
jYanaiiaba            16.2         18.      2.772.4-      2,905.0      14.7      15.5
2. Soil Conservaion       24.          15.     N/A.         N/A            16.4      29.3
3. Income Generation      42.1          14    N/A.          N/A            27.6      24.7
Goat Raisina         37.4         33.       1.189.8       1 779.0     32.2       30.0
Rabbit Raisina       36.          26.6      1.620.0      2.027.0      29.4       28.0
Silk & Mulberry        45          9.        392.1         554.0      27.0       13.0
Geese Raising        25.5         40.4       378.8         399.0      21.2       26.5
Tea Rehab.        N/A.             8.7    N/A.          N/A.                      5.C
4.A Aro-Processinca       21.1          1 3    N/A.         N/A            17.4        9.0
Paper Mill (PS)      19.7    N/A          N/A.          N/A           15.6   N/A
_GallnutProcess          30            8     NIA          NIA            26.4       5.0
Rabbt Hair Pro                         32    N/A.          N/A            18.7      29.
Geese Process         26            1  -  N/A           N/A           21.1       10.2
lAbattoir            27.7           1c9    N/A.         N/A            23.9      14.0
NPV (Econormic)          In Billion Yuan
1. Irriaation            0.571        2.64    N/A.          N/A
2. Soil Conservation  N/A.            0.903    N/A.         N/A.
4. A-aro-Processina   N/A.            0.85g     N/A.        NIA
Proiect NPV              0.8561<       2.1    N/A.          N/A            20.4      1.
1.- AdJusted to 2000 pnoes.
- 21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Irrplementation    Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
06/90                      N.A.   N.A
9/90                          6   Ec,A, E,S,AP, An
FAO/CP 2/91                   2   Ec,A
FAO/CP 5/91                   2   Ec,A
Appraisal/Negotiation
07/92                         6   Ec,A,E,Env,AP,FA
Supervision
08/92                          3  Ec,E,Pr
02/93                          2  A,LRM                                 S                  S
11/93                          4  A,LRM,E,AP                            S                  S
05/94                          4  A,LRM,E,AP                            S                  S
02/95                          4  A,E,S,AP                              S                  S
02/96                          3  A,E,AP                                S                  S
04/97                          2  A,E                                   S                  S
03/98                          3  A,E,AP                                S                  S
04/99                          3  A,E,AP                                S                  S
04/00                          5  Ec,E,A,FA,AP                          S                  S
ICR
04/00                         5   Ec,E,A,FA,AP                          S                  S
(a) Kev to specialised staff skills.
A = Aqriculturalist              AP = Agro-processing Specialist
Ec = Economist                   LRM = Land Resources Management
E = Irrigation Engineer          Pr = Procurement Specialist
FA = Financial Analvst           Env = Environmental Specialist
S = Soils Specialist
(b) Staff-
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              USS (,00P))       .
Identification/Preparation                236                          236
Appraisal/Negotiation                     178                          1 ,78
Supervision                               120 I_20
ICR                                        10 4_5
Total                                     544   5_ J9
Also includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants.
-22 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
FSector Policies                          O H  * SU OM  O N  O NA
Physical                                 OH *SUOM ON ONA
X Financial                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Institutional Development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
OEnvironmental                            O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
M Poverty Reduction                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Gender                           O H *SUOM O N O NA
O Other (Please specify)
F Private sector development              0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
X Public sector management                0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
a Other (Please specify)
- 23 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
61 Bank performance                                 Rating
[A Lending                                          OHS OS  OU  OHU
Z Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU  OHU
N Overall                                           OHS OS  OU  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
N Preparation                                       OHS OS  OU  O HU
 Government implementation performance             O HS OS  O U  0 HU
N Implementation agency performance                 0 HS O S  O U  0 HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS   OU  O HU
- 24 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Aide Memoire of the ICR Mission
Irrigation Component
Agricultural Support Services and Soil Conservation
Implementation Completion Report (Agro-Processing Component)
Financial and Economic Analysis
ICR - prepared by Sichuan Provincial Project Management Office
-25 -



