Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10322-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SICHUAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 29, 1992
MICROEFICHE COPY
Report No. 10322-CHA Type: (SAR)
KItM, ff.    / X84053 / A7 035/ RA2AG
Agricultural Operations Division
Country Department II
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
I This document has a restlcted distuibution and may be used by redpients only in the perfonnance of
their officlid duties. Its contents may not othenrise be discosed wthout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
(As of February 5, 1992)
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
$1.00 - Y 5.38
Y 1.00 - $0.186
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)       -  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)  -  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)    -  15 mu
1 ton (t)         -  1,000 KG
-  2,205 pounds
1 kilogram (kg)   -  2.2 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ABC     - Agricultural Bank of China
ACWF    - All China Women's Federation
BA      - Bureau of Agriculture
BOF     - Bureau of Finance
BFO     - Bureau of Forestry
CAAS    - Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences
CATEC   - County Agrotechnical Extension Center
CMIEC   - China National Machinery Import & Export Corporation
CNSIEC  - China National Silk Import and Export Corporation
EIA     - Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP     - Environmental Management Plan
GOC     - Government of China
GVAO    - Gross Value of Agricultural Output
ICB     - International Competitive Bidding
ImO     -  Irrigation Management Office
IPM     -  Integrated Pest Management
LCB     - Local Competitive Bidding
LG      - Leading Group
MOF     - Ministry of Finance
MWR     - Ministry of Water Resources
NEPA    - National Environmental Protection Agency
O&M     - Operation and Maintenance
PMO     - Provincial Project Management Office
PO      - Project Office at Prefecture/County Level
POM     - Plan of Operation and Maintenance
RCC     - Rural Credit Cooperatives
SAAS    - Sichuan Academy of Agricultural Sciences
SOE     - Statement of Expenditure
SPC     - State Planning Commission
SPSC    -  Sichuan Provincial Silk Corporation
SRIEP   -  Sichuan Research Institute of Environmental Protection
WCB     - Water Conservancy Bureau



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
SICHUAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Prolect Summary
Borrower:         People's Republic of China
Beneficiarvy      Sichuan Province
Amount:           SDR 107.7 million ($147 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard, with 35 years maturity
Qnlending Terms:  Onlending rates to final borrowers (productive entities and
individuals) will be no less than the Agricultural Bank of
China charges for loans for similar purposes and terms.
Obiectives and
Description:      The project's main objectives are to:  (a) increase and
intensify productivity of existing crops by providing a
reliable water supply; (b) provide a complementary package
of integrated agricultural inputs, support services, adap-
tive research, training and technical assistance; (c) reduce
soil and water losses to prevent long-term siltation prob-
lems and maintain soil fertility; (d) expand agroprocessing
activities to utilize locally available raw materials; and
(e) increase incomes in poor and remote areas where farmers
earn less than 50 percent of the national average, with
particular emphasis on helping poor women. The project, to
be carried out over six years, provides funds for: improve-
ment and expansion of irrigation to 135,200 ha; establish-
ment of two soil conservation demonstration areas and eco-
nomic forestry; expansion of mulberry and cocoon production
with expansion of supporting services; rehabilitation of tea
gardens and establishment of livestock production bases
combined with planting pastures; and rehabilitation and
expansion of two paper mills and facilities for rabbit hair
spinning, gallnut, goat and geese processing.
Benefits and
Risks:            At full development, the project is expected to increase
annual grain production by 440,000 tons, cash crops by
66,800 tons, 2.2 million m' of timber, 455,200 tons of fuel-
wood, 205,200 tons of mulberry leaves for production of
1,116 tons of cocoons, and 1.9 million head of goats, rab-
bits and geese. The agroprocessing component would produce
20,400 tons of paper, 254 tons of angora wool, about 2,800
tons of processed meat, 40 tons of down, 7,000 pieces of
hide and 500 tons of tannic acids. The pr^ject would bene-
fit over 4 million people, and create about 600,000 full-
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Ius contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
time equivalent jobs with significant contributions toward.
poverty allviation in Sichuan's poorest counties.  rhe
economic rate of return for the overall project is estimated
to be about 26 percent. No major risks are foreseen.
Estimated Costs                          Local         Foreian         Total
---------- ($ million) ----------
Irrigation                               119.3           47.2          166.5
Soil Conserv&tion                         12.6            2.8           15.4
Income Generation                         16.8            5.3           22.1
Agroprocessing                            17.6           19.9           37.5
Base Cost                           166.3           75.2         241.5
Physical Contingencies                    12.2            6.1           18.3
Price Contingencies                       23.7            4.1           27.8
Total Proiect Cost                  202.1           85.5         287.6
Financinat Plan:                         Local         Foreian         Total
---------- ($ million) ----------
Central Government                        17.0            0.0           17.0
Provincial/Prefecture Govts.              45.5            0.0           45.5
Couwty Government                         19.0            0.0           19.0
Local Banks                                9.0            0.0            9.0
Special Poverty Alleviation Funds         10.0            0.0           10.0
Enterprises and Farmers                   40.1            0.0           40.1
IDA                                       61.5           85.5          147.0
Total                              202.1          85.5          287.6
Estimated IDA Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                 1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
Annual                            20     32     36      26     18      12      3
Cumulative                        20     52     88    114    132    144    147
Economic Rate of Return:         26 percent



- lli -
ci
SICHUAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Pstes Ng.
I.   BACKGROUND    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
A. Introduction  . . . .................................a...........  1
B.  The Agriculture Sector  ... . . . . . .a  . . . . . .a  .  .  1
C.  Irrigation Subsector  ...................................     2
D.  Soil Cor.iorvation Efforts in China  . . . . . . . . . . .    4
E.  Sectoral Objectives and Bank Lending  . . . . . . . . . .     4
P. Agriculture in Sichuan                                        5
G. Rural Poverty in Sick &a .                                     7
H. Rationale for IDA Involvement .  ....... . ... .               8
II. THE PROJECT AREAS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     9
As*   Location    .  .  .  .  a  .  a  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   .  .  9
S. Climate, Topography and Soils . . . . . . .                   9
C. Water Resources and Irrigation  . . . . . . . . . . . . .     10
D.  Population, Farm Size and Land Use  . . . . . . ... . .      11
S. Rural Incomes and Poverty. . .......... .. . .                11
F. Present Agricultural Development  . . . . . . . . . . . .     12
G. Support Services                                              13
H* Infrastructure                                                14
III.  THE PROJECT # . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . o  . . . . . .       16
A. Project Objectives  . . . . . .                               16
B. Project Description . . . . . .                               17
C. Detaled Features . .r. . . . . . . .   . . . . . . ...  .     17
D.  Status of Preparation ... .. ... o      ..... .   . . . . . . ..   28
S.  Implementation Schedule .. ..  .  .  .  .   ..............    .  28
Fe Cost Estimates  .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .      29
G.  Financing ..         ......... . .  . . . .                 30
HN  Procurement ............ . . . .. .....                     31
I* Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    33
J. Accounts and  Audts ...................                      .................. 34
K.  Environmental Impact  . ................ .                   34
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission In November/
December 1991. Members of the appraisal team iziluded H. Kim (mission
leader), J. Stemp, and W. Price (IDA), J. Smyle. C. Cronberg, 0. Hong (consul-
tants). Others involved in the preparation and preappralsal were B. Albinson,
J. Post, R. Dayal %IDA), P. Gilchrist, H. Lea, 0. Knowless M. Bi (consultants)
and A. Nameed (FAO/CP). Peer reviewers comprised H. Froderikeen,
E. Chobanian, K. Yeow, N. Jones (ASTAG), H. Plusquellec, J. Srivastava and
H. lisa (AGRPS). The division chief is J. Goldberg and the department direc-
tor is Shahid Javed Burki.



- iv -
a6seN.
IV. ORGAI      O AND Mt   ENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        36
A. Project Coordination and Management .   . . . . . . .          36
B.  Execution of Project Works  .. . .. . . .. . .. ..a           37
C. Mnagement of Production Activities .              . .          37
D. Vinancial Neagoement  . . .  . . . . . . .                     38
R. Irrigation System Operation and Maintenance . . . . . . .      39
F. Project Launch Workshop   ....*..*.*.....  .                   40
G. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting  . . . . . . . . . .      41
V.   PRDoUCTNton MA    . T8     PRICES  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  42
A* Production  * o      9    oe  99   oo  o9  9o*  9o             42
B. Markets and Marketing Channels  . . . . . . . . . . . . .      43
C* Prices  .   ...                . .*..* .   *. . .              45
VI. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      47
A* Benefits   *........*.......*  ..                              47
B. Employment and Incomes  . . . . . . .                          47
C. Women in Development  ................                         47
D. Rent nd Cost Recovery  ..........  .......                     48
e. Financial and Economic Analysis                                48
F* Risks o oo   9*   oooo v * o**       *v       * *              49
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . .      50
TABLES IN TEXT
3.1    Irrigation Component: Summary of Works . . . . . . . . .       19
3.2    Soil Conservation:  Summary of Works  . . . . . . . . . .      21
3.3    Sericulture: Summary of Works  . . . . . . . . . . . . .       22
3.4    Livestock: Summary of Works  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       24
3.5    Project Cost Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      30
3.6    Project Financing Plan                                         30
3.7    Procurement Profile .                                          31
5.1    Irrigation Component:  Summary of Output  .  . . . . . .       42
5.2    Other Components:  Summary of Outputs . . . . . . . . . .      44



- v -
1. Basi4 Data
1. Provincial and Project Area Statistics
2. Climate
3. Project Locations
4. Responsibility for Project Design and Implementation
S. Counterpart Funding: Amount and Sources
6. Research and Training Program
7. Summary of Agroprocessing
2. Pro1ect Cost Summary
1. Project Cost Summary by Component
2. Project Cost Summary by Category
3. Procurement
1. Procurement of Machinery, Equipment, Materials and Vehicles
2. Procurement Schedules
4.  Estimated Disbursement Schedule
5. Farm Models and Croi Budgets
1. Cropped Area, Yield, and Production
2. Crop Budgets
3. Cropping Calendar of Main Annual Crops
4. Farm Models
5. Rent and Cost Recovery
6.  Econwomic and Financial Analysis
1. Summary of Economic anu Financial Analysis
2. Main Conversion Factors
3. Border Prices for Principal Products and Prices
4. Historical Financial Prices of Main Products
7. Monitorint and Sunervision
1. Key Monitoring Indicators
2. Supervision Plans
8. Summary of Dam Safety Review
9. Summary of Environmental Assessment and Management Plan
10. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Pro1ect Files
Chart 1 Implementation Schedule
Chart 2 Organization Chart
MAn
Irrigations IBRD 23092 and 23094
Project Components and Sites: IBRD 23480



CRIN
SICHUAN AGRlI(ULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACRGROUND
A. Introduction
1.1       The Government of China (GOC) has requested IDA assistance in
financing an integrated agricultural and irrigation development project in
Sichuan Province. The project'. main objectives are to: (a) increase and
intensify productivity of existing crops by increasing the land under irriga-
tion and diversifying into more economic cropping patternos (b) provide a
complementary package of integrated agricultural inputs., support services,
adaptive research, training and technical assistance; (c) reduce soil and
water losses, maintain soil fertility, and Improve productivity of already
eroded areas; (d) expand agroprocessing activities to utilize locally avail-
able raw materials; and (e) increase incomes in poor and remote areas vhere
farmers' incomes are substantially less than the national average, with par-
ticular emphasis on helping poor women.
B. The Amriculture Sector
1.2       Agriculture in China--including crops, livestock, forestry and fish-
eries--provides sustenance for over 1.16 billion peoplet it is an important
source of income for some 190 million farm families and accounts for about
30 percent of the country's gross domestic product (GDP). Only about 137
million ha of China's land area of 960 million ha are arable. Farming systems
intensively utilize small machinery, heavy inputs of labor, fertilizer, and
where possible water. Nearly half of the cropped area is irrigated. Food
grains occupy about 70 percent of total cropland and account for about one-
third of the value of agricultural output. Intensive farming has allowed
China to meet the basic food requirements of its population, about 22 percent
of the world's total, and to produce an increasingly sophisticated mix of cash
and commercial crops, from less than 11 percent of the world's arable land.
China's rural reform program, initiated in 1978, also has stimulated the agri-
cultural sector. This program produced impressive growth and structural
change by introducing the production responsibility system, increasing pro-
ducer prices, and expanding the role of the market.
1.3       The gross value of agricultural output (GVAO) increased by 83 per-
cent in real terms during the 1978-90 period (6 percent per annum), substan-
tially Zaster than during the previous 25-year period (3 percent per annum).
While significant growth in grain production was achieved in the early part of
the period (peaking at 407 million tons in 1984), stagnating grain production
has been the Government's central concern in later years, with production
ranging between 379 and 402 million tons during the 1985-88 period as farmers
substituted other crops for grain. Recently, however, grain production
appears to have risen to a new plateau, with 446 million tons in 1990 (an
excellent weather year) and 435 million tons on 1991, a year of extremely
severe floods in the Yangtze River Basin and quite serious flooding also in



northeast China. One major factor in this success has been China's admirable
achievements in plant breeding--China was the first country to achieve the
hybridization of rice--backed up by the vast network of local seed production,
extension, and distribution units required to put new seeds and technology
into the hands of the masses of peasant farmers. Due to this effort, nearly
40 percent of the rice now planted in China is hybrid, as well as virtually
all of the corn, while most of the wheats have high genetic performance poten-
tial for the various agroclimatic regions in which they are grown. The Gov-
ernment's strategy to increase grain production also includes consistently
increasing supplies *f chemical fertilizers, increased state investment in
agriculture, mainly in irrigation rehabilitation and expansion, and introduc-
tion of partial reforms in grain procurement, distributi"n, prices and subsi-
dies. These reforms have recently included: the general fixing of provincial
grain procurement quotas at substantially reduced levels, with ever-increasing
production increments priced at market-based negotiated prices; already
announced increased wheat quota procurement prices for 1992, so that wheat and
corn farm-gate prices now approach world levels; the conversion of most offi-
cial interprovincial grain shipments from quota to negotiated prices; in 1991,
the first substantial increases (from 55 percent to 160 percent) in urban
ration grain and edible oil prices in 30 years; and the establishment of
fledgling grain commodity exchanges for all major grains in various Chinese
cities (e.g., Zhengzhou, Changchun, Wuhan, Harbin, and Changsha). In the
context of preparing a proposed Grain Distribution and Marketing Project, IDA
iS discussing with the GOC a future reform program involving the further sub-
stantial elimination of grain consumption subsidies, the opening of the inter-
nal grain trade to all interested units and individuals, the thorough commer-
cialization of grain wholesaling and retailing enterprises, establishment of a
futures market in grain, and eventual market-determined pricing of virtually
all grain in China.
C. Irrigation Subsector
1.4       Water Resources Develooment.  China's water resources are limited
and unevenly distributed. About 45 percent of China's total land area is
located in regions with less than 400 mm annual rainfall. A rapid expansion
of irrigated farmland took place between the early 1950s and the mid-1980s
which more than doubled the effectively irrigated area in the country from
about 20 million ha in 1952 to 48 million ha in 1990. This growth in irri-
gated area reflected the high priority attached to irrigation and agriculture
in the earlier decades and the widespread introduction of tubewell technology
for exploiting groundwater in the early 1970s. Today, about 82 percent of the
national irrigated area is fed by surface water and about 18 percent is fed by
groundwater.
1.5       The productivity of China's irrigated land is about twice that of
its rainfed land. Irrigated agriculture accounts for about two thirds of
total grain production and three quarters of commercial crop production. The
expansion of irrigation facilities has been a major factor in the increase in
grain production from about 164 million tons in 1952 to present levels. How-
ever, lack of adequate control structures and the poor conditions of many on-
farm warks limit irrigation efficiency. Inadequate investment in construction
and maittenance of drainage systems has acted as a further constraint to pro-
ductivil.y over much of the existing irrigated area.



-3-
1.6       Water Resource Asencies.  As the principal department for water
administration under the State Council, the central Mlinstry of Water
Resources (MWR) is responsible for overall water resources management--
improvement and development of major rivers, planning of water resources for
major city water supply, basic construction of irrigatior, facilities, waterl
soil conservancy, rural hydroelectricity supply, and construction and manage-
ment of large- and medium-size reservoirs used primarily for flood control,
irrigation, water supply and rural hydroelectricity. The MWR employs about
1,337,000 workers nationwide, approximately 7.5 percent of whom work directly
under the MWR and 92.5 percent of whom work under provincial and local govern-
ments. The MWR also directly supervises the Water Resources and Hydroelectric
Power Construction Corporation, and administers 13 institutions of higher edu-
cation and seven regional river basin commissions. Each province maintains a
Water Conservancy Bureau (WCB), responsible for the planning, survey, design,
construction, operation and maintenance of irrigation, drainage, flood control
works and rural hydroelectricity. Designs of major projects are prepared by
design institutes of the WCBst projects covering areas larger than 20,000 ha
must be approved by MWR. WCBs at the prefecture and county levels are
directly responsible for the construction ani maintenance of most canals,
associated irrigation and flood control structures and medium-size reservoirs.
1.7       Water Resource linancing.  Projects for water resource development
involving major river diversion or control with central government funding
must be approved by the State Planning Co-ission (SPC). This approval is
made in accordance with annual and five-year plans and then is channeled
through the MWR to the provinces involved. In 1980, when state investment in
vater resources was reduced, emphasis shifted away from new irrigation devel-
opments to the rehabilitation of existing projects. At the same time, provin-
cial and local governments began to assume more responsibility for initiating
and funding investments and operating and maintaining water resource projects.
Since 1980, rising producer prices and incomes led the MWR to encourage the
WCBs to experiment with increasing water charges. In 1985, the GOC prescribed
a policy requiring all industrial, municipal and agricultural end-users to pay
vater charges based on full recovery of operation and maintenance expenses,
major repair costs, and depreciation. The new water charge systems have sev-
eral drawbacks, however. First, the provincially mandated water charges are
set below national levels and are not revised regularly. As a result, infla-
tion has rapidly eroded their real value. Second, prefectures and counties
continue to enjoy considerable flexibility in setting water charges. This
variation led to inconsistent standards of maintenance and repair. The MWR
estimates that assessed agricultural water charge levels in 1988 were only
40 percent of national standards, excluding projects managed by collectives or
individuals below the township level. Third, collecting water charges contin-
ues to be a problem.
1.8       Current Constraints in Irr1iated Agriculture.  Despite past suc-
cesses, China now faces numerous problems in the irrigation sector. Many of
the large schemes constructed in the 19509 and 1960s now require major upgrad-
ing or rehabilitation. Many still lack drainage and irrigation networks at
the tertiary and farm level--networks which were to have been constructed by
local governments. Because improvement works must be planned and implemented
in an integrated manner for large contiguous blocks of land, large investments
are needed. The uncontrolled construction of tubewells, prompted by govern-



-4-
ment subsidies, the low capital cost of construction and equipment, and low
electricity charges for pumping has led to overexploitation of groundwater,
excessive drawdown of the water level and land subsidence. Operation and
maintenance have been inadequate in many areas. Resources allocated by the
central and provincial governments frequently have not been matched adequately
by funding from the counties and townships. Measures to alleviate some of
these problems were curtailed by cuts In the government budget for irrigation
beginning in 1980. State capital investment In irrigation has rebounded some-
what since 1985 but still falls short of pre-1980 levdls. "he development of
new water resources has not kept pace with the growth in       - demand from
agriculture, industry, and urban centers.
1.9       China has achieved notable success in its support services eector,
but there is also much room for improvement. A major program is under wry to
upgrade and strengthen the extension services in the country, but so far, only
about one third of the 2,300 counties nationwide have established formal agro-
technical extension centers and 20 percent of the counties have no formal
extension program at all. Extension services need to move towards a client-
supplier relationship, and offer a better-quality service to producers. Link-
ages among research, training and extension remain weak. Seed production and
agromachinery services also need improving. Quality control for seed produc-
tion is inadequate and Improvements are still required in maintaining varietal
purity in some areas and in the extension and demonstration of quality seeds.
Agromachinery service centers are becoming increasingly important in helping
to maintain small tractors, the type most commonly owned by farm households.
There aro some 37,000 collectively operated mechanization centers providing
service to individual farmers. The centers also provide training to operators
of medium and large machinery used for land improvement. But most of the cen-
ters still function with weak management, outdated facilities, and inadequate
tools and equipment.
D. Soil Conservation Efforts in China
1.10      The total land area in China subject to accelerated erosion is esti-
mated to be 147 million hectares (16 percent of the total land area); an esti-
mated 5 billion tons of topsoil are eroded annually. The Chinese estimate
that the losses of key nutrients from this process are nearly equivalent to
the nation's total annual fertilizer production. Historically, soil erosion
problems have been most seve-, along the upper-middle Yellow River, with
roughly one-third of the nat a' s total erosion taking place along the Yellow
River alone. Despite efforts to counteract soil erosion since the 1950s,
erosion problems have intensified, with an estimated 30 percent more land
affected by erosion today than In 1949. Areas of particular concern are
(i) along the Yangtze River, in which erosion is estimated to have doubled
since the 1950s, and (11) in Sichuan Province, in which erosion is estimated
to have more than quadrupled since the 1950s. In south China, where soils are
generally thinner, susceptibility to erosion-caused productivity losses is
much higher.
E. Sectoral Obiectives and Bank Lending
1.11      The Government's long-term objectives for the agricultural sector
are to Increase production to meet the requirements created by population and



- 5 -
income growth and to increase income and employment in rural areas. Given
China's shortage of arable land, tevelopment planners have focused on the need
to increase the productivity of presently cropped areas and to develop effi-
ciently the few remaining areas of unutilized lands. A major objective is to
stabilize per capita grain output. Per capita and total value added In the
crop subsector are to be raised primarily by increasing the yield and quality
of food, feed, orchard, and industrial crops and also by Increasing the volume
of agroprocessing. Although investment in agriculture (including irrigation)
declined markedly during the initial reforms of 1980-85, due to the enhanced
profitability of nonagricultural investments to subnational levels of govern-
ment and their freedom to make these investments, agricultural investment has
since rebounded at all levels due to firm national and proVincial commitment
to increasing production.
1.12      Bank Group agricultural lending to date has comprised 29 operations
amounting to $3.45 billion and has covered a wide spectrum of goographic areas
and subsectors, with overall focuses on land development, irrigation and
drainage (seven projects), upgrading of agricultural support services includ-
ing agricultural research, education, credit and seed Improvement (seven proj-
ects), development of specialized subsectors including rubber, forestry, fruit
and fisheries (eight projects), and area development (seven projects). In
recent year., the Bank/IDA has supported a series of p-ovincial development
projects in which an area development approach has been applied. In these
project., the responsibility for proposing, preparing and implementing the
projects and repaying project funds rests with provincial and lower-level gov-
ernments. A major objective of several recent Bank projects has been to
assist in the Government's ongoing reform process. The Rural Sector Adjust-
ment Loan (Credit 1932-CHA/Loan 2967-CHA), which was approved during 1988,
contributed to the articulation of the overall reform process. Several proj-
ects approved since 1989, notably the National Afforestation (Credit 2145-
CUA), Mid-Yangtze Agricultural Development (Credit 2172-CHA), Fourth Rural
Credit (Loan 3265-CHA/Credit 2182-CHA), and Guangdong Agricultural Development
(Credit 2307-CHA) projects contain significant subsectoral reform elements.
1.13      Implementation of most ongoing Bank/IDA-financed projects in the
agriculture sector is on schedule. Experience in previous Bank agricultural
projectd in China is that physical works have been completed on time or ahead
of schedule.  Disbursements for agricultural projects, in fact, usually out-
pace those in other sectors. Notable features of all the projects are the
high standard of project management, the active participation of farmers and
the effective collaboration of government authorities at all levels. Seven
agriculture projects have been completedt North China Plain, Beilongjiang
Land Reclamation, First and Second Rural Credit, Seeds, Rubber Development,
and Rural Sector Adjustment. The proje'.t completion reports for these proj-
ects indicate that implementation Was generally successful, that economic
rates of return reached or exceeded appraisal estimates, and that the technol-
ogies used were sound and appropriate for wider application.
P. Agriculture In Sichuan
1.14      Sichuan Province, located in the southwest of China, is the most
populous province in China with over 108 million people, 92 million of whom
are in agriculture. It is a land-locked province which shares its border with



- 6 -
eight provinces--Qinghai, Gansu and Shaanxi to the north, Hubei and Hunan to
the east, Guizhou and Yunnan to the south and Xizang (Tibet) to its west. Of
the total area of 57 million ha, 10.9 million ha (19 percent) are arable. A
total of 6.6 million ha (12 percent) were cultivated in 1990, of which about
42 percent was under irrigation. Ths province is conventionally divided into
three major natural regions. The first, the Sichuan Basin, which occupie3
29 percent of the total area of the province, is a rich and fertile grain
belt. The second area, the West Plateau, occupies 45 percent of the total
area and is important for cattle and fruit production. The third area, the
southwest region, occupying 26 percent of the province, comprises a river
basin area suitable for grains, sugarcane and oil seed crops and a mountainous
area which supports corn, potato and cattle production. The proposed project
is located in the Chengdu Plain, a part of the Sichuan Basin, which, with only
16 percent of the province's total lands produces more than 90 percent of the
province's grain. Of over 33,000 irrigation schemes in the province, most of
which are small-scale, the most effective is the famous Dujiangyan irrigation
system built over 2,200 years ago which is still operating and at present
serves over 570,000 ha.
1.15      The major grain crops in the province are rice, wheat, corn, sweet
potatoes and other tubers, and rapeseed. Sichuan, with one tenth of the
nation's population to feed on one sixteenth of the land, half of which is
mountainous, had to develop irrigation systems from ancient times to intensify
its grain production. In 1990, the province produced about 43 million tons of
grain (52 percent rice, 15 percent wheat) or 10 percent of the nation's grain
output. It is also the largest producer of rapeseed with over one fifth of
the national output. Sichuan's production of Chinese gall, raw lacquer, wax
and tung oil rank first in the country. About one third of Chinese medicine
comes from Sichuan. The province accounts for 11 percent of China's total tea
production.
1.16      China is the world's largest producer and exporter of silk and silk
products, with 60 percent of global production and 90 percent of total exports
in the world market. Sichuan, with a long tradition of mulberry planting and
silkworm rearing, is the largest producer of mulberry cocoon and raw silk in
China. In 1990, Sichuan Province produced over 134,000 tons and 11,000 tons
of fresh cocoon and raw silk, respectively, accounting for nearly one third of
national and about one fifth of global production.   About 30 million people
in Sichuan are engaged In sericulture, involving about 7 million households in
130 c'unties. China's share in the global market is expected to increase
since, being extremely labor intensive, mulberry production and silkworm rear-
ing activities are being phased out in previously active countries such as
Japan and Korea. These countries increasingly rely on imports of raw silk
from China for further processing.
1.17      Sichuan is the largest meat producer in China with the largest num-
ber of pigs and cattle. In 1990, the province had over 56 million pigs and 11
million cattle with an annual output of pork and beef of more than 4 million
tons and 70 thousand tons, respectively. Pork accounts for 70 percent of
total provincial livestock production. Poultry in Sichuan includes chickens,
ducks and geese plus quail and pigeon. Livestock production also included
445,000 tons of eggs, 264,000 tons of milk and 2,720 tons of wool. The prov-



- 7 -
imce has about 20 million ha of pasture and grassland which are suitable for
livestock grazing.
1.18      In 1990, GVAO was Y 60 billion, which accounted for about 33 percent
of the total provincial output value. The relative share of agriculture has
been on the decline--46 percent in 1970, 40 percent in 1980 and 33 percent in
1990. Nevertheless, agriculture remains the wost important source of income
for more than 85 percent of the population in the province. Livestock produc-
tion value accounts for 35 percent of the total GVAO.
1.19      An estimated 44 percent of the area of Sichuan is subject to accel-
erated erosion, with 2 million hectares of cultivated land on slopes losing an
average of 110 tons of soil/ha/yr .equivalent to almost 1 cm of topsoil).
Traditionally, most soil conservation efforts have been directed at the high
productivity, irrigated lowlands and those areas of the uplands where terrac-
ing was physically possible and revegetation was economic. Recognizing the
inadequacy of these traditional approaches in the uplands, the Chinese govern-
ment has the stated goal within the current Five-Year Plan of consolidating
research and experience to formulate improved practice in soil conservation
and conservation farming for steeply sloping agricultural lands Sichuan is
actively involved in these efforts.
G. Rural Poverty in Sichuan
1.20      Alleviation of rural poverty remains a major development policy
objective of the Government. Poverty programs were initially directed towards
provision of relief but later evolved into a combination of relief and produc-
tion support in order to enable farmers to develop sustainable economic means
of production. Since 1986, concerted effort was made to systematically iden-
tify the specific counties requiring governmental support for eradication of
rural poverty. Since then, the Government has been allocating, in addition to
subsidies and relief, special funds to promote income generation opportunities
for the rural poor in these areas as part of an overall development effort.
Special institutional arrangements have also been made at various levels of
the Government to design and implement policies and projects aimed at the
economic development of poor counties. The same focus is continuing during
the Eighth Five-Year Plan period (1991-95).
1.21     With limited agricultural land,/ Sichuan is one of the poorest
provinces in China. Farmers' annual per capita income is Y 558 ($103 equiva-
lent), around 88 percent of the national rural average of Y 630 ($117).
Nearly 26 percent of Sichuan's population is reported to be poor. Of 214
counties in the province, 65 counties are either provincial or nationally
classified poverty counties. The criteria used in 1986 for the national clas-
sification are based on the level of per capita income (less than Y 150 in
1985 prices) and the nature and significance of the areas, including remote
and backward areas and localities inhabited by minorities. The Sichuan pro-
vincial criteria were targeted to areas with less than Y 200 per capita
incomes, barely equivalent to 200 kg of grain at market prices.
I/   The average rural household in Sichuan has 0.08 ha per capita of culti-
vated land, about 60 percent of the national average.



1.22      The proposed project focuses on four relatively poor prefectures--
Mianyang, Guangyuan and Nanchong in north zentral Sichuan, and Qianjiang pre-
fecture in the southeast corner of the province. Qianjiang is one of the
poorest regions in the province with a large population of ethnic minorities.
The average incomes of the project prefectures are all lower than the provin-
cial average. They range from Y 201 ($37) to Y 422 ($78), which amounts to
only 32 percent and 67 percent of the national average, respectively. The
project includes 27 counties, of which 11 are nationally classified poverty
counties. In Qianjiang Prefecture, where all five counties are nationally
classified poverty counties, of 634,000 total households, about 24 percent
have per capita income below Y 200, 42 percent have income between Y 200 and
Y 300, 28 percent have Y 300-500, and only 6 percent have incomes above Y 500.
H. Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.23      The proposed project is designed to address the key constraints
limiting agricultural productivity in Sichuan's poorest areas. Among them,
the most pressing are the shortage and irregular availability of irrigation
water, high water and soil losses due to erosion, inadequate and weak linkages
between production, processing and marketing activities, and limited technical
and extension services to farmers. TDA involvement in the project would make
possible a large increase in farmers' income in these areas. Project design
draws on the Bank's extensive experience in integrated agricultural develop-
ment projects in China to address major constraints to increasing agricultural
productivity and rural incomes. IDA involvement would promote the efficient
use of limited resources, help develop technologies for soil and water conser-
vation, and promote environmentally sound agricultural development. The proj-
ect would improve the technical efficiency of production by extending irriga-
tion canals from already completed reservoirs and main canals for relatively
quick returns to investment. The project would also reduce soil and water
losses by planting suitable trees, grass and legumes. The income generation
component is designed to provide alternative income options to subsistence
farmers. Subprojects for livestock raising, mulberry and cocoon production,
and tea rehabilitation would be carried out by individual households, selected
among the poorest, with priority given to female-headed households to enable
women to become economically active. Poverty among female-headed households
is generally greater than among male-headed households as women with limited
assets for collateral, traditionally have less access to credit, inputs and
other production means. The processing component of the project would allow
the province to improve the linkage between raw material production and pro-
cessing, capture additional value added, and permit lower production costs and
higher product values by improving processing facilities and product quali-
ties. Finally, the project would enhance environmentally appropriate develop-
ment of agriculture through Improvement of current practices and introduction
of proven environmental protection measures.



- 9 -
II. THE PROJECT AREAS
A. Location
2.1       The project areas are located in 26 counties of Nanchong, Mianyang
and Guangyuan Prefectures in the north and Qiaujiang Prefecture at the south-
east corner of the province. The project would build irrigation works in 11
counties of the three northern prefectures. The irrigsation component has
three subprojects--Shengzhong (SP), Wudu (WP) and Yangjiaba (YP). SP lies
between the Jialing and Fujiang rivers dividing ridge and the Jialing River in
five counties and a city in Nanchong Prefecture. WP is bounded by the
Fujiang, Zijiang and Xihe rivers and is located in five counties in Hianyang
Prefecture, and YP is located in Jiange County in Guangyuan Prefecture. Two
soil conservation demonstration areas would be located in Guangyuan and
Qianjiang prefectures, while forestry subprojects would be located in seven
counties of Qianjiang and Guangyuan prefectures. All of the livestock sub-
projects and most of the agroprocessing with the exception of one paper mill
would be located in Qianjiang prefecture. Sericulture activities would be
scattered in 16 counties in three of the four project prefectures. Detailed
irrigation sites and project locations are shown on IBRD Maps No. 23092, 23094
and 23480 and Annex 1, Table 3. Background provincial and project area sta-
tistics are given in Annex 1, Table 1.
B. Climate. ToDoaraphy and Soils
2.2       Climate.  The project area has a continental monsoon climate.
Monthly average temperatures range from a low of about 4°C in January to a
high of 27°C in July. Minimum temperatures may reach -10°C in more mountain-
ous areas, and there are between 280 and 330 frost-free days, depending on
elevation. Cloudy weather and fog occur frequently and limit sunshine hours
to between 1,200 and 1,500 hours per year. Average annual rainfall is 950-
1,250 mm, of which 60-75 percent occurs in the period June to September. How-
ever, rainfall distribution is extremely variable seasonally and year to year.
Frequent droughts occur in spring, summer and early autumn. The average
annual evaporation in the project area ranges from 1,100 to 1,500 mm and
exceeds rainfall for nine months of the year. Climatological data are pre-
sented in Annex 1, Table 2.
2.3       ToDoaraDhy and Soils.  The irrigation development areas are situated
in the valleys and lower terraced slopes In hilly terrain on the eastern and
northeastern border of the Sichuan central basin. The prominent slopes along
the sides of the ridges and the steep stream channels in the command area
provide excellent natural drainage. The average elevation is from 100 to
300 m above sea level and the general slope of drainage is from north to
south. Due to the relatively steep gradients of the river systems, there are
no extensive flood plains and drainage is not a problem in these areas. Soils
are predominantly clay loams derived from red sandstone with pH 6.5 to 7.5 and
with relatively good structure, but low fertility. With adequate fertilizer
and water, these soils are well suited to a wide range of crops. The project
areas focusing on soil conservation and poverty alleviation are situated in
mountainous parts of Guangyuan and Qianj iaig at elevations between 600 and
2,000 m. These areas are intersected by narrow steep-sided valleys with



- 10 -
slopes over 50 percent. The soils are mainly acid loam (pH 5.5-6.5) with low
nutrient status due to continuous leaching and much of the mountainous area is
moderately to seriously eroded.
C. Water Resources and Irrigation
2.4       Sichuan Provincial Government has proposals to expand the irrigation
capability over an area of about 280,000 ha in the north-central region of the
province. The project area includes part of a multiphased regional irrigation
development program extending to the year 2000. This region has suffered
serious crop losses from droughts which occur nearly every year at some loca-
tion. In the northern part of the region, the drought periods are more preva-
lent in the spring and summer, while in the south, the most dominant time for
drought is in the peak of summer. With over 60 percent of the local runoff
occurring in the period of June to September and often as a result of inten-
sive storms, there is also a seasonal shortage of moisture in the early spring
growing season. It is common for the drought periods to occur in areas for
two or three years in succession which impoverishes the farmers for a number
of following years and never allows the region to reach its production poten-
tial. Without a firm water supply, the farmers have been reluctant to invest
in costly on-farm inputs, thus further constraining production.
2.5       Sichuan has a long history of exploitation of water resources for
irrigation and within the project area there are existing irrigation supply
facilities consisting of three medium reservoirs, 38 small reservoirs, 2,860
block ponds and about 37,000 farm ponds. Many of these small storage systems
are ancient but still operational, but because of their small capacity, they
cannot dependably supply timely irrigation water. In some rice-growing areas
where water supply is particularly unreliable, farmers cultivate a single crop
of rice each year, leaving the land fallow to store water in the winter before
transplanting rice in the spring.
2.6        The Sichuan Provincial Government plans to further tap the
resources of the larger regional rivers, to create large storage reservoirs
and water distribution systems to provide supplemental irrigation supplies.
The government has spent the last two decades investigating and planning a
regional water resources system and has developed a master plan which includes
three irrigation schemes. Some of the features of this plan have already been
constructed but additional financial assistance is required for continuation
of the system.
2.7       The supplemental irrigation supplies for the three project irriga-
tion schemes are supplied by tributaries to two large rivers, the Fujiang and
Jialing Rivers, which drain from the northwest portion of the province to the
south and empty into the Yangtze River. The Zihe River, tributary to the
Jialing River, supplies the water resources for the YP and SP irrigation areas
while the WP area would be served by diversions from the Pujiang River (see
Map IBRD 23092).
2.8       The Shengzhong Reservoir which provides 1,340 million cubic meters
of storage for the ultimate full scale SP irrigation is completed and has
remained nearly full in the last few years. The YP would be served by the 24



- 11 -
million cubic meters of storage upstream of the Yangjiaba Dam now under con-
struction.
2.9       A recently completed diversion dam and intake canal are in position
to divert water from the large base flows of the Fujiang River. Future plans
include a number of upstream dams for storage, hydroelectric power production
and operational regulation of the Fujiang River to provide adequate water
supply for full development of the WP.
D. Po2ulation. Farm Size and Land Use
2.10      The total population of the project area is about 8.2 million
(8 percent of the province), of which 7.3 million or 89 percent are engaged in
agriculture. An estimated 2 million farm households live in the project area
with an average of 4 members in each family. The average land holding is
about 0.27 ha per family. Out of total project land area of about 3.6 million
ha, some 0.5 million ha are cultivated on a permanent basis to rice, wheat,
corn, sweet potato, rapeseed, cotton, and other cash crops and about 0.7 mil-
lion ha are commercial forest.
E. Rural Incomes and Povertv
2.11      Poor households in the rural areas have been classified into three
categoriess (a) "Wu Bao Hu" or households that are entirely dependent on gov-
ernment relief, i.e., Bureau of Civil Administration and local government
(BCA); (b) "Ts Kuen Hu" or very poor who "do not have enough to eat and wear"
and whose incomes are less than Y 200 per capita. These households receive
relief support from BCA; and (c) "Ping Kuen Hu" or poor households who "have
enough to eat and wear" but whose incomes are less than Y 200 per capita.
Many of these households are well motivated, better educated and willing to
adopt new technologies. They are not eligible for grants or relief given to
households in the (a) and (b) categories, but they receive assistance mostly
in the form of loans from poverty alleviation funds. The households whose per
capita incomes are just above Y 200 are considered to be above the threshold
of "survival" line ("Shen Kun Xiasn") but not above the poverty line ("Pin Kun
Xian"). The poverty line is deemed to have been crossed by a household if it
achieves an income level of Y 500 per capita in 1990 prices. The project
would directly benefit 883,000 households, two thirds of whom are living below
the poverty line.
2.12      The prevailing poverty in many of the project areas is due to a
number of factors including poor agricultural resource base, remoteness, lack
of off-farm employment opportunities, vulnerability to frequent natural disas-
ters and limited infrastructure such as roads, communications, electricity and
water supply systems. Despite relief programs, lack of explicit programs to
develop these areas has aggravated the situation. The minority groups tradi-
tionally living in poor areas have been mainly engaged in low-income occupa-
tions, primarily subsistence agriculture. Over the years, increase in their
grain production has also been marginal due to limited availability of inputs
and lack of technical support services in these remote areas. Floods,
droughts, hailatorms and severe winter weather conditions also contribute to
their poverty. The project is designed to overcome these constraints while
supplementing ongoing government programs to alleviate poverty.  It would pro-



- 12 -
vide funds for specific productive activities combined with necessary techni-
cal, training and marketing support. All of the project beneficiaries would
be individual households with particular emphasis on selecting female-headed
households (about 10 percent of total) as the top priority target group.
Activities selected are those already adopted by more innovative farmers in
the areas and proven to be successful. Familiarity with these activities from
neighbors' experience often creates confidence for farmers who have limited
experience in noncrop production.
F. Present Arlicultural Development
2.13      The area proposed for irrigation development comprises a net culti-
vated area of 135,200 ha (70,000 ha in SP, 61,500 ha in WP and 3,700 ha in YP)
with a total cropped area (multiple cropping) of 250,000 ha, giving an overall
cropping intensity of 185 percent. Rice, wheat, corn and rapeseed are the
major crops which together account for about 75 percent of the total cropped
area. Other crops grown include sweet potatoes, beans and peas, cotton, and
vegetables. About 45 percent of the cropped area is rainfed and 55 percent is
irrigated from small reservoirs and ponds, but limited storage provides reli-
able irrigation for only about half of the irrigated area.
2.14      Most of the irrigated land is found along the river valleys and on
the terraced lower slopes, which account for about 48 percent of the project
areas. Rice is the dominant crop here, but only one rice crop a year is
grown. Farmers either grow rice in rotation with winter wheat or rapeseed, or
grow rice after a winter fallow depending on the availability of water. At
higher elevations winter sown wheat or rapeseed is followed by corn or beans,
peas, sweet potatoes (often intercropped with corn), cotton, other fiber crops
or vegetables. Farmers adopt complex, but flexible cropping patterns aimed at
maximizing cropping intensity within the constraints of frequently occurring
drought and limited water storage for irrigation. Plowing and cultivation is
carried out either by hand or with draught animals (oxen or water buffalo),
and hand labor using simple tools and equipment is used for all other farming
operations. Crop husbandry standards are generally high and yields of major
crops are in line with the provincial average but significantly lower than in
adjacent areas with fully developed irrigation systems and better agricultural
support services.
2.15      In the soil conservation areas, the major agricultural crops are
paddy, wheat, corn and rapeseed; crop yields generally are below the provin-
cial average. Present farming systems in Qianjiang and Guangyuan are based on
annual cropping primarily for subsistence, with some small areas of cash crop-
ping (for example, sweet potatoes or rapeseed) where possible. In 1990, about
0.37 million ha were under cultivation at an average cropping intensity of
2.0. Grain crops (paddy, wheat and corn) account for about 80 percent of the
cropped area, with dryland farming (corn and wheat) accounting for 65 percent
by area and 55 percent by production. The area planted to grains has
decreased by 12 percent between 1980 and 1990, though total production gains
of about 25 percent have more than offset the decrease; gains can be attrib-
uted to increased cropping intensity and yields. During the same period the
area planted to rapeseed increased from 19,500 ha to 61,900 ha.



- 13 -
2.16      Fertilizer.  Organic manures composed primarily of straw, pig manure
and night soil together with plant ash and crop by-products (e.g., rapeseed
cake) are widely used and supply about one third of the major nutrients farm-
ers apply to the soil. However, to sustain high crop yields farmers must rely
heavily on chemical fertilizer. The annual consumption of fertilizer in the
project area is about 300,000 tons of which two thirds is nitrogenous and one
third phosphate. While small amounts of compound fertilizer are puichased,
there is virtually no potash fertilizer available in the province. Most fer-
tilizer is low analysis and poor quality.
2.17      Seeds.  Host of the project counties have seed companies established
for processing and distributing rice, wheat, corn and rapeseed, but most
county seed companies have inadequate seed processing equipment and lack suf-
ficient storage facilities and transport. The project area is self-sufficient
in hybrid rice seed, and hybrid corn seed requirements are met from local
production supplemented by importation from outside the province. The area
seed companies can only supply 20 percent of the wheat seed and 40 percent of
the rapeseed that is required annually. The shortage of replacement seed for
wheat in particular has resulted in a deterioration in seed quality.
2.18      Livestock.  The entire livestock component is located in Qianjiang
Prefecture in four state-classified poverty counties--goat projects in Youyang
and Pengshui counties, a rabbit project in Shizhu county and a goose project
in Ziushan county. The livestock population in the prefecture is estimated to
include 1.7 million pigs, 370,000 cattle, 200,000 goats, 1.8 million long-hair
(angora wool) rabbits, in addition to a large number of geese and other poul-
try. Most households have one or two pigs for fattening, a draft cattle or
buffalo. Crop residues are used as feed for these animals. Most ruminants
are being raised on natural pasture areas and shrubs on the mountain slopes
supplemented by crop by-products. Geese and rabbits are fed with cut grass
and various legumes. The livestock population In Qianjiang Prefecture
increased rapidly during the 1980s, particularly in the areas with scarce
arable land where cropping options are limited. The project areas here are
mountainous with limited land below 25 degrees of slope. Farmers have been
cultivating on land steeper than 25 degrees with consequent soil erosion.
Cropping on such steep lands is prohibited, and the farmers are in need of
alternative income sources, which the livestock component of the project is
designed to offer, by planting steep land vith grass and providing a small
holding of livestock per household. There is also a large area of natural
grassland which is currently underutilized. These grasslands would be suit-
able for controlled grazing and cut-and-carry harvesting for raising beef
cattle, sheep, and goats (for meat, wool, hides and milk), as well as for
goese and rabbits. Pigs could also utilize grassland if supplemented with
sufficient grain and fodder crops.
G. Sunnort Services
2.19      Atricultural Research.  The Sichuan Academy of Agricultural Sciences
(SAAS) is the major agricultural research institute in the province. It has a
staff of 1,100 including 700 graduates working In 14 specialized commodity
institutes. SAAS is engaged in major breeding programs for rice, wheat, corn,
sweet potato, rapeseed and cotton in cooperation with 21 smaller research
institutes at prefecture and county level. In addition, SAAS has a comprehen-



- 14 _
sive research program covering agronomy, soil fertility, and plant protection
including rodent control and integrated pest management. The Mianyang and
Nanchong Agricultural Research Institutes are located within the project area.
The M±anyang institute undertakes breeding and agronomic research on rice,
wheat, corn, rapeseed and cotton with particular emphasis on wheat where it
has enjoyed considerable success in developing high yielding pest and disease
resistant varieties. At Nanchong, emphasis is given to research on sweet
potato, peanuts and cotton, and plant breeders at the institute have been suc-
cessful in developing new strains of these crops with higher yields and
improved resistance to pests and disease. These major research centers as
well as the smaller research stations at county level all suffer from a short-
age of operating funds, facilities and equipment. Furthermore, information on
new promising research is not reaching the field, and more evaluation of
research findings under field conditions io needed in order to promote new
technology among farmers. In most cases, formal linkages between research,
education, and extension are inadequate, and systems for communicating to
researchers the problems encountered by farmers also need to be strengthened.
While these needs would be partly addressed under the proposed project, IDA is
currently preparing an Agriculture Support Services Project to address several
of the above constraints on a systemic basis.
2.20      Extension.  Extension services in the project area are provided
through the Bureau of Agriculture. There are agrotechnical centers at provin-
cial, prefecturallmunicipal and county levels and agrotechnical stations at
the township level. The frontline extension worker at the village level is
the farmer technician who normally works closely with 5-10 demonstration
households in each village. %emonstration plots and farmer technicians at the
village level and short course training are extensively used to introduce new
technology. Each governmental level is responsible for funding salaries and
recurrent operating costs. Extension services at the county level and below
are frequently understaffed and underfunded. Some 60 percent of township
agrotechnical stations in the province are ill-equipped. The project would
finance training and procurement of necessary facilities to strengthen exten-
sion in the project area.
2.21      Agricultural Credit.  The Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) is the
largest provider of institutional credit to the agricultural sector. Credit
is provided to larger agricultural borrowers through ABC's wide network of
branches throughout China extending to county and township levels, and to
smaller borrowers (including households) through some 59,000 Rural Credit
Cooperatives (RCCs) at township level and below. Sichuan ABC has its provin-
cial office in Chengdu, a branch office in each of Sichuan's 29 prefectures
and 214 counties, and 1,650 offices at township level. ABC provides short and
medium-term funds for commercial activities such as agricultural production
and agroprocessing. Small farms are largely serviced through the network of
RCCs which provide credit to members and township and village enterprises
(TVEs). The ABC trains RCC staff, provides credit and supervises operations.
In the project areas, there are 64 ABC branches and 590 RCC offices.
H. Infrastructure
2.22      The project area, with exception of Qianjiang Prefecture, has good
transportation links.  The main railway and major interprovincial highways



- 15 -
connect most of the major towns and cities. A good road network links coun-
tieo, townships and villages, while the rivers through about 8,000 km of their
navigable routes serve as an Important transport system for the movement of
bulk cargo. Qianjiang Prefecture is located at the mountainous southeastern
corner of the province. The neseast airport is about 300 km away in the
neighboring prefecture, but a new airport is now under consideration in
liushan county. Road connection to the rest of the province is available but
difficult. Navigation on the Yangtze and Wu Rivers provides easier transpor-
tation. Remoteness of Qianjiang Prefecture from the rest of the province has
been one of the main reasons for the prefecture's relatively low level of
development. On the other hand, road systems in neighboring counties of
Nunan, Hubei and Guizhou provinces are relatively well developed and serve as
the main external links for the people and goods of Qianjiang.



- 16 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Cblectives
3.1       The project's main objectives are:
(a) To increase productivity of existing crops, especially rice, by
increasing the land under irrigation and by providing a more relia.
ble water supply for drought protection;
(b) To provide a complementary package of integrated agricultural
inputs, support services, adaptive research, training and technical
assistance;
(c) To develop operation and maintenance plans and establish policies
for the proposed irrigation systems, including the collecting of
water charges for full recovery of operation and maintenance costi
(d) To expand soil conservation measures and reduce soil and water
losses to reduce long-term siltation of major rivers, maintain soil
fertility, and improve productivity of already eroded areas;
(e) To expand agroprocessing activities utilizing locally available raw
materials; and
(f) To increase farmers' incomes in selected poor and remote areas where
they are less than 50 percent of the national average, with particu-
lar emphasis on helping poor women.
3.2       Snecial EmDhasis on Alleviating Poverty and Assisting Women.  The
proposed project includes some of the poorest areas of the province. Of 26
counties included in the project, 11 are nationally classified poverty coun-
ties including 5 in Qianjiang prefecture, with a large population of ethnic
minorities. The project would help local farmers out of absolute poverty with
special emphasis on helping poor women in some of the poorest and most remote
areas of China. While poverty is widespread among the general population,
poverty among women is more severe. Female-headed households constitute about
10 percent of the total households in the project area. These single-income
households have limited assets for collateral, hence less access to credit,
inputs and other production means, and are generally poorer than male-headed
households. The project would target these female-headed households as prior-
ity beneficiaries and would support establishment of smallholding livestock,
sericulture, and hand-knitted clothing production activities. Groups of women
would organize their activities and coordinate sales and marketing efforts.
These activities are far less physically demanding than heavy field cultiva-
tion work and would yield higher financial returns. Extension services would
focus on training of women farmers, especially in sericulture and rabbit rais-
ing. Female extension agents would be an integral part of the regular exten-
sion staff, and training programs to be supported under the project would
emphasize training of female extension agents and technicians, who in turn,
would train more female workers.  NGOs, e.g., the All China Women's Federation
(ACWF), would participate in these endeavors to organize women's groups as



- 17 -
well as using media and female village leaders to promote women's participa-
tion in profitable activities.
B. Project Description
3.3       The proposed project has the following components:
(a) Irrigation. Design, construction and initiation of operations of
the irrigation conveyance systems for the intermediate development
phases of three irrigation schemes; the Shengzhong Project (SP), the
Wudu Project (WP) and the Yangjiaba Project (YP) and provision of
agricultural support services within the areas served.
(b) Soil Conservation. Establishment of two soil conservation demon-
stration areas and planting paulownia, Chinese toon, other fast-
growing trees, gall, Chinese alpine rush, and medicinal plants.
(c) Income Generation. Production of mulberry and silk cocoon with
expansion of supporting services, rehabilitation of tea gardens and
establishment of livestock production bases for goat, geese and
rabbit combined with planting pastures.
(d) Processing. Rehabilitation and expansion of two paper mills and
establishment of a rabbit hair spinning mill as well as gallnut,
goat, and geese processing plants.
C. Detailed Features
Irrisation Component
3.4       The proposed project would provide supplemental irrigation to
increase crop production by constructing irrigation water conveyance facili-
ties--arterial canals, branch canals and trunk and farm level ditches--which
would provide additional water to a total net command area of 135,200 ha. The
project would support the establishment of the operation and maintenance orga-
nization and provision of associated physical plant and equipment.
3.5       The extreme variability of the rainfall and the localized nature of
existing irrigation features in the project area are the primary constraints
to agricultural production. By bringing reliable external water supplies from
nearby sources and distributing them within the region, the damages previously
suffered due to shortages of rainfall and irrigation water would be minimized.
The firmer irrigation supply would also allow crop intensification in areas
where lands are fallowed in the winter season to accumulate soil moisture for
spring and summer cropping. The civil works in each subproject would consist
of a combination of main, branch, secondary and tertiary conveyance systems
with associated hydraulic control structures. The conveyance system would be
made up of lined canals, tunnels, aqueducts and inverted siphons. In some
instances in-line pump stations would be required as part of the main system
and in other locations small pumps would bring service to areas located above
the canals. These systems would also be capable of delivering and replenish-
ing supplies to existing ponds and small reservoirs within the project area.



- 18 -
The good natural drainage of the region would allow return flows to be reused
in downelope portions of the service area. No special drainage works are
required other than assuring that natural side streams can safely pass under
or over the canals.
3.6       The Shengzhong Project (SP) would be expanded to bring supplemental
irrigation to approximately 70,000 ha. The Shengzhong Reservoir and head
reaches of the main canal serving about 18,300 ha have already been con-
structed and are in operation. Completion of small secondary canals in the
upstream portion of the service areas would allow expansion of the irrigated
area early in the project implementation period. The fully completed SP is
planned to serve approximately 138,700 ha.
3.7       The construction of the Wudu Project (WP) has also been started with
the recent completion of the diversion dam, initial stretch of the main canal
and a hydropower station which returns a portion of the diverted flow back to
the river. The main canal and irrigation system to be constructed under the
project would irrigate 61,500 ha. Ultimately, the WP would bring supplemental
irrigation to approximately 136,800 ha.
3.8       The Yangjiaba Project (YP) would consist of the conveyance and dis-
tribution system to serve 3,700 ha. The completion of these works would coin-
cide with the completion of the upstream storage dam and would allow delivery
of water in approximately 2.5 years from start of the project. The project
also includes a 25 km pipeline from the Yangjiaba Reservoir to Jiange city for
delivery of a reliable municipal water supply.
3.9       The irrigation supplies for the SP and YP depend on dams and storage
reservoirs not included in the proposed project. Shengzhong dam, completed in
1984, is fully filled and operational. The 53 meter high Yangjiaba dam is
under construction. Both dams have undergone a dam safety review by an inde-
pendent international panel. Wudu has a diversion weir with low head and does
not involve a dam or storage reservoir. In September, 1991, a group of five
Chinese and foreign experts visited the sites to review designs, construction
standard, safety systems and geological and hydrological data. The panel's
assessment was satisfactory. An assurance was obtained that Sichuan would
carrv out maintenance and geriodic safety insDections of existing dams under
arraniements satisfactorv to IDA. The main findings and recommendations of
the panel are summarized in Annex 8.1/
3.10      The project would include procurement of light construction equip-
ment to support the force account construction units at the county and town-
ship level, equipment for operation and maintenance of the three irrigation
subprojects. The O&M equipment would include transport vehicles, material
handling equipment, communication equipment and basic computer systems. Table
3.1 below summarizes the various civil works to be constructed under the proj-
ect for the three irrigation subprojects.
3.11      Aaricultural SuDgortina Services.  The proposed project would
strengthen agricultural supporting services provided to farmers in the 12
,l A full Dam Safety Review Panel report is available in the project file.



- 19 -
Table 3.1i  IRRIGATION COMPONENTs  SUMMARY OF WORKS
Capacity                                Aqueducts
Category of                range in    Totals   Canals  Tunnels  and siphons
conveyance system             mlosec       (km)      (kA)    (km)       (km)
SHENOZHONG
Branch Arterial Canal    6.4 to 8.6      108.7     85.0    21.4        2.3
Branch Canal              3.5 to 4.1      28.6     22.9      5.7       0.0
Subbranch Canal           1.9 to 2.6      65.5     46.3    17.2        2.5
Trunk Ditch               0.5 TO 1.8     284.7    233.7    43.9        7.1
Farm Ditch                             1,327.2  1,126.7   190.0       11.5
Subfarm Ditch                          1,298.0  1,298.0      0.0       0.0
1WUDU
General Arterial Canal   60               12.2     10.2      1.1       0.9
Arterial Canal            27.3            69.6     57.5      8.8       3.3
Branch Arterial Canal    9.5 to 10.5      40.0     34.8      3.4       1.8
Branch Canal             3.8 to 4.9       75.8     65.3      8.7       1.8
Subbranch Canal           1.8 to 4.2     103.4     92.4      2.5       8.5
Trunk Ditch               0.3 to 1.8     397.8    371.6    20.2        6.0
Farm Ditch                             1,163.1  1,110.1    44.5        8.5
Subfarm Ditch                            713.7    711.9      0.0       1.8
YANGJIA
Subbranch Canal          2.9              15.0     12.8      2.2       0.0
Trunk Ditch               0.9 to 1.4      36.0     34.2      1.3       0.5
Farm Ditch                               108.0    108.0      0.0       0.0
Subfarm Ditch                             72.0     72.0      0.0       0.0
Water Supply Pipe                         25.0       0.0     0.0      25.0
irrigation subproject counties to complement the improvement in irrigation
facilities. Agricultural support would cover extension services, research,
seeds, fertilizer and pesticides.
(a) Extension. The project would upgrade facilities at 1 County Agro-
technical Extension Center (CATEC) and 225 Township Agrotechnical
Extension Stations (TATESs), by financing construction of offices,
living accommodation (TATESs only), stores and classrooms. The
project would also finance audiovisual, laboratory, office and pest
control equipment for all 12 CATECs and 225 TATESs in the project
area to upgrade their capacity for water, soil and plant analysis,
adaptive research, extension, and technician and farmer training.
In addition, each CATEC would be provided with a pickup truck.
(b)  Seeds.  The project would strengthen the capacity of county seed
companies in the project area to produce, process and market good
quality seeds. Funds would bo provided for construction of addi-
tional seed stores, including cold storage, processing areas and



- 20 -
seed testing laboratories totaling 5,780 en. The project would
finance seed grading, drying and testing equipment and vehicles,
including 5 pickup trucks and 10 trucks (5-ton) for transporting
seed.
(c) Fertilizers and Pesticides. The project would provide for procure-
ment of 28,000 tons of potassium sulfate sufficient to meet the
estimated incremental demand for potassium fertilizer at full devel-
opment. About 240 tons of pesticides would be provided mainly for
control of insect posts and fungal diseases of rice, wheat, corn,
rapeseed and cotton. An assurance was obtained that fertilizers and
nestleides provided under the vrolect would be sold to farmers at
nrices which cover the costs of procurement. trans2ortation and dis-
tribution. Sichuan Provincial Government would establish and main-
tain a revolving fund with proceeds from the sale of inputs (par..
4.12).
Soil Conservation Comnonent
3.12      Soil Conservation Demonstration Areas.  This component includes two
demonstration areas--one in Qianjiang County, Qianjiang prefecture and the
other in Chaotian County, Guangyuan prefecture. Both areas lie in hilly to
mountainous terrain and are representative (physically and in land use types)
of the majority of the rainfed, upland agricultural areas in the project's
regions. Total project area is 199 km', of which almost 85 percent is classi-
fied as "Erosion Area"; a combination of biological and structural interven-
tions would be used to treat the erosion areas in their entirety. The focus
of the demonstrations would be on the verification and dissemination of land
use practices and technologies which provide economic alternatives to present
nonsustainable annual cropping practices. At completion it is expected that
the demonstrations would provide an expanded menu of technological options for
land management in the uplands and a trained cadre of technical staff to dis-
seminate the technologies and approaches to other priority areas of the prov-
ince.
3.13      The project would provide for procurement of tools, construction
materials and off-farm labor to construct the works summarized in Table 3.2.
Additionally, IDA would finance procurement of inputs for nurseries and estab-
lishing forestry and Lorticultural species (seed, seedlings, fertilizers and
pesticides); adaptive trials/demonstrations for forestry, pasture and hill-
slope conservation farming; training of technical extension personnel and
farmers; a monitoring system to estimate project impacts on surface runoff and
sediment loads; and technical assistance for design/supervision of trials,
demonstrations and training, including construction materials for training
centers and experiment stations, office, laboratory, training, research and
survey equipment, research and trial expenses and domestic and foreign train-
ing and study tours. The project would establish a revolving fund from loan
repayment for soil conservation activities to expand the effort to wider areas
(par.. 4.12).
3.14      Other Forestry Subnroiects.  The project would include (a) 8,700 ha
of high-quality timber trees (Paulownia and Chinese toon); (b) 6,700 ha of
fast-growing/high yielding plantations to Chinese fir, cryptomeria, pine



- 21 -
(masson, slash and loblolly) and alder treeqs (c) 6,000 ha of Sumac (two spe-
cies) for gallnut production; (d) 2,677 ha of Philodendron and Eucommia for
processing of bark into traditional herbal medicines; and (e) 1,800 ha of
Chinese alpine rush (Eulalloplsu blnats) as a raw material for paper-making.
These species are selected due to their marketability, suitability for the
climatic and ecological conditions, and the technical experience available in
the project area. IDA credit would finance seedling., fertilizer, some off-
farm labor, and tools and equipment. The project would also provide training,
agricultural support services, nurserying, marketing support and tending for
the first three years. All plantings would be done on the contour. Vetiver
would be tested for its ability to survive over winter (at higher elevations
around 1,300 meters the minimum temperatures drop below freezing point) and if
feasible, Vetiver grass contour barriers would be established. An assurance
was obtained that all plantations would conform to environmental guidelines
satisfactory to IDA. Such guidelines were established by the Ministry of
Forestry (UFO) under the National Afforestation Project (Cr. 2145-CHA).
Table 3.2:  SOIL CONSERVATION DEMONSTRATIONS:  SUMMARY OF WORKS
Area
Activity                                                              (ha)
Biological Treatments
Timber Plantings                                                   2,180
(e.g., pine, china fir, toon, cryptomeria)
Fuelwood Plantings                                                 4,610
(e.g., oak, locust, alder, coriaria)
Tree Crops                                                         2,830
(e.g., walnut, tung, mulberry, mandarin)
Land Closure                                                       4,000
(for fodder and fuelwood production)
Pasture                                                            2,210
Conservation Farming                                               1,450
(e.g., vetiver hedgerows, contour cultivation
cover cropping, intercropping)
Structural Treatments
Terracing                                                            580
Other                                                             18,860 sites
(e.g., check dams, water ponds, riverbank
protection dike, silt traps, contour and
infiltration ditches)
Income Generation ComDonent
3.15      The income generation component is targeted at extremely poor sub-
sistence farmers with presently limited options to expand Incomes. Sichuan
Province is relatively poor and the project areas include some of the poorest
areas in the province. While other project components, i.e., irrigation and



- 22 -
soil conservation, would also help poor farmers by Increasing crop yields in
general, this component is designed to help individual farmers who have lim-
ited cultivated land and presently live at subsistence level. Intensification
of crop cultivation alone would not alleviate poverty in the long term, and
thus viable alternative Income generating activities are needed to achieve
sustainable poverty alleviation. The national and provincial governments have
designated poor counties where special assistance is provided. The project
would supplement these efforts by supporting commercially viable activities
designed to exploit local comparative advantages while providing necessary
supporting services in training, technical assistance, and expansion of mar-
keting channels and means. The project would establish a revolving fund for
poverty alleviation in Qianjiang from loan repayments of the income generation
component which would be used for similar activities (para. 4.12).
3.16      Mulberry and Cocoon Production.  Investment in mulberry planting and
silk cocoon production would promote income-generating activities of individ-
ual households. The project would directly help 115,000 households in 16
counties--3 counties in Guangyuan, 10 in Nanchong and 3 in Qianjiang prefec-
tures. Table 3.3 summarizes the component's work.
Table 3.3: SERICULTURE: SUMMARY OF WORKS
Component                        Guangyuan    Nanchong    Qianjiang      Total
Sericulture-individual
households                      55,000        40,000      20,000       115,000
Silkworm Egg Breedintg Stations         -            6           1             7
Incubation Rooms                        4            2           3             9
Cooperative Rearing Rooms           1,000        1,000         450         2,450
Tech/Serv Stations                     49           20          30            99
Research/Training Centers               1            6           1             8
Cocoon Collection Centers               9            -           9            18
3.17      Development of sericulture would involve each household planting 500
mulberry trees on about 0.07 ha, and constructing a silkworm rearing room
(12 m' each); equipment would also be provided (40 rearing trays, 80 rearing
nets and 6 plastic cocooning frames each). Total area of mulberry planting
would be 7,600 ha. Two silkworm egg production stations (annual capacity of
60,000 boxes each) would be established and five would be expanded (incremen-
tal capacity of 60,000 boxes each). Total annual incremental egg production
capacity would be 420,000 boxes. IDA credit would finance quality planting
materials for mulberry and tools and equipment for silkworm rearing to improve
productivity and quality, and vehicles. Uniform and improved sericulture
standards would be adopted in all project areas.
3.18      In addition, the project would provide supporting facilities--
incubators, cooperative rearing rooms and cocoon collection centers--and
strengthen training and adaptive research. Cooperative rearing rooms would be
managed by 2,450 households specially selected to cooperatively rear young
silkworms during the early larval period of just-hatched to second day of the



- 23 -
third instar (about 11-14 days). Each cooperative rearing household would
receive 200 grafted saplings of a special mulberry variety for young silkworm
to increase yields. The silkworms would then be distributed to 40 to 60
households for commercial rearing. Cocoon production is sensitive to level of
technology and workers' skill. The project would emphasize expansion and
establishment of training facilities to disseminate the existing science and
technology to farmers. Technical service stations would provide extension and
training services to farmers, while providing inputs for mulberry and cocoon
production. Technical staff would provide technical assistance at the field
level and manage disinfection of rearing rooms and cooperative rearing. The
proposed research and training center would provide linkage between adaptive
research and field operation, train farmers and extension workers, and also
function as a pest and disease prediction center. Eighteen new cocoon collec-
tion centers with a total capacity of 60-80 tons to enhance the distribution
network, and adequate drying facilities to minimize losses and retain high
product quality, would be established.
3.19      There is virtually no minimum limit of economic scale in cocoon
production. An average silkworm rearing household in the project areas con-
sists of 4-5 members with about 0.07 ha of cultivated land per person. A
family may start cocoon production with as little as one fifth of a box of
silkworm eggs, with about 100 border-planted mulberry trees. Within three
weeks, about 5-6 kg of cocoons could be harvested with current market value of
Y 50. With Iftited cultivated land, cocoon production is one of the most
viable labor-intensive activities, as mulberry trees can be planted along
field borders. Currently, 30-40 percent of border land of the project areas
is unused and is available for mulberry planting.
3.20      Livestock. The four livestock subprojects are located in four coun-
ties of Qianjiang Prefecture. This component would establish integrated live-
stock production bases to benefit 36,100 individual poverty households by
utilizing currently underused pasture resources. To avoid excessive pressure
on the natural grassland, the project would also plant grass for grazing or
cut and carry feeding. IDA credit would finance procurement of breeding and
commercial stock, seeds, fertilizer, small equipment and tools and vehicles.
The project would also provide funds for training and grassland monitoring
equipment (Table 3.4).
3.21      Each goat-raising household would get on average 8 goats, 5 adult
and 2 young females and 1 adult male, 20 m2 of shed and about 0.27 ha of
grassland. Each household would retain some breeding female goats to build up
to a maximum of 10 females and an estimated output of 16 slaughtdr goats and
1 cull adult female per year. Goat breeding farms would start with 85 female
and 15 male pure line goats which would supply 180 progeny for sale each year;
artificial insemination services would also be supplied. A feedmill of 3,000
ton annual capacity would be established in Youyang county to provide supple-
mentary feed during winter seasons. Two training centers would be established
to further strengthen technical extension and training services, and 5 veteri-
nary stations would provide preventive and treatment services to the live-
stock.
3.22      Each goose-raising household would start with 50 geese and 0.07 ha
of grassland, and would eventually have an annual production of 50 geese for



- 24 -
Table 3.4: LIVESTOCK: SUMMARY OF WORKS
Goat-     Goat-      Goose-    Rabbit-
Item                    Unit   Youyang   Pongshui   Xiushan   Shizhu       Total
Households              no      15,000     6,100     10,000     5,000    36,100
Breoding households     no           -         -      1,250       500      1,750
Grassland               ha      4,000      1,627      1,000       367      6,994
Training center         no           1         1          1         1          4
Vet. Station            no          5          5         20        20         50
Feedmill                t/yr    3,000          -      2,000     2,000      7,000
Feed stations           no          5          -          -         -          5
sale. Specialized breeding households would start with 20 breeding geese and
0.13 ha of grassland, with an estimated annual output of 1,200 fertile eggs
per household. About 20 households would specialize in grassmeal production
and operation of goose hatcheries with annual capacity of 400 tpa of grassmeal
and 36,000 goolings per household. One central goose breeding farm would be
expanded from the present 1,000 birds capacity to produce 2,500 female and 500
male breeders per year to supply to the goose-breeding households. The proj-
ect would also establish a 2,000 tpa capacity feedmill to provide supplemen-
tary feed and improve a training center and 20 veterinary stations for better
services to households.
3.23      Each rabbit-raising household would be provided with 10 rabbits and
50 hutches which would expand to about 50 rabbits and 50 hutches by year 3.
Each household would also plant 0.07 ha of grassland for feed. Five hundred
specialized households would be established for breeding rabbits. These
households would be chosen from experienced rabbit-raising households with a
minimum of 50 rabbits. Each would start with 20 rabbits and 40 hutches and
0.07 ha of grassland. These households would provide rabbits to commercial
rabbit-raising households. The project would also expand an existing central
rabbit breeding station which would produce 1,000 pure bred rabbits with a
nucleus group and a grandparent group to supply to the specialized breeding
households. The project would also upgrade a feedmill by providing improved
grinding, mixing and feed analysis equipment. A trainins center and 20 vete-
rinary stations would also be improved.
3.24      The project would introduce a comprehensive grassland monitoring
system (GHS) to prevent overgrazing and overexploitation of natural grassland
while maintaining sustainable stocking rates of livestock to tap maximum bene-
fits from the currently underutilized natural resources. A similar system has
been tested in the Rural Credit IV project in Inner Mongolia with successful
results. The GMS would be developed based on already existing regulations on
grassland management in Sichuan Province with some modification to fit local
conditions.  The system would facilitate continuous and systematic monitoring
of grassland utilization and take timely countermeasures as necessary.  A
assurance was obtained that Sichuan would establish a OHS for Oianiiant Pre-
fecture satisfactory to IDA by June 30, 1993.



- 25 -
3.25      Tea Rehabilitation.  About 2,333 ha of low-yielding tea gardens
would be rehabilitated by removing nonproductive bushes, replanting and gap-
filling with improved varieties and increasing plant densitiee. The project
would involve 3,500 tea production householdo living at the subsistence level.
Training of farmers in Improved tea garden management and In primary proces-
sing to retain quality would be emphasized. The project would also Include
agricultural support services, rehabilitation of tea terraces and drainage
ways, a vetiver grass demonstration component and marketing support and infra-
structure. IDA funds would be used for procurement of construction material,
seedlings, fertilizer, pesticides, some off-farm labor and training for tech-
nicians and farmers.
Aaronrocessein Comoonent
3.26      The project would include six agro-industry subprojects, not includ-
ing the small feed mills under the livestock component. Five of the subproj-
ects are located in Qianjiang prefecture which would be directly integrated
with raw materials supply production bases, l.e., gost, rabbit hair and geese,
and utilize the output of farmers assisted by the project. The subprojects
would provide buildings, equipment, wastewater and effluent treatment, vehi-
cles, training and technical assistance to upgrade management skills. The
project would also provide incremental working capital for each agroprocessing
subproject. All agroprocessing subprojects are designed to produce value-
added benefits and increase employment for the project areas. An assurance
was obtained that the relevan-t 2refectural Environmental Prgotction Bureau
(EPB) under the mtuidance of the Sichuan 2rovincial EPB would anorove final
deeimns of effluent treatment facilities of each arcorocessine enterorise
oprior to beitinninat construction. and theseg egteriprisee would, under EPB super-
vision. imolement and maintain effluent monitorint and treatment systems
according to the final desians approved by the 2rovincial EPB. More details
of each agroprocessing subproject are provided in Annex 1.
3.27      Most agroprocessing plants are state-owned in China with the excep-
tion of collectively or privately owned small-scale township and village
enterprises (Tm s). In this environment, the project's objective is to ensure
that all agroprocessing plants included in the project would operate as inde-
pendent and commercial entities and would be viable. None of the products is
government controlled, and all would be traded at free market prices. Each
plant would have an Independent account with responsibility for their own
profits and losses and all have registered charters. An assurance was
obtained that Sichuan would ensure that for the two paper mills and the rabbit
bair DrocessinR 2lant. each enterorise would imolement an enterDrise reform
olan satisfactory to IDA. which would enable the enterorises to be managed
indeoendentl_ from the local suoervisory bureau. under an enterprise manater
selected by an enterDrise board of directors.
3.28      Paper and Pulp Mills.  The project would expand paper-making capa-
city of two existing paper and pulp mills by 10,200 tpa each. Pengshui paper
mill would utilize kenaf as raw material while the Mianyang mill would use
wheat straw and kenaf. These plants are considered to be medium scale which
allows for economic installation of sods recovery systems. With expansion of
these two mills, soda recovery system would be Installed for both new and
existing plants. Old plants have been operating without appropriate waste



- 26 -
treatment or soda recovery systems. In addition, Sichuan provincial govern-
ment has agreed to close down two small paper mills currently operating with-
out any wastewater treatment--one in Gaugu with capacity of 300 tpa and
another one in Yushan with 500 tpa in Pengshui County. Purthermore, Mianyang
bleached paper mill located in the center of the city would be closed before
December 31, 1994 when the new mill becomes operational and the recycled
paperboard-making unit would be closed before December 31, 1997.  This "mini"
restructuring of the local paper industry would not only increase paper pro-
duction but also achieve better environmental control of a highly polluting
industry. An assurance was obtained that Sichuan would close these three
gaper mills in accordance with timing and Procedures acceptable to IDA.
3.29       Livestock Processing.  The component includes (a) establishment of
a geese processing plant (processing capacity of 800,000 birds per annum) to
produce processed meat, feather and goose down; (b) establishment of a rabbit
hair spinning mill (400 tpa rabbit hair to produce 254 tpa of angora wool
blended yarns); and (c) rehabilitation and expansion of an existing goat and
cattle processing plant (60,000 goats and 7,000 cattle per annum). The proj-
ect would substantially improve low levels of hygiene and product quality.
All the livestock processing plants are designed to provide marketing outlets
for individual households in the areas. The rabbit hair processing plant in
Shishu city would also establish a knitting plant with 20 semimanual knitting
machines to increase value added and also to create employment for women.
Individual households, particularly women in the area, would participate in
rabbit hair preselection and grading which needs to be done manually and also
participate on a voluntary basis in hand-knitting of sweaters and other gar-
ments. About 100 individual households would receive semiautomatic knitting
machines under the project. Most of the angora wool would be geared towards
export markets. The exact blend of angora wool to wool, synthetic fibers and
silk would depend on export market demand.
3.30      Gallnut Processine.  The project would upgrade and expand an exist-
ing gallnut processing plant. The proposal is to produce annually 500 tons of
tannic acids. Gallnuts would be procured from farmers who are already produc-
ing gallnuts as well as those who would plant gall trees and produce gall-
nuts 2/ under a project-supported component. Tannic acid is often used to
tan leathers. With increasing environmental concern worldwide, natural-
substance based tannic acid is again gaining popularity compared to synthe-
tics. The project would include an adequate wastewater treatment facility and
also take precautionary measures in working areas to prevent potential inhala-
tion of intermediary powder by workers.
Training. Research and Technical Assistance
3.31      Research.  Under the irrigation component, the project would support
adaptive research, field trials and technical workshops aimed at strengthening
linkages between research and extension and increasing and sustaining produc-
21   Gallnuts are produced by introducing specific aphid species to parasitize
Sumac trees.  This induces swellings on the leaves of the Sumac (i.e.,
gallnuts), which are harvested for extraction of tannin.



- 27 -
tion under fully irrigated conditions. Research topics would include crop
rotation and cultivation techniques for paddy and nonpaddy land with emphasis
on high yielding varieties of rice, wheat, corn and rapeseed; soil fertility
improvement iucluding optimal economic fertilizer application rates; and pest
and disease control including integrated pest management (IPM) for rice,
wheat, corn, rapeseed and cotton. Research programs would be under the direc-
tion of the Mianyang and Nanchong Agriculture .esearch Institutes in coopera-
tion with the Plant Protection Station of the Sichuan Provincial Department
of Agriculture and CATEC staff. Technical workshops for CATEC staff would be
conducted at the two research institutes twice a year. Further details on
research are listed in Annex 1, Table 6.2.
3.32      Other research programs include: (a) for soil conservation, trial of
new tree and grass species, experiments with new forestry technologies, vege-
tative barriers, monitoring of soil conservation treatment impact, and grass-
land improvement; (b) for sericulture, genetic improvement of silkworms,
disease and pest control; (c) for livestock, breeding and disease control,
optimal feed formulation, and improvement in grassland monitoring and feeding
practices. Full details of specific research topics to be supported under the
project are in Annex 1, Table 6.2. In general, the research activities would
support the province's broader research goals by augmenting ongoing efforts.
Sichuan would establish a Technical Advisory Group (TAG), headed by a member
of the Project Management Office (PMO) and consisting of representatives from
the provincial level bureaus of Forestry, Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, Soil
and Water Conservancy, and relevant research institutes to provide intersec-
toral technical advice and also to review research proposals. The M.O would
review and approve proposals in consultation with TAG and manage the research
funds. IDA funds would finance technical services, materials and eqLipment
for research.
3.33      The project would provide training for (a) 1,065 persons in hydrolo-
gic analysis, irrigation system design, canal O&M, and irrigation management
and construction supervision; (b) 1,400 technicians in all project components;
and (c) over 9,400 farmer technicians and 320,000 farmers in production and
better input utilization, including training in integrated pest management and
fertilizer application for about 1,000 technicians, 4,500 farmer technicians
and 200,000 farmers. Duration of training would vary from three days for a
short course for farmers to a year for a long-term course at university. The
total trainees of the project would be over 330,000 persons with total train-
ing exceeding 1.7 million person-days. In addition, about 430 persons would
participate in domestic study tours for on-site training and 45 persons would
tour overseas for management, technical and marketing training. The IDA
credit would finance per diem tr"aining expenses for trainees. The project
would also provide funds for additional classrooms, dormitories and audiovi-
sual equipment. The project would also provide 210 person-days equivalent of
foreign technical assistance for the agroprocessing component in designing,
engineering, plant layout, initial start-up and marketing. Consultants would
be selected under terms of reference agreed with IDA and in accordance with
the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency. A summary of training, study tours and tech-
nical assistance is in Annex 1, Table 6.1. Assurances wore obtained that
la) Sichuan would ensure that all trainint. including study tours. and
research under tb.e iroject would be carried out in accordance with trainint



- 28 -
and research 2rograms agreed with IDA and (b) ths PM0 would provide an annual
Jlan to IDA for ap,roval by November 1. each year which would include a list
of uXroosed research. training and study tours for the commna yoar.
3.34      Training would primarily be conducted in Sichuan which has facili-
ties with the capacity to handle most of the proposed training program. How-
ever, some strengthening of agricultural training facilities would be provided
under the project. Furthermore, the Sichuan chapter of ACWF which is already
active in training and fighting illiteracy among women, would play a major
role in organizing and training women farmers and entrepreneurs in the project
area. To overcome a traditional bias against women in receiving training, the
project would pay special emphasis to training women; a minimum of 50 percent
of farmers and 20 percent of technicians to be trained under the project would
be women (para. 6.4).
D. Status of Preparation
3.35      The project is at an advanced stage of preparation.  Preliminary
design work on the three irrigation subprojects has been completed and field
surveys of canal and tunnel alignments have been made. Detailed designs for
the SP are 90 percent complete. For the WP and YP, designs with drawings
sufficient to cover approximately two years construction have been completed.
Feasibility studies have been prepared for all subprojects, and designs are
generally at an advanced stage. For agroprocessing, detailed plant and con-
struction drawings would be produced and reviewed by the provincial Bureau of
Light Industry and the EPB. Design institutes already involved in design and
preparation of the feasibility studies would also write the technical specifi-
cations for the tendering agencies, and would discuss them with IDA during
supervision. Preliminary designs for livestock facilities, e.g., sheds,
breeding farms, and training and support service facilities, have been com-
pleted and the selection criteria for beneficiary households finalized. Site
selection and preliminary design, and preparation of the technical assistance
program have been completed for the soil conservation, forestry and sericul-
ture components, with relevant technical bureaus and the Sichuan Provincial
Silk Corporation as the main coordinators.
E. Imulementation Schedule
3.36      The project would be implemented over a period of six years begin-
ning mid-1992 with completion in December 1998. A detailed implementation
schedule for all components is given in Chart 1. For the irrigation compo-
nent, the civil works of the three irrigation subprojects are scheduled to be
completed and go into operation within a six-year period. For each irrigation
system, construction would proceed in a downstream direction with concurrent
work on main canals and smaller canals in the upper reaches of the subproject
areas. The construction sequencing has been carefully selected to bring lands
into the service area as early as possible and to maintain a rather uniform
rate of additional lands being served each year. Some areas would benefit
from the supplemental supplies as early as the first year.
3.37      In all three irrigation areas, there are civil works under active
construction which are vital for providing water to the project-financed com-



- 29 -
ponents. This ongoing construction is locally funded by Sichuan, respective
prefectural and county governments. Sichuan would ensure adequate funding,
high-quality control and timely completion of these work. so as not to impede
water delivery to the downstream canals financed under the project.
3.38      The soil conservation component would be implemented over five years
with the exception of the medicinal plants, alpine rush and tea rehabilitation
which would be completed in three to four years. Design and preparation work
for all subprojects should be sufficiently complete for start-up by July 1,
1992. The livestock and sericulture subprojects would be implemented over
three years while establishment of supporting and training services for seri-
culture would be phased over four years. Construction and commissioning of
all processing plants would be implemented over three years, and timing of the
three livestock processing plants would be coordinated with implementation of
the livestock production subprojects. The proposed schedule is feasible and
conservative.
P. Cost Estimates
3.39      The total project cost is estimated at $287.6 million with a foreign
exchange component of $85.5 million, for which an IDA credit of $147 million
is proposed. These costs include no significant tax element with the excep-
tion of a construction tax for selected civil works; imported materials or
equipment are exempt from duties for Bank projects. Cost estimates are based
on detailed preliminary designs and unit prices currently prevailing for simi-
lar construction work and materials in the province along with machinery and
equipment price lists from local and international sources. Physical contin-
gencies are 10 percent for irrigation system civil works, 5 percent for equip-
ment, materials and machinery. Price contingencies for both foreign and local
costs, when expressed in US dollars, are based on annual international price
escalation rates for all goods and services of 3.9 percent for 1991-2000, and
when expressed in Yuan are based on price escalation rates of 6 percent for
1992, 5 percent for 1993-98.   Estimated costs are summarized in Table 3.5
below and detailed in Annex 2.



- 30 -
Table 3.5s PROJECT COST SUDMARY
Local  Foreign  Total    Local Foreign Total   1 Foreign S Base
----- C( mllllon) -----    .--- S mllio) ----   ocbhange   cost
Irrination
SP                      228.7   77.2    305.9    42.5  14.3    56.9         25       24
VP                      370.7  136.1    506.8    68.9  25.3    94.2         27       39
YP                       20.5    5.5     26.0      3.8   1.0     4.8        i5        2
Agric. Support           22.2   35.4     57.7      4.1   6.6    10.7        61        4
Boll ConservatIon
Soil Dgmoantration       21.2    5.4     26.6      3.9   1.0     4.9        20        2
Forestry                 46.4    9.8     56.2     8.6   1.8    10.4         18        4
Income Generatlon
Sericulture              62.5   19.9     82.4    11.6   3.7    15.3         24        6
Tea Rehab.                3.9    1.7      5.6     0.7   0.3      1.0        30        0
Livestock                23.8    7.0     30.7     4.4   1.3      5.7        23        2
Aarourocgesina            94.6  106.9    201.5    17.6  19.9    37.5         53        16
Total Base Cost      894.5  404.9  1.299.4   166.3   S.2   24.5J         31      1
physical Contingencies    65.5   33.0      98.5    12.2   6.1    18.3        33         8
Price Contingecies        127.3   22.3    149.6    23.7   4.1    27.8        15        12
Total Pro1ect Cost  1.087.3  460.l  1.547.4   202.1  85.5   287.6        30      119
G. Financint
3.40       The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 107.7 million ($147 million equiva-
lent) would cover 51 percent of the project cost. The remaining 49 percent is
to be financed by local sources as summarized in Table 3.6.
Ta le 3 6:  PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
$ Mlillion)
Sources                                              Total                    2 of Total
IDA                                                  147.0                        51.1
Central Government                                    17.0                         5.9
Provincial/Prefecture Govts.                          45.5                        15.8
County Governments                                    19.0                         6.6
Local Banks                                            9.0                         3.1
Special Poverty Alleviation Funds                     10.0                         3.5
Enterprises and Farmers                               40.1                        13.9
Total                                          287.6                       100.0
3.41       The governments at each level would be responsible to provide coun-
terpart funding for the activities in their jurisdiction. These funds would
come from budgetary allocations from the central, provincial, prefecture and
county governments, special poverty alleviation funds (both grants and loans),



- 31 -
local bank loan., and self-contribution by enterprises and farmers themselves.
The information on sources and amounts for counterpart funding is given in
Anne3 1, Table 5.
H. Procurement
3.42      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.7.
Zible 3.7: PROCUREHENT PROFILE
($ million)
Project Element               ICB        LCB      Other         NIP       Total
Land                          -                      -         12.8         12.8
(0.0)       (0.0)
Civil Works                  39.4       82.8       52.2LS       -          174.4
(19.3)     (40.6)     (15.3)                  (75.2)
Materials                    12.7        1.6        10.1        -           24.4
(12.7)      (1.6)      (8.1)                  (22.4)
Machinery & Equipment        25.0        7.0        11.8        -           43.7
(25.0)      (6.8)      (9.4)                  (41.2)
Vehicles                      4.5        -           -          0.1          4.5
(4.5)                             (0.0)       (4.5)
Training                      -          -           3.1        _           3.1
(3.1)                  (3.1)
Technical Assistance lb       -          -           0.3        _           0.3
(0.3)                  (0.3)
Research                      -          -          0.4         -           0.4
(0.3)                  (0.3)
Design, Engineering           -          -           -          8.0         8.0
and Management                                               (0.0)       (0.0)
Farm Labor                    -          -           -          9.5         9.5
(0.0)       (0.0)
Working Capital               -          -           -          5.6         5.6
(0.0)       (0.0)
Construction Tax              -          -           -          1.0          1.0
(0.0)       (0.0)
Tot&l                  81.6        91.3       77.9        36.8       287.6
(61.5)    {(49.0)     (36.5)       (0.0)     (147.0)
La By force account.
lb  Services would be procured in accordance with World Bank Guidelines.
Notes  Figures In parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
NIP: Not IDA financed.
3.43      Whoks.  Civil work. contracts with estimated costs of $10 million or
more will be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) proce-
dures. Two packages for the Fusi Arterial Canal (totaling $39.4 million) meet



- 32 -
that criterion and are scheduled for ICB. Qualified domestic contractors
would be eligible for a 7.5 percent preference in bid evaluation. The major
works for the diversion, storage and a portion of the main canals in the
upstream of the project areas have been completed and construction is already
under way in the segments of the main canals just ahead of the works included
in the project. Works included in the project are dispersed among three irri-
gation systems and their design incorporates the maximum utilization of local
materials (e.g., sandstone blocks for canal lining) and inexpensive but
skilled local labor. The technology, though labor-intensive and traditional,
has been proven effective for the area. Due to use of local materials, labor-
intensive construction methods and remote and scattered construction sites,
most of this work would not be of interest to foreign construction companies.
As a result, about $82.8 million of civil works would be procured through
local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to IDA for construction
of the majority of the buildings, pumping stations, canals, tunnels and con-
veyance and control structures. Even though foreign competition is not anti-
cipated, foreign firms would be allowed to participate in LCB. About one
third of total civil works, i.e, irrigation system laterals and sublateral
canals, rural roads, afforestation and other on-farm works, would be carried
out by local labor forces (generally farmers) mobilized by counties and town-
ships. These works are too small and widely scattered to be suitable for
competitive contracting. Force account procurement for these categories of
works would not exceed $52.2 million.
3.44      Goods.  Equipment, materials and vehicles to be procured under the
project are estimated to cost $72.6 million. Packages larger than $200,000
would be procured through ICB. Steel, fertilizer, vehicles, turbines, and
major agroprocessing equipment (total value of $42.2 million or 58 percent of
all goods) would be procured through ICB. Passenger vehicles would be
financed by local funds. Domestic manufacturers would receive a margin of
preference equal to 15 percent of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or the
actual import duties, whichever is the lesser in the evaluation of ICB bids.
3.45      Small agricultural machinery, pumps, utility and training equipment,
and spare parts (total $7 million) would be procured through LCB procedures
acceptable to IDA in which foreign suppliers may participate. Cement and
phosphate (total of $1.5 million or 2 percent of the goods) would also be
procured through LCB. Due to the need to supply small batches of cement to
numerous scattered force account sites over the entire implementation period
and the limited handling and storage capacity in the project area, the PHO
would annually place blanket orders from cement suppliers and manufacturers
with indefinite quantity and delivery terms.
3.46      The remainder of the goods (about $21.9 million) will be procured
through limited internrtional bidding (LIB) or shopping. LIB will be used to
procure pesticides, cowr:ters, and other office equipment (total of $4.5 mil-
lion). There are only a limited number of suppliers of these specialized
items who could offer competitive prices, therefore ICB would not be the most
economic and efficient method of procurement. Small quantities of equipment,
instruments, miscellaneous goods, planting materials and breeding stock for
livestock (total of $17.4 million) would be procured through domestic shopping
under contracts not exceeding $50,000.



- 33 -
3.47      Trainina. Technical Assistance. and Research.  Training, technical
assistance and research (about $3.8 million) would be carried out based on
programs to be agreed with IDA. Consultants for training and technical assis-
tance would be employed in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines for Use of
Consultants.
3.48      IDA Review.  Bidding documents for goods packages in excess of
$200,000 and works packages in excess of $2,000,000 would be subject to prior
review by IDA. This review would cover approximately 13 works contracts
(53 percent of total works by value) and 14 goods packages (about 70 percent
of total goods by value) over the six-year implementation period. Standard
bidding docmaents agreed between the GOC and IDA would be used in preparing
bid documents. All reimbursable training and technical assistance programs
would be subject to prior IDA review. Other contracts would be subject to
selective review after bid awards. Sichuan has appointed China National
Machinery Import and Export Corporation to assist them in ICB procurement;
this corporation has procurement experience in Bank Group projects and is
acceptable to IDA.
I. Disbursements
3.49      Disbursements for machinery, equipment, vehicles and materials would
be made against 100 percent of the foreign expenditures of directly imported
items, 100 percent of the ex-factory pric, of locally manufactured items, and
against 75 percent of expenditures for other items procured locally. Dis-
bursement for civil works would be against 50 percent of total expenditures
except those on force account, e.g., local civil works for irrigation laterals
and sublaterals, rural roads, afforestation and on-farm works, would be made
against 30 percent of total expenditures. Civil works contacts on force
accouzt would exclude the cost of separately procured cement and steel and
others would exclude the cost of steel. Disbursements for training and con-
sultant services would be made against 100 percent of total expenditures. To
take advantage of labor availability during the slack period of farming activ-
ities in the 1991/92 winter season, retroactive financing (up to a limit of
$14 million equivalent) for upstream canal contracts, on-farm works, minor
structures, rural roads, land improvement, afforestation work, planting mate-
rials, and training would be permitted for expenditures incurred after Janu-
ary 1, 1992 and before signing of the Credit Agreement.
3.50      Statements of expenditures (SOEs) would be required for disbursement
to be made against training, study tours, contracts for goods and works cost-
ing less than $200,000, and force account work. SOEs for civil works carried
out by force account on irrigation and drainage,, on-farm works, rural roads,
land improvement and afforestation are to be supported by progress reports
showing physical quantities and unit prices, the latter updated annually and
reviewed by IDA.
3.51      To facilitate disbursements, IDA would provide funds to Sichuan
Province to establish a Special Account in a bank acceptable to IDA. This
Special Account would be maintained in US dollars and operated by the Provin-
cial PMO. The authorized allocation to the Special Account would be $7 mil-
lion. The Provincial PHO would prepare and submit applications for replenish-
ment of the Special Account monthly or whenever the account has been drawn



- 34 -
down to half of its initial deposit amount, whichever comes first. The proj-
ect is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998 and to close on December
31, 1999. Disbursements for agricultural projects in China have been better
than average for the Bank and the Asia Region. The disbursement of the proj-
ect would be slightly slower than the average disbursement profile for the
agricultural sector in China since the project involves large scale construc-
tion and would be implemented over six years. The estimated schedule of dis-
bursements is given in Annex 4.
J. Accounts and Audits
3.52      County Project Offices (POs) would maintain records of all project
expenditures. These records would be forwarded regularly to the provincial
PMO, who would consolidate the accounts of expenditures and submit them to
IDA. At negotiations, assurances were obtained from Sichuan Provincial Gov-
ernment that the PMO would maintain consolidated project accounts which would
be audited by an independent auditor. The Provincial Audit Bureau would be
acceptable for this purpose. An assurance was obtained that the audited
accounts would be submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each
fiscal Year.  The audited accounts a.e to include details on withdrawals from
the Credit account made on the basis of SOEs, and the auditors' opinion as to
whether such withdrawals were made against expenditures eligible for reim-
bursement by IDA.
K. Environmental Impact
3.53      A detailed and comprehensive environmental impact assessment (EIA)
of the project has been carried out by the Sichuan Research Institute of Envi-
ronmental Protection (SRIEP). The report was reviewed by IDA and revised by
SRIEP based on IDA's comments and recommendations. A proposed plan and budget
for the monitoring and mitigation of project (potential) impacts has been
submitted to IDA for review, and agreement was reached at negotiations as to
its funding and implementation. The tentative budget for the Environmental
Management Plan (EIP) is Y 1.5 million. These funds would be utilized to hire
expert consultants to review designs and mitigating measures, to provide tech-
nical training to county and prefectural-level monitoring station staff, and
to provide continuing support for monitoring of project impacts. An assurance
was obtained that Sichuan would imolement the EMP as atreed with IDA and
ensure that all urolect activities would conform to environmental standards
and auidelines. includint the environmental reaulations and auidelines issued
bv the National Environmental Protection Agency and its Provincial Environmen-
tal Protection Bureau. accentable to IDA.
3.54      The ETA concluded that the overall impact of the project would be
positive. The soil conservation, forestry and livestock subcomponents would
establish sustainable resource management systems and reverse some of the
negative trends and impacts associated with soil loss and inappropriate
exploitation of upland resources. The main, potential sources of the proj-
ect's negative impacts have been identified as the effluent that would be
generated by the agroprocessing subcomponents and the increased use of agro-
chemicals associated with intensification of agriculture in the irrigation
areas.



- 35 -
3.55      The measures to be taken to avoid or mitigate negative impacts from
the project's main sources of concern are:
(a)  Agronrocessint and Paper Mill Subcomyonents. Adequate budgetary
provision has been made within each subcomponent to construct waste
treatment facilities at each location. Under the EMP, funds are
provided for expert review of waste treatment facility design, to
monitor the operation of the treatment facilities, to monitor efflu-
ent from the plants, and to monitor water quality downstream of the
plants. In addition, Sichuan provincial government agreed to close
down two small paper mills currently operating without any waste-
water treatment in Pengshui as well as a bleached paper mill and a
recycled paperboard making unit in Mianyang city when the new mill
comes into operation (para. 3.28); and
(b)  Increased Usaae of ARrochemicals.  The project would strengthen
agricultural support services including training of technicians and
farmers in established techniques of IPM and proper handling/use of
pesticides, procurement of pesticides with lesser environmental
Impacts, support to agronomic research in IPM, and fertilizer trials
to rationalize application rates. An assurance was obtained that
2esticides to be nrovided under the nroiect would be anproved bv IDA
and that Bank Groun atuidelines on storage, handlina., distribution
and use would be followed.
3.56      A total of 132 households (564 persons) from two villages would be
involuntarily resettled as a consequence of the Yangjiaba dam construction.
Although the dam is not part of the proposed project, IDA has agreed with the
Sichuan Provincial Government that the resettlement be carried out according
to the provincial resettlement standards already in place and that these
people would receive adequate compensation acceptable to IDA. An assurance
was obtained that Sichuan would ensure that the resettlement of 2ersons
affected by the construction of the dam connected with the Yanaliaba irrila-
tion scheme would be carried out in accordance with a resettlement Plan aareed
with IDA.
3.57      A more detailed discussion of the LIA and the proposed EMP are found
in Annex 9. A full EIA report is available in the project file.



- 36 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Proiect Coordination and Manatement
4.1       The Sichuan Provincial Government (SPG) has overall responsibility
for the project. The management structure would replicate that used for other
Bank-Group-financed provincial agricultural development projects, i.e., a
Leading Group (LO) and Project Management Office (PMO) at the provincial level
and project offices (POs) at the prefecture and county levels.
4.2       Leadina Grouns.  The SPG has established a provincial leading group
(PLO), chaired by the Vice-Governor in charge of agriculture and assisted by
representatives from the provincial Water Conservancy, Agriculture, Animal
Husbandry, Light Industry, and Finance Bureaus, the provincial Planning Com-
mission, Department of Textiles, Sichuan Provincial Silk Corporation, Sichuan
chapter of the All China Women's Federation, Agricultural Bank of China, and
Peoples' Construction Bank of China. The main responsibilities of the PLG
would be to organize counterpart funding, formulate project-related policies
and plane, review and resolve major issues related to the project and enlist
support of other relevant agencies. The PLC would make policy decisions on
matters related to the project, monitor progress on project implementation and
financing and resolve any policy issues which may arise. The PLG would coor-
dinate the activities of other agencies, approve annual work programs and
budget, and provide guidance to the provincial-level PMO. It would also keep
the provincial government apprised of the overall progress of implementation.
At the prefecture and county levels, similar leading groups would be estab-
lished. An assurance was obtained that a orolect leading aroun at each of the
Provincial. vrefecture and counts levels included in the nroiect would be
maintained with composition and resoonsibilities acceptable to IDA.
4.3       Proiect Manatement Office<.  The Provincial Project Management Office
has been established with overall responsibility for project implementation
while coordinating activities with relevant technical bureaus. The P1O has
presently 20 staff (16 full-time and 4 part-time staff) recruited from the
Water Conservancy Bureau, Water Conservancy Design Institute, and Agriculture,
Animal Husbandry, Forestry, Light Industry, Textile and Finance Bureaus and
Sichuan Silk Corporation, and plans and supervises the implementation of all
the components. Project offices have already been established at the prefec-
ture and county levels to plan and implement the on-farm development, land
allocation and agriculture development program and to monitor and evaluate
progress. There are a total of 31 POs which would ultimately have a staff of
240. Project management staff would interact with staff from relevant techni-
cal bureaus during project Implementation for technical advice. An assurance
was obtained at negotiations that a nroiect manatement office at the 2rovin-
clal level with functions and responsibilities acceotable to IDA would be
maintained and staffed with comnetent staff in adeauate numbers.
4.4       The Sichuan chapter of ACWF would be represented In the Provincial
LO and In project management offices (provincial, prefectural and county
levels) for Increased Involvement of women in project management, beneficiary
household selection and training of women. ACWF, which Is already active in
training and educating women, would play a significant role in organizing and



- 37 -
training women farmers and entrepreneurs in the project area. For example,
ACWF would help organize cooperatives of women for rabbit hair processing
(carding, sorting and cleaning, and knitting) and marketing, and organize and
train female-headed households in small holding livestock production and mul-
berry and cocoon production. A representative of the Sichuan chapter of ACWF
would be included in the Provincial Leading Group and in project management
offices for increased involvement in project management, beneficiary household
selection and to organize training of women farmers and entrepreneurs.
B. Execution of Proiect Works
4.5       The Provincial PM0 would have overall responsibility for planning,
coordinating and supervising the construction of project civil works and
establishing the operation and maintenance system. The Provincial Water Con-
servancy Bureau (WCB) would play the key role in design, preparation of bid
documents, construction supervision and training of operations and maintenance
staff. The Provincial Bureau of Animal Husbandry would be responsible for
design and supervision of the livestock subcomponent.
4.6       Major LCB contracts for civil works for irrigation, soil conserva-
tion and agroprocessing plants would be signed between construction companies
and the PM0, which would be responsible for coordinating construction supervi-
sion. County governments would organize local farmers for carrying out earth
works, building small structures, land levelling, land development and tree
planting. The county project offices assisted and supervised by the PM0 and
Provincial WCB would be responsible for survey, design, preparation of bid
documents, procurement of materials and construction supervision of on-farm
development works. They would work closely with county and township govern-
ments to ensure that land allocation had been completed well before on-farm
development work commenced. This would ensure that existing land holders and
contractors could contribute to final design to suit the proposed cropping
pattern and contribute labor. At the county level, the water conservancy and
agriculture bureaus would be responsible for survey, design and supervising
implementation of the on-farm development and soil improvement program. The
materials and equipment sections of these county bureaus would be responsible
for procurement, preparation of bid documents and award of contracts for on-
farm development works, soil improvement and agriculture components. An
assurance was obtained that Sichuan would. by December 15 of each year. pre-
vare and furnish to IDA for review an annual detailed work plan and report of
the schedule and financing arranpements. includint a statement of proposed
annual counter2art fundina. for proiect implementation for the followina year.
C. Manatement of Production Activities
4.7       Crops and Livestock.  The provincial bureau of agriculture is
responsible for formulating agricultural policy, planning and administering
provincial production programs and providing technical support and training.
Bureau staff at prefecture/municipality and county levels would be responsible
for implementation of project production activities under the overall direc-
tion of the P10. The county seed companies which operate as autonomous units
under the county agricultural bureaus would be responsible for project area
seed requirements. Fertilizers and pesticides would be sold primarily through



- 38 -
the prefecture and county branches of the Supply and Marketing Corporation
(SMC).
4.8       Soil Conservation.  The department of Soil Conservancy under WCB
vould be responsible for providing all technical inputs related to soil con-
servation. County level soil conservation offices would carry out project
design, construction supervision, training, extension and contracting of tech-
nical assistance, preparation of annual budgets, and project monitoring and
reporting. Township technical stations would implement all project activities
and provide technical assistance and supervision at the farm level. All works
carried out, both on and off-farm, would be done under contracts with the
participating project households and the township technical stations.
4.9       Sericulture.  Sichuan Provincial Silk Corporation (SPSC), under the
jurisdiction of China National Silk Import and Export Corporation (CNSIEC),
would oversee all activities related to cocoon and silk production and trade
in Sichuan. SPSC would be responsible for project design, selection of sites
and beneficiaries, management of subproject implementation at prefecture and
county levels through its branch offices and for technical support including
provision of technical and production inputs, training, and marketing of
cocoons. On research, SPSC would coordinate with the Sericulture Institute of
Sichuan Agriculture Academy of Science, Department of Sericulture Sciences,
Southwest Agricultural University and Nanchong Silk School.
4.10      Agro2rocessinx.  The Sichuan Light Industry Bureau would be respon-
sible for technical designs and layout plans for the agroprocessing plants.
Under the guidance of the Frovincial EPB, the relevant prefecture EPB would
also review the environmental waste system to be included in the project.
Each plant would be owned by county or township governments, but independently
operated with responsibility for its own profits and losses.
D. Financial Manaaement
4.11      Flow of Funds.  In conformity with Chinese Government practice,
proceeds of the IDA credit would be onlent to Sichuan Province at an interest
rate of 5 percent with a repayment period of 15 years, including a five-year
grace period.  The foreign exchange risk wouid be borne by the province.  The
Sichuan Bureau of Finance (BOF), representing the provincial government, would
channel these funds to prefectural governments. The prefectural BOF would
pass on part of the project funds to POs at prefecture ait county levels for
public works, research, training and extension works and onlend the other part
through fiscal or fliancial entities to enterprises and farmers. The Agricul-
tural Bank of China (ABC) and People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC) would
act as financial agents for onlending purposes and would not bear any credit
risk. Onlending to farmers and enterprises would be only for activities that
havy been appraised and approved by the PMO. An assurance was obtained that
the proceeds of the Credit would be made available to farmers and enterprises
under the orolect by ABC or PCBC under arrantements satisfactorv to IDA in the
form of loans bearing interest at rates no less than the urevailint rate
charted by ABC for limilar loans for similar nurDoses.  For the subprojects
located in poverty counties, the actual grace periods of loans would be
lengthened as necessary to reduce financial burdens based on projected cash
flows for each final beneficiary. A Project Agreement incorporating all proj-



- 39 -
ect terms and conditions would be signed between IDA and Sichuan Province.
State Council approval of the Development Credit Agreement would be a condi-
tion of effectiveness of the Credit.
4.12      The project would also establish three revolving fund.:  (a) a work-
ing capital revolving fund for procurement of fertilizer, pesticides and agri-
cultural inputs (para. 3.11(c)]; (b) a soil conservation revolving fund (para.
3.13); and (c) a poverty alleviation fund (para. 3.15). The source, sustaina-
bility and management of the funds and selection criteria of beneficiaries
were confirmed at negotiations. An assurance was obtained that Sichuan would
establish and operate these revolvina funds in accordance with grocedures
satisfactory to IDA.
4.13      Cost Recovery.  Full recovery of the IDA portion of total project
funding would be the responsibility of the Bureaus of Finance (BOFs) at the
prefectural and county levels. Counties would repay prefectures, which would
repay the province, which in return would repay MOF for the use of the IDA
credit. All investment costs except grants (e.g., poverty alleviation grant,
etc.) would be repaid by project participants. For recovery of irrigation
investments, present policies and regulations for water charges vary from one
prefecture and county to another. The water charges are designed to cover at
least 100 percent of the O&M costs and possibly part of the capital investment
over the project period of 30 years. In most cases, the charges are set for
payment in kind, usually rice. Due to the wide variation in water volumetric
delivery from year to year, the water charges are structured into two compo-
nents--a base charge assessed by unit of land area served and a volumetric
rate for actual water used above a basic allocation. At present, the base
charge rate is 180 kg of paddy per ha and various lesser charges for other
crops. In addition, there are revenues from power generation and aquaculture
production in reservoirs, which would also contribute towards cost recovery.
An assurance was obtained that Sichuan would collect water charaes at rates to
be revised Deriodicallv as necessarY to meet at least the full annual onera-
tion and maintenance costs of the comipleted irriaation schemes.
E. Irriaation System ODeration and Maintenance
4.14      Each irrigation subproject would have an independent irrigation
management office (DMO) which would set up O&M organizations and facilities
including: establishment of O&M offices, operations and maintenance centers,
equipment service centers, and maintenance materials yards; selection, assign-
ment and training of personnel; and procurement of the necessary O&M equipment
for each of the three irrigation subprojects. SP and WP each have their own
IMO already in operation and a new one would be established for the YP sub-
project.  Each IMO would be responsible for budgeting, revenue collection
(from water charges as well as other operational incomes, e.g., power, fish-
ery, etc.), and coordinating the work program of all OM offices in each irri-
gation scheme. OM of the irrigation system down to the trunk ditch level
would be handled by these TMOs, and those of the trunk ditch systesm and below
would be the responsibility of the respective counties, townships and vil-
lages.



- 40 -
4.15      Ooeration.  The new distribution systems for the WP, YP, and SP sub-
projects would be fully integrated with all existing reservoirs and ponds.
However, due to the high variability of the water sources, these systems would
require careful operation to achieve the planned benefits. Advantage would be
taken of advanced simulation techniques to assist with planning and training
for operation. Such models would provide, as their main use, assistance with
long-term operational planning, yet they can also assist with day-to-day oper-
ating decisions. Statistical forecasting, in conjunction with model opera-
tion, would assist in planning the range of cropping options at the start of
each year.   The organization and communications capability of the operations
personnel would be tailored to provide rapid response to localized water
shortages and quickly changing water supply and demand over the subproject
areas. The training programs would be directed toward upgrading the capabil-
ity of canal operators. The operations staff would also be involved in water
measurement and record-keeping to support cost recovery activities. Most of
the actual collection of commodities for payment would be carried out by the
local Grain Bureaus who would convert the receipts to monetary payments.
4.16      Maintenance.  The most critical period of maintaining an irrigation
system is during the first five years of operation. The maintenance center
under each DMO would carefully monitor the initial performance of the canals
and devise regular programs for the first line maintenance activities. The
maintenance centers would be constructed and the basic equipment procured
under the project according to the phasing of the irrigation subprojects.
4.17     A Plan of Oleration and Maintenance (POM) would be prepared as part
of the project for each irrigation scheme which would outline the long-term
O&M program. The POM would document more detailed organization charts of
operations, maintenance and administrative staff for each subproject. The POM
would give the responsibilities for each post and the portion of the project
facilities and areas to be assigned to various O&M offices. The rules and
regulations for operation and procedures for responding to requests for water
supply would be outlined. Of particular importance would be the policies that
govern operations and allocations of limited supplies in an extreme drought
situation. As the construction is completed and turned over to the O&M cen-
ters, there would be a companion supplying of a complete set of "as built"
drawings of the completed works from the design units. The equipment and
offices required for the complete subproject would be outlined in the PON,
some of which would be provided under the project. The annual scheduled main-
tenance requirements in detail, together with cost estimating and budgeting
procedures, would be presented to guide in the annual process of allocating
funds for system O&M. An assurance was obtained that the POMe would be com-
nileted and furnished to IDA for its apgroval by Ausust 1. 1993.
F. Proiect Launch Workshoo
4.18      To organize and initiate project implementation, IDA and local staff
would conduct a Project Launch Workshop in Chengdu no later than three months
after Board approval of the IDA credit for staff of the provincial, pre-
fectural and county project offices. The purpose of the workshop would be to
review the total program for implementation and to clarify tasks and responsi-
bilities at each level. Topics would include IDA procurement and disbursement



- 41 -
guidelines and procedures, financial management, supervision, and monitoring
and evaluation.
G. Monitorina. Evaluation and Renorting
4.19      The provincial, prefectural and county offices and their Monitoring
and Evaluation (M&E) units would be responsible for monitoring project prog-
ress, and would evaluate the project's economic and financial benefits for
each component and the project's overall impact. They would keep a current
account of the physical and financial progress of each of the project compo-
nents to compare with management projections. Physical indicators would
include: the kilometers of irrigation and drainage system and service roads
completed; the area of on-farm works and soil improvement completed; the
impact of project interventions on soil loss, runoff and crop yield as mea-
sured by monitoring stations in the soil conservation demonstration areas; the
area (in m2) of construction completed for project buildings; the procurement
of construction materials, vehicles and equipment; the procurement and distri-
bution of fertilizers, agrochemicals and planting material; the area under
irrigated cropping and the planted area and average yield of project area
crops. Financial monitoring would track actual expenditures against projected
expenditures and claims for disbursement against credit proceeds for each
project component. They would also check collection of land and production
taxes and water charges to compare with planned collection. The county POs
would submit the information to prefecture POs, who would submit the informa-
tion to the Provincial PMO in December and June of each year. During the
first two years of implementation, the project office with the assistance of
county agroeconomic and cost of production survey units would conduct a base-
line survey on a random sample of existing village households both within and
outside the project areas to check farm size, cropping patterns, use of labor
and inputs, yield of major crops and other important farm activities, and
total farm household incomes and expenditure to measure the project's Impact.
Repeat surveys in 1995 and 1998 on the same sample plus any new households
would provide a sound basis for assessing the Impact of the project on farm
production and income. The above M&E system would provide the basis to pre-
pare a project completion report by the PMO, for submission to IDA no later
than six months following the closing date. A list of key monitoring indica-
tors for physical progress and project expenditures and a plan for IDA super-
vision are given in Annex 7.



- 42 -
V. PRODUCTION. MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Production
5.1      Under the project, crop output would increase substantially through
significantly higher crop yields and a moderate increase in planted area. At
full development, production would increase by 311,000 tons of paddy, 129,000
tons of wheat, 21,300 tons of beans and peas, 30,500 tons of rapeseed, and
about 15,000 tons of other cash crops. The annual sown area would increase by
34,000 ha and cropping intensity would increase from 185 percent to 210 per-
cent. The area planted to rice, wheat and rapeseed would increase while that
of corn and sweet potatoes would decrease. Improvements in water availability
and irrigation delivery systems would enable a higher cropping intensity and
would be the main factor contributing to higher crop yields. Increased provi-
sion of inputs and strengthened research, extension and training programs
would also contribute to raising yields. As a result of the project, yields
of major crops are projected to increase as follows: rice 20 percent, wheat
33 percent, rapeseed 47 percent and corn 50 percent. Production and yields of
the main crops grown under the irrigation component are summarized in Table
5.1. These yields are considered achievable since they are in line with
yields already being achieved under similar conditions on large areas of fully
irrigated land adjacent to the project. Rice yields are for lowland paddy
rice where hybrid varieties are grown exclusively as a summer crop in rotation
with wheat or rapeseed. Under these conditions, rice yields in Sichuan are
among the highest in China. Full development would be achieved five years
following completion of project works.
Table 5.1  IRRIGCATION CONFORt.   t 07* OFP
T1vWelopuent Output With ed Vithout Project)
Ithout Pro1ect      Iith Protect              lentel
cre-  x     1W9QuQro 3cVucou  area  x s&c  8rmonUoO  ree a LECraL roaiaroii
('000 ha)   (tlba)   ('000 to"s)   ('000 ha)   (tlha)   ('000 tons)   (0000 ha)   (tlb&)   ('000 tone)
Paddy           56.3  6.9   367.8   63.5  8.3   698.4   27.2  1.5   310.6
Ubeat       58.9~~~~S  3.  7.6  7.    40    339     1I.9  1.    119.
Coro            33.2  3.0   105. 9  22 .8  4.5  103.7  .12.4  1.5   -2.2
Sweet potato    2339  29     9.     16.1  3.7   60.    .17.8  : 0.8 .394
Beane &Pe"      12.1  1.     17.4   1864  2.1   38.7    6     0.7   21 3
Rapeseed        31.5  1.5    46.7   34.9  2.2   77.2     3.4  n.7   30.5
PRaet.          2.7   1.5    4.1     3.0  2.2    6.6    0.3   0.7    2.5
Cotton           8.1  0.5    4.6     8.3   0.8   6.7     0.3  0.3    2.1
Other cash crops  12.1              21.7                 9.6
Total crop       area  250.7         264.5               33.8
Total cuivated are  135.2            135.2
Naaltlcropp2ag indes  183Z           2101
notes  Other cash crops  nclude ka"f, vegetables. etc.
5.2      Under the soil conservation component, an additional 164 ha of
annual crop land would be brought into production through increased cropping
intensity, and an additional 11,769 ha of timber, fuelwood, tree crops, and
pasture would be established. The projected yield increases for annual crops
would be readily achievable; projected yields from tree and grass planting are
based on current yields in the project areas and are likely to be exceeded
given the improved practices to be introduced under the project. At full
development, the forestry subproject would produce a total of 2.2 million m'



- 43 -
of timber and 455,200 tons of fuelwood,l/ alleviating a shortage of commer-
cial timber in the project area and providing increased Income to farmers. At
full development, annual production of gallnut would be about 1,440 tons,
woody medicine 2,000 tons and alpine rush 8,100 tons.
5.3       The project would also assist 115,000 households to plant mulberry
on 7,600 ha, which at full development would produce over 205,000 tons of mul-
berry leaves sufficient to produce 1,116 tons of fresh cocoons. About 36,100
individual households would establish small livestock raising enterprises
which would produce about 1.9 million head of rabbits, goats, and geese, which
would be either sold live or to neighboring processing plants. Six agropro-
cessing plants supported by the project would produce 2,800 tons of processed
meat, 7,000 pieces of hide, 40 tons of goose down, 254 tons of angora wool
yarn, 500 tons of tannic acid and 20,400 tons of various types of paper. In
addition, the knitting lines of the rabbit hair spinning mill and about 100
individual households with semiautomatic knitting machines would produce
153,000 pieces of knitted garments, of which about one third would be
exported.
5.4       Table 5.2 summarizes project output levels of all project commodi-
ties from noncrop components at full development.
B. Markets and Marketint Channels
5.5       Sichuan Province is presently self-sufficient in food grains.  How-
ever, with more than 10 percent of China's population, with annual population
growth of I million, and an annual decline of arable land of 20,000 ha, sus-
taining food security is one of the most important objectives of the provin-
cial government. Local demand would readily absorb the incremental production
of grain and other food crops that are expected to be produced under the proj-
ect. All grain produced under the project would be sold on the free market
and marketed by private traders who are already active in the province. Out-
put of beans and peas would more than double in the project area, but would
not create any marketing difficulty given the established active trade with
neighboring provinces and the strong demand.
5.6       The incremental production of timber would be absorbed by the local
provincial market, and also through shipments elsewhere in China. There is a
large market for good-quality paper and pulp in China, which would readily
absorb the 20,400 tons of paper that would be produced under the project.
Paper mills located around Chongqing have already expressed interest in pro-
curing pulp from Pengshui paper mill. Incremental livestock production would
be absorbed by the domestic market and also through exports of angora yarn,
goose meat, liver and goose down to foreign countries, with possibilities for
further expansion of production and export trade in the future if favorable
results are obtained. At full development, about half of the processed geese,
rabbits and a small quantity of tannic acid and paper would be exported, with
estimated total annual export value of agroprocessing products of about Y 180
million. Goats, rabbits and geese would be sold both live and processed.
Interprovincial trade of live animals has been active in Qianjiang Prefecture.
1/ On the basis of a single harvest.



- 44 -
Table 5.2a OTHER COPONENTSa StUMfRY OF PROJECT OUTPUTS
(With Project at Full Development)
Area      No. of      Production    No. of animals
(ha)   households       (tons)        ('000 head)
Soil Conservation                       7,700
Crops                                               1,434
Timber                                             25,903 m
Puelvood                                           26,600
Economic Trees                                     17,972
Fodder                                             31,000
Fish                                                   14
Forestry                              163,700
Paulownia                6,000                    809,114
Chinese Toons            2,700                    770,486
Chinese Fir              2,300                    419,357
Cryptomeria                700                    139,100
Masson Pine              2,300                    451,842
Slash Pine                 700                    141,100
Alder                       700                   128,486
all Trees               6,000       17,000         1,440
Woody Medicine           2,667        8,000         2,000
Alpine Rush               1,800       6,700         8,100
Tea Rehab.               2,333        3,500        11,725
Sericulture
Mulberry Planting       7,600      115,000       205,020
Fresh Cocoons                      115,000         1,116
Livestock
Goats                                21,100                           629
Rabbits                               5,000                           750
of vhich rabbit hair                                  250
Geese                                10,000                           500
Agroprocess$ng
Goat (meat)                                           680
Cattle (meat)                                         580
Hides (pieces)                                      7,000
Geese (meat)                                        1,404
Geese (down)                                           40
Geese (liver)                                         112
Rabbit Hair (yarn)                                    254
Tannic Acid                                           500
Paper                                              20,400
A livestock auction market was established in Dungshi, Youyang county in 1987,
and is now open five days a week. On an average day, about 1,000 to 1,400
goats are sold locally as well as to traders from other provinces such as
Hubei and Guizhou. A similar auction market also exists for rabbit wool in
Shishu, where the project would expand rabbit production and establish a rab-
bit hair processing plant. Over 3,000 traders from all over the province and



- 45 -
neighboring provinces engage in rabbit wool procurement. So far, rabbit wool
is sold unprocessed to tha wholesalers and ginners from Hubsi, Hunan and Anhui
provinces.
5.7       Chinese exports of raw silk and silk products in 1989 reached $1.84
billion and the target for the year 2000 is $2.7 billion. China traditionally
exported raw silk but is shifting towards more processed goods such as yarn,
dyed fabric as well as garments. The share of raw silk in total silk export
value has been steadily dsclining from 49 percent in 1980, to 40 percent in
1985 and to 25 percent in 1989 as value added is far greater for more pro-
cessed products. Nevertheless, with limited designing and dyeing skills,
China would continue to export raw silk which can readily find markets in
Japan, Korea and European and North American countries. In China, silk mar-
keting is fully controlled by the China National Silk Import and Export Corpo-
ration (CNSIEC) and its provincial branches. The Sichuan Proviucial Silk
Corporation (SPSC), a branch of CNSIEC, has a mandate to export silk directly
and is currently engaged in foreign trade with over 40 countries. Prefectural
and county level branch offices of SPSC would procure almost all cocoons pro-
duced in the project through well established networks of cocoon collection
and drying centers. At township and village levels, SPSC has set up collec-
tion points vhere farmers take their fresh cocoons to sell. Fresh cocoons are
then classified, inspected,ava    crops--and buy fertilizer, agrochemicals and
other farm inputs at free market prices. An assurance was obtained that 2rain
quotas would not be increased in any of the counties under the 2roiect. In
general, farmers are required to sell a portion of their food grain (rice) to
the State, at a contract price that is set by national authorities which
currently amounts to Y 0.54/kg for paddy of average quality as compared to a
free market price of about Y 0.80/kg. In return, they receive fertilizer at a
subsidized contract price at planting time. The quantity of rice to be deliv-
ered by farmers to the Gr.iin Bureau at the contract price amounts to about
405 kg per ha of paddy fielld, in addition to a duty quota or tax (deliverod
without payment) of about 150-165 kg per ha. The quantity of fertilizer
received by farmers at contract price in exchange for quota deliveries varies
according to availability. Apart from contract prices set at the provincial
level, negotiated prices for crops and fertilizer are set by county authori-



- 46 -
ties within a range set by higher-level governments In order tobiA
sale of these crops to public institutions.
5.9       Generally, larger goats (above 30 kg live weight) command a premium
price which at present is about Y 2.7 per kg versus Y 2 fc.r goats weighing
20-25 kg. Goats under 20 kg are sold for as low as Y 0.81kg. Rabbit hair
prices vary according to grades. An average farn-gate price in 1991 was
Y 60/kg, while average auction prices at the wholesale market varied from
Y 65/kg for the lowest grade III, Y 80/kg for grade II and Y 100/kg for the
highest grade I. All silk cocoons must be sold to the local government at a
fixed procurement price that depends on the quality of the product. The aver-
age price received by farmers for cocoons has increased from Y 1/kg in 1978 to
Y 3.4/kg in 1980, to Y 9.1/kg in 1990 in current prices. Rapid increase in
procurement prices fueled by increasing demand both in domestic and export
markets has been the main force behind rapid growth of this industry and this
price trend would likely continue.
5.10      Input and output prices used in crop budgets for financial analysis
are presented in Annex 6. For economic analyse., the farm-gate value of fer-
tilizers has been calculated on the basis of World Bank international price
projections (import parity value), with appropriate adjustments for nutrient
contents, domestic and international transport and handling costs. The eco-
nomic value of most other farm inputs such as agrochemicals and organic manure
has been considered equivalent to the financial price. For farm outputs,
border prices based on World Bank price projections have been calculated for
paddy, corn, and wheat, and actual export price data for livestock products
and raw silk have been taken into account in order to estimate the export
parity values.



- 47 -
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISRS
A. Benefits
6.1       The major benefits from the project would derive from incremental
crop production, which would be the result of investments made in irrigation
facilities together with an improved extension service, adoption of improved
technologieso, improved input availability and farm management. The estimated
net present value (at 12 percent discount rate) of incremental on-farm net
benefits amounts to Y 571 million over the 30-year economic life of the proj-
ect. Other production benefits which are described earlier include increased
production of livestock, silk cocoon, timber, fuelwood and other cash crops.
In addition, the project would improve socioeconomic conditions of some of the
poorest and the most remote areas of the province by helping poor farmers and
women, improving the environment, better managing natural pastureland, and
preventing soil erosion.
B. Emplovment and Incomes
6.2       Employment opportunities generated by the project would help reduce
seasonal underemployment among the rural labor force in and around the project
area. At full development, farming activities in the irrigated areas would
create an annual Incremental demand for labor of about 179 million person-days
per year, equivalent to about 600,000 new jobs. In total, the project would
directly increase incomes for about 883,000 households. If households who
would indirectly benefit from supplying raw materials to agroprocessing plants
are included, the total number of beneficiary households would be over I mil-
lion. The farm model analysis shows that, at full development, the annual
income of a representative village household would increase from Y 359 to
Y 595 for crop cultivating householdo, Y 385 to Y 860 for sericulture house-
holds, and Y 320 to Y 1,122 for livestock raising households. Income from the
gallnut subproject would raise 17,000 households (66,000 persons) above the
poverty line, with incremental incomes of Y 152 per capita. At full develop-
ment, Chinese medicine production would provide an incremental income of Y 141
per capita.
C. Women In Develonment
6.3       While it would provide additional incomes and employment opportuni-
ties for poor farmers at large, the project would particularly help improve
living standards of poor women in some of the poorest and most remote areas of
China. In the project areas, there is considerable evidence that female-
headed households disproportionately suffer poverty due to limited access to
credit. The project would provide women with equal access to credit. Sichuan
would select female-headed households as the top priority beneficiary group to
correct, at least partially, the existing bias. Planting of mulberry trees
and production of silk cocoons are traditionally done by women as is tending
of small livestock, such as rabbits and geese. Hand processing and clothes
knitting activities would create small household-based female-run enterprises.
Rabbit hair spinning mills, also financed under the project, would supply
high-quality yarn to, and also procure sweaters from, these women for export.
The various activities designed to help women would generate additional



- 48 -
employment of about 100,000 jobs for female workers. Silkworm raising, rabbit
raising, rabbit hair spinning and knitting activities would generate annual
incremental income somewhere between Y 240 to Y 460 for each woman. Basic
extension services would focus on training women farmers, especially in seri-
culture and rabbit raising.
6.4       The PHO would extend longer grace periods for repayment of loans to
reduce cash flow burdens during the initial years, provide adequate access to
credit and input supply, and train female workers and farmers. An assurance
was obtained that a minimum of 50 percent of farmers and 20 oercent of tech-
nicians to be trained would be women. The training programs to be supported
under the project would emphasize training of female extension workers and
technicians, who in turn, would train more female workers. Active roles for
NGOs, e.g., ACWF, would also be enlisted in these endeavors. The project
would be one of the first substantial efforts to help establish economically
viable income generating activities in the more remote project areas.
D. Rent and Cost Recovery
6.5       The proposed level of water charge collection would raise adequate
funds to provide full recovery of operation and maintenance costs. Incremen-
tal tax receipts generated by the project would give a cost and rent recovery
index of about 20 and 35 percent, respectively. Substantial incremental tax
revenues would accrue to government as a result of the project. At full
development, it is expected that incremental tax revenues would exceed Y 36
million per year derived from the taxes paid by silk companies, from the farm-
ers on the basis of their paddy field aria, and from the production taxes they
pay when selling their products.
E. Financial and Economic Analysis
6.6       The financial and economic analyses are based on detailed crop bud-
gets prepared for all the annual and perennial crops. The farm model analysis
shows a substantial increase in farmers' income, indicating the financial
strength of the project. The analyses of soil conservation demonstration were
carried out based on representative farm models with the average joint invest-
ment cost allocated to each household. The total economic investment costs
include physical contingencies but exclude price contingencies, subsidies,
poverty grants and taxme. Local financial prices have been adjusted for the
purpose of economic analysis by distinguishing outputs and inputs as tradeable
and nontradeable. World Bank price projections or average export prices actu-
ally realized in China were used to estimate the farm-gate economic prices in
1992 constant terms for traded inputs and outputs. Conversion factors for
nontradeable inputs were ostimated and applied to convert financial values to
economic costs. Incremental on-farm labor has been valued at Y 4 per person-
day. Based on these assumptions and an assumed project life of 30 years, the
base case economic rates of return (ERRe) for selected subprojects range
between 16 percent (for YP irrigation) to 45 percent (for silk), vith an over-
all project ERn of 26 percent with a net present value of about Y 856 million.
The project components have the following ERRs: irrigation 24 percent; soil
conservation 25 percents income generation 42 percent; and agroprocessing
21 percent. A summary of the economic and financial analysis and the results
of the sensitivity analysis are presented In AUeL 6, Table 1.



- 49 -
6.7       The analysis of the three irrigation subprojects is based only on
the incremental benefits from this portion of the multiphased investment pro-
gram and has taken all costs of dams and headworks already constructed as sunk
costs. With these assumptions, the overall irrigation component has an ERR of
24 percent. However, a full analysis for the entire irrigation system has
also been made which shows lower ERRs (i.e., SP down from 32 to 18 percent, WF
down from 19 to 15 percent and YP down from 16 to 13 percent).l/ These
lower EREs illustrate diseconomies of this type of discontinuous investment
program where the bulk of costs are incurred up front (for dams, reservoirs
and main headwork), but realization of benefits is deferred for many years due
to delayed construction of downstream distribution canls and on-farm works.
The economic and financial rates of return are likely to increase if other
indirect benefits are includedt, eg *, waiter available for municipal and indus-
trial use, which would reduce the current frequent shutdown of plants due to
lack of water.
F. Risks
6 8       The project faces no unusual technical or organizational risks.
Under the project, management of project entities would be strengthened, and
farmers, who already have experience and basic knowledge, would be further
trained. The potential risk of fluctuating markets for silk and angora wool
products would be mitigated by provision of technical assistance in marketing
and Improved processing technology and product designs.
1/   Sunk costs for works already completed or under construction are Y 333
million for Shengshong, Y 80 million for Wudu and Y 15.8 million for
Yangjiaba, all converted to 1991 prices.



- 50 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED ANp RECOMMENDATION
7.1       Assurances were obtained at negotiations from Sichuan Province that:
(a) maintenance and periodic safety Inspections of existing dams would
be carried out under arrangements satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.9);
(b) fertilizers and pesticides provided under the project would be sold
to farmers at prices which cover the costs of procurement, transpor-
tation and distribution (para. 3.11);
(c) a Grassland Monitoring System for Qianjiang Prefecture satisfactory
to IDA would be established by June 30, 1993 (para. 3.24);
(d) for large agroprocessing subprojects, e.g., paper mills and rabbit
hair processing, each enterprise would Implement an enterprise
reform plan satisfactory to IDA, which would enable the enterprises
to be managed independently from the local supervisory bureau, under
en enterprise manager selected by en enterprise board of directors
(para. 3.27);
Ce) three paper mills would be closed in accordance with timing and
procedures acceptable to IDA (para. 3.28)S
(f) all project activities would be carried out to environmental stan-
dards acceptable to IDA and an Environmental Management Plan would
be Implemented to monitor the environmental impact of all components
(para. 3.53), and in particular, (i) the relevant prefectural Envi-
ronmental Protection Bureau (EPB) under the guidance of the Sichuan
provincial EPB would approve final designs of effluent treatment
facilities of each agroprocessing enterprise prior to beginning
construction, and these enterprises would under SPB supervision
implement and maintain effluent monitoring and treatment systems
according to the final designs approved by the PEPB (para. 3.26);
(ii) pesticides to be provided under the project would be approved
by IDA, and that Bank Group guidelines on storage, handling, distri-
bution and use would be followed (para. 3.55); end (iii) all planta-
tions would conform to environmental guidelines satisfactory to IDA
(para. 3.14);
(g) (i) all training, including study tours, and research under the
project would be carried out in accordance with training and
research programs agreed with IDA (para. 3.33); (iL) the PHO would
provide n annual plan to IDA for approval by November 1, each year
which would include a list of proposed research, training and study
tours for the coming year (para. 3.33); and (iii) at least 50 per-
cent of farmer trainees and 20 percent of technicians to be trained
under the technical assistance programs would be women (par.. 6.4);
(h) the PX0 would (i) maintain consolidated accounts of all components
for audititg annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and
that the audited accounts would be submitted to IDA within siz



- 51 -
months of the close of each fiscal year (para. 3.52); (ii) by Decem-
ber 15 of each year, prepare and furnish to IDA for review an annual
detailed work plan and report of the schedule and financing arrange-
ments, including a statement of proposed annual counterpart funding,
for project Implementation for the following year (para. 4.6);
(4) the resettlement of persons affected by the construction of the dam
connected with the Ysangjiaba irrigation scheme would be carried out
in accordance with a plan agreed with IDA (para. 3.56);
(j) Sichuan would establish (i) project leading groups at the provin-
cial, prefecture and county levels included in the project, with
composition and responsibilities acceptable to IDA (para. 4.2) and
(Ci) a project management office at the provincial level with func-
tions and responsibilities acceptable to IDA, staffed by competent
staff in adequate numbers (para. 4.3);
(k) three revolving funds--one each for agricultural inputs, soil con-
servation, and poverty alleviation (paras. 3.11(c), 3.13, and 3.151-
-would be established and operated in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to IDA (pare. 4.12);
(1) the proceeds of the Credit would be made available to farmers and
enterprises under the project by ABC or PCBC under arrangements
satisfactory to IDA in the form of loans bearing interest at rates
no less than the prevailing rate charged by ABC for similar loans
for similar purposes (para. 4.11);
(m)  (i) water charges would be collected at rates to be revised periodi-
cally as necessary to meet at least the full annual operation and
maintenance costs of the completed irrigation schemes (para. 4.13);
and (it) a Plan of OWM would be prepared for each irrigation sub-
project for IDA's approval by August 1, 1993 (para. 4.17); and
(n) grain quotas would not be increased in any of the counties under the
project (para. 5.8).
'.2       Proceeds of the IDA credit would be onlent to Sichuan Province at an
interest rate of 5 percent, with a repayment period of 15 years, including a
5-year grace period (para. 4.11).
7.3       A condition of effectiveness would be State Council approval of the
Development Credit Agreement (para. 4 11).
7.4       Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would consti-
tute a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 107.7 million ($147 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity to the People's
Republic of China.



Sid_a Agriculture ODvelop_nt Project
bole Proulne    and Project Are Statistics
Si_c_ _         °_anyuan          1ianyang         Nncheng-         Qi nj3i Smg        shong             wdu            Yangjiaba
item  tk  19B9    1990    198S    1990    1989    1990    1990    1990    1989  19C0    19E0    1990    1960    lW0     1980    1990
Ttabl Population          1.000       96.196  10B.1S4   2 4S4   2.606   8.112    4.091   8.966   9.782   2.345   2 654   1 99e   1.8S5   1.001   1,073             45       47
Rural poulation           1,000       86.171  95.386   2,216   2 S81   8.417        622   8'457   9'066   2,245   2'469    1'400    1,482       953      980       44      46
Rurs I br Fore            1,000       87,2a0  48.906      908  1206    1.SS2   1'785   8,784   4,172    6878   1281           459    G681      87       490       20      21
Rural Hahld               1,000       19.670  25.488      475      604      972   1,002   1.996   2.600       576      658     mS       486     266      281       11       12
Towahpfren                             8547   86,50       264      265      801     88       688     66       804      804     124      124      76       76        8       8
mintwatiwe Ville                      76 0    76  6   20         2299   2,640   2,060   7,967   7,990   2,901   2,806    1.460   1,460          701      701       50      80
Land Area                 1,000 b      7,000  57,000   1,892   1,891        887     857   1,649   1.649    1,694   1.694       2aS      288     258      258       22      28
CultivcaW Land            1,000 ha    6,604   6.299        169     162      274     260      M15     497      22S      207     102       97      79       75        5       S
Sawn Are                  1.000 h    12 078  12 475       272      297      469     511      994   1,017      372      452     199      182     103      112        9       9
Paddy FIeld               1000  ha    3,288   8.228        78       75      118     119      261     275       79      79       61       58      80       81        8       S
Dry Land                  1,000  rh   8,821   8 076         94      87      161      142     235     222      292      400      41       89      S4       80        2       2
Erf etivly Irrigeated AP   ,000  ha    2614   2 806        6S       68      127     180      165     189       36       89      18       14      21       21        1       1
Paddy F;eld             1 000 ha    2.167   2,S8B        56       60       99     116      147      167      38       89      11       12      16       17        1       1
Cry Land                1 000 hn      447      418       7        6       29       14      19      22        0        0       2        2       5        4        0       0
Total  o                   mi illion   82,208  114,896    667   2,822   2,262   7,585   2,010   6.394        404   1.487      462  12661        511   1,546        9      22
Industrial Output         v million    27,SS6  122.295    848   1,565   1,029   2.190        828   4,192      111      908     461   1 484      205      402       10      18
griculture Output         Y million    18,127  6a.707     451   1,748       742   1,411   1,778   6,158       426   1.605      504  1077       264      459        9      17
Crp Preduction
Or,in Area                1.000 ha   10,54    9,828       251      288      894     367      847     789      346      847     158      156      87       84        5       5
Grain Production         1000 ton   343885  42.668       80S   1.118   1,S55    1.982   2.9S4   8.862        687   1,016      506      620     812      844       1S      18
PaddyArea                 1.OOO ha    8.068   8.120        59       68      104     114      229     247       79       769     84       84      22       24        1       1          L
Pdd  Production           1,000 ton   1s 490  22,511      841      558      687     925   1.222   1.992       254      407     213      242     116      165       8       10
Wheat Area                1,000 ha    2,879   2221         82       77      119     115      281     216       40       68      40       42      24       24        2       2
Wheat Production          1,000 ton    5206   7,017        14      263      249     472      514     677       59      116      96      113      86       80        3       6
Corn Area                 1 000 ha   1Z8e1    1,711        66       60       54      E0      1N8     127       a8       76      20       22      20       16        1       1
Corn Production           1,000 ton    6 12D   6,786       196     199      252     268      544     588      171      245      56       68      76       51        a       4
Rapeeed Aren              1.000 h        482      889       9       28       22      5S       86      69        7       S4       6       14      10       16        0       1
Repased Production        1.000 ton      647   1,279        11      41       31     106       44      90        9       34       7       17      11       27        4       2
Cotten Area               1,000 ha       252      120       5        2       29      14       36      20        0       0       12        7       5        S        1       0
Cotton ProductIon         1,000 ton       95      11S       2        1      1S6      91       17      19        0       0        7        4       2        1       0        0
Forat Are                 1,000 he    6,811   10,872      80S      S80      137     201       14      6S      145     247        6       28      39       66       7        8
Wood Production           1,000 .S    8,896   8,709         1S      18       11       S       81      82       30       35      24       11       8        2        1       1
Rulberry Area             1,000 he       210      298       4        8      21       28       41      57        1       2       10       14       5        6       0        0
Cocoon Production               ton   92,000 148,000   1.721   2,748   9,106  U3,890  18200  28.000           168     458   4.279   6,509   2.294   8,88         21       45
Sill Production                 tomn 6,818  14,571         88      288      62      984   2,200   8.600         0      85      714      998       0        0       0        0
Livestok Production
Pig*                     1,000 heads 51,480  65,86S    1.160   1.817   2,120    2,528   8.766   S.480   1.120   1,609         711   1,221      519      612       19      28
Pork                     1.000  ton  1,64S   8,967        51      100      60      142      147     875       82      67       82       87      15       30        1       2
She"p/nto                1,000 heads  7.010   5.986      101       68      82       21      106      8S      221     219        2        S       4        2       7        8
Hutton                          ton 87 000  87.900       828    a8s        188     l88      875     818      280       1       11       28      22       26        1       1
Cattle                   1,000 heds  9.170  10,060       514      840      222     254      466     847      299     876       8S       66      55       62       5        6
Bef                              ton 85.500  69,000      250   1,285       554     918   6.140   8,760       110     250      142      496     129      222       4        5
Caic&mn                  1.000 heads 62,848  122,480    1,126   2,287   2,994  56001   8,664   8,822   1,134   2.070          554   2.498      691   1,180        30      50
Chicken meat                     ton 87.769  78,488      526   1 864   2.091   8.500   6.990  14.050         808   1.765      525   2 6S0      488    8a8        224     850
Egs                             ton 168,000 471,000   3O000   6,000  25 000  18.000  S11000  85.000   8,800   7.700          50   6.400   4.000   8.000        100     200
Urban Per Capita Income           Y      86O   1,834      858   1,840      892   1,248       406   1.517      315   1,267      865      887     814      998     855   1.300
Rural Per Capita nce om            V     188      505      84      418     204      875      1E8     496       90     299      150      449     188      512       95     450
Poverty Level                    'Y    120        800     120      800      120               20     300      120     800      120       00     12D      800      120     800       40
Percent of Rural Population       S       22        8      80       10      86        4       25       7       72      62       25       8       32        5      50        7
Llnder Poverty Lavel
auangyurn. NIncon end 4isnjiang are prefecture figures.
Hianyang cer ony the five project countims and the city district.
Shengzhna. Wudu and Yanji ba cover the project townships only.



ga
Sic_m Awricuitwe D.veloonet Proiect
Cl latotogical Data For Shenghoma Irrnhatlon Aret (Averame
l___________                 Jan      Feb      Napr               AY      Jun       Jul     A"       -S       Oct    Nov         Doc      Year
Rainfall (m)               15.6     15.9    31.3       71.0   119.5    119.3    186.1   140.6    169.5    82.8        34.7      16.7    1002.9
(1ff9-1989)
Evporation(m)              30.1     48.1    78.6    113.6   138.4    139.0    158.7   171.8         91.3    60.5      40.4      28.8    1099.3
Tewperature(*C)             6.2      7.4      12.5     17.6    21.8      24.8     27.5    27.3      22.1    17.5      12.3       7.7      17.0
(1959-1989)                 -
SunshineXhours)            61.0     58.6    101.4    133.7   147.8    140.2    187.6   211.5    102.9    79.0         61.9      54.7    1340.3
(1959-1989)
Relative Iumidity(z)       82.7     79.5    75.3       74.5    75.3      77.7     78.5    74.2      81.9    84.1      83.5      84.4      79.3           l
(1959-1989)
Source: Slchuan DP Feasibility Report, Irrigation Component, Novesber, 1991.
IC'I



gliM
Sichuan fariculture Oeveloatiut Project
Clfmatotooicat Data For Vudu Irrinatlon Area (Average)
Jan     Feb       ar           _          Jun      Jul     Aug             Oct    Nov        Dee    Year
Rainfaltl(m)              7.6    10.0    21.2    48.4    84.0   105.1   237.4   183.6   170.9    50.4    21.2          5.9    945.7
(1959-1982)
Evaqoration(m)           4.7    54.7    87.2   123.3   161.9   166.6   144.5   155.0   101.2    70.6    56.7    44.5   1210.9
(1952-1982)III 
Temperature(CC)           5.5      7.4    12.3    17.4    21.5    24.5    26.3    26.0    21.6    17.0    11.8         7.3      16.5
(1959-1982)
SunshineChours)          79.2    69.3    94.6   118.4   131.2   139.0   169.4   180.9    91.1    75.5    74.0    76.0   1298.1
(1954-1980)               -
Relative Humidity(X)     76.0    76.0    74.0    74.0    72.0    77.0    83.0    84.0    82.0    83.0    79.0    80.0           78.0
(1954-1970)                                            Tl_2                                                                                  en_83_0_9 0___  ____
Source: Sichuan ADP FeasibilIty Report, Irrigation Coq3onent, Novber, 1991.
F M
r.J0
l 



Sichuan arlculture Develoament ProLeet
C(lmatotogeoal Data For Yanml"aba irrifation Area (Averane)
I____________________    Jan           Feb      Mar      Apr                Jun      Jul      Aug      sep      Oct    yow         Dec      Year
Rainfall(nm)                 9.1     11.3    24.4       56.9   106.8    121.9    270.2   203.1    183.9    60.9         27.9       7.2    1083.3
(1957 1989)                  -        -        -         -
EvaporationCm)              64.9     71.7    117.6    160.4   191.3    191.8    172.0   184.1    116.4    91.6          74.4     64.6    1501.0
(1957 1989)
TemperaturefC)               4.2      5.9     10.6      15.6    19.7      22.7    24.5    24.3        19.7    15.2      10.1      5.8       14.9
(1957-1989)                  -
Sunsbfnswhours)            81.0      68.7    92.6    123.2   148.2    140.2    156.S   170.6         91.3    80.7       72.9     80.9    1306.8
(19f71989)                   -                                                                                                     -
Relative NumidIty(X)       68.0      70.0    68.0      68.5    71.1       75.0     81.7    80.4      82.0    80.3       74.6     72.2       74.3
01957 1989)              .-                                          .- - ----
Source: Sichuan ADP feasibility Report, Irrigation Conponent, Novucber. 1991.
It
'a'



CHINA
Sichuan Agricultural 9evelopment Project
Project Locations
............................ ................................................................  --...........-  -.......
----- ----- Irrigationr--                  Soil Conservation           Income Ceneration            Agraprocessing
Location                    SP   UP   VP    Ag.Sqpport
.....................................................................................................................................
_in      Prefecture
...................
Guuw.g                                                                                        Sericulture
LWtpMv                       X                      X                                         Sericulture
Marbu                        X                      X                                         Sericulture
kanchong county              X                      X                                         Sericutture
lanch        city            X                      x
Pengan                       X                      X                                         Sericulture
makhng                                                                                        Sericulture
Xichong                      X                      X                                         Sericulture
vi lont                                                                                       Sericulture
Vuchi                                                                                         Sericulture
Nianyang Prefecture
.i..................x 
Jianyo                            K                 X
Santai                            X                 X
Shhahong                          X                 X                                                                 paper m Ill
Vanting                           X                 X                                                                                                               IL
Zitong                            X                 X
Guangyua Prefecture
Canpi                                                                                         Sericulture
Chaotian                                                     Soil Cons.dno/medc.plant
Jiange                                    X         X                                        Sericulture
Shizong                                                      fast growing trees
VanGCang                                                     Alpine rush
Vuabai                                                                                       Sericulture
Oianjiang Prefecture
.... .......,.....
Pengsui                                                      Pawlonia-toon                   goat/Tea Rehab.          paper mill
Oianjiang                                                    Soil cons.demo/Pawlonia-toon   Sericulture
Shizhu                                                       gall planting                   seric/rabbit raising   rabbit hair Process.
Xiushan                                                      Tea rehab/Pawlonia-toon         geese raising            Geese process.
Vouyang                                                      gall planting                   sericul/goat raising   gallnut/goat/process.
Total No.
counties                    6       5     1        12               8                               21                       5
(26)
................................................................................................................
Source: Sichaun Project Nanegement Office
C:%Sichsun%sar%Location.wkl



SICNMIAAUIONIiURA DIWLOIFIN U"C1
SNSPMIUILIIT Eo  KSIW  AS  INPIEEATIIO
......................................................................................................................................................................................................... I.............................. --- ------
Cntnrectlain                   _atlmu
go.      Itm                     onion                         Deign Review                       Contruction                 s54rlse'n                     _Nm mt              _ maaaip
........................................................................... ..............................................................................................................................#,,  
1. Irriation
.............
1.  Sbwln whrg    Sicbun IIIoolectric Dsign  State Plnming Coission                       Cepitat ContructIon          Sichuan qydre-olectric         U SPaamll    t Swrnu  _uiagunt Suree
Project         Institute 1wib.M  Nydreo         Ninistry of Watcr Con        wrvunV    Dlviion of Sidl_  MM;  Oallty  onitoring Center                                    Collectlve
slectrlc design Instltute 5   Sichuan McI                            SP NeedqLrter
reolvent county dnlgn tor          1a 1ig Prefecture IC5
2.  lUhi            Slhdan llprooloctric Design  State Pluming Comlssion                  W Contruction Divilson  Sicmn  dro electric
Project         Institute; 1H11_n  lnst.         Ninistry of Wtwr Conservancy   of Sl_camn WCI; VP                Qualtty Nmitering Center   IIP IIegmnt Surbe   HNegaunt Sureu
wnd relevant coeunty design    Slcmn WC11, md Nra_yang MM    Nangmnt Swam                                                                                 iCollective
tells
3.  ranglla          Sickum  lydrolectric Design
Project         Instituto Desion Term of          Sichia  Plaing Conisslon           VP Headqurter                                               V YP  _ngmt sureeu
Jian    MM                       Sichn wIe and Cun          n MCM
4.  AgfIculture   Comty Oaign Office                  Sicbun Pluming Colsslon             Tedmolog  Extenslon          Coeunty Agriculture Sueu   Tehnology Eutenslan
Serlce                                            Slchuan Agriculture an             Station                                                     Station                  Ftilen Statln
stem                                              Animal Hbandry Sureu
TeditnotWe
Extesulon
S.  sawd                           5                                                      Factory                                   0                 Factory                 factry
factories
It. Soil Const etIon
*-........... i...
1.  ikaangyuan      theotian Prefecture P             Sichulm  Soil conservation    0        eotisn Prefecture Seoil  ua     uan Soil Cosrtion Touisbip Government   kneficlwrles
Office                             Consrvation Project          Office                                                  village, grsp
leadquarter
2.  Olanjlug        Mlanileug INS                                                         Ol nilang Soil               olhaniag Soil Conervation
Conservation Project         Office                                                          C
Headquater
3.  Padeumle a       anilwa   Prefecture              Sic n Plaming Cmission             lletant Coemyss fomt  OlanJI  Prefecture                     Project  Powltbipe'    genicreries
loon           Slivicultural Desln Toem          Skid m Foses t Sueau                Stem                         Forest Sureau                  forest station
4.  Uest groueing OLGun mnicipality
aud hl*-       ailvicultmral pluming  nd
Yielding       designing tam                                                         Shlhg district              Cuanan munlclpellty                                    s a    ln  rlo e1
forest                                                                               tere.t  1wa                  fuest buro...
............................................................ ......................................................................................................................-  --- ..... -.*-@* ............*



CHINA
SICH  AGRICULTUIRAL E IIET PIOJECt
RESPONSIBILIII FOR SESIm  AND IPlmENETATION
............................................................................................................................................ ............................................................................................_
Cntruction                  OIperation
No.     Item                   Design                       Design Review                   Construction                 Ss.ervision                Manaemnt          Oumership
...........................................................................,,,..   ,   ,,,,,, .....,, ...   ..................
5. Callwut         Qlaniang prefecture                            S                   Relevant cowitys  forest Qianjian  prefecture                                   Bo eneficiaries
liviculttural design tern                                         buraus                      forest bureau
6. Wooc            Guawwyan mmicipalIty            Guaen Medicine                     Gua qyuan Chines           Suagyuan Medicine
ledicine       project office                  Adhinistration Bureau             Nedicine Copany             Administration Bureau         Chaotian District      Beneficliries
7.  Chinse         WaRgess County PMl              Sichuan Soil Conservatien        w'Jugcag county's            Guang"yun Agricultural        Cma
Alpine Rush                                    Office                            Agrluciturat bureau         Bureau
11.I rm  Ceneratton
1.  (a). Mulberry  Prefectureicity silk            SlcmJn Plaming Commission         Relevt nt Counties' Sfik   Prefecture/city silk           *eleant counties'    Benflciarles
Siltkworm      co_pnies                        Sichumn Silk Companles            Cowlnes                     cOMpanies                    silk cwpenies
(b) Silkwo   Retevat Counties Design                                             Slkwm Egg Statlen           county's Silk Comlanies      Sliworm Egg Statien  Sltlkom Egg
egg station   Deprtmnt                                                                                                                                            Station
2.  Tea Rehabi-   Qlaniang Prefecture's Tea    Slquan Plueing Comission             Penghul County's Tea
litetion      Comny                            an  Qlonjing Plaming              C ny
3. Goat             lianjiang Prefecturels         Sichuan Pluming Comission          County6s Animal            Prelecture's AISB             Cunty's ASB            llene1lories
Raising        Animl Nusndry  ureau            and Sicdan Animl                  Husbdry Bureau (AID)
Husbadry Bureaus
4.  Geese  aising                *
S.  Rabbit Raising                                                                                                                                      *
IV. Agroprocessing
1. Nianan          Changde Engineering Consul-   SPC, Slcbuan Pluming                lianyg Pepr Hill            City's light Industry         111rig Pqaer Mill             Mill
Paper Nill   tative company of light           Comeission, Ministry of Light                                 bureau and quality
industy ministry of China       Bureau of Light Industry                                     onitoring station
2. Peng i                                                                           Pengshul Paper Nill                                      Pnghul Paper Hill              Hill
Paper Mill
3. Galtiut        SbhgaI Datog Phermcsut.   Slcmuan Pluming Cmmlssion                allaiut Processing Plant  County's Quality Monitorlng Galion  Processing              Plant
Processing    fctory, Touyan, County%s                                                                       Station                      Plant
Design Department
4. Rabbit lair   Sichuan Textile Olesign          Slielwn Pluming Commission        Rabbit Hair Spiming         County's Quality Monitoring Rabbit Hair Spuming             Hill t
Spiming        Institute                                                         Kil                        Staton                        11                
5. Goat           Sldan tight Industry                          *                  Goat Processing Plant                   *                Goat Processing Plant         Plant          c
Processing    institute
6. Geese m                                                                          Geese Processing Plant                                    Geese Procssng               Plant
Processing
..............................................................................................................................................................................



Sidchn Agricultural Dvelofent Project
Counterpwrt Fwnd  wources wd Aut
(IY'OD)
..................................................................................................... ............................................
total      DWa/IDA                                      Goverment                      Local      Prowrty    Ernirked             6sel
Project                                     Cost               - -- . ove.ruent                       ---- ank    A-lleviation    fund                                   Contribution
C. FMncut                                 (T000)        (1O0O) Sub-total  Central  Provincial Prefecture    Courty toan                        fund                                        other
...........................................................................................................................................................
1. IrrigationVAriculture
A. irtription
1. SP                             376,270   1S8.979    143.256                      133,256       10.000                                                                74.035
2. Up                             639,721  303,S93    284,740    100,000    132.740               12.000      40,000                                                    51,388
3. VP                               30.658    17.324         7,0W0                    7,000                                                                              6.334
B. Agro-support                        67.606    47,021          6,370                                 3,822       2,548                                                                14,215
Ssb-total                           1.114.25S   526,917    441.366    100,000    272,996              25.822      42.548            0              0            0          131,757    14,215
..................................................................................................................... ......................................................................................................... 
II. Soil Co rvatlion
A. Sol coervatlen Oem. as
Chiotin                             20.231      9,953        2.309                                             2.309          140            500       1,902             5.42?
alaniatn                            11,S19      5,30        1.137                                              1.137                     1.528                           3.474
o. forestry
1. fast-growing Tree                    15.9S    9,41S          1,000                                             1.000                                   1,000             4.S80
2. Paulosmin  a  Chinese  too           14.242      7.855          750                                                750                                    400             5.237
3. GCllnut              -               lS5451      7.424          500                                                SDO                                    900             6.627
4. medicine Plants                      10.97      S.S41             0                                                          400          2.000                           3.016
S. Alphine rush                          3.457      2.152             0                                                                                                       1.305
Sth-total                              91.852    47.720          5.696             0           0            0      5.696         S40          4,028        4,202            29.666            0
........................................................................................................................................... ................................................................................... ....... 
Ill. incmm Generation
A. Iulberry 4 Cocoon Product   91,207    so,s72                       0                                                                       7.000      21.1S3              12,482
B. lea RehabilitatIon                   6,357       2.744             0                                                                       1.500                          2.113
C. klvestock                                                          0
1. CGot Rulsing                                                      0
louv                            12,606      6,456        1,600                                              1.600                        SS5                          4.000
Pengabul                         5,346      2,690           Soo                                               800                        S40                          1.316
2. Geese raising                       11,417       S.703          250                                                250                     1,500                          3,964
3. Rbbit raising                         4,677      2.690          150                                                150                        120                          1.717
Sub-total                             131.610    70,855          2.800                         0            0      2.800            0        11,210      21,1S3             25.S92            0
.................................. ...................................................................... ......... ................ ............................... .................................... 
VI. Agra-processing
1. Pengshui paper mill                73,046    37,680        12,000                                             12,000    17,366           6,000
2. Fulaig paer mill                   67.650    40,350         4,000                                 4,000                  18.000                                                     S.300
3. Cattle/Goat processing              5,490       2.690        1.000                                             1,000       1,000            S00
4. Ceese Processing                   12,641       5.111        1,800                                   800       1.000      4,230           1.SOO
S. Callnut processing                 10,551       5,757            0                                                        3.462             332       1,000
6. Rabbit lair Processing             31,868    16,140          3.000                                             3.000       9.028          2.700                          1.000
Sub-total                             201,246  107.728         21.800             0            0       4,800      17.000    53,086           11.332        1.000              1.000      5,300
.. ,__..................................................................................
Total Project Cost                      1.538,963   753,220   471,662    100,000    272,996              30,622       68,044    S3,626           26,570      26,355            180.015    19,515
.........................................................................--..--..........................................----.....--...................- v.
CPFJID Vl



Annex L
60 -                                   able  6-1
C"tR~ ~~~~Tb
CHINA
SICHUAN AGRICVLTURAL OEWLOPItET PROJECT
TRAINING, STUSY TOURS AND TECHNICAL ASSSTANCE
......................................................................................................................
Totat NO.  Ouratfon            Total     Ave. cost   Total
Traflinf  aress/trafnees                         Traines      (days)              Days     CY/Day)      Cost (TOGO)
......................................................................................................................
A. TRAINING
...........
1. Irrigation
ProJect manasement                                   514           30          15,420           30           463
Hydrollcx Emxptlora     and Oesign                   204           90          18,360           30           551
Irrigation Nanagme nt & 05&                          312          J0            9,360           30           281
Contructfon Quality Nonftorfng                        35           90           3,150           30            95   1t389
2. Agri. Tech. & Extension Training
Cownty Staff at Agrf. Resarch ln tftute            I 020           15          15.300            14          214
*        Township Staff at Coumty Ag. Tech. Center           4.553            7         31.871            12           382
Farmers at Township Ag.Te:h.Center               2044173            3        613.419             5         3,067    3,664
3. Integrated Pest Nangagmnt,
Fertilftar Applfcatfon
County Staff at Agric.Research Institute             270           10           2.700            14           38
Township Staff at Couty Ag. Tech. Canter             802            7           5,614            12           67
Farmrs at Townshfp Ag.Tech.Center                 35t100            3         105,300            5           527       632
2. Soft Conservatlon
-Demonstrati on Areas
County Staff                                           25          20             S00           30             1S
Township Staff                                        80           10             800           20             i6
Frmers                                            1O,n70            5          53.600            10          536       567
-Forestry
Engineerfng                                            18          i5             270           30             8
Courty Staff                                           20          53           1.050           30            32
Township Staff                                      1,492          30          44.760           20           895
Ptant Protection                                       20          15             300            20-            6
Proiect margmnt                                         5          15              75            20            2       942
3. Income Generation
-Serifutture
Farmers                                           24,273           20         483,450             5        2,427
Township Staff                                     2,090           1S          31,350            20          627
Cowmty Staff                                           22          10             224           80             18
LT University Trainfng                                  2         350             700            10                  3,079
-Livestock
Farmers                                           37,450            5         187,250             5          936
Township Staff                                        422          20           8.440            20           169
Coumty Staff                                           75          30           2,250            40            90    1,195
-Tea rehabilatatfon
Agronomfst                                              6          36             216           100            22
Farmers                                            7,800            3          23,400             5           117
County Staff                                           80.         20           1,600            13            24      163
4. Agroprocesfnai
Domestic Trainfng                                   1,425          30          42.750            40        1t710
Foreign TA (Consultants)                                6         210          1t260         2,000         2.520    4,230
Subtotal  Trafnes                                  333,308         987       1,70S,47?                      13,340
Foreign Consultant                            6          210           1,260                      2.520
B. Study Tours
1. Irrigatfon
-Domestfc Tours                                        200           1s          3,000           100           300
-Foreign Study Tours                                    20           i5            300           400           120      420
2. Solt Conservation
-Domestic Tours                                        120           25          3.000            80           240
-Foreign Study Tours                                    10           60            600           500           300      540
3. Income Geration
-Domestfc Tours                                        110           15          1.6S0           100           165
-Foreign Study Tours                                    15           20            300           500           1S0      315
Subtotal                                              475          1S0          8,850                       1,275
Totat Training and Study Tour                      333,783        1,137      1,715,589                      17,135
......................................................................................................................
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  



-61 -                                   Annex1
Table 6-2
CHINA
Sichuan Agrecultural Development Project
Suamry of Research Topics
.....................................................................................................................
Topfes                                                   ResponsIble                              Ouration       Total
Organizatfon                             (year)        Cost
(TOOG)
.....................................................................................................................
Agricutture
...........
1. Comparative experfments of the new varfetal           M1anyang/Nanchong Agrfcultural                    3
trials--rice, corn, wheat, sweet potato, rapeseed   Research Instituto
and peanuts
2. FertiLizer Trfals                                     MNanyang/Nanchong Agrfeultural
Research Institute                               3
3. Micro-nutrients experiment                                          I                                   3
4. Improved Cultivation techniques                                     i                                   3
5. Integrated Post Management                             Prov. Post Control Station                       3
Subtotal                                                                                                     900
Sericulture
...........
1. Genetic improvement of silkworms                      Provincfal Sericulture Institute                  3          300
2. Breeding of silkworm for spring rearing                Southwet Agrfcultural University                 1            25
3. Broeding of silkworm for summer/fall rearing           Southwet Agricultural University                 1.           25
4. Integrated rearing techniques for fmproving            Sichuan SIlk Corporation                         I            25
cocoon quatity                                         (Nanbu, Langzhong, Santai & Nelijang)
5. Insect and disease control                             ProvincIal Sericulture Institute                 3           300
6. Improvement of cocoon tools                            Sichuan Silk CorporationClocal)                  3            SO
7. Improvement of rearing techniques                      Sichuan Silk Corporation(local)                  3            So
S. Establishment of data base for production              Sichuan Silk Corporation                         3            72
mnagement and Information dissemination
9. Improvement of cocoon drying techniques                Sichuan Silk CorporationClocal)                  3            SO
Subtotal                                                                                                     897
Livestock
1. Gosifng breeding                                       Slchuan Agronomy Un versity                      4           30
2. Grassland Improvenent                                  Sichuan Ag. Unversity  nd AN bureau              3            20
3. Diseas  control--goats                                 Animml Husbandry Bureau (Local)                  3            45
4. Goat raising efficiency                                Animel Husbandry Bureau (Local)                  3            26
S. Rabbit Breeding                                        Animel Husbandry Bureau CLocal)                  3            25
6. Optimal feed formulation                               Animml Husbandry Bureau (Local)                  1            10
7. Disease control--rabbits                               Anml Husbandry Bureau CLocal)                    3            15
Subtotal                                                                                                     171
Solt Conservation
..................
1. Alternatives to timber species                         Sichuan Academy of Forestry/8f                   4
for production of short-term benefits
2. Sillvpasture with fuelwood hedgerows                   Solt Cons.8ureeuWIMDE                            4
3. Grassland Improvement                                  Sichuan Ag. Unversity and A  bureau              4
4. Improved tree planting techniques to enhance           Slchuan Academy of Forestry/PfO                  4
productivity and solt conservation
S. Monitoring of Impacts of treatments on                 Prov.SoIl Con/INDE                               4
erosion, runoff and crop yiolds
Subtotat                                                                                                     191
.....................................................................................................................
e/ Instituto of Mountain ODsaster and Envirorgent (INDE)



-62-                         Annex 
Table 7
Page 1 of 3
Sichuan Agricltural Development Prolect
Summary of AaroUrocessing Component
The project includes 6 agroprocessing projects as follows:
I. PULP AND PAPER PLANT XN PENGSHUI COUNTY
1.   The Project would construct a new pulp and paper plant with a capacity to
produce 10,200 tons of different types of printing paper. The project would use
Kenaf, an annual hibiscus grown by local farmers as raw material. The new plant
would be built next to the existing paper mill which has a capacity of 7,000 tons of
paper per year and would be located along the Wu Jiang river, a tributaries of the
Yangtze River. The old plant has no alkali recovery or waste water treatment
system, but a new soda recovery and waste treatment system would serve both the new
and old plants and would reduce existing pollution considerably. Also, as a result
of the project two other pulp and paper mills, without pollution control systems,
would be closed down. A soda recovery system for treatment of the black liquor,
would be used which would concentrate and burn the lignin dissolved from the fibers
and recover and reuse the soda. With the use of a counter current washing system
(made in China under license from Valmet of Finland) up to 95 percent of the black
liquor can be processed. Part of the white liquor from the bleaching section would
be recycled and added to the digestors and burned through the soda recovery system.
the remaining part will go to the waste water treatment system. The waste water
treatment system would consist of a number of ponds, where flocculants would be used
to reduce suspended particles and biological treatment would reduce the BOD level.
The plant would not produce highly bleached paper (printing paper in China has a low
degree of whiteness). The amount of different chlorine-compounds released from the
bleaching system would be limited by using a relatively low amount of chlorine in
the process. The Chinese environmental standard accepts up to 250 mg/liter
chlorine-compounds in all categories of surface water. The emission of unused
chlorine from the relatively small pulp bleaching sections into the two large rivers
passing by tho two sites, has been calculated by the Sichuan Research Institute of
Environmental Protection (SRIEP) to have limited impact. Air pollution would be
controlled by dust collection in cyclones an SO(2) reduction by water sprays in
front of the chimneys. SRIEP has calculated that the remaining emission of
pollutants would be low.
II. PULP AND PAPER PLANT IN TANGKUN. MIANYANG MUNICIPALITY
2. The Project would construct a new pulp and paper processing plant at an
existing site some 30 kilometers outside the city next to the Pu Jiang river. The
objective of the project is to expand the production of paper made from wheat straw
and kenaf as well as to relocate the existing paper processing plant from the center
of Mianyang City. The processirn plant would have a capacity to process some 24,500
tons of kenaf bast and wheat straw into 10,200 tons of off-set and typing paper.
Soda reco7ery, waste water and air pollution control systems similar to those
described above for Pengshui, would be installed. When the new project becomes
operational, the existing white paper plant located in the city center would be
closed. The paper board plant using recycled paper at the same location, would
stop operation before end of the year 1997 with production transferred to the new
site.



-63_                        Annex 
Table 7
Page 2 of 3
3.  The technology would be the same as for the Pengshui plant. The Chengdu
Consulting and Engineering Corporation of the Bureau of Light Industry has designed
the two plants and this would produce some savings in both design and procurement
during implementation.
III.    RABIXT lAIR SPINNING PIANT IN SHIZNU COUNTY
4.  The Project would construct a carding, mixing, and spinning plant in Shizhu
City. Semi-manual knitting equipment would be included to further increase added
value. The objective of the Project is to create a stable market to produce rabbit
hair in the county of Shizhu.. A total of 1.2 million angora rabbits would be raised
to produce 400 tons of rabbit hair per year. Knitting would be done by women
farmers organized in small groups and working in their homes. The capacity of the
spinning plant would be about 160 ton angora rabbit hair, 100 tons wool, and 66 tons
of synthetic fibers in different mixtures. Final yarn products would be 300 tons.
Part of the yarn would be used for the production of knitted sweaters, with an
estimated 150,000 units made by semi-manual knitting machines, and approximately
3,000 handmade sweaters.
5.  Training of the staff and technicians would focus on the technical operation
of the spinning machines and on market development. Efforts would be made to find
partners abroad to assist in the marketing. The market for angora wool, and
mixtures of angora wool with other fibers is expanding in China. The spinning plant
would have the flexibility to handle a large range of fibers according to the market
demand, both domestic and abroad. This spinning plant with modern equipment would
be mainly geared for export.
6. The main concern with regard to pollution is the noise coming from the
spinning mill. Chinese spinning machines have a high noise level. Two mitigating
measures would be undertaken: (i) the investor would import equipment with advanced
spinning technology, which gives better quality yarn and makes considerably less
noise; (ii) the building would be constructed with solid walls and roof to avoid
remaining noise to disturb the neighborhood. Dust would be separated in a filter to
be placed in the air systems. Waste water would be treated by ths municipal waste
water treatment system.
IV. CALLUT PROCESSING PLINT IN YOUYAN COUNMY
7. The Project would extend an existing processing plant which at present process
about 450 tons of gallnuts into tannic acid. The objective of the Project is to
develop and to process gallnuts grown in the surrounding counties.  The additional
processing capacity added under the project would handle an additional 800 tons of
gallnuts. Tannic acid is used as a chemical compound for a number of complex
substances in tanning and chemical industries. The new extension would extract the
tannic acid from the gallnuts with water and then concentrate and spray dry the
solution into powder. A separate line would be constructed for low temperature
extraction in order to obtain tannic acid for pharmaceutical use. The plant would
produce at full development about 400 tons of technical tarnic acid and 100 tons of
pharmaceutlcal quality. Present management, which has operated the existing plant
for several years, is fully conversant with the technology. The process includes a
warm water counter current extraction of the tannic acid from the gallnuts. All the
water is then evaporated and the remainlng tannic acid is packed in bags. The
gallnut shells after the extraction are used mainly as fuel in the boilers. The
level of pollution is low, no waste water is generated (due to the high price of



_64 -                        Annex I
Table 7
Page 3 of 3
tannic acid all water is evaporated), solid waste (shell) is burned. The existing
plant has a small line (150 tons per year) for the production of
trimethoxybenzhydrazine. The waste water treatment system includes ponds and
addition of chemicals to reduce the emission of any harmful components. The mission
has requested, and the Sichuan government has agreed, that SRIEP and the Bureau of
Environmental Protection will review the present treatment system, and if necessary
recommend it be improved. Additional funds have been allocated to finance such
investment if needed (budgeted to RMB 200,000).
8.   The market for tannic acid is expanding both inside and outside China.
Although the use of tannic acid in the leather industry has diminished, it has been
found to be a suitable raw material for chemical synthesis in making pharmaceutical
products.
V. GOAT AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER HOUSE IN YOUYANG COUNTY
9. Youyang county has an outdated cattle slaughter house and cold storage of 300
tons, but some of the basic infrastructure and the cold storage would continue to be
used. The now slaughter house would process 7,000 head of cattle and 60,000 goats.
It would also have two slaughter lines for the do-skinning of cattle and and the
chilling of carcasses. Cattle carcasses would be de-boned and de-skinned while the
goats would be sold with the skin on, which makes handling easier and commands a
better price. The slaughter houses would include a waste water treatment system
includng fat traps and biological treatment systems. The plants will also be
constructed to collect as much byproducts inside the slaughterhouse as possible,
such as blood and meat/fat parts.
10. The proposed slaughter house would create a market to absorb and process the
goats which would be produced under the project. The slaughter house has been
designed by the Design Department of the Research Institute of the Bureau of Light
Industry in Chengdu and would be constructed according to national standards.
VI. GEESE PROCESSING PLANT IN XIUSHAN COUNTY
11. The Project would construct a new geese slaughter house to process
feathers/down and to produce frozen and deboned goose meat and liver. The plant
would have cold storage with a nominal capacity of 300 tons. Equipment for the
slaughter and processing of geese would be imported. The plant would have a waste
water treatment system to handle the effluent before the water is released into the
nearby river.
12. The geese processing plant is expected to slaughter about 800,00 geese per year,
an equivalent to about 500 head per hour. The objective of the project is to
process and pack most of the geese produced by the project and to market the
processed geese to domestic and export markets. Geese by-products, such as down and
liver, would also be exported when feasible.



- 65-                                        Annex 2
'able T-1
China
Sichuan Agriculture Development Project
Project Cost Summary
Yuan                                 usS
..............................     ................................................ .............
Local  Foreign    Total         Local  Foreign    Total
..............................     ................................................ .............
A. Irrigation
1. SP Irrig.                      228733      77173    305906         42515    14344    56860
2. UP Irrig.                      370672    136099    506771          68898    25297    94195
3. YP Irrig.                       20539       5481      26020         3818      1019      4836
4. SP Agr. Support                  12535     19661      32196         2330      3654      5984
5. UP Agr. Support                   8839     14411      23250          1643     2679      4322
6. VP Agr. Support                    862      1345       2207           160      250       410
..............................     ................................................ .............
Sub-Total                             642181    254170    896351         119364    47244   166608
B. Soil Conservation
1. GY Demo Area                    13300       3557      16857         2472       661     3133
2. QJ Demo Area                      7858      1841      9699           1461      342      1803
3. Paul. & Toon                     11628      2041      13669         2161       379      2541
4. Gall Planting                    10515      2765      13280          1954      514      2468
S. Chinmse Medicine                  7171      1666       8836          1333      310      1642
6. Alphine Rush                      2191      1542       3733          407       287       694
7. Fast Gr. Trees                   14880      1790      16669         2766       333      3098
. .............................    ...........................
Sub-Total                              67542     15202      82744         12554     2826    15380
C. Income Generating Proj.
1. Mulberry & Coccon               62529      19885     82414         11623      3696    15319
2. Tea Rehab.                        3903      1708       5611           725      317      1043
3. YY Goat Raising                   8662      2714      11376          1610      505      2115
4. PS Goat Raising                   3572      1267       4840           664      236       900
S. Geese Raising                     8293      2030      10322          1541      377      1919
6. Rabbit Raising                    3234       977       4211          601       182       783
..............................     ................................................ .............
Sub-Total                              90193     28581    118774          16764     5313    22077
D. Agroprocessing
1. Paper Mitl(MY)                  33375      41455     74830          6204      7705    13909
2. Paper Mitt(PS)                  34276      35836      70112         6371      6661    13032
3. Rabbit Hair Proc.                13498     14766      28264         2509      2745      5254
4. Gallnut Proc.                     5945      5815      11760          1105     1081      2186
5. Goat Proc.                        2544      2884       5428          473       536      1009
6. Geese Proc.                      4977       6163      11140          925      1146      2071
.................. ...............................................    ...........................
Sub-Total                              94616    106919    201535          17587    19873    37460
..............................     ................................................ .............
Total BASELINE COSTS                 894531    404872   1299404          166270    75255   241525
Physical Contingencies             65497      32968     98465        12174      6128    18302
Price Contingencies                127268     22284    149552         23656      4142    27798
..............................     ................................................ .............
Total PROJECTS COSTS                 1087296    460124   1547420        202100    85525   287625
==uc::aBa:zgu-===::z:r=:U s:s:   :===s:===:==z=====u=======:==
.............................................................................................
Vatues Scaled by 1000.0 - 4/19/1992 16:41



-66-                                          Annex 2
China
Sichuan Agriculture Oevelopment Project
Project Cost Suwmary
X Total
X Foreign       ease
Exchange      Costs
A. Irrigation
1. SP Irrig.                            25         24
2. WP Irrig.                            27         39
3. YP Irrig.                            21          2
4. SP Agr. Support                      61          2
S. UP Agr. Support                      62          2
6. YP Agr. Support                      61          0
Sub-Total                                  29         69
S. Soil Conservation
1. GY Demo Area                         21          1
2. OJ Demo Area                         19          1
3. Paul. & Toon                         15          1
4. Gall Planting                        21          1
5. Chinese Medicine                     1Q          1
6. Alphine Rush                         41          0
7. Fast Gr. Trees                       11          I
.......... ....................
Sub-Total                                  18          6
C. Income Generating ProJ.
1. Mulberry & Coccon                    24          6
2. Tea Rehab.                           30          0
3. YY Goat Raising                      24          1
4. PS Goat Raising                      26          0
S. Geese Raising                        20          1
6. Rabbit Raising                       23          0
......... ...........
Sub-Total                                   24          9
0. Agroprocessing
1. Paper Mitt(CY)                       55          6
2. Paper Mili(PS)                       51          5
3. Rabbit Hair Proc.                    52          2
4. Gallnut Proc.                        49          1
5. Goat Proc.                           53          0
6. Geese Proc.                          55          1
....................
Sub-Total                                   53        16
.................. .
TotaL BASELINE COSTS                       31        100
Physical Contingencies                  33          8
Price Contingencies                     iS         12
,.._......i;...........
Total PROJECTS COSTS                       30        119
Values.Scaed.b.. 100.0..... 1. /1992... 16:4..........1



- 67 -                                     Annex 2
China                                 Table  M
Sichuan AgricuLture Development Project
Yuan
Project Components by Year
Base Costs                                    Total
..................................................................................
1992      1993      1994      1995      1996      1997    Yuan      USS
A. Irrigation
1. SP Irrig.                       73474     71477     68416     52430     40109          0    305906     56860
2. WP Irrig.                       77428    104386     93248    101037      84082     46591    506771     94195
3. YP Irrig.                        9014     11376      5630         0          0         0     26020      4836
4. SP Agr. Support                 13008      8132      9956       573        526         0     32196      5984
5. WP Agr. Support                  9347      5903      7025       513        463         0     23250      4322
6. YP Agr. Support                   285       565      1295        63          0         0      2207       410
..................................................................................
Sub-total                           182556    201839    185570    154616    125180      46591    896351    166608
B. Soil Conservation
1. GY Demo Area                     2997      4744      4537      3077       1502         0     16857      3133
2. QJ Demo Area                     2818      1791      2169      2041        880         0      9699      1803
3. Paul. g Toon                     2192      5389      5103       691        293         0     13669      2541
4. Gall Planting                    2228      6115      4029       690        218         0     13280      2468
5. Chinese Medicine                 3239      3674      1924         0          0         0      8036      1642
6. Atphine Rush                     1190      1453       907        182         0         0      3733       694
7. Fast Gr. Trees                   5000      5000      4100      1619       950          0     16669      3098
..................................................................................
Sub-total                            19664     28165     22769      8301       3844         0     82744     15380
C. Income Generating Proj.
1. Mulberry & Coccon               28765     37088     14349      2212         0          0     82414     15319
2. Tea Rehab.                       2798      2403       410         0          0         0      5611      1043
3. YY Goat Raising                  4936      3772      2621        47          0         0     11376      2115
4. PS Goat Raising                  2496      1564       685        95          0         0      4840       900
5. Geese Raising                    3995      3500      1895       931          0         0     10322      1919
6. Rabbit Raising                   1830      1864       438         79         0         0      4211       783
.............................................. .................................. .............. ....... . 
Sub-total                            44820     50191     20398      3364          0         0    118774     22077
0. Agroprocessing
1. Paper MiIt(MY)                  16194     32744     21692      4200         -0        -0    74830      13909
2. Paper  fill(PS)                 16790    28357      18765      4200         -0        -0    70112      13032
3. Rabbit Hair Proc.                5548     13544      6172      3000          0         0     28264      5254
4. Gallnut Proc.                    2672      5041      2547       1500        -0        -0     11760      2186
5. Goat Proc.                       1244      1826      1958       400          0         0      5428      1009
6. Geese Proc.                      3441      3161      3888       650          0         0     11140      2071
Sub-total                            47888    84674      55023     13950         -0        -0   201535      37460
... ..... ................... .................... ......................................................... ....
Total BASELINE COSTS                294928    364870    283760    180232    129024      46591   1299404    241525
Physical Contingencies            20622     27449     20976     14196      11242      3980     98465     18302
Price Contingencies                7205     25312     34693     34570   . 32852      14919    149552     27798
....... ............ ................................... ............................................................. ....... ..... .
Total PROJECT COSTS                 322754    417631    339429    228997    173118      65490   1547420    287625
Taxes                                 0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
Foreign Exchange                 108667    150636    104433     45990     36866      13532    460124     85525
.................................................................................................................
Vatues Seated by 1000.0 4719/1992 16:43



-68-                                        Annex 2
Table 1-4
China
Sichuan Agriculture Development Project
Projects Components by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
Yuan
.......................................................................
1992       1993       1994       1995       1996        1997      Total
:unuuuuuu:-au:c====:su==:::=3======-=g3 -uE3uuinmuea3us.:c::::g_
A. Irrigation
1. SP Irrig.                           81606      82880      83506      67667      54442           0    370100
2. WP Irrig.                           85985    121057    113248    128887    112487           65490    627155
3. YP Irrig.                           10039      13333       6954           0          0          0      30326
4. SP Agr. Support                     14042       9293      11393         662        635          0      36025
5. UP Agr. Support                     10082       6713       8037         593        558          0      25984
6. YP Agr. Support                       321        644       1470          73          0          0       2508
,......................................................................
Sub-Total                                202075    233920    224609    197881    168122           65490   1092098
B. Soil Conservation
1. GY Demo Area                         3189       5344       5346       3800        1948          0      19628
2. QJ Demo Area                         3002       2023       2567       2540        1147          0      11278
3. Paul. & Toon                         2336       6071       6019         855        381          0      15662
4. Call Planting                        2380       6863       4742         866        284          0      15135
5. Chinese medicine                     3476       4143       2243           0          0          0       9862
6. Alphine Rush                         1270       1614       1049         220          0          0       4153
7. Fast Cr. Trees                       5373       5664       4867       2000        1236          0      19140
.......................................................................
Sub-Total                                 21027      31721       26832      10282       4996           0     94856
C. Income Generating Proj.
1. Mulberry & Coccon                   30803      41647      16857       2702           0          0      92010
2. Tea Rehab.                           3001       2685        480           0          0          0       6166
3. YY Goat Raising                      5276       4217       3086          56          0           0     12635
4. PS Goat Raising                      2671       1748        801         113          0           0      5333
5. G e e Raising                        4290       3932       2229        1159          0          0      11610
6. Rabbit Raising                       1967       2071        519          94          0           0      4652
.......................................................................
Sub-Total                                 48009      56300       23972       4124          0           0    132405
D. Agroprocessing
1. Paper Mitt(MY)                      17451      36996      25325       5031          -0         -0      84803
2. Paper Mill(PS)                      20322      32016      21856       5031          -0         -0      79225
3. Rabbit Hair Proc.                    5999      15382       7143        3594          0          0      32118
4. Gallnut Proc.                        2869       5687       2941        1797         -0          -0     13293
5. Goat Proc.                           1324       2055       2249         479          0          0       6107
6. Geese Proc.                          3679       3555       4502         779          0          0      12515
........................ ........................................................................ ..................... 
Sub-Total                                 51644      95690      64017       16710         -0          -0    228061
.......................................................................
Total PROJECTS COSTS                     322754    417631    339429    228997    173118           65490   1547420
........................................................................................................
Vatues Seated by 1000.0 4/19/1992 16:43



- 69 -
Annex 2
China                                       Table 1-5
Sichuan Agriculture Devalopment Project
Projects Components by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
USS
1992      1993       1994      1995       1996       1997     Total
A. Irrigation
1. SP Irrig.                         15168     15405      15521     12577      10119          0     68792
2. UP Irrig.                         15982     22501      21050     23957      20908      12173    116571
3. YP Irrig.                          1866      2478       1293         0          0          0      5637
4. SP Agr. Support                    2610      1727       2118       123        118          0      6696
S. UP Agr. Support                    1874      1248       1494       110        104          0      4830
6. YP Agr. Support                      60       120        273         14         0          0       466
Sub-Total                               37560     43480      41749     36781      31249      12173    202992
S. Soil Conservation
1. GY Demo Area                        593        93        994       706        362          0      3648
2. OJ Deo Area                         558       376        477       472        213          0      2096
3. Paul. & Toon                        434      1128       1119       159         71          0      2911
4. Gall Planting                       442      1276        881       161         53          0      2813
5. Chinese Medicine                    646       770        417         0          0          0      1833
6. Alphine Rush                        236       300        195        41          0          0       772
T. Fast Or. Trees                      999      1053        905       372        230          0      3558
Sub-Total                                3908      5896       4987      1911        929          0     17631
C. Income Cenerating Proj.
1. Mulberry & Coccon                  526       7741       3133       502          0          0     17102
2. Teo Rehab.                          558       499         89         0          0          0      1146
3. YT Goat Raising                     981       784        574         10         0          0      2349
4. PS Goat Raising                     496       325        149        21          0          0       991
S. Geese RaIsing                       797       731        414       215          0          0      2158
6. Rabbit RaIsing                      366       385         97         17         0          0       865
Sub-Total                                8924     10465       4456       767          0          0     24611
D. Agroprocessing
1. Paper NfIt(CY)                     3244      6877       4707       935         -0         .0     15763
2  Paper Nill(PS)                     377       5951       4063       935         -O         -0     14726
3. Rabbit Hair Proc.                  1115      2859       1328       668          0          0      5970
4. Calinut Proc.                       533      1057        547       334         -0         -0      2471
S. Coat Proc.                          246       382        418        89          0          0      1135
6. Geese Proc.                         684       661        837       145          0          0      2326
Sub-Total                                9599     17786      11899      3106         .0         .0     42391
Total PROJECTS COSTS                    59992     77627      63091     42565      32178      12173    287625
........................................................................................................
Values Seated by 1000.0 4/19/1992 16:43



_ 70 -
Annex 2
Sichwn T4r1cult oable 2-1
l   AUmfrf.UIttuC  Oevetcp.snt Proj.ct
Sury Accounts Cost SuLry
Yuan                 .USS                                        XTotal
........, ,,,,,,,.,.....................    ....................... --%-  Foreo  so"
Local  Forelin    Total          Local  Foregn    Total        Exchnge       Costs
............................ I...   .................................     ...............................................
......... .............. 
A. Lwi Acqfisotfian                    60758          0     60758         11293         0    lim            0          5
B. Civft Works
1. Irrigation Vorks               418043    142253    560296           77703    26441   104144          25        43
2. On-Farm Works                   9802       10993    109016          18220     2043    20243          10          8
3. Sufldfng. an  Plant             58356      17459      75815         10847     3245    14092          23          6
4. Rural Roed                      13047       3399      16446          2425      d2       3057         21          1
*-;; . -_...... ;* ..................    .................. ................................................................ . 
" -Total                              87469    174104    76173           10915    32361   141556           23         55
C. Frm Labors                         43867           0     43867          8154         0     8154          0          3
D. Naterfals
I *Construction Naterfals           9366      23693      33059          1741     4404      6145         n          3
2. Breedng Stock                      9s       1s15       9073          1349      337      1687         20          1
3. Fertilizers                     11594      2728       38883          2155     son       72Z7         70          3
4. Pestfefdis                       2906      11625      14531           540     2161      2701         S0          1
5. S    , Egms                     15433          0      15433          2869        0      2869          0          1
6. Other Nterfal                    3626         36       3662           674        7       681          1          0
..............................    ..................................................................................
SubTotal                              so5ss      64456    114641           9325    1196      21309         51         14
E. Machin ry and Equipent
1  Comntruction                    3142      12568      11o            s54      2336      2920        80           1
2. Irrigation OaN                   1178       4711       5888           219      876      1094         80          0
3. Offfce                           4926       6396      11322           916     1189      2104         56          1
4. Processng                       2703       96399    124053           5140    17918    23058          78         10
5. PM"  aN  Motors                  3710       s637      12367           690     1609      2299         70          1
6. Furnftures                        910          0        910           169        0       169          0          0
7. Lab Equfpmmnt                     853       3287       4140           159      611       77          79          0
8. Form Toos                        2846        712       3558           529      132       661         20          0
9. Other Produetive Equfp          23782       5946      29728          4421     1105      5526         20          2
..................... .......................................................... ..........................
tub-Total                             69001    13867       207676         1826    25776    38602           66         15
F. Vehicles
1. Passengr                          108        432        540            20       80       100         s0          0
2. Trucs                            2466       9864      12330           458     1833       292         80          1
3. ON Vehfles                           0         0          0             0        0         0          0          0
4. Utitity Vehicles                  1906      7624       9530           354     1417      lm           80          1
.................... .... ................. .......................    ...............................................
MabTotal                               4480      17920      22400            33     3331      4164         80          2
G. Instftutfonal Dev Y *S
1. Training                         8034       7689      157            149n     1429      29           49          1
2. Technical Assistance              462       1132       1594            86      210       296         71          0
3. Resrch                            1166       896       2062           217       166      383         43          0
.......................             ...... ................................ ..........................................
Sub-Total                               9662      9n7       19378          1796      1806     3602         50          1
N. Design, Enginering 9 SW             25662          0     25662          4770         0     4770          0          2
t. Acsinistration & Npt               12492           0     12492          5232        0      2m            0          1
J. Workfng Capital                     25776          0     25776          4791         0     471           0          2
K. Construction Tax                     5180          0      5180           963         0      93           0          0
Total  NSELIKE COSTS                 894531    4048n    1299404          166270    75255   241525          31        100
Physical Contingences              65497      32968      98465         12174     6128    1802           33          a
Price Contingenies                127268      22284    149552           3656     4142    277"           15         12
......... .......................    ...............................................
Total PROJECTS COSm                 1087296    460124   1547420          202100    5525   287625           30        119
................................................................................................................
Vtues Seated by 1000.0 -   5/1210IM   12:49



Annex 2
- 71-                                        T81;-
China
Sichuan Agriculture Development Project
Sumnury Account by Project Cwponent
Yuan
SP        WP         YP      SP Agr.   WP Agr.   YP Agr.   GY Demo   QJ Demo
Irrig.    Irrig.    Irrig.    Support   Support   Support    Area          Area
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
....................
A. Land Acquisition                     15000      35158       1175          0         0          0         16         15
B. Civit Works
1. Irrigation Works                   180002    362316       17978          0         0          0          0          0
2. On-Farm Works                       58502      37854       4754          0         0          0       4855      2136
3. Buildings and Plant                      0         0          0      7817       5425        563        330        340
4. Rural Roads                          9264          0          0          0         0          0          0          0
...............................................................................
Sub-total                              247768    400170       22732      7817       5425        563       5185      2476
C. Farm Labors                               0         0          0          0         0          0       4803      3714
0. Materials
1. ConstructIon Haterials              12259      19805        417         0          0          0        566         0
2. Breeding Stock                           0         0          0          0         0          0          0          0
3. Fertilizers                              0         0          0      10500      8400        700        751        542
4. Pesticides                               0         0          0      6300       3360        420       1768        663
5. Seeds, Eggs                              0         0          0          0         0          0       1898       1189
6. Other Material                           0         0          0          0         0          0          0          0
.................................................................................
sub-total                                12259     19805        417      16800     11760       1120       4983       2395
E. Nachinery and Equipment
1. Construction                         8461       7148        102          0         0          0          0          0
2. Irrigation OUI                       3513       2218        157          0         0          0          0          0
3. Office                               2582       4687         78        367       287         74        235        262
4. Processing                               0         0          0       :396       216         63          0          0
5. Puwps and Motors                      564      11650        153          0         0          0          0          0
6. Furnitures                               0         0          0          0         0          0          0          0
7. Lab Equipment                           0          0          0      1411       1611         43          0          0
8. Farm Tools                               0         0          0        424       402         36        137          7
9. Other Productive Equlp                   0         0          0          0         0          0          0          O
.................................................................................
Sub-total                               15120      25702        490      3598       2516        216        372       269
F. Vehicles
1. Passenger                               0          0          0         0          0          0         90        90
2. Trucks                               3150          0        105        735       525          0        100        100
3. ON  Vehicles                             0         0          0          0         0          0          0          0
4. Utility Vehicles                     4252       3223        168       300        480        120          0          0
..............................................................................
Sub-total                                 7402      3223        273       1035      1005        120        190        190
G. institutional Dev & Supp
1. Training                             1890       1376         66      2181       1865        166        373       309
2. Technical Assistance                     0         0          0          0         0          0          0          0
3. Research                                 0         0          0       450        450          0        130         61
.............................. ;..................................................
Sub-total                                 1d90      1376         66       2631      2315        166        503        370
H. Design, Engineering & Sup             4089      17328        658          0         0          0        110        160
1. Adminfstration & Hgmt                 2377       4009        208       315        230         22        695        110
J. Working Capital                           0         0          0          0         0          0          0          0
KL  Construction Tax                         0         0          0          0          0         0          0          0
Total BASELINE COSTS                   305906    506771       26020     32196      23250       2207      16857      9699
Physical Contingencies                27129      43444       2353      2033       1432        140        77m       452
Price ContIngencies                   37065      76940       1953       1796      1301        160       1994       1128
.................................................................................
Total PROJECT COSTS                    370100    627155       30326     36025      25984       2508      19628      11278
Taxes                                     0          0          0          0         0          0          0          0
Foreign Exchange                      88106    160176        6146     21477      15738       1492       3918      2005
Values Scaled by 1000.0  4/1911992  16:41



- 72 -
China                                         Amnex  2
Sichuan Agriculture Oveltpmmnt Project                          Tsble 2-3
Sumury Account by Project Conponent
Yuen
Paut. ,   G tl    Chinese   Alphin  FPast or. Nultbrry          To       rY Goat  PS Goat
Toon    Ptantifng  Medicine    Rush      Trees   4 Coccon   Remb.    Raising  Raising
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
....................
A. Land Acquisition                      1376       750        250       202          0      3120         10         0         0
B. Civil Uocks
1. Irrigption Vorks                        0         0          0         0         0          0         0          0        0
2. On-Frm Works                            0         0          0         0          0         0       915          0        0
3. Buildings and Plant                     0         0        953         0        360     22782       233       1976      80S
4. Rural Ros                               0.        0          0         0       1980         0        65          0        0
..............................;i................................................ ......
Sub-totat                                   0         0                    0       2340     278          14       1976      805
C. FPrm Labors                           8600      mo         2539      1245      9095       3795       940        300      123
0. Materiats
1. Construction Materisls                  0         0          0         0          0         0        12          0        0
2  Broeding Stock                          0         0          0         0          0         0         0       5060     2060
I. Fertfilers                          1193      239        2314      1336       1042      5577      2188        625      372
4. Pesticides                            526       255        129       425         73       460        10S        46        0
5  Seeds, Eggs                           220       250       1878       270       2478      S750       600        480       196
6. Other Naterial                          0         0          0         0          0      1165         0        S01       80
.......... ;;................................................................................
Sub-total                                1939      2884       4321      2031       3594     12952      2904       6912     2709
E. Machiner ard Equipment
1. Construction                            0         0          0         0         0          0         0          0        0
2. Irrigatfln alM                          0         0          0         0          0         0         0          0        0
3. Office                                343       232         71        14        135       959        4S        271      223
4. Proessing                               0         0          0         0          0      1915         0        110        0
5. Pups and lotors                         0         0          0         0          0         0         0          0        0
6. Furnitures                              0         0          0         0          1       682          1        37        0
7. Lab Equipment                           0         0          0         0          0         0         0        139       99
8. Form Toots                            573       833         73        2S        219       747        82          0        0
9. Other Productiv Equlp                   0         0          0         0          5     29723         0          0        0
,......................... z............................................................
Sub-total                                 916      1065        144        39        360     34026       128        557      322
F. Vehicles
1. Pssenger                                0         0          0         0         0          0         0          0        0
2. Trucks                                  0         0        240        60        200      2660        120       260      200
3. OB  Vehictls                            0         0          0         0          0         0         0          0        0
4. Utility Vehicles                      300       300          0         0          0         0         0          0        0
............... ........................................................................
Sub-totat                                 300       300        240        60        200      2660        120       260      200
0. Institutional  1ev                      0 Supp
1. Training                              102       232        154        17       3So       2175       I"         485      300
2. Technicat Assistance                  215       141          0       108          0         0        38        181       41
3. Research                                0         0          0         0        120       400          0       103       80
................... ii........ i....... i;..................................................
Sub-totat                                 318       3          154       125        476      2S75        184       769      421
H. ODsfln, Enfineern9l  S p                20         18        15         0        300         0        45        206      112
1. Adafnfstration S Mgut                  200       170        200        31       305        503        67        395      147
J Uorking Capital                           0         0          0         0          0         0          0         0        0
K  Construction Tax                         0         0          0         0          0         0          0         0        0
..................................................... ................................................. ............. .............. 
Total BASELINE COSTS                    13669     13280       8836      3733      16669     82414       5611     11376    4840
Physical Contingencaes                  588       598        411       169        779      3811       265        5OO      208
Price Continencies                     1405      1256        614       250       1691      5785       289        759      285
...........................................................................................
Total PROJECT COSTS                     15662     15135       9862      4153      19140     92010       6166     12635    5333
Taxes                                     0         0          0         0          0         0         0          0        0
Poreign Exchange                       2213      2986       1806      1670       1959     21398      1829       2908    1351
...........................................................................................................................
Values Scaled by 1000.0  4/19/1992  17:09



_ 73 -
Annex  2
ChinaTO                                            4
Sichuan Agriculture Oevelopment Project
Suutary Account by Project Component
Yuan
Rabbit
Geese    Rabbit      Paper     Paper      Hair     Galtnut    Goat        Geese
Raising   Raising  Mitt(MY) MiltCPS)    Proc.        Proc.      Proc.      Proe.
*-uauaan.uuuuuunuuuu.auuaUflUuufuuuuUuUuUUuuUsuUu-"-------auUnuaUUUs-- _*uUUaUu
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
....................
A  Land Acquisition                         0          0       980       1820       300        200         65       320
8. Civil Works
1. Irrigation Works                        0         0          0         0          0          0         0          0
2. On-farm Works                           0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0
3. 8uildings and Plant                  2275       1455     12408      11594      1862       1924       915       1797
4. Rural Roads                             0          0      1350      3500        227         60         0          0
.................................................................................
Sub-total                                2275       1455     13758      15094      2089       1984       915       1797
C. Farm Labors                            867        105         0          0         0          0         0          0
0. Materials
1. Construction Haterials                  0         0          0         0          0          0         0          0
2. Broeding Stock                        954       1000         0          0         0          0         0          0
3. Fertilizers                           653        110         0          0         0          0          0         0
4. Pesticides                              0          0         0          0         0          0          0         0
5  Seeds. Eggs                           196         28         0          0         0          0         0          0
6. Other Material                       1557        359         0          0         0          0          0         0
.................................................................................
Sub-total                                3359       1496         0          0         0          0         0          0
E. Machinery and Equipment
1. Construction                            0         0          0         0          0          0         0          0
2. Irrigatfon OSH                          0          0         0          0         0          0          0         0
3. Office                                288        169         0          0         0          0         0          0
4. Processing                           1980        120     47586     39744      17145       5630      2464       5683
5  Puops and Motors                        0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0
6- Furnitures                             96        93          0          0         0          0         0          0
7. Lab Equipment                         266         71       200       200         30          0        50         20
8. Farm Tools                              0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0
9. Other Productive Equip                  0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0
................... ..............................................................
Sub-total                                2630       453      47786     39944      17175       5630      2514       5703
F. Vehicles
1. Passenger                             180        180         0         0          0          0         0          0
2. Trucks                                120         0        630       840        315        630       595        745
3. OSH Vehfcles                            0         0          0          0         0          0         0          0
4. UtilIty Vehicles                       60          0       150          0         0        176         0          0
.......... i;......................................................................
Sub-total                                 360        180       780       840        315        806       595        745
G. Institutional Oev 8 Supp
1. Training                              489       230        no        900        626        340       144         79
2. Technical Assistance                   23          7         0          0         0          0       120        720
3. Research                               70        198         0          0         0          0         0          0
,.................. ;.............................................................
Sub-total                                 582        435       720       900        626        340       264        799
H. Design, Engineering & Sup               44         32       932        783       391        144        70        205
1. Administration & NMmt                  204        5S        750       ?47        354        156       105        137
J  Working Capital                          0          0      7044      8042       6140       2500       800       1250
K. Construction Tax                         0          0      2080       1942       874          0        100       184
.................................................................................
Total BASELINE COSTS                    10322      4211      74830      70112     28264      11760      5428      11140
Physical ContInsencies                  475        184      4961      4376       1781        658       295        645
Prfie Contingencies                     813        256      5012      4737       2072        875       384        730
............... ..........  ......     i..........................................
Total PROJECT COSTS                     11610       4652     84803      79225     32118      13293      6107      12315
Taxes                                     0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0
Foreign Exchange                       2183       1042     46527     40071      16584       6475      3210       6853
.................................................................................................................
Values Scaled by 1000.0  4/19/1992  16:42



_ 74 -
China                                            ATnez  2
Sichuan Agricuiture Oevetopment Project                              TAblre  2w-;
Suffary Account by Project Component
Yuan
Physical           Price
Contingencies      Contingencies
.... .....;........................
Total         X     Amount       X   Amount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
....................
A  Land AcquisItion                      60758          0          0       13       7888
B. Civil Works
1. Irrigation Works                    560296         10      56030       14     76770
2. On-Farm Works                       109016         10      10506       19     20198
3. Buildings and Plant                  75815          6       4455        7       5084
4. Rural Roads                          16446          8       1286       12       1937
............................................... ......................................
Sub-total                               761573          9      72277       14    103988
C. Farm Labors                           43867           5      2193       11       5000
0. Materials
1. Construction Materials               33059         10       3277       10      3158
2. Breeding Stock                        9073          5        454        7        651
3. Fertilizers                          38883          5       1944        5       2074
4. Pesticides                           14531          5        727        6        800
5. Seeds, Eggs                          15433          5        m          9       1400
6. Other Material                        3662          5        183       12        425
............... ;'....................... ...... ........... .................................
Sub-total                               114641          6       7356        7       8507
E. Machinery and Equipment
1. Construction                         15710          5        786        4       692
2  Irrigation OM                        5888          5        294       11        655
3. Office                               11322          5        602        4        413
4. Processing                          124053          9      11145        5       5869
S. Pumps and Motors                     12367          5        618       13       1551
6. Furnitures                             910          5         45        7         62
7. Lab Equipment                         4140          9        360        4        162
S. Farm Tools                            3558          6        221        7        240
9. Other Productive Equip               29728          5       1486        8       2336
................... ...................................................
Sub-total                               207676          7      15559        6      11979
F. Vehicles
1. Passenger                              540          5         27        2         12
2. Trucks                               12330          5        576        3        427
3. O8M Vehicles                             0          0          0        0          0
4. Utility Vehicles                      9530          5        476        5        431
..............................................................
Sub-total                                22400          5       1079        4        871
C. Institutional Dev 8 Supp
1. Training                             15723          0          0        7       1118
2. Technical Assistance                  1594          0          0        5         73
3. Research                              2062          0          0        9        190
..............................................................
Sub-total                                19378          0          0        7       1381
H. Design, Engineering & Sup             25662          0          0       14       3511
1. Administratfon & Mgmt                 12492          0          0       13       1565
J  Working CapitaL                       25776          0          0       17       4403
K. Construction Tax                       5180          0          0        9        458
..............................................................
Total BASELINE COSTS                   1299404          8      98465       12    149552
Physical ContIngencies                 98465
Price Contingencies                   149552          7      10797
..............................................................
Total PROJECT COSTS                    1547420           7    109262       10    149552
Taxes                                      0          0          0
Foreign Exchange                      460124          8      34734
.............................................................................................
Values Seated by 1000.0 4/19/1992 16:42



- 75 -
Annex 2
China                                        sable  2-6
Sichuan Agriculture Development Project
Yuan
Summary Accounts by Year
Base Costs
.......................................................................
1992      1993       1994       1995       1996      1997      Total
uanalanuuaauu1uauuuuuuauauuuuuuuumuuumuuauaaw-JuDu-----u------amu.uu.wuu
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
...................
A.  Land Acquisition                  16407      13694.    11519        9067      6906       3164      60758
B. Civil Works
1. Irrigation Works               106499    124525    117720    108748        80333      22471    560296
2. On-Farm Works                   13782      18165      18698     20779      23586      14006    109016
3. Buildings and Plant             32314      28354      13432      1665         50          0      75815
4. Rural Roads                      3803       4582       3734      2195       2132          0      16446
Sub-total                            156399    175625    153584    133387    106101         36477    761573
C.  Farm Labors                        8121      17228      12825       4105      1588          0      43867
0. Materials
1. Construction Materials           7062       8467      6747       4900       4099       1784     33059
2. Breeding Stock                   3752       3052       2022       248          0          0       9073
3. Fertilizers                     13884       9023      15305       536        135          0      38883
4. Pesticides                       5412       1527       6563       712        316          0      14531
5. Seeds. Eggs                      5146       6303       3041       636        307          0      15433
6. Other Material                    518       1351       1396       396          0          0       3662
Sub-total                             35774      29723      35074       7429      4857       1784    114641
E. Machinery and Equipment
1. Construction                     4957       6399      4092        164        100          0      15710
2. Irrigation O0M                   1012       1659        905        94        758       1459       5888
3. Office                           6695       4041        585         0          0          0      11322
4. Processing                      27006      66700      29946       400         -0         *0    124053
S. PuTPs and Motors                  509       2354       2417      3764       2424        898      12367
6. Furnitures                        431        416        .35         28         0          0        910
7. Lab Equipment                     659       3419         62          0         0          0       4140
8. Farm Tools                       1494       1552        413        68         31          0       3558
9. Other Productive Equip           7582      14836       7086       223          0          0      29728
Sub-total                             50345    10137'    45542          4742      3313       2357    207676
F. Vehicles
1. Passenger                         360        180          0         0          0          0        540
2. Trucks                           5132       5542       1655          0         0          0      12330
3. O8v VehicLes                        0          0          0          0         0          0          0
4. Utility Vehicles                 4204       4364        238          0         0        724       9530
Sub-total                              9696      10086       1893          0          0       724      22400
G. Institutional Dev & Supp
1. Training                         5820       5117       2078      1496       1047        165      1572
2. Technical Assistance              558        5 (.       452         12        10          0       1594
3. Research                          498        630        331       388        215          0       2062
Sub-total                              6876       6209       2861       1896       1271       165      19378
N.  Design, Engineering & Sup          7325       4;79       4216      4272       3711       1559      25662
1.  Administration & Mgmt              2891       3491       2690       1783      1277        360      12492
J.  Working Capital                        0         0      12226      13550          0         0      25776
K.  Construction Tax                   1094       2757       1329         *0         -0        -0       5180
.......................................................................
Total BASELINE COSTS                 294928    364870    283760    180232    129024         46591   1299404
Physical Contingencies             20622      27449      20976     14196      11242       3980      98465
Price Contingencies                 7205      25312      34693     34570      32852      14919    149552
.......................................................................
Total PROJECT COSTS                  322754    417631    339429    228997    173118         65490   1547420
Taxes                                  0          0          0          0         0          0          0
Foreign Exchange                  108667    150636    104433       45990      36866      13532    460124
......................................................................................................
Vatues Scated by 1000.0 4/19/1992 16:42



-76-
China                                                                   Annex 2
Sichuan Agricultute Development Project                                                   Table T-
Yuan
Surmmary Accounts by Year
Foreign Exchange
%    Amount
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
...................
A.  Land Acquisition                        0          0
B. Civil Works
1. Irrigation Works                     25    142253
2. On-Farm Works                        10     10993
3. SuildIngs and Plant                  23     17459
4. Rural Roads                          21      3399
Sub-total                                  23    174104
C.  Farm Labors                             0          0
0. Materials
1. Construction Haterials               72     23693
2. Breeding Stock                       20      1815
3. Fortilizers                          70     27288
4. Pesticides                           80     1162S
5. Seeds, Eggs                           0         0
6. Other Material                        1        36
Sub-total                                  56     64456
E. Machinery and Equipment
1. ConstructIon                         80     12568
2. Irrigation OSM                       80      4711
3. Office                               56      6396
4. Processing                           78     96399
5. PUiTS and Motors                     70      8657
6. Furnitures                            0         0
7. Lab Equipment                        79      3287
8. Farm Tools                           20       712
9. Other Productive Equip               20      S946
Sub-total                                  67    138675
F. Vehicles
1. Passenger                            80       432
2. Trucks                               80      98"6
3. OCW Vehicles                          0         0
4. Utility Vehicles                     80      7624
Sub-total                                  80      17920
G. Institutional Dev & Supp
1. Trainlr.g                            49      7689
2. Technical Assistance                 71      1132
3. Research                             43       896
Sub-total                                  50      9t17
H.  Design, Engineering & Sup               0          0
1.  Administration & Mgmt                   0         0
J.  Working Capital                         0          0
K.  Construction Tax                        0          0
Total BASELINE COSTS                       31    404872
Physical Contingencies                  33     32968
Price Contingencies                     15     22284
....................
Total PROJECT COSTS                        30    460124
*asaauauumauuu
Taxes                                    0         0
Foroign Exchange                       100    460124
V.....................................................
Vatues Scalod by 1000.0 4/19/1992 16:42



- 77 -
Annex 2
China                                      'Table -2-
Sichuan Agriculture Development Project
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
Yuan
.......................................................................
1992      1993      1994      1995      1996      1997      Total
UU3UUUinUUUU*UUUUUUS.USUUUUUU3SU.UU3UUUUUU3UUU.UUUSUUUUUUUZUUSUUUUU-w
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
.................... ...................... 
A  Land Acquisition                  16900      14878     13142     10861      8686      4179     68645
B. Civil Works
1. Irrigatfon Works              120023    146737    144998    140508    108842      31989    693096
2. On-Farm Works                  15513     21459     23175     27079     32324      20169    139720
3. Buildings and Plant            35110     32168     15959      2053         6S         0     85355
4. Rural Roads                     4193      5279      4516      2816       2864         0     19669
Sub-TataL                           174839    205643    188648    172456    144095      52157    937839
C. Farm Labors                        8783     19654      15363     5163       2097         0     51060
0. materials
1. Construction Materials          7875      9706      8020      6111      5355       2426     39493
2. Breeding Stock                  4041      3444      2386       307          0         0     10178
3. Fortilizers                    14792      9965     17345       633        167         0     42901
4. Pesticides                      57S7      1667      7403       840        390         0     16057
S. Seeds, Eggs                     5565      7191      3643       800        406         0     17604
6. Other Material                   561      1540       1671      498          0         0      4270
manUUUEUU3UUlUUUU2=fUu3canonsUfflaUUUfnaU8UUS
Sub-Total                            38591     33513     40468      9189       6317      2426    130504
E. Machinery and Equipment
1. Construction                    523       6984      4615       193        123         0     17t88
2. irrigation O01                  1077      1811      1021       111        935      1882      6837
3. Office                          7157      4510       671         0          0         0     12338
4. Processing                     29684     75711     35193       479         *0        *0    141067
5. PLps and Motors                  543      2584      2748      447S       3018      1169     14536
6. Furnitures                       466       475        42        35          0         0      1018
7. Lab Equipmfent                   701      3891        70         0          0         0      4662
8. Farm Tools                      1609      1798       488        84         40         0      4018
9. Other Productive Equip          8166     16743      8365       276          0         0     33550
Sub-Total                            54677    114504     53211      5655       4116      3051    235215
F. Vehicles
1. Passenger                        383       196         0         0         0          0       579
2. Trucks                          5455      6044      1834         0          0         0     13333
3. O&M Vehicles                       0         0         0         0          0         0         0
4. Utility Vehicles                4472      4763       268         0          0       934     10438
* -...-------UU-UU8UU3EUUW33UUUUUUU3U3UUUUUUS33U3UUUU33UUUUUUUUUE5UUU
Sub-Total                            10310     11003      2103         0          0       934     24350
G. Institutional Oev & Supp
1. Training                        5930      541S      2298      1n6        1262       208     16840
2. Technical Assistanee             567       587       488         14        11         0      166?
3. Research                         508       669       366       449        259         0      2252
..u..u.uUUUSUU----UO--SaSmUUUUUUmUUUUUUUUUUSUUUUUuUB*"SUUUUmuUUUUUU*m33
Sub-Total                             7005      6672      3152      2189       1533       208     20759
H. Oesign, Engineering & Sup          7545      4975      4810      5117       4668      2059     29173
1. Adiinistration & Mgmt              2978      393       30c9      2136       1606       475     14057
J. Working Capital                       0         0      13948    16231          0         0     30179
C. Construction Tax                   1126      2996       1516       *0         -0        -0      5638
Total PROJECT COSTS                 322?54    417631    339429    22897    173118       65490   1547420
...................................................................................0...................
Values Scated by 1000.0 4/19/IMw  16:42



- 78 -
Annex 2
China                                     Table 2-9
Sichuan Agriculture Development Project
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
usS
......................... .....................................................................................................
1992     1993      1994      1995      1996      1997     Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
... ................
A. Land Acquisition                  3141      2765      2443      2019      1615       777     12759
B. Civil Works
1. Irrigation Works              22309    27275    26951    26117    20231         5946    128828
2. On-Farm Works                  2883      3989      4308      5033     6008      3749      25970
3. Buildings andi Plant           6S26      5979      2966       382        12        0      15865
4. Rural Roads                     779       981       839       523       532         0     3656
Sub-Total                           32498    38224    35065    32055    26784         9695    174319
C. Farm Labors                       1633      3653      2856       960       390         0     9491
0. Materials
1. Construction Materials         1464      1804      1491      1136      995       451      7341
2. Breeding Stock                  751       640       444        57        0         0       1892
3. FertiltIers                    2749      1852      3224       118        31         0     7974
4. Pesticides                     1070       310      1376       156        72         0     298S
5. Seeds, Eggs                    1034      1337       677       149        75        0      3272
6. Other MaterIal                  104       286       311        93         0         0       794
Sub-Total                            7173      6229      7522      1708      1174      451      24257
E. Machinery and Equlpment
1. Construction                    980      1298       858        36       23         0      3195
2. Irrigation O&H                  200       337       190        21       174      350       1271
3. Office                         1330       838       125         0         0         0      2293
4. Processing                     5518     14073      6541        89        -0        -0    26221
5. Puips and Motors                101       480       511       832       561      217      2702
6. Furnitures                       87        88         8         7         0        0        189
7. Lab Equipment                   130       723        13         0        0         0       867
8. Farm Tools                      299       334        91        16         7        0        747
9. Other Productive Equip         1518      3112      15S5        51        0         0      6236
*UUUSU33*333UUUUUUU3UUU35CUUU3US*3S8UUUZ3SU5U533*uBS3U*3Um3XzUU3UU
Sub-Total                           10163    21283       9891      1051      765       567    43720
F. Vehicles
1. Passenger                        71        37         0         0        0         0       108
2. Trucks                         1014      1123       341         0        0         0      2478
3. O&i Vehicles                      0         0         0         0         0        0         0
4. UtIlity Vehicles                831       885        50         0         0       174      1940
Sub-Total                            1916      2045       391         0        0        174     4526
G. Institutional Dev & Supp
1. Training                       1102      1007       427       321      235        39      3130
2. Technical Assistance            105       109        91         3         2        0       310
3. Research                         94       124        68        83        48         0      419
Sub-Total                            1302      1240       586       407       285       39      3859
N. Design, Engineering & Sup         1402       925       894       951       868      383      5423
1. Administration & Mgmt              553       705       570       397      299        88      2613
J. Working Capital                      0         0      2593      3017         0        0      5609
K. Construction Tax                   209       557       282        -0        -0        -0      1048
auuuau.aa---uuus.u.Ua.samuuuuummuu*s-asauumuuuma*azuu-buuuuggsmu-uU-.m
Total PROJECT COSTS                 59992     77627    63091    4256S    32178        12173   28762S
......................................................................------......-........................................................................
VatusScatedby4                 .9 ..1   ..1.6....                .....    u...z .
Values Scaled by 1000.0 U/19/1992 16:42



-79-                                    Anne  3
Table 1-1
CHINA
Sdium  Agricultural O velopm nt Project
Procuremt of Equipment                              (T'0oe)
........................................ ............................................................................_. 
ua ntity      unit       ICB       LCB/a      Others       NIF       Total
(IUMt)    Price(y)
..........................................................................................................
A. Corntruction Equipment                               1S,192        S91         98                 14,681
Generation Units                 36                     280                     0                   200
Concrete Eq1P  nt                 2                                391                              391
Crane                                                              200                              200
Earthwork Equlipnt                                                                                   9 W
rw Conatiaution Equip  nt        16                  12,912                                      12,912
B. OWN Equipant                                              0      2,092      3,246                 5,338
Repair Equipnt                                                     115      1,564                 1,679
Nessure Irntnumnt                                                           1,410                 1,410
Fire Equipment                                                                  5                     S
C_me N/Vidro tilt                13                              1.95                             I.m
Packing Equipmnt                   1                                27                               27
other                                                                          56                    56
Niec.acessories                                                               211                   211
C. Irriatfon Equipnt                                     4,807      6,767        210                11,784
PUPing Eqpnt                     127                             6,5o6                            6,566
Trnfoworr                        34                                           210                   210
Diesel Engine Units              52                                201                              201
HydrsuLic Turbine                45                   4.80?                                       4,807
0. Procsing Equipment                                   9f,396     21,442                          116,838
Pawpr Eqfipmnt                   U                   7144T    14,284                             85,731
abbit  air                       13                  14.301      t,IOS                           15,931
Beef & coat net                  17                   2.070         40                            2,110
Ge                               32                   3.080      1,650                            4n730
Galtnut                          26                   3,918        894                            4,812
geed                             13                              3,016                            3,016
Fodr                             2                                 S08                              S08
E. Othr Produation Eqdpant
a. Agricultural Nehfnery                                                       2.949                 2.949
Spra                                                                        1,151                 1.151
Agriculttur   Tool                                                          1,649                 1,649
Other                                                                         149                   149
b. Sericulture Equlpmnt                                                       30,009                30,009
Slkmb Eogs Prodwetion    115,00aets                                        1.052                 1,052
Raising SI Slubu            115,l0eto                                      27.362                27,362
oter                                                                        1,95                  1,595
C. Livestock EqUipmt                                                  550      1,267                 1,817
osinhold-ming                                                               1,228                 1,228
Breeing                                                            550                              550
Greland Nitoring                                                               39                    39
d. Other                                                                         786                   786
F. Office A LaborstorV Equip.
a. Office                                                                      9,311                 9.311
Nicro CsteWr                     30                                         1,300                 1,300
Coptw Statfon                     3                                         1,720                 1,720
Tnultet                          41                                           710                   710
Comication                       26                                         t,1lll!               1,082
Digser                           38                                         2,022                 2,022
alt  Printing Units              13                                           691                   691
Fed lo                            2                                                                  44
ohe                                                                         1,742                 1,742
b. Loratory WIpmnt                                                             1,751                 1,751
inetr nt                                                                    1,563 1W563
App&ion_                                                                      188                   188
B. Other Minor  quiE pnt                                                       2,141                 2,141
H. Othe                                                                          354                   354
3. P3m'  Equipit                    ts14                                         m                     S8
Niero-Csqute                      5                                           300                   300
UacdsiulI                         4                                             s                    a8
ODatlcater                        5                                           180                   18O
Total                                                  113,395     31,442     53.490               18,327
..........................................................................................................
INOTLt lh  coat of Ps' Equpipit Is I.nltded In the cast of Project Nansomment.
f Some eipm nt   _ds  US 0,000 in agrgte.  Wt thnee It_  muld be pcured owr iiy yers
inkig sub indlidual pdacge  Il   than U5200,000.
opt, *at  n5 IfirM.w



-80-                                        Annex 3
Table 1-2
CHIrn
Slchbun Agricultural Develop ent Project
Procuruamnt of Nateraels            CY 000)
..........................................................................................................
Qu mity       Unit       ICB        LCD       Others       NIF       Total
CT)      Priee(d)
A. Construction Materials                               34,115      5,284                            39,399
Steel                        21,322        1,600     34,115                                       34,11'
Cement                       33,232          159                 5,284                             5,26.
B. Agrfculturt lorputs
a. Fertiltier                   43,664        2,050     29,176      2,131                            31,307
Urea                          9,576        1,000      9,576                                        9,576
Phosphate                     6,088          350                 2,131                             2,131
Potessful                    28,000          700     19,600                                       19,600
b. Pesticide                       301                                        14,545                 14,545
C. Se  dings                                                                  11,952                 11,952
Saplfng (1000 tree)         124,880                                         9,960                  7,960
Sapling (ton)                 6,028                                           344                    344
Seed                            117                                         1,648                  1,648
d. Others                                                                      4,929                  4,929
C. Livestock
a. Breading Stock                                                              8,879                  8,879
Rabbit                       60,200                                         1,000                  1.000
Geese                       337,000                                           811                    611
Goat                        148,400                                         7,068                  7,068
b. Fodder                                                                      2,452                  2,452
D. Other Nfnor Naterfal                                                        7,629                  7,629
Total                                                  63,291      7,415     50,386                121,092
Procurement of Vehicles             CYr000)
..........................................................................................................
Quanity       Unit       ICe        LC8        Others      IF        Total
CT)      PriceCl)
..........................................................................................................
A. IRRIGATION                       156                 15,205                                       15,205
Hesvy Trucks C20T)                 30      164,700      4,941                                        4,941
Trucks COT)                         17      90,000      1,530                                        1,530
Duip Truck                         4        30,000      1,380                                        1,380
Utility Trucks                     61      114,000      6,954                                        6,954
Utility Cars                         2     200,000        400                                          400
B. SOIL CONSMEVATION                 18                  1,548                                        1,548
Trucks (ST)                         6      S8,000         348                                          348
Utility Trucks                      12     100,000      1,200                                        1,200
C. SERICULTURE                       27                  2,658                                        2,658
Trucks (ST)                          1      56,000        S5                                            58
Utility Trucks                      26     100.000      2,600                                        2,600
D. LIVESTOCK                         a                     954                                          954
Trucks (5T)                         3       58,000        174                                          174
Utility Truck                        5     156,000        780                                          760
E. AGROPROCESSING                   40                   2,986                                        2,986
Trucks (5T)                        30       5S,000      1,740                                        1,740
Firs Engino                          1     130,000        130                                          130
Refrigerated Truck COT)             2      250,000        500                                          500
Utility trucks                       5     100,000        500                                          500
Folk Lift                           2       58,000        116                                          116
F. PUGo
Utility Vehicle                      5     200,000      1,000                                        1,000
Total                              254                  24,351                                       24,351
..........................................................................................................
NIF8 Not IDA fin nced



- 81 
! I; I i.3 I       I     HI ;;        I. .;1      I N 7    U      D t    1Annex  3
A v       l       .. 1:1 t                 a I   f"ts|l     1:   II  II- !117  11 ' ! I  hDe 
X   z     m   iS | ;! : i' !1  is-iSel ,i i; 1    ,-i 01~~~~~~~~~~ ifi!la   1l 1II t1  I  1  !.  i                v e        -
I:  HI   11       I.    i
.  n 01 11 1 _ F   * 1~~~11 C_11           11 Ir IYTn7I      I   I
-IL~~~~~
ILL I~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IL" IL~~~~~~~~~
. 1                                                  UA A -FAr_.__ _   T rrIl   I  AL
S r  _ I _ _ . _ r _ lr 3~~~~UAt _1 V  ll
I IL I~~~~~~I 
I 11 If  qI if"1
- . X nl I                                                 I _ .I III
I   ...4      A                                               A t    U       jIl
S   lCIITl X -]llC: r  _ _    X r    _  llr   3[  rF~~~~~~L A-l-   n Jl  IY
z      111 _   ~~~ ~~N  r           :  C     _If: L           11 ri       a       DI 
i   n 1 11 11 : RT  ~~~~~~~If_  R       I    I      U C     1          U    l i f 
-LD  11   Bl ll I  _    _ I U         _1   I         III
R IL IU_  I 1           I H Iill
I  Dl l! L  . Lll  T i _  _  _ _D                   n      L
-      p4l r 1l :  I~  _  A  I    :- : C' I   IL   u I
*  *    H_                -                       -      - 
t 11 01 11 .  .. N  T  _ _ r    r . T   NT  _ rlr mnr  " , ",
*~~~~~~~1          1   1    11 :       1:_C rr91 p1
^ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                          U l
i~~~~~~~~  ~      ~~~~~ |  c*111l 1!1         1         lD0  11111DDD   I A I1   1  li |
|:  I  1   " E nl 11-11 llEl RIf 1-411   P I rn TrI cf    l  TrTrns            
t~~~~~~~~~91 AsXllI IIDlIIIIIII  II III PIX  II
1a1! | g F~~IA- n Ir nE   !nHIIr]l           nlL          rL L            jlt
|   I I_  I D ~~~~~IIIJJJII  LI1i    11   11'I191L1 DIlL    1li
4b  Ib  1   ^                 m lH1          11       111IDllll   If   l    1 w ;



r~~~~~~ .
IL~~~~~~~I
11   If   I I  I P   I If    I  I I         I I     I I
IiipiiIi                                     II 15 ; i InIn       i 
1111111 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                  U~~L1
|~~~~~~~~~~~~i t,  9 IL5                                     1
Iiit  RlZ }|} 230 slt 230 tt1 211 tgi _i
IiuDzaSsZ j .j ._. I    P .               11    a        1P
I I"~~~~~~_U 
1- I~~~~~~~~~
}f2Dii;1 .    sI 1          }LllM
5|xtlljat i _ s i"3   iE  . , 3E lnI U
+  Il3 9 Inz :14  F i I 3AIAF
{|-~~~~~~~~~~~ AL I 11              A 5   AW m _   g t_
8   1ZZ   , fl 1l~t I Li I                  11I 11  l I    IL  il 113 
I  || { 1  F  h In I     I   I  I  I!    1@I h!               1 1     -  ;ID tII iiii 
i 1     HHB HI  a  Hk  I  I1-  L   1 1          i|Hi 11IIt          j 
9 '         E  In  1   l  11  P        I P|I'  Ht  
Im      Inr  1. . 1 11   .;In b   .   ,T1   , 1 "Zf  
I 111111EAA   1  r1 1-   In  11 In  I  H 1H11T     I l 11 It  hH  a   FC   f
ITTT       ,, n  I L1       TTlr r~~~~~~~In HH  I   
p^            1HH          11     I  Ir it  I I inT a  11u  u  11 -i  -a;s i
'I    ALA           R R 11 I 1I       g     E     R     g E
ili 9 lT I     it   I-  lltl 9 1  1130;rl    InT  11V     1 1i
hf              2  li 19  11  T 17     11 ff  H ina     T   l0       1"1 
;  Il  I   t  11    11 -L  -"   IL a  11 I  I -1  ILHA Hli H 
11 I II   11 I  D   1  1  1 1 In  a  D U1l  in -ILA.1 In  1a 1F ii
rrTlr~~~~~~i 3 r; P.! 11e  I mn  F l     r  !H11 Inlf ;; 
xeuuv      liVi  1H3   m        i      i    H    EE3IHS           E1ETES 



@            H                Kud Bub-ftoject
Ca_a
c   Com                                                                                                              :   SlrbrFn j4ticult1n  Devlopet FmecZt
7~~~~~~~~MR                                                0_oo                                                aB                    _l2  i  94w7! _          9  i1  
94        QINjiAr set. Canl          LCD    1-01                                        a -  I I
2*_                                             5 ice           SItt It - --  1-} lili                                - - iI       - A                                          lA           --I ;.il 
* 6       flauaPart I ranch Canal    i;T 27._1
96   Fulam    Su-rnh  aa   C                 P.an" 
#I   9 Fac<|1t 1 1   TUi Ateia-l -l 11Te11  71 a    63.0  mfc  t
N 10I0 aaagtach Cmana    LCD    12.0?  a
* S       Danaang Branch Canal        WCS    26139                                                                                                                                                      Ti.n 
9         q,FaM  a  StbaBnch   Canal   uC    S.2   -.m                 - e                                                          *          -
Val am" stamb cnSaaiw .uiininz.aM                                                              . ,mtaa,   u.
*                                                  I  es_a°,> lDe n  
.__~~~~W   11.71                                   eco e_ u                                              £|°_"
otW



U.
-,  *;MiUUhI  CU * F  CML                                           %zo  BbPoe
:___________________  -                        __________________                          .min, sicktee Afritulture  Developent Projct
Left Artela C anl
sa section                C      20.                                     
sI iIe=r Sec3lon
8.2 Lower Section        LCD     22.64"A"m"
Am , 5 .1 pe Section.         gC      24.27 MVM                                     .*   
5.2 Lower Section                                                                                                             -   
_ 4   N            _ag  _rencb Canal  LCa  12.23                                                                                                  _
>_@A  A tA t*_A m*_AE __AO *¢ltAOg                      IA   _
AK_                   __LOAA                                  VAa_V   AffV_lbSA
Sub-Dranch Cowal                                                                                                                                                                   1
1 6      PDnlion  Sub-Drenc  Cane  LCD      t.186'     -
_~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ f    It L_                                                                                                                                  A ..               c
*    Shiba Sub-Stancb Canal  LCB       9.2 ua.                              -       ,    .     .. .                   
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ZA 4±A
f a      Trunk Ditcebs            LCD       S.S
99      Trunk Ditcues            LCD       S.?
I 10     Trunk Ditcbee             C         .
£ I     Trnak Ditceeb- 
WTuAs.l93 mL..                                                                         ~



-~~~I 
111411~~              ~                                           -  I 
1Iuil - - - |- --F b b | '_A
, If   i1~fI* ~1: f  fllC HTi1 FT jG1C lii1 E<
i!iil~1   .-r   F8SS.
h:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
tj1a   , '       _            .,   .                                   = .
I.  p      .       .  H                           P.Cvp  A
t t F ~~~~~~*            __                                _,  .  5 H,. 
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0                                     m -- -  -    e  i
4 I,ee 1: -~~~~ -I il | . :i 1                                                  1A  I9_;;  
* P -        tr         Ig         |                                          .._
I                I -        I_ . ..I . .        .                   i, v r  
*   I                     ****      .*I :'~    A                I
r-rr.1,        H            .    I,                     .                    K I  O  I
iRll  r -    1: * - ' 7:    r .iyIr.  r  Iff                               -l 
11_; ,; IV             1        .II  '       I     -       1 -I
AL                 ;;        r    |                                 - --
~~~~~~~~~~~~~II  If| 14 1                           1 ilwF-11:1Ii,;1  m
js;~~~~~~~~~~~ G      !14a                             1!1 0ll! 11 11 i  "f i I  
-11 P .11 r             -AL V-1 1 1    l   11 iii   1 l       r  r          r"
ff  6i' l  111      .!  I '   1'ii i I   !! 1    11  I        J-         AL> :Q 1 | i;" t     
I  11  1     I IL     F  III  O    11 II  11  !   l    1 111||l     !I   CL     i
sIl} 01 illllIII            I -N1IHII IIIRlRR  I
I 1iG 19                 lailllHIHIII   q III IIH E                     r      nlo"
I   I10                IFT[rlN §ll J  11  11 1 1  111    I-1
A                                                                 E E .
r S  111 0 bi 11 1 l 10 1 |   1 a
1r   11                                        _
C-l 'oUCW 



ia-an~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
,,AM   mmt                                            aRO SRebu a hgrSMR                                                               1o4XVAX  Project
El   FaianPpa"t  U&             LOS   8.92
\B ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - -:                                      -  -::
2       POnR Sia Paper Hill         LCU  MU                                                    -
Xe.b Shm                      LB     20
* 4      Case. Proceauiag Plant   LCB       .f
Causet Raising Plant                   J
You lanai Gallant Proc.                 OMft               -A     a 
95      Beat 4Coat SlauabternoLB~   2.62  M                      --                                                  -
6  OM lur  0.ge    Pt.        LOS    11.46
Omen1    1 S1 aI 1                                                                  I                                                              I 1   _L
U   Ndicin. plant              LCB     1.04 -f'          -
FaPst-Grow -C tray t _                 ._.   = .= .o _t  5"                                                                                                                   -        4- I
Klan Tn:*  
*   Agro-Sec.ica SyatesT                                                                                   ]- - -
SttAL                              1 |                 . -  ...- .     .*            - -  ...       . .  1--   - .1 . 1
imnla  _1p I                                                         W41 15W81  I  It I0  aM 1 I            iIn_ Mra._l_
S6     t in.,aamame* 2gebtrSyttlt-  ttanmoan. g1a.an go i-e1-;lI       *aa                                a .-. .    .. amaeaar n   .. _, amfia aatll1-l1111   _ _ _ _ s S i:
'a. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a



-87 -                        Annex 4
CHINA
SICHNAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
.- -.---.------....-..-.-..----.-----.......---.-.-.  ...--.--....    .--.-----..
Disbursement
Disbursement            Profile a/
IDA           ------------------------------   ....................
Fiscal year/      Semestral Cumulative Cumulative  Year/Semester  %
Semester        ---(US$ million)---     %
..-----..-..-  ....-----.------------..-.---.---.------------.---..----..---- 
1993 b/                                                  Year 1
First (Jul-Dec,92)         10       10          7%      First        0
Second (Jan-June, 93)      10       20         14%      second      30
1994                                                     Year 2
First (Jul-Dec,93)         12       32         22%      First       38
Second (Jan-June, 94)      20       52          35%     second      50
1995                                                     Year 3
First (Jul-Dec, 94)        20       72         49%      First       58
Second (Jan-June, 95)      16       88          60%     second      66
1996                                                     Year 4
First (Jul-Dec, 95)        14      102          69%     First       i4
Second (Jan-June, 96)      12      114          78%     second      82
1997                                                     Year 5
First (Jul-Dec, 96)        10      124          84%     First       94
Second (Jan-June, 97)       8      132         90%      second      98
1998                                                     Year 6
First (Jul-Dec, 97)         8      140          95%     First       100
Second (Jan-June, 98)       4      144         98%      second
1999                                                     Year 7
First (Jul-Dec, 98)         3      147         100%     First
Total                      147      147
................-..--..------.---------.-----.....   ....-.-----------..      .....
a/ Disbursement profile for China - Agricultural Sector
b/ Include retroactive financing of US$ 14 million, to cover expenditures
incurred since January 1, 1992.
Completion date: December 31, 1998
Closing date:    December 31, 1999.
Note: The project disbursement is expected to be slower than the average
profile of the agricultural sector since the project contains large scale
construction and would be implemented over six years.



Annex 5
Table 1-1
Sichuan Agrelture Project
Crop Area, Yield, and Production of Irrigation Component
Existing Situation           Full Development                   Changes
Area      Yield  Output      Area      Yield  Output       Area      Yield  Output
('000 ha) (ton/he) ('000 ton) ('000 ha) (ton/ha) ('000 ton) ('000 he) (ton/ha) ('000 ton)
Shenzhpng Irrigation Ar e
Paddy                    80.86     7.00  210.02        44.86    s.50   877.00        13.49     1.50   160.9"
Wheat                    88.87     2.70   90.11        47.67     8.76   178.76       14.80     1.06   86.67
Corn                     16.11     2.06    61.62       14.51     4.50    65.26       -8.61     1.65    18.06
SWet Potato              20.58     8.00   61.68         9.85     8.76    85.06      -11.17     0.75  -26.50
B"ns A Poea               4.69     1.65    7.58         7.17    2.10    16.06         2.26     0.65     7.46
Rrpesed                  14.05     1.26   17.56        14.60     2.00   29.20        0.65      0.75    11.64
Cotton                    5.41     0.59    8.17         5.67    0.80     4.58         0.26     0.21     1.87
Other Cash Crope          4.40                          4.40                          0.00
Total Cropped Area      18l.6                         147.78                         16.10
Total Cultivated Area    70.01                         70.01
Cropping Intensity (M)     16s6                          211X
uda Irrigation Area
Paddy                    24.05     0.60   168.67       87.12     8.25   806.23       18.07     1.46   142.71
Wheat                    28.66     S. U    79.98       26.86     4.50   118.59        2.48     1.15    86.61
Corn                     10.06     8.15   50.00         7.27    4.065    8.61        -8.81     1.50  -16.86
Sweet Potato             18.09     2.86    87.82        6.46    8.75    24.22        -6.64     0.90   -18.10
Beans A Pe                6.98     1.85    9.42        10.98    2.10    28.06         4.00    0.75    18.64
Rapesed                  16.04     1.70   27.27        18.74     2.40   44.97         2.70     0.70    17.70
P"enuts                   2.52     1.66    8.91         2.68     2.25     6.86                 0.70     2.46
Cotton                    2.67     0.54     1.44        2.07    0.80      2.18        V.,0     0.20     0.69
Othr Cash Crops           6.69                         16.24                          9.65
Total Croppd Are        112.00                        128.60                         16.66
Total Cultivated Area    61.47                         01.47
Cropping Intenity (X)      162                           209%
YangJisab Irrigation Ara
Paddy                     1.89      .90    8.18         2.01     7.S0   15.10         0.68     1.60    6.92
Whet                      1.66     2.70    4.46         1.81     3.60    6.65         0.16     0.90     2.06
Corn                      0.97     8.75    8.65         1.00    4.65    4.66          0.08     0.90     1.00
8teet Potato              0.27     2.15    0.57         0.27     8.00    0.60         0.00     0.86    0.23
80n- * Peas               0.27     1.80    0.86         0.27     2.00     0.58        0.00     0.70  0-19
Rapesed                   1.87     1.85    1.85         1.57     1.95    8.06         0.19     0.60     1.20
Peanuts                   0.18     1.20    0.16         0.18     1.75    0.28         0.00     0.6s     0.07
Other Cash Crop           1.01                          1.08                          0.02
Total Cropped Area        7.07                          8.09                          1.08
Total Cultivated Area     8.75                          8.76
Cropping Intensity (X)     169x                          216X
Total Irrigation Component Area
Paddy                    56.80    6.9   867.77         68.49     6.86  696.8s        27.19     1.48   810.61
Wheat                    56.90     2.96   174.55       75.64    4.01   808.69        16.94     1.04   129.84
Corn                     85.17     8.01   106.98       22.78    4.55   108.74       -12.89     1.64   -2.19
Sweet Potato             88.69     2.94    99.47       16.06     8.74    60.09      -17.61     0.90  -89.38
Bene A Pea               12.14     1.48    17.85       18.42     2.10    88.65        6.26     0.67    21.81
Ropesed                  81.46     1.46    46.66       84.91     2.21    77.28        8.44     0.78    80.54
Peanuts                   2.66     1.65     4.07        2.96     2.28     6.59        0. 0     0.70     2.62
Cotton                    6.06     0.67     4.01        8.88    0.80      6.67        0.26     0.28     2.06
Other Cash Crops         12.10                         21.67                          9.57
Total Cropped Area      250.69                        294.46                         38.7s
Total Cultlvated Area   186.28                        186.28
Cropping Intensity (X)     1s65                          210X
Notes Other cash  crops Include kenof, vgetbles, etc..



Annex 5
- 89 -                       Table 1-2
China
Sichuan Agriculture Development Project
---------------------------------------
Irrigation Component
('000 ha)           Irrigation Condition In Project Areas
Fully    Partially
Irrigated  Irrigated   Rainfed     Total
--------------------------------------------------------------__------------
Shenzhong Area
Present                             0.00      36.58      33.43      70.01
Full Development                   65.58       4.43       0.00      70.01
Wudu Area
Present                             0.00      35.60      25.87      61.47
Full Development                   58.77       2.70       0.00      61.47
Yangj iaba Area
Present                             0.00       1.47       2.28       3.75
Full Development                    3.75       0.00       0.00       3.75
Total Irrigation Component
Present                             0.00      73.65      61.58     135.23
Full Development                  128.10       7.13       0.00     135.23
----------------------------------------------------------------__----------



Chil s
Sichuan Agriculture Project
Irription Component
Phasing of Crop Area and Yield
Area ('000 ha)                                                        Yield (toonh
1m 2    199      1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999  Prest             1        2        a        4       6
Shonahong Area
Paddy              80.86   83.26   35.62    37.07   40.81   44.85                         7.00    7.60    7.97    8.27    8.42    9.50
What              88.87   86.92   30.42   40.80   43.92   47.67                           2.70    3.12    8.88    a.69    8.70    8.75
Corn              18.11   17.47    16.84   16.24   16.46   14.51                         2.86     8.51    8.92    4.25    4.42    4.50
Sweet Potato      20.68   18.64   16.58   14.72   12.29    9.85                           8.00    8.80    8.49    3.84    3.71    8.76
Bens A Peas        4.89    6.80    6.70    6.08    6.67        7.17                       1.65    1.77     1.91     2.02    2.0?    2.10
Rapeseed          14.05   14.15   14.24    14.88   14.46   14.60                          1.26    1.66     1.74    1.89    1.98    2.00
Cotton             6.41    6.46    6.60    6.64    6.60    6.67                          0.69    0.67    0.72    0.77    0.79    0.60
Other Cash Crops   4.40    4.40    4.40    4.40    4.40    4.40
Subbtal        181.68   184.49  187.81  189.99  148.60  147.78
Wudu Area
Paddy             24.06   24.15   26.22   26.11   28.60   80.76   84.31   87.12    6.80    7.B            7.74    8.03    8.18      8.25
Whet              28.88   23.90   24.10   24.27   24.74    26.16   26.82   26.86    8.86    3.81    4.10    4.33    4.44             4.60
Corn              16.06    16.01   16.29   14.89   13.01   11.56        9.17    7.27    8.16    8.76    4.13    4.43    4.67    4.66
Sweet Potato      18.09   18.04   12.60   12.06   10.78        9.69    7.89    6.46    2.86    3.21    8.44    8.62         3.71    8.76
Beans a Peas       6.9n    7.01    7.84    7.61    0.37    9.08   10.12   10.96          1.86    1.66    1.84       1.9     2.06    2.10
Rapeseed          16.04    16.06   16.26   16.47   16.98   17.42   18.16   l8.74    1.70    1.96           2.16    2.29    2.36    2.40
Peanus             2.62    2.62    2.66    2.67    2.63    2.68    2.76    2.983    1.66          1.83    2.00    2.1'    2.21       2.26
Cotton             2.67    2.67    2.67    2.67    2.67    2.67    2.67    2.67    0.64    0.64    0.71    0.76    0.79    0.90
Other Cash Crops   6.69    6.76    7.64    0.19   10.02    11.59   14.18   16.24
Subotal        112.00  112.18  118.49  114.62   117.60  120.66  126.07  129.66
Yonjiaba Area
Paddy              1.89    1.89    1.99    1.61    2.01    2.01                          5.90    8.54    6.94    7.26    7.42    7.60
Wheat              1.66    1.66    1.65    1.71    1.81    1.81                          2.70    3.06    8.29    8.47    3.5B    3.60
Corn               0.97    0.97    0.97    0.98    1.00    1.00                          8.76    4.11    4.84    4.62    4.61    4.65    .
Sweat Potato       0.27    0.27    0.27    0.27    0.27    0.27                          2.16    2.49    2.70    2.87    2.96    8.00   lb
Bans a P"s         0.27    0.27    0.27    0.27    0.27    0.27                          1.80    1.56    1.75    1.89    1.96    2.00    F
Rapseed            1.87    1.87    1.87    1.44    1.67        1.67                      1.85    1.69    1.74    1.86    1.92    1.96    *
Peanuts            0.18    0.18    0.18    0.18    0.18    0.18                          1.20    1.42    1.6e    1.67    1.72    1.75           La
Othor Cash Crops   1.01    1.01    1.01    1.02    1.03    1.08
Subotal          7.07    7.07    7.07    7.48    8.09    8.09



CHDh
Sichuan Agriculture Develop4mnt Proj et
Sherbhong Irrigation Area Crop eudget
Paddy           Wheat             Corn         Swet Ptato         Rrp ed            De               cttn
Econ Conv                                                                                                           - - - -___  --------
Unit Factor    Price  Quant.  Amnt  Quant.  Amunt  Quant.  Amunt  Quant.  Amunt  Ount.  Amunt  Quant.  Amount  Oant.  Amount
Withot Project
Yield                      kg                    7 000            2 700            2,850            3.000            1,250            1,5E0             ses
Price                    Y/kg                     6.76             6.74             0.72              0.9             1.61              1.4            6.98
Product Value               V                             5.820            1.90             2.052            2.70D           2.013            2.170            4.083
Sp-product                 kg              0.1   5.600      560   2.160      216   2.280      282  2.400      240   1.000      100   1,240      124   3.000      300
Total Value                 Y                             5,880            2,214            2,280           2,940            2.113            2.294            4.38S
Zitautl coat
See" PrCIe t.5                                                      1.2             2.2             0.3S5             2.6              1.9             3.6
See"                      kg                       24      132     120      144      25       6S    50       175       2       5      75      143      40      152
N f*rti I izr             kg      1.2    2.19      12o     263      110     241     115      252      30      66      150     328       0        0     165      361
P fortilIier              kg      1.2    2.92      30       88      60      175      60      175      60     175       60     175      45      131      75      21Q
hnure                    ton    0.98       2D       12     240       15     300      12      240     7.5      1S0      18     360       0        0      1S    3S0
Chmicaln                   Y      1.2       1    67.5       68      25      25       10       10      15      15       0o      30       0        0     225      225
Aninlr/Nehine            day    0.98      7.5      30      225      15      113       6      46       10      75       t5     113       9       6        7       58
Watar                      Y        I       1      20       20       0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0
Other la                   V    0.98        1     128      in      115      115     100      100      90      90      100    100       26       26     20P      208
Subtotal                  Y                             1.163            1,112              878             746            1,111              367            l.S17
Not Value                   Y                             4.718            1.102            1,402           2,194            1,002            1.927            2.8SS
Labor                  mndey    0.98         a     400   1,200      300    900       380     990      240     720     330      990     195      S85     49'   1.485
Return per moday            V                             11.79            a.67             4.25             9.14             3.04             9.88             5.79
Not Incom                   V                             8.618             202              412            1.474               12            1,342            1.381
With Project
Vield                      kg                    8.E00            3.750            4,S00            8,750           2.000            2,100              60o
P-ice                    Y/kg                     0.76             0.74             0.72              0.9             1.61             1.4             6.C3
Product Value               V                             6.480  295                       3S240            3.37     1       3,220            2,940           5S.584
Wjy-product                kgs             0.1   6,80       680   3.000     800   3.600      3860   3.000     800   1,600      160   1.680      168   4.0O0     400
Total Value                 Y                             7.140            8,075           3,600            3.675            3.380            3,108            5.984
Irut Coat
Se;ed Price                                       S.5              1.2              2.2             0.85             2.6              1.9              3.8
Seede                     kg                       24      132     120      144      25      55      500    175        2        5      75      143      40     152
N fortili ir              kg      1.2    2.19     1S0      328     140     306    .10       328       sO     lO      185     405      S0       66     180     394
P fortil er              kg      1.2    2.92      40      117      75     219       75     219       60     175      90      268      60      175      75     219
K fertilizr              kg      1.2    1.40      30       42      a8      SS       60      84       45      63      60       84      45       63      75      1OS
mnure                    ton    0.98       20      12      240      iS    s8o        12     240      7.6     150       18     360       0        0      iS     800
Caemical.                  Y      1.2       1    67.5       68      25      25       10      10       iS      1S      30       80       0        0     225     225
Animal/hichine           dae    0.90      7.5      30      225      15      113       6      48       10      75      15      118       9       68       7      SS
Watar                                             18M      183      72      72       72      72       72      72      72       72      72       72      72      72
Other /a                   V    0.98        1     128      128     1U8      115     1o      100       90      90     100      100      26      26      206     206
Subtotal                  Y                             1.412            1,347            1.154             924            1.431              612            1.727
Not Value                   Y                             5.728            1.728           2.446            2,751            1.949            2.496           4.257
Labor                  mnday    0.98         a     485   1.305      $15     945      845   1.085     255      765     845   1,065      210     680      525   1.57S
Return per manday           Y                             18.17            6.49             7.09            10.79             5.65            11.89            8.11              F3 i
et Incolm                   Y                             4.423             788            1.411            1.966              914            1.866           2.682                S
/n Other Includes tools, plastic shoet. babo, tc. 
I 



Sichuean Agriculture gelozpmnt Project
Wudu I rigation Are* Crop bdget
(per ha)
Paddy            Wheat             Corn        5N t potato         Rnpoeeed          8 ne             Cotton            Penut
Sc" Ce               --                                                                           -
Unit Fetor    Price  Quant.  Am_ut    ennt.  Amotnt  bent.                         Azent nt unt. AAemt  Waint.  Amount  Qusnt.  Amount  Qbnt.  Amnt
Vithout Project
Yield                   kg                     6.800            3 350            3.1I0            2.8SD            1.70D            1.350               540            1,550
Price                 VIkg                      0.76             6.74             0.72              0.9             1.61              1.4              6.98              2.2
Product Value            Y                              .168            2,479             2,268            2,665            2.737            1,890            3,769            3.410
5,-product              hg              0.1   5.440      S44   2.6B0      268   2.520      252   2.280       228   1.360      136   1,060      106   2,250      225   1,240      124
Total Value              Y                             6,712            2,747             2.520            2.79M            2,878            1.990            3.994            3.634
Input Cost
Seed Peice                                      5.5              1.2              2.2             0.38              2.6              1.9              3.8               2.6
Sede"k                                          24      132      lo0     144       26      55      B0o      175       2       8       75      143      40      152      225    6GM
N fertilizer           kg     1.2    2.19       120     263      110     241      110     241       30       66     165      361       0        0      S0      328       3D     6s6
Pfortillsor           k      1.2    2.92       45    11         60     175       66     193       s0      175      60      175      45      181      60      175       45     2SI
binure               ton    0.96        20       12     240       1S     80        12     240      7.5      160     I1       360       0        0      15      300      7.5     1S0
Chemicale               v     1.2        1       75      75      45       45       10      10        7        7      so       so       0        0      195     195        5       5
Aniemsl$chsne         day    0.96      7.5      29      220        3      2S        1      10       12       90      16      120       6       45      16      120       10      75
Water                           1        1      82       82       11      11       8        a        5       5       11       11      11       11      11       11       0        0
Other /a                Y    0.98        1      186     188      100     100      106     105      100      1o0    100       l00      2?       2?     146      146       OD      60
Subtotal               Y                             1.828            1.041              861               768            1.162              357            1.427            1.117
Nat Value                Y                             4,s34            1,706             1.659            2.025            1,711            1.641            2.567            2.417
Labor               ondny    0.98         3     875    1125      SC0      900      SSD     990      240     720      3D0    990       19S      N8S     465    1395      30D      900
Retern per manday       Y                              11.69             5.69             5.03             8.44              6.18             8.42             5.5S2            8.06
Nat leme                 Y                             38259              an6              S69             1.as              m               1.056            1,172            1.517
With Project
Yield                    g                    82S0              4600             4 650            8.750            2.400            2.100              80o            2.250
Price                 V/hkg                     .867                             6.72               0.9             1.61              1.4             6.96              2.2
Prodct Value           Y                       06        270    0-4        S0      7           S48  °i375                                    2.940    69      554              4.90  
Sy-product             Ik               0.1   6.        66    3.600       6C0   8.72     0 872   3c000      300   1.920      192   1,680       168   4.000      400   1.60       10
Tofta Value              V                             6930             3.6o             8.72             8.675             4066             3.108            5.964            5. O
Input Cost
Sede Price                                     6.6               1.2             2.2              0.35              2.6              1.9              3.8              2.8
Seed                                            24      132      120     144      S0       66      G00     175        2       5       75      148      40      152     225    60
N fertilizer           kg     1.2    2.19       150     828      140     306      160     328       So     109      195     427       40      a8      165      361      45       98
P frtiliur             kg     1.2    2.92       75      219      75      219      75      219       75     219       90     268       75     219       75     229       60      175
K fertili"er           kg     1.2    1.40       46       63      45       63      60       84      45       63       75     106       75     105       75      106      60      84
Denure               ton    0.96        20      12      240      15      300       12     240      7.5     150       13     360        0       0       1S      300     7.5      150
Chemcale               Y      1.2        1      75       75      25       25       10      10        7       7       30      S0        0       0      121      121       S        S
Aniemlftlchmine       day    0.98      7.5      29      220       2       90        1      10       12      e        20     1S0        6      45       26      195      10       75
WaterV                          1        1     258      258      so       so      25       25       11      11       so      so    22.5    22.5       150      150     7.5      7.5
Other la               V    0.9o         1     18       185    10t0      100      106    ls       100    10       100     100       27      27      146      146      60     s6
Subtotl                v                             1,60             1.297            1.087              924            1.489              46a             1.748            I.=s
Nat Vale                                               5,240            2.393            2,633            2.751            2,6U7            2.460             4.2J5            3.645
Labor               mnday    0.9e        3      406    U12       818      948     348    1065      255      766      348    1036      210     630      S25    1575      340    I20
Return par mnday        Y                              12.94             7.60             7.63            1O.79             7.44             11.71             s.07            11.31
Nat Income              Y                              4,025            1.448            1.6              1.966            1.6S2             1.60            2.661             2,>
/a Other includes tool. plastic dhet. beaoo,  tc.
X 
U'
I-..



ow"
Sicuan Ar.icultute lre_al  t Proe;
Y ny;iste Irrigtion Area Crop Budget
(pr  km) 
P ddy            brat              Corn         Sweet Potato       RovPeeeS                            Fehenot.
Bcoi Conv                            - - 
Unit Factor    Price  WQutnt.             unt.    nt    ut.            t   Qnt.  Aount  bat.    nt   avant,    nt   Ouat.  A t
via"% Project
Vioad                      &.                     8.900            2. 70             a 76             2.150o           1.360            1.300            1.200
Price                    'f/g                      0.76             0774              6.72              0.9             1.61              1.4              2.2
Product Value               V                              4,484            1996               To7             1.965           2.174             1.620            2.640
By-product                 kg               0.1   4.720      472   2.160      216   8.000      300   1.720      172   1.060      106   1.040       104     960       96
Iotel Volue                 v                              4,956            2.214            s,eo0            2,107            2,262             1,924            2.736
Iput Cost
Seed. Price                                        5.5              1.2               2.2             0.85              2.6              1.9              2.0
Sed.                       kg                       24      132      UO      144       80      66      SO0     U6         2       5       75      143     225      630
N frtiI i,r                 g     1.2    2.19      120      263      110     241      115     252       30      66      ISO     828        0       0       15       33
P fertillaer               kg     1.2    2.92       30       88      60      175      60      176       60     175       60     175       45     131       60      175
uwue                     ton    0.96        20      12      240      15      a00       12     240      7.5     ISO       18     360        0       0      7.5      I50
Clueicalm                   V     1.2        1      75       76      46       45       10      10       10      10       30      30        0       0        5        5
AnimljMehin             da"      0.9S      7.8      29      220      16      120       12      90       12      90       17     128        9      68       17      128
Vt.r                       Y        1        1      75       75       0        0       0        0        0       0        a       0        0       O        C.      0
Othr /a                    Y    0.98         1     157      167     12       120      106     105      100     100      10O      10      25      2!      C0.       60
Subtotal                  Y                              1.249            1,145              930              766            1.126              36G.             .180
Wet Valuo                    V                             S,707            1,069            2.062            1.341            1,156             1.568            ).56      
Labor                   mnday    0.96        3      800    1140      sO      9eo     830      990      220     880    80       990      195      N6s     300     900
Return per  onday           r                               9.76             8.86             6.25             6.10             3.60             7.99              5.19
tb Income                   Y                              2.567             19             1,072             6S1               168              973               6
WVit Project
Y;eld                      ie                     7.S00            8.6C0            4.650            3.000             1.950            2.000            1.750
Price                   YV/e                       0.76             0.74             0.72              0.9              1 61              1.4              2.2
Prodwut Value               Y                              57C0             2.6e4             , 848           2.700            3.140            2.800 3850
BR-product                 kg              0.1   6.000       600   2.860      298   3.720      872   2,400      240   1,560      156   1.600      160    1.400     140
Total Volue                 Y                              6,900            2,952            a,720            2.940            3.296            2,960            3.990
Input Cost
soods Price                                        6.5              1.2              2.2             0.35              2.6               1.9              2.0
Seds                      kg                        24      182     120      144      So       66     S00      175       2        5       75     143      225     630
N fertiliser              kg      1.2    2.19      160      328     140      306     160      828      SO      109      16      894       30      66       30      66
P fortll;8*r              kg      1.2    2.92       40      U17      75      219      75      219      60      175      90      26S       60     176       60     175
K fertil IIr               le     1.2    1.40       30       42      45       as      60       84      60       84      60       84       45      63       45      63
"_aes                    top    0.96       20       12      240      15    SO        12      240     7.5      160       i      360        0       0      7.5     1o
ChemicVl.                  V      1.2       1       76       75      45       48      10       10      10       10      30       80       0        0       5        5
AuimelVaccbine           d Y    0.98      7.5       29      220      16i     1        12       9       12       90      17      126       9       68       17     128
wVt.er                                                               75 1  272 225 is  7  67.6    87.5  60      60    67.6    67.5        45      45    52.5    52.5
atgar/a                    V    0.96        I      ta7      157    1t0       10      105      106     100      100     10       t00       25      25       60      60
S"btotal                                                1,566            1.192            1.209              953            1.430             564              1.329
Nat Vrlue                   Y                              4.764            1.560            2,511            1.967            1.665            2.376            2.661
Labor                  monday    0.98        3      400    10O    S81         945     84      1086     235      705     845    1085       210     890      315     945
Saturn per moy              V                              11.91             4.95             7.20      0       .46             5.41            11.82             8.45       1       . :
Mst Sca.                    V                              S.664             6SS             1.476            1.282              830             . *-l           1,716                 X
le Othr includes tls, plastic shoot. bamboo.  -te.



CHINA
Sichuan Agriculture Development Project
Crop Calendar For Main Crops
r______        _ | §S | Oct  Nov  Dec  Jan  Feb   Mar |Apr |May |Jun  J| Aug |Sep
|Paddy, ___
Wheat                    _
Corn                                                            -  -  -  -   
Sweet Potato
Rapeseed           -  -  -  -  -  -
Beans
Cotton
Sowing & Nursery Period:       Main Growing Period:        Hamvest teriod:
Source: Sichuan Feasibirly Report, Irrigation Component, Oct. 1991.
cr 
X In



Annex 5
- 95g                                      FUN
CHINA
Sichuan Agriculture Devtlopment Project
.......................................
Farm Model for Shenzhong Irrigation Area
(Y)                        ...............        ............
Without Project                      With Project
............... .................................. .
Land  Gra1n   Cash Crop  Total            Grain Cash Crop   Total
................................ I................................
Area (mu)             3.33    4.90      1.37    6.Z6               5.51     1.52     7.03
Crop Value                    1,026      224    1,250             1,577      358    1,934
By-Product Value                106       13      120               166       21      187
Anfmal Ralsing                                    475                                 605
Mulberry/Cocoon                                   100                                 500
Total Income                  1,133      237    1,944             1,743      378    3,227
Operating Cost
Seeds                        42.7n     7.04   49.76              48.06    8.19    56.25
N fertilizer                 69.92    20.81    90.73            110.75    28.26   139.01
P fertilizer                 48.55    15.42   63.97              64.73    22.53   87.25
K fertilizer                     0        0        0             19.68    8.09    27.77
Nanure                       78.83    21.19   100.02             94.58    22.10   116.68
Chemicals                    10.81     5.19    15.99             14.17    5.44    19.61
Animal/Nchine                41.47    7.91    49.38              52.98     8.64   61.61
Water                         1.96    0.00      1.96             35.03     7.27   42.30
Other                        36.32    8.79   45.10               42.65     9.33    51.98
Anmal Feed                                     160.0                               190.0
Mulberry/Cocoon                                   SO                                 250
Tax                                             97.2                               161.3
Total Cost                      331       86      n4                483      120    1,204
Net Value                       802      151    1,220             1,261      258    2,023
other Income
Labor For Crops              105.52    28.95      134            132.20   33.14       165
Labor For Animal Raisfng                           50                                  65
Labor For Multerry/Cocoon                          20                                  40
Total Labor                     106       29      204               132       33      270
Return per Manday                                5.97                                7.48
Per Capita Income                                 359                                 595
An average household has 3.4 family mmcbers and 3.33 mu of land.
Assume a household raises 2.5 pigs and 10 chickens without project.
Assum one pig weights 60 kg at price of 2.5Y/kg, one chfcken sells for Y10.
Typical sown area in mu:
peddy    iheat     corn sw potato rapeseed   bean  cotton   other'   Total
wlo proj.  1.469    1.589   0.863    0.976   0.669   0.233    0.256    0.210    6.264
w/ proj.   2.108   2.268    0.689   0.446    0.696   0.340    0.270    0.210    7.027
Assumes beans fn this model.



Annex 5
-  96 -                                    Table 4-2
CHINA
Sichuan Agriculture Development Project
.......................................
Farm Nodel for Wudu Irrfgation Area
CY)                            *-------. -
Without Project                        With ProJect
.....................              .......................
Land   Grain  Cash Crop   Total             Grain  Cash Crop   Total
Area (mu)              3.98     4.99      2.25     7.25               5.00     3.33     8.33
Crop Valuo                    1095       424    1.519               1.583      924    2,507
By-Product Value                 114        20      135                167       43      210
Animal Raising                                      550                                  729
Mulberry/Cocoon                                     100                                  400
Total Income                   1,209      444   2303                1.750      967    3,846
Operating Cost
Seeds                         42.25    31.29    73.54              44.51    60.77   105.28
N fortilizer                  72.48    31.3S   103.83              100.81    50.92   151.73
P fertilize                   54.93    23.25    78.18              72.94    48.55   121.48
K fertilizer                      0        0         0             21.66    21.60    43.27
Manure                        80.98    34.30   115.28              84.34    44.92   129.26
Chemicals                     13.51     4.50    18.01               15.38     4.22    19.60
Animal/Machine                31.19    14.00    45.19               48.35    22.68    71.03
Water                         10.48      1.22    11.70              43.34     7.45    50.79
Other                         42.46    11.78    54.24               47.13    15.98    63.11
Animal Feed                                      200.0                                240.0
Mulberry/Cocoon                                     SO                                  200
Tax                                              115.2                                192.3
Total Cost                       348       152      865                478      277    1,388
Net Value                        861       293    1,438              1m272      689    2,458
Other Income
Labor For Crops               106.34    69.62       176             118.72    71.88      191
Labor For Animal Raising                             60                                   75
Labor For Mulberry/Cocoon                            20                                   40
TotalL abor                      106        70      256                119       72      306
Return per Manday                                  5.62                                 8.04
Per Capita Income                                   411                                  702
An average household has 3.5 family members and 3.98 mu of land.
Assume a household raises 3 pigs and 10 chickens without project.
Assume one pig weights 60 kg at prfce of 2.MY/g  one chicken sells for Y10.
Typfcal sown area in mu:
poiay    Iheat      corn sw potato rapeseed    bean   cotton   other*    total
w/o proj.   1.557    1.545    1.043    0.848    1.039    0.450    0.171    0.593    7.247
w/ proj.    2.405    1.708    0.470    0.418    1.214    0.713    0.171    1.234    8.334
*  Assumes peanut in this model.



Annex 5
97 -                                  T ab re,   S
CHINA
Sichuan Agrfculture Developent Project
(Y)                      ~~~~~~~........................................
Without Project                      With Project
Land  Grain Cash Crop  Total              Grain Cash Crop  Total
..................................... ...................................................................... . ..........................
Area (mu)             5.92    6.76    4.41    11.16               8.04    4.74    12.78
Crop Value                    1,333     685   2,018              2,144    1,070   3,214
By-Product Value                142      30      172               228       47      275
Animal Raising                                   550                                 713
Total Income                  1,475     715   2,741              2,372    1,117   4,202
Operating Cost
Seeds                       55.98   81.03   137.02              67.30   82.38  149.68
N fertilizer                107.80   51.47  159.28             165.59   74.83  240.42
P fertilizer                66.06   50.20   116.26              94.41   69.72   164.13
K fertilifer                                                    32.12   23.37   55.49
Manure                      116.03   70.28  186.30             137.59   77.82   215.40
Chemicals                   20.08    4.95    25.03              25.81    5.56   31.37
Animal/Machine               64.73    35.79   100.52            81.51    38.60   120.11
Water                        10.95    0.00    10.95             70.77    18.85   89.62
Other                       57.36   22.44   79.80               70.02   24.57   94.60
Animal Feed                                   200.0                               240.0
Tax                                           137.0                               210.1
Total Cost                     499      316    1,152               745      416    1,611
Net Value                      976      399    1,588             1,627      702   2,591
Other Income                   499      316   1.152                745      416    1,611
Labor For Crops              147.65   89.56      237            187.78  101.53       289
Labor For Animal Raisfng                          60                                  90
Total Labor                    148       90      297               188      102      379
Return per Nanday                               5.34                                6.83
Per Capita Income               148      90      418               188      102      682
An average household has 3.8 family members and 5.92 mu of land.
Assume a household raises 3 pigs and 10 chickens without project.
Assine one pig weights 60 kg at price of 2.5Y/kg, one chicken sells for Y10.
Typical sown area in mu:
paddy   wheat    corn sw potato rapeseed   bean  other                 Total
w/o proj.   2.189   2.609    1.538   0.420   2.171   0.420    1.816               11.165
w/ proj.    3.177   2.864    1.580   0.420   2.473   0.420    1.846               12.780
* Assums peanut in this model.



Annex S
_98_                                      Table  4 4
CHINA
Sichuan Agriculture Dovelopment Project
...... .......................
Farm Model for Cheotfan Soil Conservation Demosetration Project
CV)                         .............................................................
Without Project                                 With Project
Grain  Cash Crop   Forest   Total             GraIn  Cash Crop   Forest   Total
............................................................................................................
Area (mu)                       6.50      3.42     3.51    13.43               5.36     3.60    19.30    28.26
Main Product Value             1.108       501      346    1f955              1,261      688    2,139    4,087
By-Product Value                 117        24               141                132       33                166
Animal Raiaing                                               400                                            480
Total Income                                               2,496                                          4.733
Operating Cost
Crop Input                      462       255       17      734                524      334        95      953
Anfmal Feed                                                 150                                            180
Tax                                                         199                                            696
Total Cost                                                 1,084                                          1,829
Not Value                                                  1.412                                          2,904
Other Memo
Labor For Crops               128.73    70.46    20.33       220             122.83    76.40   111.81       311
Labor For Animtl Raising                                      60                                             90
Total Labor                                                  280                                            401
Return nor Nmnday                                           5.05                                           7.24
Per Capita Inc.                                              336                                            691
An average household has 4.2 family meabers, 5.51 mu of annual crop and 3.51 mu of perennial crop land
without project, 4.32 mu of annual crop and 19.3 mu of perennial crop land with project.
Assume a household rafess 2 pigs and 10 chickens without project.
Assume one pig weights 60 kg at price of 2.5YIkh   one chicken sells for YIO.
Typical sown area fn mu:
paddy    wheat     corn ax potato rapeseed    bean   other*                Total
w/o proj.   1.200    1.800    1.500    2.000    2.500    0.420    0.500                9.920
wl proj.    1.860    1.800    1.200    0.500    2.500    0.600    0.500                8.960
* Assumes pearut in this model.



Annex 5
Table 4-5
_ 99 _
CHINA
Sichuan Agriculture Development Project
.......................................
Farm Model for Mulberry and Silkworm Component
Without Project               With Project
................            ..................................
Unit         Price            Quantity   Amount           Quantity   Amount
.....................................................................................................
Product Values
Cocoon                     kg            8.50              12.50   106.2S              73.00   620.50
Mulberry branch            kg            0.02             150.00      3.00            750.00    15.00
Silkworm faeces            kg            0.03              6S.00      2.21            325.00    11.0S
Total production value                                               111.46                      646.5S
Input costs
Silkworm egg              box          15.00               0.50      7.50              2.S0    37.S0
Cooperative raring fee                  1.00               5.00     S.00              2S.00    25.00
Silkworm drugs            kg            1.00               0.S0     0.50               2.50      2.50
Disinfectant              ton            1.00              4.00      4.00             20.00    20.00
Farm chemicals                          1.00               1.50      1.50              7.50      7.50
Urea                      kg            0.77              15.00    11.55              75.00    57.75
Dry manure                kg            0.04             250.00    10.00            1250.00    50.00
Liquid manure             kg            0.01            1000.00     5.00            5000.00    25.00
Tools and others                        1.00               4.50     4.50              22.50    22.50
Tax                              5S                                  5.57                       32.33
Total cost                                                       55.12                       280.08
Net income                                                            56.34                      366.47
Labor  required             Man-day       3.00              11.00                       55.00
Disinfectfon                a                            0.50                        2.50
Leave harvesting            a                            7.00                       35.00
Silkworm rearing            a                            1.00                        5.00
Mulberry tree mangnt        a                            1.50                        7.50
Cocoon harves/merketing    a                             1.00                        5.00
Net Income per laborday                                                5.12                        6.66
....................................................................................................
Without project, ne household has 0.3 mu of mulberry trees and 0.5 box of silkworm.
With project, one household has I mu of mulberry trees and 2.5 box of silkworm.



CHINA
Sichuan Agricutture Development Project
................. ........................................
Farm Nodel for Goat Raising In Touyang
CT)                                         ......................................
year         1        2         3        4         5        6         7         8        9        10    11-20
........................................................................................................................................
INCONE
Cull Adult females                            0        93      125       148      170       170       170      170       170      170       ifO
Females one to two years                      0       22        27        19       19        la       18        18        16       18        18
Females 0 to 12 months                        0       137      314       371      453       453      453       453      453       452       452
noles   0 to 12 months                      204       388      486       548      631       631      631       631      631       631       631
Nales, Cull Lorking or Service                9        17       22        24       28        28       28        28        28       28        28
Manure                                       11        15       18        19       20        20       20        20        20       20        20
TOTAL INCOME                                 224      673       991    1.128    1,320    1,321    1,320    1,320    1.320    1,320    1.320
OPERATING EXPENSES                                                                                                                                                 0
.................... 
Livestock Purchase. Ras                       8        16       19        22       25        25       25        25       r         25        25
Animal Health                                39        53       62        65       69        69       69        69       69        69        69
Artificial Insemination                       7        12       16        17       20        20       20        20       20        20        20
Feed Purchase                                35       45        49       50        53        53       53        53       53        53       53
Grass inputs costs                            0       31        31        31       31        31       31        31       31        31       31
Sundry Expenses                               4        8         9         9       10        10       10        10       10        10        10
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                      93       164      186       194      207       207      207       207      207       207       207
Labor required
Nanagement                                   54       73        85        89       95        95       95        9f       95        94       94
Forage crop                                   0       10        40       40        40       40        40        40       40        40       40
Labor cost                                   215      330       499       51S      538       538      538       538      538       538      538
MET FARM INCOME                              131      S08       806      935    1,113    1,113    1,113    1,113    1,112    1.112    1.112                         * hn
Returm  per mnaday                          2.43     6.15      6.45     7.26      8.27     8.27      8.27      8.27     8.27      8.27     8.27
..................... ..................................................................................................................



Annex 5
- 101 -                      Table 4-7
CHINA
Sichuan Agricultural Development Project
___________________________________- ___
Farm Model for Geese RaLsing ln Xlushan
(Y)
Unlt    Price      Amt.    Value
Goose                     Y/bird      13.30   50.00  665.00
Manure                    Y/kg         0.10  1050.00  105.00
Total productlon value                                 770.00
input costs
GoslLng                 bird         2.00   56.00  112.00
Feed                    kg           0.60      330  198.00
Veterinary cost                                       25.00
Grass seed              ton          8.00        3   24.00
Urea                    kg           1.00   30.00   30.00
Super phosphate         kg           0.35   10.00    3.50
Tools and others                                      20.10
Total Lnputs                                        412.6
Net Lncome                                              357.4
Labor reVquired           Man-day      4.00       19   76.00
Grass productlon                                 4
Management                                      15
Net income per laborday                                 18.81
--------------------------------------------__----------------



CNRIA
Sichuan Agricultural DOevelopent Project
........................................
Famr Nadel for Rabbit Raising in Shizhu
.......................................
(I)
Incremental Value
Uni      ..........
Unit     Price          Yri      Yr2      Yr3       Yr4       YrS      r,6   Yr7-20
............................................. ....................................................................................................................
Rabbit hair                 kg                     22.5     25.0      27.5     32.5      35.0      35.0     35.0
Y/kg        60.00  1,350.0  1,500.0  1,650.0  1,950.0   2,100.0  2,100.0  2,100.0
Baby rabbit                 pc.                    50.0     80.0    120.0    150.0       160.0    160.0    160.0
V/pc         S.00    250.0    400.0    600.0    750.0       800.0    800.0    800.0
Total production value                          1,600.0  1,900.0  2,250.0  2,700.0   2,900.0  2,900.0  2,900.0
0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
lIpat costs
Breeding rabbit replace  pc.                      2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0
10.00     20.0     20.0      20.0     20.0      20.0     20.0      20.0
feed                      kg                  1,500.0  1,800.0  2,000.0  2,000.0   2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0                                                  1
Y/kg         0.60    900.0  1,080.0  1,200.0  1,200.0   1,200.0  1,200.0  1,200.0
Urea                      kg                      7.0      7.0       7.0      7.0       7.0       7.0      7.0
Y/kg         1.00      7.0       7.0      7.0       7.0       7.0      7.0      7.0                                               o
Swer phosphate            kg                      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Y/kg         0.35      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0
Veterinary cost                                 100.0    100.0    100.0    150.0      150.0   1S0.0    150.0
Tools and others                        1.00      8.0      8.0      9.0       9.0       9.0      9.0      9.0
Total inputs                                1,035.0  1,215.0  1,336.0  1,386.0  1t386.0  1,386.0  1,386.0
Net fncv a                                        565.0    685.0    914.0  1,314.0   1,514.0  1,514.0  1,514.0
Labor  required             Man-day      4.00       182      182       182      182       182      182       182
Grass production                                    2        2         2        2         2        2         2
Rabbit m_ngement                                  180      180       180      180       180      180       180
Labor cost                                        728.0    728.0    728.0   728.0       728.0    728.0    728.0
Met inome per laboday                               3.1      3.8      5.0       7.2       8.3      8.3       8.3
one household raises 50 rabbits.
O X



- 103-                                    Annex 5
Table 5
CHINA
Sichuan Agricultural Devolopment Project
Rent and Cost Recovery
(YOOO)
...............................................................................................................
Wudu             Shengzhong        YangJIaba           Total
........................... ..............................................................  , , .........
At Full Developnent a/
Incremental Income bl                      196.339           191,553            10,124             396.352
Iquted Value, Famtly Labor c/              26578            29,268             1,489               57r335
Imputed Value, Nnagemmnt Services d/        19,634            19 155             1.012               39.092
Iouted Return to Own Capital s/              9.817             9.578               506               19.546
Allowance for Risk/Uhcertainty f/           19,634            19,155             1.012               39M092
S"htotal                                 75.663            77.157             4.020              155,066
Equetsa
Project Rent                               120.676           114.396             6,105              235.857
ProJect Charges
Water Charges gi                           9,480            12,72S             1.063               23.267
Taxes                                     12,318            11.870               633               24,738
Total Charges                             21,798            24,594             1,696               47.734
Rent Recovery Index Cl) hi                        18X               21X               28X                  20X
During Project's Life I/
Project Rent                               440,116           534.897            25.558            1.000,571
Project Ctarges
Vater Chargos                             40,633            60,456             5.341              106,430
Taxes                                     48,306            53.488             2,728              109.522
Total Charges                             88,939           118,943             8,069              215,952
Rent Recovery Index (1)                           20X               22X               32X                  22X
Project Costs j/                             444,063           290,061            27,021              761,1U
Cost Recovery Index (1)                           20X               41X               30X                  28X
aV Year 2005 fncrerental Income expressed in 1992 prfeas.
b/ Before water charges.
c/ Famfly labor valued at Y3.0/day.
d/ Ten percent of incremental Income.
O/ Five percent of ncremental Income
f/ Ten percent of lncremental income.
V/ Average water charge is Y180/ha for paddy and Y50/ha for other crops.
h/ Total charge as percent of project rent.
I/ Expressed as present values discounted at 124 over 30 years project life.
J/ JPY of total fnvestment and oGN cost.



C*IMA
Sichuan Agriculture Developm ent Project
.......................................
Swuary of Economic and Finanfial Analysis
..........................................
Investment        Revenue        Operation cost        Profit a/        Production
Base Case           up 102         domn 10              up 10X         down 10X        delay I year
ERR      FRR      ERR      FRR      ERR      FRR      ERR      FRR      ERR      FRR      ERR      FRR
Total Project                  25.7 - 20.42    24.02   19.0 n '1.8 . 16.82    23.82    18.52    23.82    18.82    22.02    17.72
Irrigation                     23.82    20.6X 22.1%   19.12   20.72   17.72    22.62    19.42    22.02    18.92    20.52    17.92
SP                           32.12    28.12    29.82    26.12    27.72    24.22    30.32    26.52    29.52    25.92    26.62    23.72
UP                           18.72    15.82    17.42    14.62    16.22   13.52    17.72    14.92    17.32    14.52    16.52    14.02
YP                           16.22    14.72    15.0    13.62    14.02   12.62    15.3X   13.92    14.92    13.52    14.42    13.12
Soil Conservation              24.82    16.42   23.92    15.62   23.52   14.92   24.62    15.92   23.82    15.52   22.02    14.12
Income Generation              42.12    27.62   39.42    25.72   34.82   20.12   38.02    22.52   39.12    25.5X    34.12    23.22
Nulberry & Silkworm          45.02    27.02   42.12   25.02   39.02   20.4%   42.42    22.82   41.82    24.82    36.12    22.72
Youyang Goat Raising         37.42    32.22    35.02   30.22    28.62   23.82    31.42    26.22    34.8%   30.12    30.12   26.32
Geese Raising                25.52    21.22    23.22   19.22   18.92   14.52   21.52   16.82   23.02   19.02    21.12    17.82
Rabbit Raising               36.42    29.42   34.82    28.22    20.22   14.72   22.42    16.62   34.62   28.12    31.92   26.72
Agroprocessing                 21.12    17.42   19.42   15.92    14.62    11.52   16.62    13.32   19.32   15.82    18.22    15.12
Fujiang Paper Mill           19.02    15.92    17.42   14.52   14.12   11.82   16.02    13.42    17.32    14.42    16.52    13.9X
Pengshui Paper Mill          19.72    15.62   18.22   14.32   14.62    11.52   16.52    13.12   18.02   14.12    17.12   13.72
Galinut Processing           30.02    26.42    27.62    24.32    15.52   12.92    18.82    15.92    27.42    24.02    24.72    22.02
Rabbit Nair Spiming          22.92    18.72    21.02    17.12   14.92   10.72    17.12   12.82    20.82    17.02    19.52    16.22
Geese Processing             26.02    21.12   24.12   19.52    15.82    10.22    17.82    12.62    24.42    19.32    22.02    18.22
Cattle & Goat Processing     27.72    23.92    25.72    22.12    14.2%    10.22    16.62    13.02    25.82    21.92    23.32    20.32
............................................... ...................................................................................................,................ .................................... ........ ..  ,,  
Total Project: Nm  (122)        856 YTil    Net Incremental Income           576 Y miL
irrigation:      PV (122)       571 r mitlMet Increinental Income            302 Yoil
a/ Revenue less operation cost.



Sichua Agriculture Development Project
E1 .nic Analysis of Ssodnmg Irrigation Coepatent
(V ae  1992 P ic")                      ~~ 
with Project
W/o Pro;    1m2       13      1994     1995    1996       99"7    1998    1999    2000  2O01-21
Total Crop Incme       431.713  431.713  456.694  488.738  525.004 570.081  626,G.2 647.836  661.067 667.001 669.103
Crop Ijigut Cost
Seeds                  15.668  IS6       16.063   16.412   16.755  17.201  I7.741  17.741   17.741   17.741   17.741
K fertili er           28.698  28.598  31.311   33.975   36,516  39.831   4s.s36   43.838   43.e36   43,636   48.838
P fert;l1zlr           20.165  20,165  21,473  22.757   23.962  25.5480  27.511  27 511  27.511  27.511  27.511
K forts Ii &er                            1.559   3.090   4.580   6,466   8.757   8.757 8,5 8.757   8.7S?        7.
Mao.m                  31.525   31.52s  52.462  33,382  34.260  85,405  36.787  36.787   36,78?  36.767  36.787
Cheb;cls                5.046    5 046   5 248    5447  5637   5.815   6,184   61             6.184    6.164    6.184
Anili/Neuhine          15.562  15.562  16.252  16.928  17 574  18.416   19.433   19,433   19,433   s,9433  19.433
Other                  14.219   14.219   14.606   14.966   15.348   15.621   16,392   16,392   16.392   16.392   16.392
Labor Cost            127.161  127.161 132.373  137.489  142.369 148.737  156.429  16.429  156.429  156.429  156.429
Subattl            257.964  257.984 271,337 284.46e 296.990 313,331  333,070 333.070  33s.070  333.070  333.070
Tn.s              5.06 21.586   21.566   22.845  24.437   26.250  28.644  31.315  32.392  33.053  83.350  33.455
leei tion la"aestnt Cost
1r.jTIon4.ODD   4 000   4.000   2.000   1.000
Civil VW*k                      59.254   5551O  547.098  44.928   33.615
Nbterials                        6.248   9.259   10,618   8.880   7.875
Equipent                         4.395   a 006    1,575 as            127 
Vehicles                        8slo6    38e86
TrInti                             6 54     686      150I-
D"i  r/Swerv             ~900      So0      No0    789       800                                                                                                     C
aOsioDA:      er                   476      476      47S     475      475
Subtotal                     60.012  77.823  74.716   57,347  43.891
Cost of Aeri. Support Services
Civil Work                       4.707   4,707
Eqwipnt                                   2,146
Vehicles                                  1,005
Training                           790      790              526      S26
menee/malltair                     60       60       60       60
Subtotal                      5.557   8,788        60     Sob       26
terrigtion 0O  Cost                 882    1,76    2,540   3.520   4.900   4.900   4,900   4.900    4.900   4.900
Total Cost             279.560  386.001 Sb2.607  188.221 884.69       l 391.19a  369.2s5 870,361  371.023  371.32D  871.425
Net lacme              152.163  85.712  74.867  102.517  140.310  179.606  257,017 277.475 290.085 29S.662 297.678
Incree_ntl Mt tcgee             (06.451) (.776) (49,646) (11.853) 27.n5  104,864  125.312  13.872  148.561  145.615
fWt   22.28          lNV (t 128:        447.612
--     32.11         ENV (.t W:)s    543.220
Il



Sichuan Agriculture Oevelop.ent Project
Ecenoic Analysis For ludu Irrigption Component
(_____. 1       _9_ Prices)   _     ____                     _      _______
With Project
W/o Proj    1m       199      1994    1998    1996    1"97    1996    1999    2000    2001    2D92  2003-21
Income
Total Crop Income   83.260 883,260 s84,423 397.244  411.073 445,57  481,599 537,182 589,232 609.976 622.10?  627,536 629.200
Hydropower                                                       430      430      430     480      430      430     430      430
Subtotal       383,260 983,260 384.423 397.244  411.073 446,007 482.029 537.612 589,662 610,406 622.537 627.966 62s,630
Crop Input Cost
Seeds              17.068  17.068  17.124  17.722  18.221  19.617  20.822  22.811   24.387  24,387  24.387  24.387  24.387
N fertilizer       24.057  24.057  24.141  25.047   25.802  27,916  29.740  32,752  35.137  35.137  35.137  35.137  35.137
P fertilizer       18,120  18.120   18.196  19.014  19.696  21,606  23,254   25.975  28.130  28.130  28.130  28.130  28.130
K fertilizer                            76      895    1.578   8.489   5.139   7.862  10.019  10.019  10.019  10.019  10.019
Manure             26.714  26.714  26.739  27.002  27.221  27.836  28.366  29.242  29.936  29.936  29.936  29.936  29,936
Chemical*           4.179   4.179   4,181   4.211    4.236   4.305   4.364   4.463   4,541   4,541   4,541   4.541   4,541
Animl/Machine      10,476   10,476   10,522  11.010  11.417  12.556  139539  15,162  16.440  16.448  16.448  16.448  16,448
Other              12.569  12.569  12.584  12.752  12.891  123282  133619  14.175  14.616  14 616  14.616  14.616  14,616
Labor Cost        105,860  105,860  106,062  108.235  110,045  115.116  119,492  126.716  132.438  132438  132.438  132.438 132.436
Subtotal       219.042 219.042 219.624 225.869 231,107 246.722 258,335 279.158 295.651  295,651 205.651 295,651  295,651
T7..          5.06  19.163  19.163  19.221   9,862  20.654  22,300  24.101  26.881  29.483  30.520  31.127  31,398  31.481
Irrigation Investment Coat
Land                         8,309   7.137   6.575   7,067   6.906   3.164
Civil Voris                 62.644  63,978  77.424  83.030  68 947  37, 030 
Ibteriel.                    6,481   11 403  10.503   11,289   9.436   S,057                                                                                                0
Squlpaeu,t                  2,815   4 897   2.599   S.956   3,325   2,475                                                            *'
Vehicle                      1,312    1.312                               761
Traiin                         307     294      276      168     166      165
o. igngle/suPe,v            2,617   3,518   3,240   3.483   2.911    1,559
Adel n/Manage                 605      614      750      806     674      360
Subtotal                 84.090  113,353 101.366  109.800  91,65  50,571
Cot of Agri. Support Services
Civil Voiles                 3,383   3s3a
Equipent                             1,571
Vehicle.                             1,065
Training                       694     694               463     463
Manage/mn,tor                  60       60       60      60
Subtotal                  4,137   6.763       60      628     463
Irrigation 01) Cost            840   2,102   8.363   6,726   8,408    8.408   8,408   8.408   6.408    8.408   6,408   8,408
Totsl Coet         238.205  827,273 361,064  350.540 368.709 368,59 841,416 314,446 333,542 334,679 3S5.186 336,457 335,640
NMt Inico.         145.055  65,986  23,359  46.704  42,364  77.748  140,614 223,166 256,120 275.827 287.351 292,S09 294.089
Incremental Net Incam      (89.067)(121.695) (98.361)(102.691) (67.307)  (4.441) 78,111  111,066  130,772  142,296  147.454 149,035
RR    ,:16.21    Rnt  t 121) 178:86
E     19.06 OX  EV (t 121) 291,934                             _     _                                                                                                .
I-',
.M



OOKt
Sicon AgrlcuS tur. i4vilopaat PieJect
o     c Analysis of Ymngjiabs Irrimation Cooponet
(_ _ _ 1992 Prcs)                                                                  - _._----_-_-
With Project
V/0 Prej    1992    1993    I994    199         1996     197    199M    1999    20e0  20o01-21
Total Crop l1_ ..      20,798  20,79   20.798  20,79S  21.S11  24.277  30,444  31.914  32.739  33.0a 8  32.148
Urban Water Supply                                           BIB      815      SiS      815      815 315          815
Sub total           20.796  20.798  20.798  20,790  22,126  24.592  30.M9   32.229  33.064  28,408  33.463
CrT" Input Cost
Sed                     I 200      200    1N3 00    3800   13200   1,800   1,421   1,421   1,421    1.421    2.421
k f.rtlIter             1,512   1.512   1,512    1,512   1606    1,943   2,284   2 284   2.204   2,254   2.204
P f.rti Is.r            1'104   1.104    1,104   1,204   1,206   1,891    1.559    1,569    1,669    1.5L5      1.559
K frtillger                                   0        0      168     471      52?      627      527     527      527
l~~aurs           1,769I.  1,709    1,769   1,769   1,769    1.769   2.046   2,046   2,046   2,046   2,046
Cte'ulcaa                m236      228      2238     220     20       238      298      290      290     290      298
Ani.al/lacblnw            9s4      94       954      954     954      954   1,141    1,141    1,141    1,141   1,141
Otber                     750      758      750      758     758      758      099      099     099      099      099
Labor CogS ,7566   6.76    6,758   6,7S6    6,077   7,095   0,245   0,245   0,24s   8,245   8,245
Subeotal            14,890  14,890   14.290   14,890   14,904   15,910  18,420  18,420  18,420   10.420   10,420
T.                O5.05  1,040   1,040   1,040    1.040   1,106   1.280   1,538   1,611   1,658   1,670    1,673
irriUea Invet_mat Cost
Clvii v.k.               ~~~~     ~~~419  717  so
Ci IrON,s0                                    s 8 0,515 5,167 
obt.riaol                        1,487   2.763       695                                                                              ,.                                      "
Uqulpmewt                          a82       90      III,
vehicles                           282       56
Tralina                             46       16        4
oeIgmzIbriworv                     407      160      100
Admin/a  aga                        s0      106       82
Subtolal                      9,912  12,413    6,188        0        0
Coat of Aeri. Suppot serviceo
CIvIl WarS.                        488      458
Eqflp4eat                                   22
Vehicles                                    12
TraIning                                     s0      so       so
Nana;e/Noaltor                  20       20      20       20
Sutotal                         478      877       70      70
IrrIgetio GM Cost                                             195      640       40     648      540      548      648
Total Cost              15,430  25,81C   28,720  21,660   16,805  17,690  20,500   20,579  20,620  20,630  20,641
the lcome               5,860   (5,017)  (7,922)   (070)  56,21   6,096   30,254   11,650   12.484   12,760  12,023
Incremental Nat acose          (CO,815) (12.290)  (6,228)    452   1,528   4,880   6,202   7,066    7,290   7,455
FAm     15.06      FNV (111    0,01
WUI    16.68       BPV (121)  11,856
Iw



- 108 -
Annex 6
tNINA                                             Table~ 
Sichumn Agricultural Developomnt Project
.......................... ...........................
Selected Comnersion Factors
.........................................................................
Unft    Financial  Economic  Conversion
Price   Price      Price       Factor,
... ...... ......................................... ......................................
Standard Conversion Factor a/                                          0.98
Labor
lkuskilled                      V/day          4.0         3.9       0.98
Skilled                         Y/day          5.0         4.9       0.98
Enarg
Electricity                     V/kwh          0.2         0.3       1.25
Diesel                          Y/ton        1.420         644       0.59
Steel                             Y/ton        1.800       2.282       1.30
Earthworks                                                             0.98
Structure                                                                 '10
Nachinery/Equfpmsnt                                                    1.02
Trnsportaticn
Road                            Y/ton/k       25.0        37.5       1.50
Rail                            Y/tonli       20.0        30.0       1.50
Conswution Conversion Factor b/                                        1.25
Fertilizer
Urea                            Y/ton        1.000       1.190       1.20
Rock Phosphate                  Y/ton          313         350       1.12
DAP                             Y/ton          970       1.216       1.25
Pesticides                        Y/ton       30.000      30.000       1.00
Plestics                          Y/ton            4           4       1.00
Othor non-traded  inputs                                               0.98
Other traded goodb                                                     1.02
....................................................................................
a/ (SCF) a Cofficeal rate/shadow rate) u(5.38/5.5) *0.98
b/ Weighted  verage  of Econ/Fin prices of iheat, rice and othor grains plus beef,
pork, and other animal products in 1992 price levels.



-109-                              Anne 6
NTabe 3
CHINA
Siehumn AgViculturl Oaelopoent Projeet
................. ;w...................
Farm Gate Prices o  Selected Project Outputs VWd Inputs
.--. ...---.--......... ....----.. -.--------------.-----.....................................  ..................................................... --
Urge     Phosphate   DAP      Rice    SIlk      Ii.et    Corn m.t    Cotton    Steel
e/       b/       a/       d/         /       f/       0/        h/       f/       J
TradkStatus                              N         N        N        X         X        X        X         X        X        X
..............................................................................................................................
1992 Prfees
...........
EP0 pricevaS constEprice) S/ton           121       28      124      196    N/A          94       71       123      104
EPO prfce( 92 price)        S/ton          183       43      190      300    #/A         14"       109      135      159        0
.amlfty discluat            X                I        1        1         1    N/A          I         I        I        I        I
Ccen Freight                S/ton           26       26       26       26    N/A           0         0        0      159       (26)
CIF/FOB Guaugthou S         S/ton          211       69      216      206    6,065       129       109      135      263      454
CIf/FOS uamgahou Yuen       V/ton       1,136       371    1,160    1,108   32,630       696      584       728    1.413    2.442
Port charg   I margin       Y/ton           57       19       So      (55)  (1,631)       35       (29)     (36)     (71)   (122)
Raft tram. to project       V/ton           18       16       16       (18)     (18)      18       (1)      (16)     (18)      (18)
Road trns. to far           Y/ton          (20)     (20)     (20)     (20)      (20)     (20)     (20)      (20)     (20)     (20)
Prfce ex-,itl               V/ton       1.190       387    1.216    1,015   30,960       725      517       654    1,306   2,282
ProcessIng adjustm nt                        I        I        I         I        I        I         I        I        I         I
Niltingo    toless byprod cY/ton             0        0        0        0         0        0         0        0        0        0
0        0        0         0        0
Econcmic Price              Y/ton        1,190      387    1,216      812   30,960'      728      517       654    1.306    2,282
FinnciaL Price              V/ton       1.000       350    1,000      760  102,500       740      720       450      698    1,800
2000 Prices
...........
Do price('85 pr)            S/ton          120       31      143       197    N/A        139        83      150       121
0n pricsC*91 pr)            S/ton          163       47      219      301    N/A         212       127      165      18S      505
Quallty diwccmut                             1        1         1        1    N/A          I         I        I         I        I
Oceon Frelght               S/ton           26       26       26        26    N/A          0         0        0      16S       (26)
CGF/FOB Shanghal S          S/ton          210       74      245      207    6.065       191       127      165      306      479
CIF/FOS Shanghai ru.,.       /ton        1,127      396    1,317    1,113   32,630    1,029        683       M     1,6$6    2,576
Port charges & margin       Y/ton           56       20       66       (56)  (1,631)     (51)      (34)     (44)     (82)    (129)
Rail trns. to project       V/ton           16       18       18       (18)     (18)      18       (18)     (18)     (18)      (18)
Road trns. to farm          Y/ton          (20)     (20)     (20)      (20)     (20)     (20)      (20)     (20)      (20)     (20)
Prfce exmtll               Y/ton        1,182      413    1,380    1,019   30,960       975       611      805    1,526   2,410
Processing adjustmnt        X                I        I        I         1        1        1         1        1        1         I
Nitling cost lesusb-produiY/ton              0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0
Economic Price              Y/ton        1,182      413    1.380       815   30,960      975       611      805    1,526    2,410
Financial Prfce             Y/ton        1,167      406    1,380      815   30,960       975       611      805    1,526    2,410
..............................................................................................................................
a/ Bagged, FOB, N.W. Europe
bi Phosphate Rock(No mcc n), 72X 0PL, FAS Casablanca
c/ (Dfasmonfu Phosphate), butk, spot, FOB US Gutf
d/ Rice (Thai), wfite, milled, 5X broken, government standard, FO0 Bengkok
*/ Silk, China PO  *etuel. Novwber 1991.
f/ Wheat (Canadian), No.1 Western Red spring 13.5X, In store, St. Laurene, FOB.
g/ Corn (US), vo.2, Yeltou, FOB Gutf ports
h/ Tee (London auctfon), avennae price receIved for all teas.
I/ Cotton (outlook A- findex), Nddlfng (1-3/320), CIF, Europe.
J/ Steel coaposite price Index from Japan, Novesder 1991.



wmA
Sichuan Agriculture _ovolopmet Projoct
Prices of Farm Products at Gov. Contract, Negotiated, and Market Prices
(V/kg_ ___                _  - -  _-    __ _ _     -
Paddy             Rice             U..t              Corn          B"ns       Soybean  S.Potato     Rapesood    Cotton a/
Y"r                                                                                              --
S.C CNg  Mkt  S.C  Ng  Mkt  S.C  Neg  Mkt  O.c  Nag  Mkt  Nog  Mkt  Neg  Mkt    Mkt  G.C  Hbg  Ukt  C.C
1986 0.88  0.41 0.50 0.47 0.57  0.71 0.41 0.44 0.52 0.85 0.42 0.54 0.52 0.80 0.80 0.9K   0.20 0.94                         8.24
1987 0.86 0.51 0.58 0.61 0.71 0.84  0.41 0.54 0.61 0.85  0.50 0.60 0.52 0.85  0.80  1.12   0.22 0.94                 1.36  8.38
1988 0.6 0.68 0.81 0.51 0.96 1.16 0.44 0.64  0.78  0.48  0.52 0.72 0.52 1.06 0.80  1.89   0.24  1.07  1.6e  1.70 4.51
1989 0.46 0.90  1.03 0.86  1.25  1.46 0.49 0.64  1.04 0.45 0.86  0.96 0.72  1.10 1.20 1.97   0.25  1.10 1.66  1.70 5.31
1990 0.46 0.68 0.79 0.65 0.95  1.10 .0.47 0.64  0.s8  0.45 0.65 0.76 0.72  1.04  1.20  1.74   0.24  1.58  1.66 1.60 6.98
a/ IOOX government contrat
Ia
S



- inl -
Annex 7
Table 1I
SI@61 AGNSCMWM. afEU.A".r ,RWr
Keg t lU l   o  ladieete.
ftje.eel Pegrese Z8ioalefte.                SA     CVM$lSi.. PFWAmd          Actual       A~$.8          *5.6            e1e         A1.INmel
TI ereSt Thie Ye..-  Me. Yeav  PireS leap-  SeseAd Ieee   ThIePd Veee   Fm.pU. WeO.  F           Veer
*  emah CAmflofel                                                                                  _                 . .
?*   ae Case I l                  km                       a
~~~~~~~~  * tmS  ltz el,  hi* es,d, Z ^trTwZtwi_*dft
Sup-P.0&en Dhe4
* .br.11ale 01b5dm                 km
2. lag eS   e.inee
t    Cmel 
T run  01D                        h
* 1S.Fer 0151                     he
St. Wade U..FeJa
* mas  Cam l                      in
10 Di Oakw
- Ie.el Caml                      he
*  ree15m Ditch
-sot    *w1@1a  C_*t in
* Aw  0 l Ce ne
* 5.6Fm. Sla                      h
4.  Tb Dlie     ie
So f-m Oa ub                     h
*-4rlol t % _*
* Imegie F.ei ram
*1.fe,Siiee                     lam
Pteiedesm
Raeeeetrcto amemsielam
ee Cemme                       me.
S."     t. Cam                   .
cwt_   tooll. e_"ur             Z
3. Ue.i Camae, alm  Pee Je
a. ue.mewe  Oem AV"e
*  isesleela TiemmemSt           he
* eeme  ow        _he
als-itelmse Dom  A&..             h
* UelIieal Tres-sme,
Terraeing
Other pi-eW 111meo..im Verb
*. Flm  Flemle & -lmee             he
c. ell plea"tim                    he
Ci.  mee Medi4el pFlee             he
C. ime" lphime ma          i       he
F. Ps" Groeing Tree P1mmAle        he
1. Walbarep  a Cogs. Pee.
- Helhrin FleeSis                 he
* Ce   11eseheld                  leC
4IFpeed;.# Soiehlem
. te"osi         r; RaeO
2  reeglesa mam                   eed  w
-i Cses Ibi-irm; h1Wal             zee
-TeehmeeIl /Frahaeim  Ceeee      ..
.Tee Fehehi I lead..m             he
*. Ge. e a,es  ifeteWee            too
4.  _ee Neeleim  Ic Fegeal         .
5. See.. hi"Reisimg im Blee        me
6. mIl  fte.ee   4._ SAe.           e
L. teelee heltme &§ Tegim
I. dAmeetle Teiml pe
Q*s*.  _ met_ PPONO
F. , _   ehmllem                 me
IL TSiell Camee ac * Tem
Pe. _ e T"leeme
Perum..                         me.in
iUre tler_
id_ oskd                        sm.
*Fees Tehlee                     me.
poemere                         me.
$Tis NeheSl*iSedl
Fe.. Tlml_e                     m.
11*04_                           _.
* Umee1eso
P.m  Ted                         me.
- *t_   n.me&    i
.o.e.m  T_elmimg
1edpW Tow                        m
d*_,                             _.no
I.S.   e.-e                      de"
S. Zadm "eesi                     _.ml1.dm  G



- 112-                                        Annex 7
Table 2
CHINA
SICHUAN AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SANK SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
Aproximate 1/
Dotes                                               Expected Skill           Staff Input
(month/year)      Activity                             Requiremont
9/92           Supervision Mission                  Agrofndustries                 10.0
Project Launch Workshop.            Irrigatfon Engineering
Review of draft final               Economics
designs for agro-industries,        Procurement
Irrigation nd drainage              FinnciaL Nanagement
schemes, procurement nd
financial management.
Reporting and N & E.
12/92           Review of final designs for          Agroindustries                  2.0
agrondust-ies, livestock,           Irrigation Engineer
nd irrigation.
6/93           Supervision Mission
Review of irrigation,               Agriculturist                    8.0
ggriculture, sericulture            Sericulturist
tee, soil conservation, and         SoiL Conservation/
tivestock development.              Livestock Specialist
6/94           Supervisfon Mission
Economist                       8.0
Review of agriculture,              Environmentalist
tivestock, irrigation               Agronomist/Livestock
and drainage. Covernment            Specialist
prepares for Mid-term review.        Irrigation Engineer
12/94           Mid-term Review Mission
Economist                      10.0
Irrigation, agricutture, soil       Agriculturist
conservation, sericulture, tea,     Sericulturist
end livestock development,          Solt Conservation/
agrofndustries.                     Livestock/AgroindustrIes
Specialist
6/95           Supervfon Mission
Government and Sichuan Province     Government/IDA teams             8.0
to ipletent Recomendatlons of
Mid-term Review nd decide on the
nature of future supervision
missions. (Ffeld trip my be needed
to follow-ip mid-term results).
1996-1998       At lest one supervision/year nd    (to be determined
last mision should discuss with     following Mid-term Review)
borrower preparation of Coapletion
Report.
I/ First two years will be initially devoted to review of desins and construction for
agroindustries, Irrigation and drafnage In accordanee with Implementation Schedule
Chart 1. Some specialists my visit the project area uhile undertaking other operations.



-113 -                        Annex 8
Page 1 of 3
SUMMARY 0P DAM SAPETY REVIEW PANEL
SHENGZHONG AND YANGJIABA DAMS
Introduction:     In accordance with the World Bank procedures on dam safety
the borrower was required to engage an independent Dam Safety Review Panel
(DSRP) to review the existing Shenshong dam and proposed Qangjiaba dam. in
June 1991, a Bank pre-appraisal mission and the Sichuan Water Conservancy
Bureau (WCB) agreed on terms of reference and the membership of the DSRP to
inspect and evaluate the safety status of the Shengzhong and Yangjiaba Dams.
Memberships The DSRP consisted of four Chinese experts and one foreign
expert. The members of the panel were: 1.) Prof. Li Guo-ren, Chengdu
University of Science and Technology; panel leader; expert in dam structures.
2.) Dr. Sergio Giudici, Hydro Electric Commission, Tasmania, Australia; expert
in dam design and instrumentation. 3.) Mr. Liang Tian-you, Hydraulic
Engineering Consulting Centre, Ministry of Water Resources, P. R. C.; expert
in dam construction. 4.) Mr. Yu Ke-li, Hydraulic Engineering Consulting
Centre, Ministry of Water Resources, P; R. C.; expert in geology. 5.) Mr. Xu
Zhao-cheng, Sichuan Hydrology and Water Resources Bureau; expert in hydrology.
Summary Conclusions for Shengzhong Dam: The following summarizes the
conclusions, of the Panel:
(a) Dam: The dam has been well-designed, carefully monitored and properly
constructed. There are no signs of stress and no records of leakage observed,
which shows an exceptionally watertight structure.
(b) Spiliway:
(i) Structurally the spillway has performed well, as demonstrated by
records of the instrumentation. The inspection revealed several items where,
while not causing concern for the safety of the structure, should be attended
to by the WCB to ensure long-term integrity of maintenance.
(,) The mechanical equipment to open the gates was demonstrated during
Lnspection by first opening one of the radial gates while the upstream guard
gate was 6losed, and then opening another radial gate and allowing spill to
occur. The panel made recommendations to improve maintenance and long-term
mechanical reliability.
(iii) Flood hydrology and flood events were determined to be correctly
computed. Spillway operation plans were found to be adequate.
(c)  Umptying Structures:  The dewatering capability of sc.-ctures is
satisfactory. The panel observed the intake mechanism and observed the outlet
gate while it was operated The tunnel could not be inspected, but on the
basis of the drawings and observations on site, the DSRP made several
recommendations to ensure that the tunnel and the mechanical equipment remains
ln good order.
(d) Nmrgency Plans: warning systems from upstream, of impending flooding
events, and for warning the downstream population are satisfactory but need
improvement in communications.
Recoumendations for Action-Sheagzhong Dam: Overall, the Panel is satisfied
that the Shergzhong Dam and its appurtenances are safe. The panel made the
following recommendations for ensuring the long-term safe operation of
Shengzhong Dam, (none are of immediate concern for the dam safety) the Sichuan
WCB attend to these matters and report progress within a year. The panel
recommended that an inspection of the dewatering tunnel be made to check on
possible cracking of the concrete lining as well as inspection of the bulkhead
and tunnel entrance.
(i) An emergency plan and procedures are be to prepared for evacuation



-114 -                        Annex 8
Page 2 of 3
of the population downstream of the dam, when large floods are to be passed
through normal operation of the spillway.
(ii) Communication equipment (radios, installation of power supply,
feed lines, etc.) should be improved and maintained in good working order.
(iii) A standby generator should be acquired and installed near the dam
crest to provide emergency power for the spillway gate operation should the
main power supply fail.
Summary Conclusion for Yangjiaba Dam:
(a) Design Flood and Hydrology: Conforms to class 3 of the PRC rules
regulating dam design values and is satisfactory.
(b)  Goological Conditions:  The conglomerate rock of the damsite is sound and
provides suitable material for the foundations of the arch dam. Foundation
stability is satisfactory. Treatment of a seam on the left bank is part of
the specified design. Some further excavation on the right bank was
recommended.
(c) Design of the Dam: The design strategy, design data and method of
analysis all conform to modern design practice. The stress values calculated
are within PRC- specified limits. Because this dam is of sandwich
construction, i.e., a concrete layer between masonry faces, some of the design
parameters had to be obtained by exercising reasonable judgement based on
experience. However, this does not affect the conclusion.
(d) Construction of the Dan: The Panel recommended that the construction
methods be improved, mainly with respect to the quality of the concrete.
Since the dam is 47% concrete and 53% masonry blocks, concrete quality and
control are important.
Overall, the Panel concluded that Yangjiaba Dam is well designed and safe
provided that a reasonable increase in construction quality is achieved to
meet the design requirements.
Recommendations for Action - Yang$iAba Dam:
(a) It was recommended that the wingwall or key be built on the end of the
thrust block in order to increase the length of waterpath. (b) Removal of
some shear zones evident in the excavation, and correct shaping of the
excavation plane is necessary plus additional grouting near the elevation of
the shear zones is required. (c) Because of the high hydraulic gradient
through the concrete membrane between the upstream and downstream masonry, the
concrete impermeability index used should be S8 instead of the currently
specified S6. Concrete design should be done using correct proportioning
between the large and small size aggregates. (d) The variation in masonry
size is quite large. Quality control is necessary to ensure that the
thickness of the concrete membrane is not reduced by masonry intrusions.(e)
Density Tests in the dam should be done in accordance with the specification.
(f) Deformation measurements of the top of the dam should be taken as the
reservoir fills and at regular intervals thereafter. This will be a good
index of dam performance. (g) to help operation of the reservoir, some rain
gauges should be placed upstream of the dam in the catchment area.
Follow-up Actions: In November 1991, the appraisal mission reviewed the
DSRPs detailed recommendation lists with the Sichuan WCB and the engineering
staff at the dam site. Modifications of the excavation limits and foundation
preparation made by the DSRP were undertaken. Revisions in the concrete
aggregate gradation materials handling, mix and quality control measures were
being implemented. More senior staff were assigned and additional personnel
were brought to monitor construction quality.
At Shengzhong Dam the procurement for the emergency generator had been



- 115 -                       Annex 8
Page 3 of 3
initiated. Installation li scheduled for March 1992. Other LnspectLons,
emergency plans, and procedures for monitoring were beLng Lmplemented by the
OhM unit.
The full report of the DSRP is on file in the Bank.
Basic Data
Dam               Shengshong               Yangliaba
Type                 Composite Concrete         Concrete/Stone
Gravity/Earthfill         Masonry Arch.
Maxlmum Height             79.0 m                   53.3 m
Crest Length                420 m                   110 m
Splllway               Gated Overflow      Separate Channel Ungated
Maximum Storage        339 million e            26.4 million m?
Spillway Capacity      10,020 m3/esee.            266 e3/sec.
Catchment Area            1,756 K.e                23.5 Kme



-116-
Annaz 9
Pa92 I of 6
SICHUAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPENT PROJECT
Environmental Assessment/
Monitorina and Mana@ement Plan
I.    Environmental Assessment
1.1         A detailed and comprehensive environmental assessment of the
project has been carried out by the Sichuan Research Institute of
Environmental Protection (SRIEP). The report was reviewed by IDA and revised
by SRIEP based on IDA's comments and recommendations. A copy of the EA is in
t%e project file.
1.2         Opinions of both the public and appropriate government agencies
were solicited concerning the projects potential social, economic, and
environmental impacts. A sample of 254 persons was surveyed in the project
area and the results showed generally positive opinions both from the general
public and local government agencies. The main concerns of the public were
health and water quality impacts from agroprocessing plants, the le-al of
increased income/economic development that might be expected, the potential
for overall reduction in the areas of annually cultivated lands, and increased
supply of potable water.
1.3         An evaluation to identify the project's potential environmental
impacts was carried out by a multidisciplinary team of 30 experts from
Provincial bureaus and institutions of agriculture, animal husbandry,
forestry, fisheries, irrigation, environmental protection, agroprocessing,
chemical engineering and social sciences. Each project subcomponent was
reviewed to evaluate its potential (positive and negative) impacts on the
natural environment (air, soil, water, natural and domestic plant/animal
communities, landscape, and noise), and the social environment (economy,
culture, traffic, energy, and public health). The main findings of the
evaluation were:
i) overall, the sum of project impacts would be positive;
ii) the agroprocessing and paper mill subcomponents have the greatest
potentially negative impacts;
iii) the potential negative impacts from the irrigation components consist of
those associated with increased pesticide usage and increased cropping
intensity on soil fertility;
iv) ti-s soil conservation, forestry and livestock subcomponents are
uniformally positive with the exception of potential minor negative
impacts from animal manures (health) and loss of annual crop lands
(social/economic).
1.4         Wudu Barrage.     The impact of this irrigation component on the
current flow regimes in the contributing rivers would be negligible. The Fu
Jiang River has an average annual flow of about 5000 Mm3 at the Wudu Project
headwork, of which about 850 Mm3 would be diverted for irrigation. An
estimated 200Mm3 would be returned downstream via natural drainage. The water
quality of the supply is good, therefore drainage water would be usable for



-117-
Page 2 of 6
irrigation. The water resources operational plan requires a minimum flow of
50m0/s, be maintained below the barrage to meet dry season demands for M&I,
navigsation and environmental protection. No watershed management/siltation
issues are associated with this component, silt content of inflows will be
monitored and a do-silting basin constructed if and when warranted.
1.5         Yangjiaba Reservoir.    Closure of the dam will have a slight
impact on flows downstream, seasonally dewatering a 2 kilometer stretch of
river. As this phenomenon occurs naturally and on a regular basis in the dry
season, little or no impact on riparian communities is expected. To assure
drinking and irrigation water to the three affected households, two wells will
be rehabilitated and a small pond constructed. No water quality or watershed
management/siltation issues are associated with the reservoir. A plan for
reservoir clearing is in place; population density in the watershed is light
and there exist neither towns nor industrial pollution sources; cultivated
area within the wateished is less than 60 ha; the w-tershed is more than 60%
forested; and current nitrogen and phosphate levels in the Zengjiahe River are
negligible. Silt inflows under present conditions are such that the life span
of the reservoir is estimated at over 100 years; a watershed management
program is in place and watershed conditions are expected to improve with
time. The project would fund a water quality monitoring/management scheme for
the reservoir.
1.6         Resettlement.      A total of 132 households and 564 persons from
two villages will be involuntarily resettled as a consequence of the Yangjiaba
dam construction. Although the dam is not a part of the proposed project, IDA
has agreed with the Sichuan Provincial Government that the resettlement would
be carried out according to the provincial resettlement standards already in
place for other large resettlements (e.g. Ertan Hydro dam in Sichuan). The
resettlement plan has been submitted to IDA for review. Right-of-way for
canal construction, reportedly already obtained would require an estimated 400
ha. The majority of main and sub-main canals would be laid out along ridge
lines and kept at higher elevations to maximize the area that can be served by
gravity fed irrigation and very few structures are located in agricultural
fields.
1.7         The per capita loss of cultivated land (primarily rainfed, some
supplemental irrigation contract system) and forest land is 0.068 ha and 0.04
ha, respectively. Following resettlement the per capita holding (under the
personal responsibility contract system) will be 0.067 ha of irrigated land
and 0.17 ha of forest land system. Some reductions in the amount of cultivated
lands will occur in the resettlement areas, however, the increased
productivity resulting from dependable irrigation will more than offset the
losses. During the 18 to 24 month period between resettlement and the
initiation of irrigation some compensatory actions may be required to avoid
temporary loss of income amongst those in the resettlement areas; an IDA-
approved plan for this transition will be available before negotiations.
1.8         Under the resettlement plan, individual households would be
compensated for their losses based on the replacement values. On the average,
each household will receive Y4,820 over and above replacement values, which
funds will be utilized to develop their agricultural production. The total
compensation package would meet IDA guidelines which specify that at a minimum
those resettled should be as well off and preferably better off than prior to



_118 -
Annex 9
*                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 3 of 6
their resettlement. An assurance that implementation of the resettlement
adheres to this principle will be agreed upon at negotiations.
1.9         Shenzhong Reservoir.    This dam was completed in 1982 and the
reservoir has been filled since 1984. Water quality in the reservoir meets
Chinese Class II surface water standards, except for total phosphorus. The
erosion/siltation situation in the watershed is classified as "medium" by the
Chinese, that is, 50% of the watershed area is estimated to be eroding at the
average rate of 32 t/ha/yr of soil. A watershed management program Is ongoing
and the watershed itself is considered to be a key area for control of soil
loss, as a result all of Nanbu County's funds and one-half of Jiange County's
funds for soil conservancy are being utilized in this watershed. Between 1980
and 1990 more than Y6.8 million was invested to control erosion over 470 km2,
reducing the erosion area by about 25%. Targets for the 1990 to 2000
watershed management plan are to reduce the current area of accelerated
erosion by almost 50%. Under the projected conditions, the life span of the
reservoir is estimated to be over 100 years. The project would fund a water
quality monitoring/management scheme for the reservoir.
1.10        Increased Agrochemical Usage.      The concern in intensifying
agricultural production is increased use of chemical fertilizers and
pesticides. An analysis of pesticide usage in the project areas shows that
the total amount of pesticides used has been in decline over the last ten
years. Additionally, the trend has been away from high-toxicity, persistent
chemicals toward more environmentally benign chemicals. For example, besides
the discontinuance of BHC and DDT, the use of the more hazardous and broad
spectrum chemicals (for example, Parathion and Fenvalerate) is steadily
declining. Decline is reportedly attributable to substitution for other
chemicals (for example, Dimethoate to Nissorun -- a Class IV pesticide -- on
citrus) and the increased usage of IPM practices. Throughout the province,
and including the project areas, IPM was reportedly being practiced on one
million ha of paddy land as of 1991, resulting in pesticide-use reductions of
one-half to one-third. To support the trend in reduced usage of agrochemicals
(both of quantity and of certain types) the project would fund both training
and demonstrations of IPM, training on proper use and handling of
agrochemicals for farmers and technicians, and the project would also include
funding for fertilizer field trials to rationalize application rates.
Additionally, assurances would be obtained that pesticides to be provided
under the project would be subject to IDA review and approval.
1.11        Agroprocessin .  In addition to the previously mentioned effluent
control and treatment measures referred to in the SAR, (paras. 3.30 to 3.33)
which have been included in the design and for which adequate budgetary
provisions have been made in order to meet both national EPB and IDA
standards, the project would also provide technical assistance for expert
review of design adequacy and strengthen the existing monitoring system for
effluent and water quality. The monitoring system will be a check to ensure
the proper maintenance and function of the treatment facilities.
1.12        Soil Conservation and Forestrv.      The Soil Conservation
Demonstration subprojects will focus on verification and dissemination of land
use practices and technologies which provide economic alternatives to present
non-sustainable cropping practices. It is expected that the impacts from the
two demos will extend well beyond the small areas directly covered. At



-119 -
*                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 4 of 6
completion they will provide an expanded menu of technology options for land
management in the uplands and a trained cadre of technical staff that can
disseminate the technologies and approaches to other priority areas of the
province. In addition, the forestry-related subprojects will introduce soil
conservation and management practices in all revegetation activities. All
planting work will be carried out on the contour, further, demonstration plots
utilizing contour V-ditches and contour trench plantings and contour hedgerow
plantings for biomass production will be included. Forest plantings will be
protected from collection of tree litter to avoid baring soil and the
plantations will be thinned in a timely manner to avoid shading out the
groundcovering undergrowth. Also, all plantations will be required to meet
the Government's environmental guidelines for plantation establishment; the
guidelines have been reviewed and accepted by the World Bank.
1.3         Livestock.  The livestock sub-component would include a grassland
monitoring system to identify areas threatened with overgrazing and allow
adjustment of animal distribution and (if necessary) stocking rates (para.
3.8). All sub-projects will operate either under year around or seasonal cut-
and-carry management, this will contribute significantly to the local farming
systems through production of needed manures.
II. Environmental Monitoring Program
2.1   The project would support a comprehensive program of monitoring
environmental parAmeters associated with project activities and which
establishes linkages between monitoring and agencies responsible for oversight
and compliance with Chinese national environmental protection laws and
regulations. The estimated cost over the life of the project is Y1.5 million
and would include funds for :
i) technical assistance and hiring of consultants to review designs and
programs for pollution control/treatment facilities for agroprocessing;
ii) monitoring of wastewater discharges from treatment facilities and water
quality at six agroprocessing sites;
iii) monitoring of water quality and pesticide residues in irrigation project
areas;
iv) technical training of staff from county and prefectural level monitoring
stations.
Additional monitoring activities would funded by the project within specific
subcomponents. These are the grassland monitoring system to be funded from
the livestock subcomponent and the monitoring of soil loss, runoff and crop
yields to be funded under the Soil Conservation Demonstrations.
2.2         Monitoring Program.      Environmental monitoring would be carried
out by the PMO, the Sichuan Environmental Monitoring Center (SEMC), the
relevant prefectural (or municipality) and county Environmental Monitoring
Stations (EMS), as well as the internal monitoring units of the relevant line
agencies (agriculture, livestock and forestry) at the prefectural (or
municipality) level.



-120 -
pgeo 5 of 6
-    The PHO would coordinate the monitoring program and provide
reports to both IDA and the Sichuan Environmental Protection
Bureau on the programs findings.
-    The SEMC would have overall responsibility for the implementation
of monitoring activities and provides the monitoring data to the
PMO. In addition, SEMC would be directly responsible for the
monitoring and analysis of samples from the irrigation areas for
agrochemical residues or contamination and for providing technical
assistance and training to the prefectural and county-level EMSs.
-    The prefectural and county EMSs would be responsible for sample
collection as well as being entrusted to carry out some monitoring
and analysis of wastewater discharge from the agroprocessing
facilities -- analysis that cannot be handled at this level would
be carried out at SEMC. The EMSs at these levels would also be
responsible to check on the operation of the treatment facilities.
All data collected would be provided to the SEMC.
-    Monitoring and reporting activities for agricultural pests and
diseases, crop growth and yield, and fertilizer and pesticide use
would be carried out by the county-level agricultural bureaus,
with reports to the prefectural PMOs. Monitoring and reporting
activities for the grassland monitoring system (stocking, grazing
rates, grass yields) would be carried out by the prefectural
Livestock Bureau, with reports to the prefectural PM0. Monitoring
and reporting activities for forestry and soil conservation would
be the responsibility of the relevant county-level forestry and
soil conservancy bureaus, with reports to the prefectural PMOs.
2.3         Institutional support would be provided in the form of training,
operating funds, technical assistance. The SEMC will require no upgrading
under the project. It is a Grade II monitoring station and the center for the
Sichuan's overall monitoring program, it has up-to-date laboratory equipment
and well-qualified technical staff. SEMC has been in operation for over ten
years. Some upgrading of equipment may be required at prefectural and county-
level EKSs, funds for such equipment are being sought by the EMSs from the
provincial government.
2.4         Monitoring Activities.
i)    hiring of expert consultants to review the designs for the
pollution control/wastewater treatment facilities for
agroprocessing subcomponents - Y60,000;
ii)   monitoring of and analysis of samples from agroprocessing plant
discharges, downstream water quality, operation of pollution
control/wastewater treatment facilities - Y241,000/yr;
iii)  monitoring of and analysis of samples for agrochemical residues
and contamination - Y55,000/yr;
iv)   technical training of EMS staff from one prefectural and seven
county stations (4 persons/station x 6 months) - Y108,000;



-121 -
Annx 9
Page 6 gf 6
2.5         Information collected through the monitoring activities and
compiled within the provincial PMO would provide the basis to assure that
project subcomponents comply with Chinese National Environmental Protection
Laws and Regulations as well as IDA guidelines. Where noncompliance exists,
it would be the responsibility of the provincial PMO to provide guidance, with
provincial EPB approval, to prefectural PMOs as to necessary actions. The
prefectural PMOs, in coordination with the prefectural EPBs, would be
responsible for designing the specific interventions required to achieve
compliance. Under the supervision of the prefectural PMO and EPB, the county
PMO would assure implementation either by the relevant county bureau or
construction unit.



- 122 -                          Annex 10
CHINA
Sichuan Agricultural Development Project
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Reports and Studies Related to the Project
A. 1    The Eighth Five-Year Plan for Sichuan Provincial Agricultural
Development by Sichuan Provincial Planning and Economic
Commlosson, June 1990
A.2    Sichuan Agrlcultural Development Project, FAO/CP Preparation
Report: Poverty Studies and Soll Conservatlon Component
(two volumes), May 1992
A.3    Feasibillty StudLes for Irrigation--SP, WP and YP schemes
A.4    Feasibillty Studies for Soil Conservation Demonstratlon Areas
(two volumes)
A.5    Feasibility Studies for Forestry
(seven volumes)
A.6    Feasibillty Studies for Sericulture
A.7    Feasibility Studies for livestock
(three volumes)
A.$    FoaeLbillty Studies for Agroprocesming
(sLx volumes)
A.9    Grassland Management Plan, prepared by Slchuan Provincial
Animal Husbandry Bureau, January 1992
A.10   Dam Safety Review Report, prepared by International
Dam Safety Revlew Panel, September, 1991
A. 11 Environmental impact Aossesment Report, Main Report
and revised Chapters S & 6, prepared by Sichuan Research
Institute for Environmental Protection, November 1991
and January 1992
S. WorkLng Papers
3.1    Project Costs
3.2    Livestock
3.3    Sericulture
8.4    Agroprocesolng
8.5    Economic and Financial Analysis
8.6    Soil ConservatLon and Forestry
8.7    Agricultural Support Services



- 123 -                                      Chart  I
CHINA
SICHUAN AGRICULTUIRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
_____________         IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
OALIOCAR YEAR [       992         1993         1994        log5         1996         10g?   iig
ITUM               aQUARTER    12 1 3 I 4  ti2 3  4               2  3  4I2 3  A 1 '12  3 4  i  2 2   4 I I  a
IRRIGATION SYSTEMS    I                 jIili Ii 
S)4ENGZI4ON  SUS.RO.ECT (S.P.)        H1                                                             t       
atanch Aflrai Canal ( 106.7un)   Ii    ----                                                              ---
Branch Canal         (28.61ul)                                                               I*fm ,Ei E
Sujb.SWaCh Canal     (65.6km)II
Trunk Ditch          (284.7kM)-
Farm Ditrh          (1327.2km)
Sub-parm Ditch      (1296.0kn)              .......
WUDU SUS.PROJECT(M.P.)                       1      1        I I      l* II
General Afleria Canal  (12.2km)
Artertia Canal        (69.6kmn)                          *IiIEEI
1Branch Arteriai Canal ( 39.0km)                              .~  ...         .         
Brnuwh Canal          ( 75.Bkm)-..                                                        ..                    I
Sub.Sranch Canal    (103.4km)
Trunk Ditch          (397.8m)T 
Farm Ditch          (I1163.1 km)                   ..                                                    . 
SubFarm Ditch        (713.7km)-                                                                                 ur
YANt4GJASASUB-PRO.JECT (Y.P.)                 T         j       it         t     i
Sub.Sranich Canal    (.51.0k)--I                            ---.---::.L                 5              Ir T
Trunk Ditch           (34.2km                                                I:~Iiiu:inur
Farm Ditch           (108.0m                      ------
AGRIC. SUPPORT-S6rzFMCES a INPUTS                      J))*U
SOIL CONSERVATION                                                  IIIII                                 II
Guangyuan Sodl C. Oemortstralln
Oianjiang Sodl C. Demonstration
Fast Growing Trees
Paulownia and Chinese Toon
Gall Planting
Chinese Medidnal Plant                                         .                                           .-
Chinew AlpieRush                                                              '    i     i       Ii
INCOME GENERATION--
Tea Rehabilitation
Goat Raiong                        .                                                                 5.-
RabtRaising
AORO.4NOUS1RIES
Mianyang Paper MINi
Pengshuw Pulp MINiI                                                                                     
Rabbit Hair Procesaang                                  .  I     ..      .        *El SmumiU                  mI
Gauinut Processing.
Goat meat Processing...;                                                                     .utm           m ..
Gleeoe Processing
-plfi   rocurement, Field       II
4EYDesgn and Preparation -r-'WoladCnIuion..  ....era iniPouto 



China
Sichuan Agriculture Development Project
Project Organization Chart
|Provincial
Government
Provincial
Leading Groupl
Prefecture                                   Provincial
Government                                       PMO
Prefecture                                   Provincial
___  ___  Leading Group       .               .Bureaus' PMO                  £
County                                       Prefecture    I
Government                                       PMO I
__ I __County                  I ____ I t                      Prefecture 
__l__          j Leading Group .                               Bureaus' PMO
Township                                        County
Government                                       PMo
| Co'unty     l
IBurealus" PMO  0   |



'HQ#4GnAJ C OAr7  SSAANX
N..P.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
Im-~~~~~~~~~~~~-
YoGri'io              Jiogi aCitye W.Ri
./~~~~~~                                    Jiai xJ 4sMr.Haa;Ztyxtoee 1   
31. 
106-~~~~~~~~~~~~3
X                  a         ~~~~~~~~~r
SICHUAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT)   .
IRRIGATION COMPONENT
IZZi rem   oncnsaiaah>                                                                \\ >e
-   Em1N fOASThEi                                        \ L                               \
-.c9r 7jSUMP5WONAGS |R                                                            - DM4 5M
IV~cJRIRE! BAIRAG4ESOR CAMS                                   \7         
RUAOADA   L\S
O      0D     20     3D     *0      S9
_IVOMEIZRO                                                                                 He ' -M
r Ti4,    W    l 4, V. W,d  Mt1_ *I . 4  ,
..4.,..N.N.A.  .T... .4Thd h""^ c Wfld                                                                        i 
_   ; o1 anw lw-t 0 av wd is o=ls nx  1P5                                                            2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31



-, GANSUJ   -?    511 4fANXI
--..    '-
Woo Projectoe§                   ._  
wulDtSA'' ,                   I                                                >..
;,    9%tagR>j5enr4     g Projec
C~~~~~C:
f  t tw/ 4SA ws (
f  - .SSo                                     \>
I?O
7   < g,   AS                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c H I N A
|  '->   X < )  -i                            ~~~~~SICHL'AN AGRICULTURAL
/  ! /  .       g2    C  ,i                    ~~~DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
{   .>-   t m a -    9   i   X   TYPICAL TRUNK DITCH,  FARM DITCH
IAAND SUB FARM DTCH INTEGRTION
Shuongfels ll^^^1n°  /        gfJ   )/                   ~WITH NEW  SYSTEM
_;~~~~~~~/                                         DEEOMN  PRO JECT
TYPICAL  TRUNK DITCH, FARM DITH
I        AND SUB J-FARM DITCH IE
... SUJB FAR OMKHES
TUNNrl6i
T. Xk~v                                                                   W- CO'NTOUR IN AERS
METERS
SCHEMATIC LAYOUT OF YUTAI DITCH
TRUNK    DITCH
SUB FARM DITCH
SUS FARM DITCH
FARM DITCH IJ
FARM DITCH
OlmnOwo 709l Yt, OI
~~~"te"     .s  9  )  < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUB fARMI DITCH
cnao ouaw  -
_ AaO, Fm,.    cCAo



IBRD 23480
t. MONGOtLA  *~               - ,  .    106                                CHINA                                 110
SICHUAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT AREAS
SEA 5SI ,  H  p+*                               AGRO PROCESSING PLANTS
A. ^  W    .                                    fi     CHINESE MEDICAL PLANT
A     MULBERRY AND COCOON PRODUCTION
t  L m   ,   eAs r                  t     GEESE RAISING
iS<.4 %    i X FA  r                     o GOAT RAISING
34Y                        ( f    /O TEA REHABIUTATION                     34-
.+    CHINESE ALPINE RUSH
t8--xcMo.cun.                                      *      SOIL CONSERVATION DEMONSTRATION
.$4C4U^offofie'     RABBIT RAISING
ChW&
________________________SEA             of               J                  PAULOWNIA, CHINESE TOON AND GALL
.    104 ,_                                                             0     SELECTEDTOWNS
0      PREFECTURE CAPITALS
AA   Su      o i                           @      PROVINCE CAPITAL
ABA,                                                                     ROADS
ZAN55e'                  \<,  t  ti                                            RAILROADS
t     \ '^,,             t       g R          <-  .-e                  PREFECTLiRE BOUNDARIES                _,, 
O                                       d n .  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES   o n
104'     u           f               106                                    be'-*  /.$
I321 MI ANI t f  Gw    g          >ttZ  SHANXI
Ml ANw /                                      wnE  3 EUAY
_  §   I         I    .   I          I \~~~~~~~~A             mhbpdor        ok8nsstoh 
RS  /~X~) WNG 
-._  _a7bblb o /  tr ~S0tIY o 
,0;  !         106;                                  1g8-                      ./.~~~~~~~UBE
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FBUR Nm



