6II  XzzI/ -
DocumWnt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONy
Rpoit No. P-5716-CHA
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 107.7 MILLION
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE
SICHUAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JUNE 15, 1992
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. P- 5716-CHA Type: (PM)
KIM,H.    / X84057 / A-7035/ EA2AG
This doc-wnt has a resticted distib    and may be ue by reipients only In the perfrma   of
tidr offical dutie  Its cosents may not otherwie be dislsd witout Wodd Bank autoration.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(As of February 5, 1992)
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
$1.00 - Y 5.38
Y 1.00 - $0.186
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGETS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)       -  3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)  -  0.62 miles
I hectare (ha)    -  15 mu
1 ton (t)         -  1,000 kg
- 2,205 pounds
1 kilogram (kg)   -  2.2 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC  - Agricultural Bank of China
ADP  - Agricultural Development Project
ElA  - Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP  - Environmental Management Plan
O&M  - Operation and Maintenance
PHO  - Project Management Office



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
CHINI
SICFPAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PRQJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrowers         People's Republic of China
Bene'iciary:      Sichuan Province
Amounts           SDR 107.7 million j$147 million equivalent)
Termes            Standard, with 35 years maturity
Onlendini Termas  Onlending rates to productive entities will be no less than
the Agricultural Bank of China charges for loans for similar
purposes and terms, i.e., positive in real terms and carry-
ing a positive spread.
Financing Plan:                                      Local    Forei2n    Total
---   $ million) ------
Central Government                  17.0      0.0        17.0
Provincial/Prefecture Govts.        45.5      0.0        45.5
County Governments                  19.0      0.0        19.0
Local Banks                          9.0      0.0         9.0
Special Poverty Alleviation Funds   10.0      0.0        10.0
Enterprises and farmers             40.1      0.0        40.1
IDA                                 61.5     85.5      147.0
Total                         202.1     85.5      287.6
Economic Rate of
Return:           26 percent
Staff A22raisal
Report:           Report No. 10322-CHA
Maps:             IBID Nos. 23092, 23094 and 23480
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF TIE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THU E ECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REP  LIC OF CHINA
FOR TEE SICHUAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed Credit for
SDR 107.7 million ($147 million equivalent) to the People's Republic of China
is submitted for approval. The proposed credit would be on standard IDA terms
with 35 years maturity. Proceeds of the IDA credit would be onlent to Sichuan
Province at en interest rate of 5 percent, with a repayment period of 15 years
including a 5-year grace period. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by
Sichuan. Onlending rates to final beneficiaries would be no less than the
Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) charges for subloans for similar purposes
with similar maturities.
Part I: COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP'S ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
2.       A country economic report, entitled "China: Country Economic Memo-
randum: Reform and the Role of the Plan in the 1990s" (Report No. 10199-CRA),
based on a mission in May/June 1991, is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors.
3.        China's reforms since 1978 built upon initial conditions which were
in many ways unique. Socialism was essentially homegrown, sand its first 30
years bequeathed a legacy of solid social achievements, capable local adminis-
trations, substantially modernized agriculture and a large industrial base,
especially in heavy industry. The flaws included lack of incentives, isola-
tion from the outside world, excessive stress on self-sufficiency even at the
local level, and an industrial sector whose output pattern and geographic
distribution largely reflected strategic rather than economic imperatives.
The reforms of recent years have been characterized by gradualism, increased
decentralization, a pragmatic willingness to settle at times for 2&rtjla
progress and--despite the occasional "two steps forward, one step back"--an
overall momentum reflecting the self-reinforcing nature of reforms once com-
menced.
4.        These reforms have taken place across the economy. Replacement of
the communes by family farming on a long-term leasehold basis, and relaxation
of controls over pricing and marketing of farm produce (now mostly confined to
grain and a handful of other staples), led to expansion and diversification of
agricultural output, as well as the emergence of nonstate enterprises in
industry, commeres and services as a highly dynamic force in the overall
economy. Progressive opening of Special Economic Zones, coastal cities and
inland areas to direct foreign investment (DFI) has made China one of the most
attractive locations in the region for export-oriented private foreign invest-
ment. Reform of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) has been aimed at marketiza-
tion rather than privatixation, including greater management autonomy and
replacement of gross output by profit-oriented indicators as objectives of
SOE# under the "contract mana8ement system." After a slowdown during the



1989/90 austerity period, price reforms have resumed. Many consumer items
have been removed from controls, and there has been significant recent prog-
ress in adjusting Plan prices.
5.        In the financial sector, a financial system comprising banks, non-
bank financial intermediaries antd an emerging capital market has replaced pre-
1980 monobanking arrangements.  There has been some increase in bank autonomy,
though heavy Government involvement still remains in major lending decisions.
Some progress has been recorded, meanwhile, in expanding indirect taxation,
but negotiation of tax payments is still rife. Foreign trade reform has led
to a massive increase in exports, reflecting both decentralization of trade
management and greater use of market incentives, erosion of subsidies and
implicit trade taxes, retention rights for firms to hard currency earnings,
and opening-up of parallel markets in foreign exchange. These economic
reforms have been accompanied by the general maintenance of strong social
indicators (despite pressure in some poorer regions). New SOE workers have
been placed on contract, rather than lifetime employment, for example, and pay
is more closely linked to results. But China has adopted a generally cautious
approach to labor market reforms (redundancy, labor mobility) in keeping with
the country's emphasis on social stability.
6.        Growth has averaged 9 percent and, although savings and investment
rates remain high (close to 40 percent of GDP), "extensive" resource-based
growth has been increasingly replaced by significant productivity Improvement,
first in agriculture and more recently in industry. Although nonstate produc-
tivity growth has been fastest, SOS productivity has also shown gains. This
reflects both enhanced incentives and competition and greater management
autonomy in allocating investment and workers within the enterprise. However,
many reforms are still partial in nature. The key overall challenge remains
finding ways to improve resource allocation more broadly across the economy.
7.        Among the most troubling symptoms of China's economic problems have
been rising state enterprise losses. As yet, China has been unable to enforce
financial accountability on state firms; underlying these soft budget con-
straints have been employment concerns, heightened by heavy reliance on enter-
prises to provide housing and (unfunded) pensions, and the limited development
of unemployment safety nets. Development has also pushed up against infra-
structure constraints: investments in transport, telecommunications, energy
and irrigation have lagged behind those in industry, with unrealistically low
pricing policies contributing to inefficient consumption patterns as well as
financing difficulties.
8.        Recent Developments.  The most recent and severe of the reform-era
zycles was triggered by the pre-announcement in mid-1988 of plans for sweeping
price adjustments. A rapid acceleration in inflation (close to 30 percent on
a year-end basis) and a marked deterioration in the external balance prompted
the authorities to shelve the price reforms in favor of a broad stabilization
program. It comprised both traditional administrative measures (credit,
import and price controls, public investment cuts, etc.) and more aggressive
use than in the past of market-oriented Instruments such as interest and
exchange rate policy. The leadership's preoccupation with stability acquired
an additional political dimension in the wake of the events of June 1989 and



-3-
in view of consequent domestic and international uncertainties then facing the
country.
9.        Coordinated and determined application of multiple economic policy
instruments yielded rapid and powerful results: in little over a year, infla-
tion had beon reduced to low single-digit figures and the balance of payments
deficit replaced by a surplus of unprecedented size. The Impact of China's
austerity program on the real economy was felt from mid-1989 to mid-1990,
which saw little or no real growth. However, once recovery began, it took off
rapidly. Overall CUP grew by 5 percent in 1990 and 7 percent in 1991. After
virtual stagnation in 1990, the level of consumer demand recovered in 1991,
and is continuing to grow, though inventories remain high. The economic down-
turn strongly affected China's state-owned enterprises, and sharply reduced
their profitability. However, there was no noticeable impact on tax receipts,
and the visible fiscal deficit was still manageable, only 2.1 percent of GDP
in 1990 and 2.6 percent in 1991. The public sector borrowing requirement
grew, however, from 8 percent of GDP in 1987 to about 11 percent in 1990. The
strongest performance was in the external sector, with record external sur-
pluses in 1990 and 1991, largely reflecting continued strong export perfor-
mance, in response both to declining domestic demand and to improved incen-
tives, notably successive real devaluations.
10.       China emerged from recession with strong output growth accompanied
by low inflation and a secure external position. However, the rapid growth of
credit, if continued, could lead to the reemergence of inflation; a moderate
credit stance is, therefore, called for. Moreover, the persisting severe
difficulties of the SOEs justify renewed focus on restructuring and reform
issues. The growing open and quasi-fiscal deficit also merits attention, not
only to SOEs, but also more generally to fiscal and financial sector reforms.
Develonment Is_sues and Policy A enda
11.       Constraints to China's development come largely from two sources:
accumulated infrastructure bottlenecks and the policy framework. The latter
has two main aspects: the need for reform of macroeconomic policy instru-
ments, to permit more stable growth without the cyclical disruptions of the
1980s; and the need for additional reforms in the productive sectors, to
encourage further efficiency gains and improve resource allocation. While
concentrating on stabilization during 1988-90 caused a slowdown in reform, the
past year and a half has witnessed revival on several fronts: even if some of
the more dramatic steps taken, including unprecedented price rises for grain
and rail services, must be viewed in part in a fiscal context. These reforms,
extensive local experimentation and the recent Outline of the Ten-Year Devel-
opment Program and of the Eighth Five-Year Plan (SFYP) for 1991-95 yield some
perspective on the authorities' current thinking on the major development and
reform issues now outstanding.  Beijing's determination to press ahead vith
reforms has beoen further emphasized by the developments of recent weeks fol-
lowing the March 1992 meeting of the National People's Congress.
12.       The Plan for the next few years envisages a moderation in growth
rates, to avoid repeated cycles and achieve better intersectoral balance. One
component of balanced growth needs to be more adequate financing of infra-
structure investments. The Plan recognizes this, though it does not provide



- 4 -
full details of where the requisite funds will come from. In this context, a
potentially important initiative has been the establihbment of sectoral
investment funds to plow back revenue from tariff increases. A second aspect
is the need for faster growth in China's underdeveloped service sectors. With
agriculture and state industry both characterized by surplus labor, services
(together with nonstate industry) will need to absorb many of the new entrants
to the workfor.es the Plan acknowledges this, though it provides only prelim-
inary Indications on policies to achieve the goal. Third, compared to the
previous Plan's pursuit of a "coastal" strategy, the present document puts
more emphasis on regional balance. Regardless of overt regional policy, how-
ever, coastal areas enjoy certain built-in locational advantages given China's
turn to more outr'ard-oriented development. Prereform policies, largely
defense-driven, ovrstressed the dispersion of industry to often remote inte-
rior locations: a more rational strategy for the interior will need inter alia
to combine better transport infrastructure, fairer pricing policies for raw
materials and more openness to internal labor migration.
13.       Regarding the instrwments of macromanageme3t, possible fiscal
reforms raise difficult issues of center-provincial relations [China: Revenue
Moilization and Ta  PolicY, Report No. 7605-CiA (1989)1. Lack of a national
tax service makes the central government unusually dependent on local adminis-
trations for the raising of revenue, which is shared between different levels
according to periodically renegotiated contracts (extending down to the indi-
vidual anterprise). This largely precludes active central control over taxa-
tion from either a stabilization or an incentive viewpoint, and has limited
the buoyancy of central revenues. Experiments with standardized rather than
negotiated corporate taxation are under way, and the center has expressed the
intention to Increase its control over the tax system. The short-term
response to budgetary problems, however, is expected to be one of continued
(though not entirely unsuccessful) Improvisation with new revenue sources,
with more fundamentsl changes postponed to later in the decade. At the same
time, the budget deficit has clearly become the leading source of pressure for
price reform, and ha. also forced the authorities to think more seriously
about loss-making state enterprises.
14.       In the financial sector, the general level of interest rates has
usually been positive in real terms (though preferential rates for favored
sectors and projects remain common). The authorities seem to be taking on
board Bank and Fund advice to strengthen the capability of the central bank
(People's Bank of Chinat PBC) in macromanagement and are also initiating mea-
sures to reinforce the capacity for prudential regulation and supervision
(Chinat Financial Sector Review, Report No. 8415-CHA (1990)]. The Plan's
message on lending autonomy for the banks remains muddied, however. A worry-
ing dimension is the extent to which the burden of financing infrastructure
investments and state firms' losses appears to have been partly shifted from
the budget to the beaking system, with likely implications for sector's finan-
cial soundness as yet unquantified. More promising are expressions of
interest in segregating directed policy lending from comercial loans.
15.       The authorities have recently given increasing attention to the
remaining distortions in the Plan prices of grain, transport and energy, as
well as the anomalies and potential for abuse created by wide price differen-
tials under the two-tier (Plan and market) pricing system. In several cases,



Plan prices have been raised sharply. This process useds to be continued
aggressively, and seems likely to be. But attenticn is also required to
developing the institutional, regulatory and infrastructural basis for better-
functioning markets. China needs to combat more effectively the tendency of
provincial governments to compound, through internal trade restrictions and
the orientation of their investments, the fragmentation of domestic markets
created by inadequate communications infrastructure. Continued efforts at
reforming pricing and marketing in the key grain sector (where Government con-
trols and subsidies not only burden the budget but also perpetuate regressive
effects on income distribution, regional production and consumption distor-
tions and inefficient distribution systems) are a particular priority (Chinas
Manating an Agricultural Transformation:  Grain Sector Review, Report No.
8652-CIA (1991)].
16.       In many ways the most difficult--as well as the most crucial--policy
area of all, however, touches the future of the SOS sector. The SOEs' demana
for subsidies and credit contributes substantially to the nation's fiscal and
financial difficulties. At least a third of such firms currently lose money.
While, in certain sectors such as coal, this may be attributed in part to
distorted output pricing (and thus prove amenable to improvement through price
reform), 1: is clear that for many firms the problems go deeper and that major
restructuring will be needed to achieve viability and efficiency. Greater
distance also needs to be put between public administration and enterprise
management, so that the latter may be held accountable against hardened budget
constraints. But hard budgets, implying possible bankruptcies and unemploy-
ment, will be socially realistic only to the extent that f"cr 100 million SOB
workers and their dependents, largely in urban centers, can be weaned from
their dependence on their workplace for housing and pensions, and as a social-
ized unemployment compensation system is developed.
17.       The Government's approach to these issues operates on several
levels. It has embraced the need for reforms in social security (socialized
pension pooling, unemployAent benefits) as well as in urban housing [Chinas
Reforming Social Security in a Socialist Economy, Report No. 8074-CHA (1990)
and China: Imilementation Overations for Urban Housint Reform. Issues and
Ilementation Qgtions, Report No. 9222-CHA (1991)).  In the latter field,
detaching provision from enterprises will require very substantial increases
in rents to make housing corporations financially self-supporting, or home
purchase, unless heavily subsidized, an attractive alternative.  The center
has provided broad guidelines for these reforms, though the details and pace
of implementation are being left largely to individual cities. Some munici-
palities are aggressively pursuing rent reform (with compensating wage adjust-
ment) and sustainable financial solutions, but others lean towards deeply
discounted sales and the use of compulsory savings schemes to fund subsidized
mortgages.
i8.       Overall, the need for SO  restructuring is now being taken far more
seriously. There are some indications that the a4thorities are starting to
adopt a more critical attitude towards fin-ial flows to SOEs, and also that
selected SOB bankruptcies are becoming more acceptable. Experiments are under
way with converting selected SOEs into joint-stock enterprises, and in some
instances floating at least a minority of their shares on nascent stock ex-
changes. Privatization of SOEs per se, however, does not appear to be on the



current agenda. Increased emphasis is being placed on the formation of "en-
terprise groupo," cutting across administrative boundaries, and oa mergers
more generally, in part to allow labor redeployment to be internalized.
19.       The external side has seen extensive changes, Including a dramatic
increase in exports, as well as In imports of technology-embodying capital
goods. It has witnessed decentralization of trading authority and important
reductions in pricing distortions, including the emergence of the parallel
market in foreign exchange and the recent elimination of central export subsi-
dies. Trade still remains largely managed, and it is not yet clear that GOC
sees import liberalization (e*g., for consumer goods) as an intrinsically
beneficial source of competition in domestic markets. China is, however,
keenly pursuing GATT membership. On a pragmatic level, and in part reflecting
stresses created by the present payments surplus, extensive tariff cuts were
recently announced. Further import relaxation is likely to follow, possibly
accompanied by action on currency convertibility.
20.       China's leaders have always stressed the importance attached to
combatting poverty. According to our forthcoming Poverty Study, the number of
absolute poor, long predominantly rural, declined by about 60 percent over the
decade through 1988 to 80-90 million. The influence of the agricultural
reforms has been spread widely by the egalitarian distribution of assets,
including farmland, within individual communities, and supplemented by a mea-
sure of fiscal redistribution between provinces. However, a slowing of the
decline in incidence of poverty since 1983 bears witness to the increasing
concentration of the poor in hard-core, resource-poor regional pockets, fre-
quently also characterized by enviromental degradation exacerbated by popula-
tion pressures and post-1949 controls on migration. Evidence is mounting,
furthermore, that fiscal decentralization--in many respects beneficial--has
compounded the difficulties of such areas by placing access to basic education
and health care outside the reach of poorer families. While some of the poor
can be helped in situ, with more sustainable farming technologies and more
effective budgetary transfers in the social sectors, many others have begun in
recent years a spontaneous process of migration to more prosperous regions.
Official attitudes to this process (and the ensuing "floating population")
remain ambivalent, however, and no consistent policy has emerged.
21.       Threats to China's environment are not confined to unsustainable
cropping practices. The resource balance has almost invariably been precari-
ouss the _..untry accounts for over a fifth of the world's population but only
one tenth of the world's cultivated land. Rapid industrialization, both in
urban areas and increasingly in the countryside, was long combined with a weak
regulatory framework to cause severe problems of water pollution and
atmospheric contamination [China: Environment Strateav Pager, Report No.
9669-CHA (1991)]. Distorted pricing (e.g., for coal and water) further aggra-
vated the problem. More recently, greater focus has been given to environmen-
tal protection and major progress seen in increasing public awareness,
enacting a sound body of regulations and building up institutional capacity.
At local levels, however, the lack of satisfactory distinction between enter-
prise ownership and regulation functions still impedes effectiv enforcement
and much remains to be done in strengthening regulatory capabilities.



- 7 -
22.       While China's leaders make a careful link between economic stability
and reform progress, a more fundamental point concerns the long-term feasibil-
ity of a market-socialist hybrid. It can be argued from international experi-
ence that public enterprises will not match the efficiency and dynamism of
private firms unless, as a minimum, they are exposed te hard budgets and vig-
orous competition from a large domestic private sector and/or international
trade. However, Chinass official definition of the "public sector" also
includes the rapidly expanding collectives, such as China's township and vil-
lage enterprises (TVMU), for which no close international parallel exists.
TVEs are highly entrepreneurial and market-oriented, making China's markets
significantly more competitive over time. Social obstacles to hardened SOE
budget constraints are being tackled, while experiments are being undertaken
with SOE bankruptcy, mergers and share issues, further blurring the concept of
public ownership. If policies remain on course, therefore, the Chinese model
can be expected to continue developing along markedly distinctive lines.
Macroeconomic Prospects. External Capital Requirements and Creditworthiness
23.       China's macroeconomic prospects are in general projected to remain
strong, and we expect to see the continuation of incremental productivity-
enhancing reforms. Assuming the effective translation into reality of the
type of reform program set out in the Government's Plan document issued in
early 1991, we would anticipate GDP growth proceeding slightly faster than the
Plan's rather conservative target of 6 percent per annum (around 7.5 percent),
accompanied by a gradually falling ICOR (responding to reform, especially
within industry), with the rate of investment falling from 39 percent of GDP
in 1990 to 34 percent by the end of the decade (and thus faster consumption
growth). Inflation control is assumed to remain a priority--hence the some-
what lower rate of overall growth than in the 1980s--and inflation is expected
to be around 6 percent. The export (volume) growth rate is set at 8-9 per-
cent, while imports are projected to grow quite rapidly for a year or two, as
their present compression is relaxed through liberalization measures, and
thereafter at a similar rate to exports. The current account deficit is
expected to remain below 2 percent of GDP, keeping debt within manageable
levels.
24.       Possible downside risks may be identified on either the domestic or
international fronts, though in neither case is a high probability attached to
such risks. Should the current momentum of reform stall, we would see the
results as mainly reflected in the ICOR's performance, and hence in a slower
rate of consumption growth. Similarly, any increase in trade barriers to
Chinese goods among overseas trading partners would almost certainly be
reflected in a reduced level of capital goods imports, and hence a lower pace
of modernization, rather than a deterioration in the external account (in any
case, recent experience suggests that China will continue to move to accommo-
date its partners' concerns on the import side).
25.       There is also a possibility of a still further accelerated attack on
reform issues over the next few years. The call for faster progress has
recently been taken up by the March 1992 National People's Congress. W would
see such a course as resulting in three primary effects: GDP would rise
faster (an assumed 8.5 percent) in response to stronger efficiency gains, more
products would become export-competitive (raising average trade levels) and,



- 8 -
in response, DPI would rise more rapidly, which would reduce debt service
levels.
26.       External Financina Requirements.  The 1991 surplus is assumed to be
ellminated over the next year or sot a todest trade deficit has been China's
usual stance In most recent years, imports are at present growing at an annual
rate of about 20 percent (with export growth at about 14 percent), and earlier
experience suggests that this response to reflation and the relaxation of
import restraints will be maintained for some time. Under the assumption that
there will no longer be a desire to continue building up reserves, these are
projected to fall slowly in relative terms from the present abnormally high 8
months of Imports to about 3-4 months by the end of the decade. The deficit
is projected to expand only fairly gradually, rising from $10 billion in 1995
(1.7 percent of GDP) to about $15 billion in the year 2000 (1.4 percent of
CDP).
27.       With only very small additions to the absolute level of reserves,
the net external financing requirement would barely exceed this deficit. An
average of about $5 billion is expected to come from DPI, and the remaining
external financing requirement would average about $7 billion per annum over
the decade. Official financing is projected to include Japanese credits (run-
ning at just over $1 billion per year), and access to ADB ordinary resources
(projected by ADB to double from the present level of $500 million per annza,
on a commitment basis, by 1993). Other sources are comparatively small in
aggregate in relation to the Bank Group and these two. Given China's expected
continued creditworthiness, the additional commercial borrowing required would
continue to be on a voluntary basis, and debt rescheduling is projected to be
neither necessary nor sought by the Government.
28.       Creditworthiness.  China would continue to enjoy a strong credit-
worthiness position, with all indicators remaining very good. Total debt
outstanding stood at only 15.8 percent of GDP in 1991 and this is projected to
fall to less than 12 percent in the year 2000, and stay between these two
levels throughout the decade. The associated debt service level also remains
healthy, declining from 10.1 percent of export earnings in 1991 to 9 percent
in 1995 and 8 percent in the year 2000. The indicators for lank exposure are
also projected to remain within acceptable levels. China's IBRD debt out-
standing and disbursed (DOD) as a share of the Bank total is very far from the
official 10 percent ceiling, standing at only 3.2 percent at the end of FY91.
Within the period under consideration, the DOD ceiling appears unlikely to
emerge as a relevant constraint.
Bank Assistance Strategv
29.       The Bank's Dialoaue. The Bank has a strong and active dialogue with
the authorities. Our policy-oriented ESW program is received seriously at
both leadership and official levels. As the discussion of the Gcovernment's
agenda above suggests, there is broad consensus on the overall direction of
reforms and on the basic rationale for a gradualist strategy under Chinese
circumstances. A number of aspects remain, however, wher, we consider that
more effort is needed.



-9-
30.       The Government is responding to our repeated emphasis on nrice
reform. However, while ongoing price adjustments, especially for grain and
energy, will remove the most serious distortions, more work 1S also needed on
increas na the role of markets. This is particularly relevant for key agri-
cultural outputs and inputs (grain, fertilizer). In the financial sector
PBC's capability to supervise and regulate the banking system remains weak.
In addititon, the authorities are still relying unduly on directed credit, with
a complex range of special, subsidized interest rates to favored (often SOE)
sectors, and predictable distortions in resource allocation. Resolving these
problems will have to mo-e in parallel with progress on price and enterprise
reforms, as well as adoption of innovative approaches to financing public
investment programs (e.g., separating infrastructure financing from commercial
banking through promotion of investment corporations or funds and/or expanded
use of bonds). Putting in place a strengthened regulatory and institutional
framework for the sector must, however, commence with measures to upgrade the
capacity of PBC. This process is already getting under way and is one to
which the Bank plans to contribute through a technical assistance project
scheduled for consideration by the Executive Directors later this calendar
year.
31.       Enterprise reform, as stressed above, is the central challenge, and
one which no meaningful program of development assistance for China can avoid:
promoting nonstate enterprise development, while important in its own right,
is not a substitute for SOS reform. Enabling the SOEs to become efficient and
fully competitive is a multidimensional effort: finding new institutional
mechanisms for the exercise of ownership; clarified legal and regulatory
frameworks; new relationships between supervisory bodies and enterprise
management; upgrading enterprise managers' ability to exercise their responsi-
bilities more effectively; rapid development of alternatives to the current
social obstacles to enterprise reform, In particular through housing VAn
social security reforms; And further improvement of the competitiveness of
domestic product markets :hrough continued price reforms, fostering the role
of the nonstate sector and addressing policy and infrastructural barriers to
cross-provincial trade. These systemic changes need the reinforcement of
meaningful efforts to curb budgetary subsidies to SOBs, standardised enter-
prise tax rates, and more effective internal factor markets for capital, urban
land and labor. The authorities are still working, through experimentation,
study and debate, on 4efining a coherent overall strategy in this field. The
Bank plans to direct both ESW and future lending operations, appropriately
conditioned, to helping find realistic and relevant models of public enter-
prise reform for China.
32.       Utilization of Bsnk Assistance.  Despite the dislocation of new
lending comitments over 1989190, and their own need to focus on short-term
concerns, the Bank's ESW has continued to command serious attention among
policyuakers in Beijing. Supervision ratings for Bank projects dipped in
FY90, in part reflecting stresses caused by the austerity program. FY91 and
FY92 showed some recovery, however, and the absolute ratings have continued
throughout to be substantially superior to either Bankwide or regional aver-
ages, an assessment confirmed by PCR/Project Audit findings. Achievement of
development objectives and compliance with legal covenant continue to be
rated highly, and earlier procurement delays have been addressed by
streamlining procedures (the CIR process has been active and constructive).



- 10 -
Areas where further improvement is needed include training and technical
assistance. More broadly, the supervision burden can be expected to intensify
further as the reform objectives of operations become more ambitious and
implementation responsibilities continue to be decentralized. A recent PCR
for the Department's only fast-disbursing policy-based loan to date, the FYJ8
Rural Sector Adjustment Loan, concludes that less progress than projected was
achieved during the disbursement period on key policy aspects (e.g., reform of
grain pricing and marketing), largely due to the authorities' focus on stabi-
lization, but sees more recent signs af revival in rural reform.
33.       Our mandate in China, as in all borrowing countries, is to support
broad-based economic development and to combat poverty. An effective program
of development assistance for China must balance needs for help with policy
and institutional reform, technological modernization, infrastructural
strengthening, environmental protection and poverty alleviation. Provided
overall and sectoral policies continue to be seen as conducive to development,
these needs justify a program which is both substantial in size by our own
institutional standards, and also sectorally and geographically broad-based.
China's dynamism and creditworthiness continue to create a prima facie case
for a program comparable in absolute size to that provided to any other bor-
rowing member. Relative (per capita) assistance levels will, however, remain
substantially lower than those enjoyed by most other Bank Group borrowers.
The case for providing a significant proportion of our assistance on IDA terms
also remains robust.
34.       A vigorous policy dialogue at national level, and a strong reform
content to our lending, are considered essential. In certain subsectors and
policy areas, operations will most appropriately be mounted on a national
basis (e.g., railways, certain industrial subsectors, financial sector devel-
opment). Investment responsibilities in most fields, however, have been
largely delegated to nrovinces or cities. Moreover, China's gradualist model
often makes use of prior policy experimentation at these levels, which can
hence be at the cutting edge of reform and an appropriate focus for Bank sup-
port.  Support for industrial and urban reform (including urban environmental
lending) will be concentrated in provinces and cities (and selected subsectors
at the na.lonal or cross-provincial level) which are at the frontiers of
reform and experimentation. At present, that seems likely to involve some
continued emphasis on coastal areas, but this focus remains subject to review.
In developing our operational support for urban housing and social security
reform, for example, we have made it fully explicit that only those cities
prepared to implement meaningful reform packages will receive assistance,
rega.dless of location. Assistance for social sector development (education,
health) will be concentrated primarily in poorer rural areas, mostly in the
interior, where achieving and maintaining minimum acceptable standards is most
at risk. A substantial share of the aaricultural portfolio, including the
present project, will also be used to address the interrelated problems of
rural poverty and environmental degradation in the most vulnerable areas of
the hinterland. Selection of investments in infrastructure will be based on
systematic evaluation of strategic priorities in tackling bottlenecks on a
nationwide basis.
35.       The ESW irotram would build on and deepen the achievements of
recently completed work. In keeping with the priorities set out above, it



- 11 -
heightens the emphasis on industrial reform and restructuring, as well as on
regional integration and relations (fiscal and other) between different levels
of Government. In addition, we recognize the need to increase the priority
attached.to trade policy, and are stepping up our ESW effort on this front.
Proposed sector-specific studies are also planned.
36.       These reform areas would be supported by continued Bank involvement
in China's infrastructure development. A strengthened program of assistance
for urban manaaement, with special focus on the urban environment, will
advance the dialogue with important, reform-minded city governments. In
transport, we pln to initiate sector lending for the railways, including
operationalization of earlier studies on investment planning and tariff set-
ting. A broadened policy dialogue on highways will target such key issues as
road financing and trucking development, while we also plan to explore the
scope for support of the neglected water transport subsector. In energy,
continued emphasis on further tariff reform, improved investment planning and
technology transfer in electric power, together with heightened focus on
environmental protection, resettlement and institutional development, will be
accompanied by a new program of work on energy conservation. Consistent with
national and global energy and environmental priorities, we plan operational
involvement in onshore natural gas development, an expanded dialogue on coal
pricing and exploration of the potential for a resumption of lending for coal
sector modernization.
37.       In agriculture, a strong program would promote sustainable agricul-
tural aud forestry practices in impoverished and environmentally vulnerable
regions, and continued assistance in upgrading farm support services and
cross-regional water management. The proposed project reflects this strategy.
38.       In education and health, IDA would continue to emphasize promoting
the efficient and affordable delivery of basic services (with special focus on
girls' education and maternal and chili health) in China's poorest rural
areas. Complementing the enterprise reform priority, the scope for contribut-
ing to industrial restructuring through worker retraining programs would be
explored.
39.       Poverty Alleviation and WID.  Our agricultural portfolio is planned
to include operations targeted at enhancing productivity aud achieving sus-
tainability in some of China's poorest regions, while the recent refocusing of
our social sector program on poor areas is also consistent with the recommen-
dations of the forthcoming poverty study. WID concerns will continue to be
addressed most explicitly under our health and education programs, but we are
also experimenting with agricultural training and production components
directly targeted towards women, including components of the proposed project.
40.       Environment.  China's policies, programs and institutions in the
environment sector are among the most comprehensive of any Bank member coun-
try, and conform substantially to the IDA Environmental Action Plan require-
ment. Environmental aspects will be uppermost in three or more marginal lands
agricultural projects, a forestry sector operation and a series of provincial/
urban environment projects. GEF-financed studies on greenhouse gas emissions
and biodiversity are also under way. Studies on ozone-depleting substances
(ODS) are under preparation with support from UNDP and the Montreal Protocol



- 12 -
Interim Fund (HPIF), and vill result in one of the largest ODS projects to be
funded by the NPIF. Following our pilot program of TA to the National Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency (NEPA), funded under the Japan Grant Facility, we
plan to undertake a substantial TA program for China's environmental protec-
tion agencies. We also plan to add to the ESW program a study of provincial
and urban environment msnagement issues, inter alia to provide policy input to
future projects.
41.       Public Sector Reform and Private Sector Development.  Experiments
with new models of ownership and corporate governance, management and regula-
tion for SOEs will be supported under future industrial operations, while pro-
posed work on housing and social security also has direct relevance to enter-
prise reform. Much of our rural credit lending has long gone to private or
collective end-users, and our dialogue with the China Investment Bank (CIB)
during preparation of the recent Rural Industrial Technology Project helped
reform its previous exclusive focus on lending to SORs: subject to an enabling
financial sector environment, follow-up is envisaged here too. Nonstate
enterprise development in transport will be supported specifically through
proposed work on trucking and possible water transport lending. Infrastruc-
ture and urban projects will afm to Improve efficiency in planning and deliv-
ering public goods, and cost-recovery will be central to our dialogue on irri-
gation, transport, energy, water supply and municipal services.
42.       Relations with the IMP and Other Sources of Finance. China has not
drawn on IMF lending since a stand-by arrangement was agreed in 1986. The
latest Article IV consultation noted the country's exchange restrictions and
multiple exchange rate system, and the authorities have confirmed their inten-
tion to unify the official and parallel rates. Bank and Fund staff continue
to cooperate closely on monitoring macroeconomic developments and designing
measures to strengthen PBC. Other multilateral and bilateral sources of fun-
ding, including ADB, have generally looked to the Bank for leadership in over-
all country relations. China's external debt management has been cautious,
and the country continues to be seen as creditworthy by commercial banks,
though the exceptionally low margins above LIBOR previously available were
marked up to levels comparable to other East Asian borrowers after June 1989.
Disputes over guarantees for a number of commercial loans, mostly incurred in
1985186, are being cleared up. Some lack of transparency remaiAs, however,
over the definition of sovereign debt, which needs clarification if misunder-
standings are to be avoided in future.
43.       After the recent period of relatively limited lending activity, IFC
is programming a renewed effort of project promotion and is considering open-
ing an office in China. The Corporation also sees financial sector liberali-
zation (including the establishment of stock exchanges in Shanghai and
Shenzhen) as creating the opportunity for its Capital Markets Department to
play a more active role. FIAS is helping GOC review and enhance the climate
for DPT, an area where continued effort is still called for, while MIGA has
received Preliminary Applications for Guarantees for 10 projects in China,
though to date no Contract of Guarantee has been issued. Although the
institutional division of international financing responsibilities vithin the
Government still presents barriers to cofinancing, we plan to seek such
financing for several upcoming operations. The proposed gas development pro-
ject may prove attractive for private cofinancing, as may some possible indus-



- 13 -
trial projects (e.g., telecommunications). We will explore possible Japanese
cofinancing for upcoming railway and highways operations, as well as proposed
water management projects.   Although recent efforts to arrange an ECO for two
power projects were not successful, they have prepared the ground in a way
that should make future cofinancing essier on the Chinese side.
Part II, THE PROJECT
44.       Background.  Agriculture in China, including crops, livestock, for-
estry and fisheries, provides sustenance for over 1.1 billion peoplet it is an
important oource of income for some 190 million farm families and accounts for
about 30 percent of the country's GDP. Only about 137 million ha (14 percent)
of China's land area of 960 million ha are arable. Farming systems are inten-
sive, with heavy inputs of labor, chemical and organic fertilizers, and small
machinery. Nearly half of the cropped area is irrigated. Foodgrains occupy
about 70 percent of total cropland and account for about one third of the
agricultural output. Intensive farming has allowed China to meet the basic
food requirements of its population, about 22 percent of the world's total,
and to produce an increasingly sophisticated mix of cash and commercial crops
from less than 11 percent of the world's arable land.
45.       China's decade-long rural reform program has revitalized the agri-
cultural sector, provided impressive growth and structural changes through the
introduction of the production responsibility system, increased producer
prices, and enlarged the role of the market. These reforms have recently
includeds the general fixing of provincial grain procurement quotas at sub-
stantially reduced levels, with ever-increasing production increments priced
at market-based negotiated prices; increased grain quota procurement prices
for 1992, so that wheat and corn farm-gate prices now approach world levels;
the conversion of most official interprovincial grain shipments from quota to
negotiated prices; in 19911929 the first substantial increases (of from
132 percent to 160 percent) in urban ration grain and edible oil prices in 30
years; and the establisbment of fledgling grain commodity exchanges for all
major grains in various Chinese cities (e.g., Zhengzhou, Changebun, Wbian,
Harbin, Changsha). In the context of preparing a proposed Grain Distribution
und Marketing Project, IDA is discussing with the Government a future reform
program involving the further substantial elimination of grain consumption
subsidies, the opening of the internal grain trade to all interested units and
individuals, the thorough commercialization of grain wholesaling and retailing
enterprises, establishment of a futures market in grain, and eventual market-
determined pricing of virtually all grain in China. During 1978-90 the gross
value of agricultural output increased in real terms at an average annual rate
of 6 percent, substantially more than the 3 percent growth of the previous 25-
year period.
46.       Remarkable rural growth during the 19809 has increased per capita
income and living standards of the rural population in China. Despite this
success, however, rapid growth has also resulted in widening of income
disparities between more prosperous coastal provinces and the poor and back-
ward northwest and southwest parts of China. To help address this :mbalance,
the central government of China in 1987 introduced the provincial agricultural
development project (ADP) concept as part of its development strategy for



- 14 
agriculture. The proposed project in Sichuan is the seventh ADP proposed for
Bank financing.
47.       Sichuan Province, located in the southwest, is the most populous
province in China with over 108 million people, 92 million of whom are in
agriculture. Of the total area of 57 million ha, 6.6 million ha (11 percent)
are cultivated, of which about 42 percent is under irrigation. With one tenth
of the nation's population to feed on one sixteenth of the land, half of which
is mountainous, Sichuan had to develop irrigation systems from ancient times
to intensify its grain production. Of over 33,000 irrigation schemes in the
province, most of which are small-scale, the most famous and effective
irrigation system is Dujiangyan, which was built over 2,200 years ago and is
still operating. The proposed project is mainly located in the "central
basin" which, with only 16 percent of the province's total land, produces more
than 90 percent of the province's grain. With limited land, Sichuan is one of
the poorest provinces in China. Farmers' annual per capita income is Y 558
($103 equivalent), around 88 percent of the national rural average of Y 630
($117). Of 214 counties in the province, 65 are classified as poverty coun-
ties. The proposed project focuses on four relatively poor prefectures--
l4ianyang, Guangyuan, Nanchong and Qianjiang Prefectures.  The average incomes
of the project areas are all lower than the provincial rural average and range
from Y 201 ($37) to Y 422 ($78), which amounts to only 32 percent and 67 per-
cent of the national rural average.
48.       Lessons Learned from Previous IDA Operations.  Bank assistance to
China's agriculture has supported the reform process, especially those aspects
aimed at improving productivity, increasing productive off-farm employment in
rural areas, developing an export orientation and increasing reliance on mar-
kets. Lending to date to China's agricultural sector has included 29 opera-
tions involving a total assistance of about $3.5 billion, covering virtually
every agricultural subsector and every region of the country. Implementation
of most of these projects is both on schedule and satisfactory. Six IDA-
financed agricultural projects in China have been completed. The Project
Completion Reports indicate that project implementation was generally success-
ful and economic rates of return excellent. They stress the importance of
competent project management and regular maintenance of equipment and machin-
ery. Several lessons learned have been incorporated in the design of the
present project: (a) assisting individual poor households in commercial
activities is an effective means of income generationt (b) sustainable live-
stock development requires appropriate management of natural resources, e.g.,
pasture; (c) adequate operations and maintenance (0&) is essential for effec-
tive management of irrigation systems; (d) setting up a strong project manage-
men* office (PMO) at the provincial, prefectural, and county levels is vital
to successful project implementation; (e) adequate counterpart funding must be
available in order for the project to be completed effectively; and
(f) increased emphasis must be placed on efficient, commercially oriented man-
agement of agro-industrial enterprises.
49.       Rationale for IDA Involvement.  The proposed project is designed to
address the key constraints limiting agricultural productivity in Sichuan's
poorest areas. Among them, the most pressing are the shortage and irregular
availability of irrigation water, water and soil losses due to erosion, inade-
quate and weak linkages between production, processing and marketing activi-



- 15 -
ties, and limited technical and extension services to faemers. IDA involve-
mcnt in the project vill make possible a large increase in incomes to farmers
in some of Sichuan's poorest areas. Project design draws on the Bank's exten-
sive experience in integrated agricultural development projects in China to
address major constraints to agricultural productivity and rural incomes. IDA
involvement would promote the efficient use of limited resources, help develop
technologies for soil and water conservation, and enhance environmentally
sound agricultural development by improving current practices and introducing
proven protection measures. As part of the Government's efforts toward decen-
tralization, this project has been planned and would be implemented by the
provincial, municipal and county governments.  The proposed project assists
the Sichuan provincial government to: reinforce the foundations for moderni-
zation already in place; improve the capacity for planning, msnagement,
research and analytical work; and adopt new technologies for further moderni-
zation.
50.       Proiect Obiectives.  The project's main objectives are tos
(a) increase productivity of existing crops by increasing the land under irri-
gation and by providing a more reliable water supply for drought protection;
(b) provide a complementary package of integrated agricultural inputs, support
services, adaptive research, training and technical assistance; (c) develop
operation and maintenance plans =d establish policies for the proposed irri-
gation systems, including the collecting of water charges for full recovery of
operation sand maintenance costs; (d) expand soil conservation measures and
reduce soil and water losses to prevent long-term siltation problems of major
rivers, maintain soil fertility, and improve productivity of already eroded
areas; (e) expand agroprocessing activities to utilize locally available raw
materials; and (f) increase farmers' incomes in poor and remote areas where
they are substantially below the national average, with particular emphasis on
helping poor women.
51.       Proiect Description.  The project, to be carried out over six years,
provides funds for: improvement and expansion of irrigation to 135,200 ha;
establishment of two extensive soil conservation demonstration areas and eco-
nomic forestry; expansion of mulberry and silk cocoon production (to provide
labor-intensive cash incomes) with an increase in supporting services; reha-
bilitation of tea gardens and establishment of livestock production bases
combined with planting pastures; and rehabilitation end expansion of two paper
mills and facilities for rabbit hair spinning, gallnut, goat and geese pro-
cessing.
52.       Proiect Imolementation. The Sichuan Provincial Government has over-
all responsibility for implementation of the project. The project would be
carried out by a Project Management Office at the provincial level (under the
guidance of a Project Leading Group) and Project Offices at the prefecture and
county levels. This arrangement has generally worked well through a long
series of provincial agricultural development projects approved over the past
four years. The project would be implemented over a period of six years with
the expected completion date of December 1998. The total cost of the project
is estimated at $287.6 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange cost of
$85.5 million (30 percent). To take advantage of labor availability during
the slack period of farming activities in the 1991/92 winter season, retroac-
tive financing (up to a limit of $14 million equivalent) for upstream canal



- 16 -
contracts, on-farm works, minor structures, rural roads, land improvement,
afforestation work, planting materials, and trainlng would be permitted for
expenditures incurred after January 1, 1992. A breakdown of project costs and
the financing plan are shown in Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procure-
ment and of disbursements, and the disbursement schedule are shown in Schedule
B. A timetable of key project processing events and the status of Bank Group
operations in China are given in Schedules C and D, respectively. Maps (IBRD
Nos. 23092, 23094 and 23480) are also attached. The Staff Appraisal Report,
No. 10322-CHA dated May 29, 1992, is being distributed separately.
53.       Prolect Sustainabilitv.  Based on careful component selection and
designs, institutional and managerial capacity of the project management
office, and good market prospects, the project is likely to be sustainable.
Cost recovery through user charges would be adequate to cover OWM costs. In
addition, the project would establish three revolving funds for agricultural
inputs, soil conservation and poverty alleviation to expand the number of
beneficiaries and also to ensure timely provision of necessary inputs over the
long term.
54.       Aareed Actions. At negotiations, the following major assurances
were obtained: (a) resettlement of 132 families affected by construction of
the Yaugjiaba dam would be carried out in accordance with a plan agreed with
IDA; (b) before approval of financing for pulp and paper mills and a rabbit
hair processing plant, an enterprise reform plan enabling each enterprise to
be independently managed would be agreed with IDAs (c) three small paper mills
with inadequate waste treatment facilities would be closed in accordance with
timing and procedures agreed with IDA; (d) grain quotas would not be increased
in any of the counties under the projectt (e) adequate irrigation water
charges would be collected to meet the full annual OWH costs; and (f) at least
50 percent of farmer trainees and 20 percent of technicians to be trained
under the technical assistanco program would be women.
55.       Environmental Aspects. Project support for soil conservation, for-
estry and pasture establishment in conjunction with livestock production would
establish sustainable resource management systems and reverse some of the
negative impacts associated with soil loss and inappropriate exploitation of
upland resources. Pesticides to be provided under the project would be
approved by IDA, and Bank Group guidelines on their storage, handling, distri-
bution and use would be followed. The Sichuan Research Institute of Environ-
mental Protection has carried out an environmental impact assessment (BA) of
the project and prepared an SA report which was reviewed by IDA and found to
be satisfactory. The project would establish an Environmental Management Plan
to monitor and control waste and pollution discharge, and adequate provision
for waste treatment facilities, particularly for agroprocessing, has been
included in the project cost. All project activities would comply with the
guidelines and regulations issued by the National Environmental Protection
Agency and Sichuan Environmental Protection Bureau.
56.       Benefits.  The major benefits of the project would be increases in
production, rural incomes and employment, and improvements in marketing and
enterprise management. At full development, the project is expected to
increase annual grain production by 440,000 tons, cash crops by 66,800 tons,
2.2 million i' of timber, 455,200 tons of fuelwood, 205,200 tons of mulberry



- 17 -
leaves for annual production of 1,116 tons of silk cocoons, and 1.9 million
head of goats, rabbits and geese. The agroprocessing component would produce
20,400 tons of paper, 254 tons of angora wool, about 2,800 tons of processed
meat, 40 tons of down, 7,000 pieces of hids and 500 tons of tannic acids.
Many of the project's outputs are currently in deficit nationally, and cocoon
and rabbit wool production would support textile exports and generate foreign
exchange. The expected beneficiaries of the project would surpass 4 million
people, with significant contributions towards poverty alleviation in
Sichuan*s poorest counties.  The overall economic rate of return for the proj-
ect is estimated to be about 26 percent.
57.       Seciall Emgha_si on Alleviating Poverty and Assisting Women.  The
proposed project includes some of the poorest areas of the province. Of the
883,000 households to benefit directly from the project, two thirds are now
living below the poverty line. Of 26 counties included in the project, 11 are
nationally classified poverty counties, including 5 in Qianjiang prefecture
with a large population of ethnic minorities. The project would help local
farmers out of absolute poverty, with special omphasis on helping poor women
in some of the poorest and most remote areas of China. While poverty is wide-
spread among the general population, poverty among women is more severe.
Female-headed households constitute about 10 percent of the total households
in the project area. These single-income families have 144mted assets for
collateral, hence less access to credit, inputs and other production means,
and are generally poorer than male-headed families. The project would target
these female-headed households as priority beneficiaries and would support
establisbment of smallholding livestock, sericulture, and hand-knitted cloth-
ing production activities. Groups of women would organize their activities
and coordinate sales and marketing efforts. These activities are far less
physically demanding than heavy field cultivation vork and would yield higher
financial returns. Extension services would focus on training women farmers,
especially in sericulture aud rabbit raising.  Female extension agents would
be an integral part of the regular extension staff  training programs to be
supported under the project would emphasize training of female extension
agents and technicians, who in turn, would train more female workers.
Non-governmental organizations, e.g., the All China Women's Federation, would
*       participate in these endeavors to organize women's groups as well as using
media and female village leaders to promote women's participation in profit-
able activities. Employment opportunities for women would be substantial,
with additional employment of about 100,000.
58.       Rsiks.  The project faces no unusual technical or organizational
risks. Management of project entities would be strengthened under the project
and farmers in the area already have good experience and basic knowledge and
would be further trained. The potential risk of fluctuating markets for silk
and rabbit angora wool industries would be mitigated by provision of tachnical
assistance in marketing and improved processing technology and product
designs.



- 18 -
59.       Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would com-
ply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 15, 1992



-19 -                                 Annex
China -EOIS4IC INDICATOU TAIl.I
Nid-1990 Popuastion (mitz.):  1143.3                                                      Page 1 Of 3
1990 Per Capita SU  In USS:    370.0
---A. Share of Gras" Dustic Product .....S. Gromth Rates (2 per annua) ----
-....(from currat price data) ..... ...(from coRnstant price data)....
1965  1973  1980  1989  1990  1991  1965-73 1973.80 1980-91   199   1991
Gross Gumstic Product, m.p.  100.  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100".0      8.5     5.6    9.6   5.1   6.7.
Not Indirect Teame             .     *       .     *      *     *          *      .
Agricutture                 36.2  32.3  30.4  26.6  28.4  28.4           2.7    2.1    5.7   7.5   3.0
ierAmtry                    35.0  40.7  44.7  40.7  39.5  39.5          11.7    8.?   11.1   5.7  13.0
(orf Which Namjfaotrimng)    2V.' 31.1  40.1  37.0  35.6  35.6           7.5    9.9   11.2   4.9  13.0
softvie"                    26.8  27.0  24.9  32.7  32.1  32.1          21.1    6.8   11.7   2.2    1.0
IResource sanet                0.8   0.8   0.0  -0.7   3.5   3.2            ..       .
Experts of SUFI              4.2   4.6   6.7  13.3  17.9  20.6           2.1    4.1   12.6  12.5  13.9
Isoprts of GUFI              3.4   3.8  . 6.7  13.9  14.4  17.3          1.6   11.6   10.4  .12.8  10.7
Totat Expenditures            99.2  99.2  100.0  100.7  96.5  96.8         6.6    6.4    9.2   1.0   6.0
Total Conswption            75.2  70.2  67.8  61.9  57.6  60.8           7.3    5.3    ?.5  -1.6  11.2
Private CorasWtion        67.6  62.?  59.5  53.8  49.4  52.1           7.3    5.1    7.4   0.5  11.6
Genwrat Gwerverant         7.6   7.5   8.3   8.2   8.2   8.7           7.0    7.3    8.7  -15.1   8.?
Grass COsatic Investmmnt   24.0  29.0  32.2  38.?  38.9  36.0           12.9    8.9   12.3   5.2  -1.7
fixed investmwnt            .       .24.0  25.9  25.1  27.0             .        .
Chafnge in Stock            ..     .      .2  12.   13.8   9.0          .        .
Gros Daustfc Svings           24.8  29.8  32.2  38.1  42.4  39.2          12.4    8.1   12.4  16.4  -2.7
#et Factor tncome            0.0  *3.3   0.1  -0.4  -0.3   0.0            .        .
Ntie Current Transfer        0.0   0.0   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1             .       .
Oross Natiaona Savings        24.8  26.5  32.5  37.?  42.1  39.3          13.0    8.4   12.2  16.8  .1.9
In billions of LwU's         1965  1973  1960  1969  1990  1991
(at constant 196 prices)     ........ ..... ..
Gross Domestic Pro&act       217   404   581   131   1377  1469          8.3    S.6    9.6   3.1    6.7
Capeity t tlapot              35    4       87   204   23    24          2.8    9.5   10.2  13.7   S.9
T.wmof Trade Adjuwtmnt        -2      1    19      2      4    -14         .       .
Gross Domestic Income 214   405   600  1312  1381   1455          8.     62      92     53     54
Gross  ational Product       217   404   581  1305  1372  1469           8.5    5.6    9.5   5.2   7.0
Gr  ossNtioalt Income        214   405   600  1306  1377  1455           8.6    6.2    9.2   5.4    5.7
C. Price Indices........ (1987.100).--------  --Inflatfon Rates (M p..)----
198   1966  1988  1989  1990  1991  1965-73 1973-80 1980-91   1990  1991
Coeuac  Prfces (IS 64)        70.1  91.9, 120.7  14,0.4, 16'3.4   .         .      2'.3         1'6.4'
Wholesale Prices 011FS 63)      ..     .       .     .      .     .          .      .
Imptfcit GOP Oef lator        76.9  95.2  111.8  122.0  128.9  133.3      -1.6    1.7    5.7   5.6   3.5
tspticit expenditure Oaftator 74.5  95.5  111.8  121.7  128.2  133.8      .1.?    1.0    5.9   5.3   4.4
0. Other Indicsatrs         1968-7 1973.8 1980.9
Population                   2.4   1.6   1.4
Labor Frc                    2.4   2.5   2.1
Gross Natioalt Income P.O.   3.4   4.3   7.6
Private Cwnsuptfon p.c.      4.4   2.7   5.9
tport Etesticfity:
tport (G#NPS) / GOPCap)    0.2   2.2   1.1
Slargial Savings Rastes
Gross National Savings      30.9  41.7  44.
Gre"ossOmtic savings        35.9  VA.  44.
I=O  (period averaes)          0.5   5.4   4.3
1965  1973  1980  1990  1991
Sharv of Total Labo Fomce in: ..          ....          ....
Agricut ture                80.8  77.0  68.9  60.2
Irnmtry                      8.2  11.3  15.8  17.2
service                     11.0  11.6  15.3  22.6
Touta                      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
12 Jut 1992



_ 20 -                                  Annex
China - ECKO0IC IDtCtCATRS TARN
Page 2 of 3
......................... ....................................................  ,.............,........
E. MNrchwndise lipxrts          ......V.lvue Index (1987u100}w) ....   -Valwu at current prices (mil. USS).*-.
1980   1987  1988  1989  1990  1991   1960  19    1998   1989   1990   1991
X.FCO                            34.6  100.0  111.?  124.3  154.5  184.5   3138  5037  6Z00  6544   7094   7906
X.FU8                            43.0  100.0  117.9  107.0  104.7  121.6   4273  4544  3950  4321    5225   4821
~~~~~~~..    ..    ...    ..   ..                   * ..*.* .  .. ...  ..
Marufactures                     42.6  100.0  117.8  134.2  156.3  185.1   9051  26M04 33110 37460  46206  55698
Residual                         29.1  100.0  123.2  121.1  106.7  112.2   1726  3650  4257  4212   3537   3486
Tatsl Mxperts FOB               40.4  100.0  117.5  128.6  14S.S  171.0  18188 39637 47518  52537  62n3   71910
f. Mrchandise tlprt
Food                            58.3  100.0  124.4  165.0  160.7  143.1   32t1  3055  4191   5269    4474   3718
Fuet and ener                    17.2  100.0  198.0 344.3  214.9  449.4    203   539    787  16S0    12?2   2114
theer consmer sads              40.S  100.0  97.1  103.7  109.0  123.3    544  1743   1757  1866   2051    2S06
Other fnterned. goad             82.4  100.0  134.4  135.3  101.3  118.5  10639  16769  2n39   23415   183    23189
Capitat goods                   32.9  100;0  114.8  123.7  119.5  131.0   5353 21110 25150  26940  27225  32264
Total sports CJF                 54.0  100.0  123.4  133.1  116.1  130.7  19950 43216  55275 59140  53350  63791
C. Mrchandise Ten, of Trada    1980   1987  198  1989  1990   199
........."......................................    ....  ..... ....  ..... ....   ........ ..... .....
Nerdh. Expwrt Price Indx        114.2  100.0  102.5  103.6  108.1  106.7
March. Isports Price tndex       85.5  100.0  103.7  102.8  106.3  113.0
March. Tem  of Trade            133.6  100.0  98.9  100.?  101.7  94.4
- M---18  .lti11m (at current prioes)--...
V. Blance of Pamnts              1980   1987  1988  1989   1990  1991
_...... .... ...............     ....  ..... ....   ..... ....  ... ...
Exports of Goods a lFS          20085  43823 S1753  5687 66219  73734
Morchandise (FOS)             18188 3437 47518 52537 62063 71911
mon-factor sevices             1897  4386  4235  3750  41S   3823
Iwts  of Goods &  lFS          19950 43216  5S27S  59140  53350 63791
Merchandise (FOS)             18294 39629 50687 54231 48922 S8496
Mon-factor services            1656  3587  4588  4909  4428  S295
Resource Salteee                  135   607  .3522  -283  12869 11943
mlt Factor Incoe                  195  -790  .699  -1845  .1129   -31
(interest per MRS)             318   1815  2195  3203  3146
Net Current Transtf               640   249   416   238   195   325
(worker rinittames)            640   166   129    76   108    179
Curr A/C  al beore Off. Grants  970    t6 -3805  -460  11935  12237
Met Officala Tranfwers         -70   -25       3    143    65    134
Cur A/C Ba aftw Off. Grants   900    41  -3802  4317  12000  12371
Long Tem Capital Inflow          1830  S81S   M3   3212  3900  2900
Oirect Inestt                    57   1669  2344   2613  260   3340
Net Lt Loans (MOS data)        1927  6131   6781  6023  6249  4791
other LT inflows (Net)         -153  -1985  -2072  -5424  -S009  -3548
Total Other tt., (Not)          -2063  -1630  -1588   625  -4330  -1172
Met  ortetg7 Caital               0  2145   585  -1899   -141  -3000
Capital slou I.E.J.          -3n4  -2= 3    1079   1229  -976  264
Errors and 00cssiw             1671  -1450  *1094    4S  -3213  -856
Chaoges in Mot Reserves          -667  -4226 -1663   1730 -11570 -14099
Met Credit frm IMF                0    -81   -83    -79  -490  -409
Other Reserv  hanoses          -667  -4145  -1580  1809 -11080 -13690
As sharo of GIP:
Resource 8l4et                  0.0   0.2  -0.9  -0.7   3.5   3.2
tnterest Peymwnt               0.1   0.6   0.6   0.8    0.8    ..
Current Acouat *taanco          0.3   0.0  -1.0  -1.1   3.2   3.3
1emnrandm item:
Reserves owl. Gold (afl. USS)  2S45  16305  18541  17960 29586  43674
Reserves inct. Gotd (ot. USS) 109   22453 237   23053 34476 47300
Officiat K-Rate (LCW/US)         1.50   3.7M   3.72   3.77   4.78   5.32
Index Real off. X-R Ue 1980  100.00 39.96 43.35' 50.39  37.14
MP (millinsw,current US)    298123 304409 3M20 424577 370894 367541
............................................................... .......................... ...... ................. ............................................ _,,.. ,, 
1Z Jun IM



- 21 -
Auuex
Chine  ECOiOWtC INDICATORS TABLES
............. I.................................
Page 3 of 3
...   .------Share of CDP (W) .............      ......... ---th Rates (X)-.........
I. Govesnsent FPinee              19e0  1987   1988   1989   1990   1991          1960-88   1928   19B9   1990   1991
.....................             ....     .....  ....   .....  ....   ....  .    .... ....  ....     .....  ....   ......... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..
Current Refeipts                  29.5   22.7  20.0   20.4   19.8  18.6              11.2   8.9   16.4    7.8   3.7
Current Expenditures              22.2   18.3  16.9  18.1   17.3  16.9                11.9  14.9  21.5    6.3    7.6
Current Budget 0alan.e             7.3    4.5    3.0   2.4    2.5    1.8               7.9  -15.7  -1t.9   19.1  -22.9
Capital Ree1pte                    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
cpUitot Expenditure               10.6    6.7    S.4    4.7   4.6    4.2             10.4    o:i  -o:i 7   9    1.8
ODeralt Deficit                   *3.3   -2.2  -2.4  -2.4   2.1   -2.6                 ..    ..    ..
Offfeal CopItal.Grants             0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0               ..    ..
External Serroing (not)            O.S    0.6    0.8    0.7   0.?   0.5                ..  69.1   *1.7         15.9  -18.3
Do.. Nonw-Bnk Sorrofing            0.0    o.a    0.7   2.1    0.4    1.5               ..   11.? 220.0  -81.3  27.0
Domestic lank Pinaneing            2.8    0.7   0.8  -0.5    1.0   0.6                 ..  36.9 -165.2  332.0  .29.3
......Net Disbursaments tUSS mitt.) .....  D -ebt Outatandirg & Disbursed CUSS mill.)-
J. External pftl rtws*           ............ --............................. ...................... ..C. ...
Oebt & Debt Surden Ratfos         1980   19g7   1988   1989   1990  1991   1980    1987   1988   1989    1990  1991
Publie & Publilty Guaranteed LT   1927  6131   6781   6023  6249        ..   4504  25927 32588 37032  45319
Officiat Creditors               195    730   13SS   2255   1705       .    447   9495  1053&  1201S  14466
multi tateral                    C    622   1083   1086   926       ..      0   2852   3753   4761   6076
of whichtRD                    0    209    514    542   376       ..      0    1427  1832  2330  2865
oebihich IDA                   0    399   557   486   495         ..      0    1330  1819  2275 2981
Silateral                      195    109   272   1170   780        ..    447   6642   6780   7254   8390
Private Creditors               1732   5401   5426   3768  4544       ..   4057   16432 22054  25017 30853
Supptiefs                      376   -341    453    747   932       ..   1036    1618   1996  2600   3818
Financiat markets               47   5170   4475   1549   2333      ..   1564   10s52  15560  16631  19855
Privtet  on-Guaranteed               0      0      0      0      0      ..      0       0       0      0      0
Total Lon Term Debt               1927  6131   6781   6023   6249       ..   4504  25927 325e8  37032  45319
INF Credit                           0    -81    -83    -79  -490      ..       0    1153   1013   908    469
Net Short-Term Capital               0   2145    585  -1899   -141      ..      0   8221   8806  6907  6766
Total itel. IMP & Not ST          1927   8195   7283   4045   5618    ..   4504  35303 42406 44847  52555
Bank and IDA ratios:             1980   1987   1988  1989   1990  1991
.. ... .. ... .Notes:
Share of Total LT DOD
1. ISRD as X of Total            0.00  5.51   5.62   6.29  6.32        ., Data on Econamic Indicators tables
2. IDA as S of Total             0.00   5.13   5.58   6.14   6.58      ..  should follow the definitions and
3. 183D0IA as X of Total         0.00  10.63  11.20  12.43  12.90      ..  the coneepts of the Standard Tables and
Standard Attachments. The indicators
Share of Total LT DSR                                                      should Incltude data through the most
1. IBRD as 2 of Total            0.00   6.85   4.16   4.54   7.04    ..  recently completed calendar year (or
2. toA as X of total             0.00   0.40   0.38   0.28   0.31      ..  fiscal year In the case of fiscal year
3. IBRODIOA as X of Total        0.00   7.24   4.54   4.82   7.35      .. countries). Staff estimates my be used
if final or preliminary actuals are not
DM0 to Experts Ratios:                                                      yet availlabe. the use of estimates and
1. Long-Term Debt/Exports       21.21  57.59  61.04 6".15  66.31       .. prelimirry figures should be indicated
2. IMP Credit/Exports            0.00   2.57   1.90   1.57  0.69       ..  by:
3. Short-Term Debt/Experts       0.00  18.26  16.49  11.97  9.90
4. LT+IMF#ST/Exports            21.21  78.42  79.43  77.69  76.89      ..  *a estimated data
p a preliminary data
DOD to GDP Ratios:
1. Long-Term Dbt/UODP            1.51   8.52   8.64  8.72  12.22
2. IPF Credit/COP                0.00   0.38   0.27   0.21   0.13
3. Short-Term DobtDP             0.00   2.70   2.33   1.63   1.82
4. LT.INF+ST/CDP                 1.51  11.60  11.24  10.56  14.17
Oebt Service/Exports:
1. Pubfic & Guaranteed LT        4.38   6.76   7.42   8.50  8.64
2. Private Non-Guaranteed LT     0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00
3. Total LT Debt Service         4.38   6.76   7.42  8.50   8.64
4. IMP Repurchases   Srv Chg     0.00   0.29   0.25   0.25   0.81
S. Interest only on ST Debt      0.00   1.42   1.00   1.09  0.80
6. Total CLT+IMNPST Int.)        4.38   8.47  8.67   9.85  10.25
......................................................................................................................
12 Jun 1992



- 22 -
Schedule A
CHINA
SICgHAN AGRICULTVRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financina Plan
($ million)
Local         Foreign         Total
Estimated Pro1ec; Cost LA
Irrigation
Shengzhong                                 42.5          14.3            56.9
Wudu                                       68.9          25.3             94.2
Yangjiaba                                   3.8           1.0              4.8
Ag. Support Services                        4.1           6.6             10.7
Soil Conservation
Demonstration Area                          3.9           1.0              4.9
Forestry                                    8.6           1.8             10.4
Income Generation
Sericulture                                11.6           3.7             15.3
Tea Rehabilitation                          0.7           0.3              1.0
Livestock                                   4.4           1.3              5.7
Agroprocessing                               17.6          19.9             37.5
Total Base Costs                       166.3          75.2           241.5
Physical Contingencies                       12.2           6.1             18.3
Price Contingencies                          23.7           4.1             27.8
Total Proiect Costs                    202.1          85.5           287.6
Financint Plan
Central Government                         17.0           0.0             17.0
Provincial/Prefecture Governments          45.5           0.0             45.5
County Governments                         19.0           0.0             19.0
Local Banks                                 9.0           0.0              9.0
Special Poverty Alleviation Funds          10.0           0.0             10.0
Enterprises and Farmers                    40.1           0.0             40.1
IDA                                        61.5          85.5            147.0
Total                                  202.1          85.5           287.6
La The project is exempt from taxes and duties (excluding construction tax).



- 23 -
Schedule B
Page 1
SIMCUAN AGRICULTRAL DEVELOPMSENT PROJECT
Procurement
($ million)
Progurement Method                  Total
Project items                 ICB          LCB      Other        NIF        Cost
Land                           -           -           -        12.8         12.8
(0.0)       (0.0)
Civil Works                   39.4        82.8       52.2        -          174.4
(19.3)     (40.6)      (15.3)                 (75.2)
Materials                     12.7         1.6        10.1       -           24.4
(12.7)      (1.6)       (8.1)                 (22.4)
Machinery & Equipment         25.0         7.0        11.8       -           43.7
(25.0)      (6.8)       (9.4)                 (41.2)
Vehicles                       4.5         _-                    -            4.5
(4.5)                                         (4.5)
Training                                   -           3.1       -            3.1
(3.1)                  (3.1)
Technical Assistance           -           -          0.3        _            0.3
(0.3)                  (0.3)
Research                       -           -           0.4       -            0.4
(0.3)                  (0.3)
Design & Engineering           -           -           -         8.0          8.0
Management                                                    (0.0)        (0.0)
Farm Labor                     -           -           -         9.5          9.5
(0.0)       (0.0)
Working Capital                 -          -           -         5.6          5.6
(0.0)       (0.0)
Construction Tax               -           -           -         1.0          1.0
(0.0)       (0.0)
Total                    81.6        91.3       77.9       36.8        287.6
161.S)     (49.0)      (36.5)     (0.0)      (147.0)
Notes  Figures in parentheses indicate amounts financed by IDA.
NIP - Not IDA-funded.



- 24 -
Schedule B
Page 2
Disbursements
($ million)
I of Expenditures
Cateoorv                 Amount of Credit             to be financed
(1) Works                      75.2           301 of total expenditures for
force account, 501 of total
expenditures for other works
(2) Goods
Materials                  22.4    )       1001 of foreign expenditures,
X         X100  of local expenditures (ex-
Machinery & Equipment      41.2    )       factory cost) and 751 of local
I     expenditures for other items
Vehicles                    4.5    )       procured locally
(3) Training and
Technical Assistance        3.4            lOO0
(4) Research                    0.3            1OO1
Total               147.0
Estimated IDA Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year        1993 La    1994    1995    i26    1997    1998    1999
Annual                 20.0        32.0   36.0   26.0    18.0    12.0        3.0
Cumulative             20.0       52.0   88.0   114.0   132.0   144.0   147.0
/a  Includes $14 million retroactive financing for expenditures incurred after
January 1, 1992.



- 25 -
Schedule C
CHINA
SICHUAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Timetable of Ren Proiect Processint Events
(a) Time taken to prepares             16 months
(b) Prepared by:                       Government with FAO/CP and IDA
assistance
(c) First IDA mission:                 June 1990
(d) Appraisal mission departure:       November 1991
(0) Negotiations                       April 20-24, 1992
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness:    October 1992
(g) List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:
PAPR
Credit/Loan No.L       Proiect                          PCR Date   Relort No.
Cr 1261-CHA            North China Plain                03/03/88       7736
Cr 1347|Ln 2261-CHA   Heilongjiang Land Reclamation   06/28/89
Cr 1462-CHA            Rural Credit                     06/11/90
Cr 1932/Ln 2967-CHA   Rural Sector Adjustment Loan    06/19/91
Cr 1577-CHA            Seeds                            06/21/91
The project was prepared by the following: The appraisal team included B. Kim
(mission leader), J. Stomp (agriculturalist), and W. Price (irrigation engi-
neer), J. Smyle (soil conservation, consultant), C. Cronberg (agroprocessing,
consultant), G. Hong (project analysis, consultant). Others involved in the
preparation and preappraisal were B. Albinson (irrigation engineer), J. Post
(environmentalist), R. Dayal (WID specialist), P. Gilchrist (livestock,
consultant), H. Lea (sericulture, consultant), 0. Knowles (soil conservation,
consultant), M. Bi (project analysis, consultant) and A. Hameed (FAO/CP).



- 26 -
Schedule D
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1992)
Loan/                                                               Amount (USS million)
Credit               ear-                                          (net of cancellatlons)
Number           FY  rower             Purpose                    Bank       IDA    Undisb. (a)
Fourteen Loans and nineteen credits have been fulty disbursed.  1320.94      1013.9      -
Of which SECAL:
2967/1932      88  PRC    Rural Sector Adj.                      200.0      100.0
.... . ........
1411        84  PRC    Polytechnic/TV University                -        85.0       4.6
2382        84  PRC    Lubuge Hydroelectric                   141.4        -        1.0
1472        84  PRC    Rural Heatth & Medical Educ.             -        85.0       0.1
2444/1500     84  PRC    Agricultural Education II               45.3  (23.5)tb)      2.5
1516        85  PRC    Agricultural Research II                          25.0       1.0
1551        85  PRC    University Development II                        145.0      10.6
62493       85 PRC    Power II                                117.0        -        7.3
2501        85  PRC    Changcun (Luan) Coal Mining            79.5                 38.6
1578       85  PRC    Rural Water Supply                       -         80.0       0.0
2540        85  PRC    Raitway II                            220.0         -       59.2
1605       85  PRC    Forestry Development                               47.3       7.0
2579/1606     85  PRC    PiShiHang-Chaohu Area Dev.              17.0  (75.0)(b)      0.1
2580        85  PRC    Weiyuan Gas Field Technical            25.0         -        0.6
Assistance
1664       86  PRC    Technical Cooperation Credit II          -         20.0      14.6
1671        86  PRC    Provincial Universities                  -        120.0      S.1
2678/1680     86  PRC    Third Railway                          160.0       70.0     97.3
2689        86  PRC    Tianjin Port                           130.0        -       53.1
1689        86  PRC    Freshwater Fisheries                    -         60.0       1.7
2706        86  PRC    8eilungang Thermal Power              225.0         -       29.2
2707        86  PRC    Yantan Hydroelectric                   S2.0         -       14.5
2723/1713     86  PRC    Rural Health & Preventive Med.          15.0       65.0     37.1
1733        87 PRC    Red Soils                                -         40.0       0.8
2775        87  PRC    Shuikou Hydroelectric                  140.0                33.5
2783/1763     87 PRC    Industrial Credit IV (CIB IV)           250.0       50.0    76.4
2784        87  PRC    Shanghai Machine Tools                 100.0        -       20.0
1764        87 PRC    XinJiang Agricultural Dev.                         70.0      18.7
2794/1779     87  PRC    Shanghai Sewerage                       45.0      100.0     87.3
2811/1792     87  PRC    Beiling-Tianjin-Tanggu Expresway        25.0      125.0     43.0
2812/1793     87  PRC    Gansu Provincial Dev.                   20.0      150.5     81.1
1835        87  PRC    Planning Support 8 Special Studies      -         20.7      12.2
2838        87  PRC    FortiLizer Rationalization             97.4         -       15.9
2852        87 PRC    Wujing Thermal Power                    190.0        -       60.4
1871        88  PRC    Rural Credit III                        -         170.0     11.2
2877/1845     88  PRC    Huangpu Port                            63.0       25.0     59.2
2907/1875     88  PRC    Dalian Port                             71.0       25.0     32.9
188S        88  PRC    Northern Irrigation                      -        103.0     44.1
2924/1887     88  PRC  . Coastal Lands Dev.                      40.0  (60.0)(b)     23.0
1908        88  PRC    Teacher Training                        *         50.0       8.0
2943        88  PRC    Pharmaceuticals                        127.0        -       20.3
2951/1917     Ss  PRC    Sichuan Highway                         75.0       50.0     84.4
2952        88  PRC    Shaanxi Highway                        50.0                 13.5
1918        88  PRC    Daxing An Ling Forestry                 -         56.2      11.7
2955        88  PRC    Beilungang II                          165.0                37.6
2958        88  PRC    Phosphate Dev.                          62.7        -       53.0
2968        88  PRC    Railway IV                             200.0        -       97.6
1984        89 PRC    Jiangxi Provincial Highway                -        61.0      37.4
1997        89  PRC    Shaanxi Agricultural Dev.                         106.0     77.9
2006        89  PRC    Textbook Development                     -         57.0      4.0
2009        89  PRC    Integrated Reg. Health                             52.0    40.0
3006        89  PRC    Ningbo & Shanghai Ports                 76.4        -       28.3



- 27 -
Schedule D
Page 2
LoanW                                                              Amoumt (US$ million)
Credit               3or-                                        (net of cancellations)
Number           fY  rower             Purpose                   Dank       IA   Undiab. (a)
3007       89  PRC   Xiamen Port                              36.0                 ERR
3022        89 PRC    Tianjin Light Industry                 154.0        -      114.1
30602014     89 PRC    Inner Mongolia Railway                  70.0       80.0    100.4
2017        89 PRC    Shandong Agriculture Dev.                         109.0    48.2
3066        89 PRC    Hubef Phosphate                        137.0        *      130.9
3073/2025     89 PRC    Shandong Prov. Highway                  60.0       SO.0    76.7
3075        89  PRC    Fifth Industrial Credit               300.0               190.5
2097        90 PRC    Jiangxi Agric. Dev.                      -         60.0    45.9
2114        90  PRC    Vocational & Tech. Educ.                -         50.0    37.3
2145        90 PRC   Nationat Afforestation                    -        300.0   237.8
2159        90 PRC    Hebef Agricultural Dev.                  -        150.0   111.5
2172        91  PRC   Nid-Yangtze Agricultural Oev.            -         64.0    49.0
3265/2182     91  PRC    Rural Credit tV                        75.0      200.0   168.3
3274/2186    91  PRC    Rural Induct Tech (SPARK)               50.0       64.3    108.4
3286/2201     91  PRC   Mediu-rSized Cities Dev.                79.4       89.0   147.6
3288        91  PRC    Shanghai Industrial Dev.              150.0        -      148.5
2210        91  PRC    Key Studies Development                 -        131.2   116.7
2219        91  PRC    Liaoning Urban Infrastructure           -         77.8    54.3
3316/2226    91  PRC    Jiangsu Provi. Transport               100.0       53.6   128.8
2242        91  PRC    Henan Agricul. Dev.                     -        110.0   105.0
3337/2256    91  PRC    Irrig. Agricul. Intensif.              147.1      187.9   291.5
3387        92 PAC    Ertan Hydroelectric                    380.0               256.7
2294        92  PRC    Tarim Basin                                      125.0   121.2
2296        92 PRC    Shanghai Metro Transport                 -         60.0    56.8
3406        92 PRC    Railways v                             330.0        *      330.0
3412/2305     92  PRC   Daguangba Multipurpose                  30.0       37.0    64.4
2307        92 PRC    Guandong ADP  (c)                        -        162.0   166.2
3415/2312     92 PRC    Befijing Environment                    45.0       80.0   119.5
2317        92 PRC    Infectious and Endemic Disease Cont.Cc) -         129.6   131.0
3433        92 PRC    Yanshi Thermal Power (c)               180.0               180.0
2336        92 PRC    Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (c)  -          110.0   107.7
2339        92  PRC    Educ. Development in Poor Provs.  (c)   -        130.0   127.3
3443        92 PRC    Regional Cement tndustry  (c)           82.7        *       82.7
...._............. ..................
Total                               6751.8    5738.0  5702.1
of which has been repaid          447.3        0.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA      6304.6    5737.4
Amount sold: Of which repaid        -         -
Total Undisbursed                   3149.6    2552.4  5702.1
(a) As credits are denominated in SORs (since IDA Replenishment VI), undisbursed SDR credit
balances are converted to dollars at the current exchange rate between the dollar and the SDR.
In some cases, therefore, the undisbursed balance indicates a dollar amount greater than the
original principal credit amount expressed in dotlars.
(b) Cr dit fully disbursed.
Cc) not yet effective.



- 28 -
Schedule D
Page 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 314 1992)
tnvest-                                            Type of        Loan     Equity      Total
ment No.         FY       Borrower                 Business     ------ (USS Miltion) ------
813/2178   85/91 Guangzhou and Peugeot         Automobile       15.0        4.5      19.5
974        87  China Investment Co.          Investment        3.0        0.0       3.0
1020        87  Shen2hen China                Sicycle           5.0                  5.0
Bicycles Co. Ltd.          Manufacture
1066        88  Crown Electronics             Electronics      15.0         -       15.0
1119        89  Shenzben Chronar Solar        Solar   Ca)       2.0        1.0       3.0
Energy                    Energy
Total Gross Commitments                        40.0        5.5     45.5
Less cancellations, terminations                2.0         -       2.0
repayment and sales
Total Comuitments now Held by IFC              38.0        5.5     43.5
Total Undisbursed                               0.0         -       0.0
(a) Loan subsequently cancelled.



QINGHAI      C,  -         U GiU  i
F   0 66 S/Y    /                     Hnga Cir Wcter  0   /Zhoohoa                         S
30I M.- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~j~oo                                Mo           P,j0/
130MW~x                                                                                                4~
1.7Mn'1(..GZIJ
322                                                                                                    YUNNAN                     1       KOVINC  OUNDAOS
v<<~ ~~ed              w8;                                                                                      1066' d X     Y       43gBc   l   : 
10m   5 0m  Dl
M0u692^   <           11                                    i              Y a                            ,ggwi                ,
901,617 ,  'o  -l
20DM ~~                     ~'3 Re\                                        _se;aver,,r
gOX          '                            .                            7  ;a   4 .@
'31' ~   ~       ~        1
SICHUAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  v                                                   )>{t
IRRIATIO CWOMPONN4S\                                                                         A        It
"9MD~~~~~~1 ~ \8880 SMAO OPS aM
-P 08
20.       1        0        0       40       1
0080,0,1N,Z                              I~I OlI p09 08 II 980080 001.01o
0,_ 8.od8                                                                                  11('                               \           e
oll   ~                 JUP,                                                                    \         ,                           AFlL,
I   C H I Na^D   A                                                                           '      ~       \
SICUA    AGICUTUA  DEVEL4OPMN    PROJECV\   il{;R
~~~IRGTION COPOENT<\1z
c_ d~~~ mofidms4 w  m s11_ol  zddf1   
Oo     1 d u   _d d   Ib     sb o      Ib                                                                2v                               JI 
~~~~~~~KHMfi doVdaNA l * w Ih oUSo .mvi   
6' H=sis im ez _ ee-l--  URRMY CAN >+1



\G.h         2    S.PAANXI
/ J%r_ ;S R t ~~~~~~~TYPICAL TRUNK DITCH, FARM  DITCH 
Zip -  tY
tl. ecoiwwV.,c.dw ~ ~ ~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.R.b
CC,ata Dl. fla,*AC*. i
~~~~~T 0.101W. Jt  *00                                              -3C- h 
- 000                                  900 TEF 
a~bo,M                                   )                                                                              '. ._  
81  k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ H                                        I N 
'&    9'  /   \  \t ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~YPCA                        TRUNK   DITCH,FR DIC
<  &7   9-A   ?    a                                . .~~~AN   SUB FARM DITCH INEGATO
)   e   )  \~~~~~~~~~~ SUB F~~~OM "AREA DTC
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r= TR>1 4                       FUN DnTCH 
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--- S 1 )B FARM DffCHE
and"h7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 I  S\
~~~~~_       X      m ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUEt FARM DITCHi
FARM DITC
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u FAR DITC
I                                                    << /



IBRD 23480
MONGOLIA  */                 g -% ')                                                                                           A
106                ~CHINA                                  IO
SICHUAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
\    t   > ,, wr.oW  >-:                        PROJEc AREAs
JJXlllS    /  C  S,rA                    ]i3    AGRO PROCESSING PLANTS
<k   Pe iCHINESE MEDICAL PLANT
wAoA    rMULBERRY AND COCOON PRODUCTON
GEESE RAISING
X                 Yft                        b SS f SEA  O  GOAT RAISING
O      TEA REHABIUTATION
341                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~34*-
CHINESE ALPINE RUSH
8.fAC<vErA; PM/-' r$n @> SOIL CONSERVATION DEMONSTlATION
*    *<XiFow. Sf7 -          Yn                                                          RABBIT RAISING
_______________________ZA                                                          PAUILOWNIAa,CHNESE TOON AND GAIL
6.   104                                 ' *                                0      SEECTED TOWNS
, >.(*s: 5) O                        Ig9 . PREFECIURE CAPITALS
:  _ Ai rr S   1l                          i)      PROVINCE CAPITAL
ABA k                G   SU                                            __ ROADS
ZANGZU   \,                          4,t.                                          RAILRDS 
r  \  s   m   a  > r   .^. .-  .  PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
I aaPROVINCE BOUNDANIES
3                                                               D3
a     Q               V ?                     X   'N   -~''sN G
rHUBE
MAN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~AXA
ZIG                                                                 'k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t                  1                   t [ ~~~~~GUIZHOU                             .} 
O         SO         0to       150       2;x                                                               2'- r
* ~   ~     l l                        * +                                                    .*-*.'b' lu  ter 
TMnpma   ow pndp; dii, cn &ot    %Wbd08m&a's oyr
ICLOMETER
_, h.,    of , _  dfwc
l10t                     i                106                                     108'



