Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2411-0-CHA
(Sichuan Agricultural Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SICHUAN PROVINCE
Dated July 22, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2411-0-CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 22, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and SICHUAN PROVINCE (Sichuan).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred seven million seven 
hundred  thousand Special  Drawing Rights (SDR 107,700,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Sichuan agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS Sichuan, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Sichuan declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices, and shall provide, 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Sichuan shall otherwise agree, Sichuan shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Sichuan shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Sichuan shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Sichuan shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by Sichuan of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Sichuan shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of Sichuan responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Sichuan shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association.
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
Page  3
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Sichuan thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
 
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify Sichuan of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI), or
197688 (TRT)
For Sichuan:
Sichuan Provincial Water Conservancy
   and Hydropower Bureau
No. 69 Wenwu Road
Chengdu 610017
Sichuan Province
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
7557
60163 SCPEC CN
Chengdu
Page  4
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Sichuan may be 
taken or executed by Governor or Vice Governor or such other person or persons as 
Governor or Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and Sichuan shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SICHUAN PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped into 
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Page  5
1.
Pesticides, computers, and office equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $4,500,000, may 
be procured under contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures 
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from at least three 
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures 
set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 
and 2.56 thereof).
2.
Small agricultural machinery and tools, pumps, utility and training equipment 
and spare parts estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000, or less per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $7,000,000, and cement and phosphate fertilizer 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.
Items or groups of items of equipment, instruments, other miscellaneous goods, 
planting materials and breeding stocks, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $17,400,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.
Works estimated to cost $10,000,000 or less per contract: (a) may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association, up to an aggregate amount 
equivalent to $82,800,000; and (b) for construction of lateral and sub-lateral canals, 
rural roads, afforestation and other on-farm works, may be carried out by force 
account up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $52,200,000.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more, and for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special 
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of 
the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 
(d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out 
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist Sichuan in carrying out the Project, Sichuan shall employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis 
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World 
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  6
Implementation Program
Part A:
Irrigation Schemes under Part A.1 of the Project
 
In expanding the Shengzhong, Wudu and Yangjiaba irrigation systems under Part 
A.1 of the Project, Sichuan shall undertake the following:
1.
Sichuan shall prepare and furnish to the Association for approval by August 1, 
1993, a plan of operation and maintenance for each of these irrigation systems.
2.
Sichuan shall ensure that water charges are collected for these completed 
irrigation systems at a level sufficient to cover full annual operation and 
maintenance costs, with the rates to be
revised periodically as necessary to reach such level.
3.
(a)
Sichuan shall cause the dams and reservoirs included in the Shengzhong 
and Yangjiaba irrigation systems to be maintained and inspected periodically in 
accordance with sound engineering practice, under arrangements satisfactory to the 
Association.
(b)
Sichuan shall ensure that the resettlement of persons affected by the 
construction of the dam connected with the Yangjiaba irrigation system shall be 
carried out in accordance with a resettlement plan agreed with the Association.
Part B:
Agricultural Inputs
 
1.
(a)
Sichuan shall cause the fertilizers and pesticides provided under Part 
A.2 (d) of the Project to be sold to farmers at prices which cover the costs of 
procurement, transportation and
distribution.
(b)
Sichuan shall ensure that grain quotas shall not be increased in any of 
the counties under the Project.
2.
Sichuan shall ensure that:
 
(a)
all pesticides under Part A.2 of the Project shall have been approved by 
the Association; and
(b)
the storage, handling, distribution and use of such pesticides shall be 
consistent with guidelines satisfactory to the Association.
Part C:
Soil Conservation and Income Generation
 
1.
Sichuan shall ensure that all plantations under Part B.2 of the Project shall 
conform to environmental guidelines satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Sichuan shall establish a comprehensive grassland monitoring system in Qianjiang 
prefecture, satisfactory to the Association, by June 30, 1993.
Part D:
Agro-processing
 
1.
Sichuan shall:
 
(a)
ensure that the final designs for effluent treatment for each 
agro-processing plant under Part D of the Project have been approved by the relevant 
prefectural environmental protection bureau prior to beginning construction of such 
plant; and
(b)
ensure that each enterprise shall monitor and treat effluents from such 
plants adequately before disposal, under the supervision of such bureau.
2.
Sichuan shall ensure that prior to approval of financing for the pulp and paper 
mills and rabbit hair processing plant under Part D of the Project, each enterprise 
shall implement an enterprise reform plan satisfactory to the Association, which will 
enable the enterprise to be managed as a company independently from the local 
Page  7
supervisory bureau, under an enterprise manager selected by an enterprise board of 
directors.
3.
In connection with the expansion of pulp and paper mills under Part D of the 
Project, Sichuan shall ensure that the Gaugu, Yushan and Mianyang paper mills shall be 
closed in accordance with timing and procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:
Project Management
 
1.
(a)
Sichuan shall ensure that all Project activities shall conform to 
environmental standards and guidelines, including the environmental regulations and 
guidelines issued by the National Environmental Protection Agency and its Provincial 
Environmental Protection Bureau, which shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
To that end, Sichuan shall implement its environmental management plan 
for the Project as agreed with the Association. 
2.
Sichuan shall maintain or cause to be maintained:
 
(a)
a project leading group at each of the provincial, prefectural and county 
levels included in the Project, with composition and responsibilities acceptable to 
the Association; and
(b)
a project management office at the provincial level with functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Association, staffed by competent staff in adequate 
numbers.
3.
Sichuan shall, by December 15 of each year, prepare and furnish to the 
Association for review a detailed work plan and report of the schedule and financing 
arrangements, including a statement of proposed counterpart funding, for Project 
implementation for the following year.
4.
(a)
Sichuan shall ensure that all training, including study tours, and 
research under the Project shall be carried out in accordance with training and 
research programs agreed with the
Association. To that end, Sichuan shall cause the PMO by November 1 in each year, to 
prepare and furnish to the Association for approval the proposed training, study tours 
and research to be carried out in the next year.
(b)
Sichuan shall ensure that under such training programs, at least 50% of 
the farmers trained and 20% of the technicians trained are women.
Part F:
Financial Management
 
1.
(a)
Sichuan shall ensure that the proceeds of the Credit shall be made 
available to farmers and enterprises under the Project by ABC or PCBC in the form of 
loans bearing interest at rates no less than the prevailing rate charged by ABC for 
similar loans for similar purposes.
(b)
Sichuan shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Association for ABC 
and PCBC to make such loans as financial agents only, taking no credit risk, prior to 
the making of any such loans by ABC or PCBC, respectively.
2.
Sichuan shall establish and operate three revolving funds in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Association:
(a)
a revolving fund for agricultural inputs, financed from the proceeds of 
purchases of fertilizer and pesticides under Part A.2 (d) of the Project;
(b)
a revolving fund for soil conservation, financed from the repayments of 
loans made for activities under Part B of the Project; and
(c)
a revolving fund for poverty alleviation in Qianjiang prefecture, 
financed from the repayments of loans made for activities in Qianjiang prefecture 
under Part C of the Project.
Page  8
