Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C R /'-s 5? P_F
Report No. P-3977 MAG
*.
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENI OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 12.6 MILLION(EQUIVALENT TO US$ 12.0 MILLION)
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR AN
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
April 9, 1985
This document bs a restricbtd distibutio and -y be usd by recipits ouly in the perfomace or
hir offiad dudeL its contemts may d oherwis be dscosed withb  World Dank aathorimtioa.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             -        Malagasy Francs (FMG)
US$1.00                   -        FMG 650  (lst Quarter, 1985)
FMC 1,000                 '       US$1.539 (lst Quarter, 1985)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I are (a)                 *       0.0247 acres
I hectare (ha)            -       2.47 acres
I kilometer (km)          -       0.62 miles
I square kilometer (kmi2) -       0.39 square miles
1 kilogram (kg)           -       2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)               D       0.26 US gallon
1 ton (t)                 -       2,204 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
BTYI       Bankin' Ny Tantsaha Npamokatra (Rural Development Bank)
CCC!.      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CFDT       French Company for Textile Development
CIRVA      District Extension Services
DP         Programming Department of Ministry of Agriculture
DFP        Finance and Personnel Department of MPARA
DIR        Department of Rural Infrastructure
DVA        Department of Agricultural Extension
EDF        European Development Fund
FAC        French Technical Assistance Program
FNDE       National Development Fund
IFAD       International Fund for Agricultural Development
MPAEF      Ministry of Livestock, Fisheries, and Forests
MPARA      Ministry of Agricultural r7oduction and Agrarian Reform
MTP        Ministry of Public Works
SAMANGOKY  Society for the Development of the Lower Mangoky River Valley
WMC        Water Management Committee
GOVERNMENT ADMINISTRATION
Fokontany                 =       Village
Firaisam-pokontany        =       Group of Fokontany
Fivondronam-pokontany    =        Group of Firaisana
Faritany                           Group of Fivondronana
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
PADDY: RICE CONVERSION
One ton of paddy gives about 670 kg rice. One ton of rice is
derived from about 1.5 tons of paddy.



FOR OFFICAL4 USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
IRRIGATION R* AILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Suary
Borrower:       Democratic Republic: of Madagascar
Beneficiaries:  34,000 farm families whose annual income is less than one-third
of the average national income
Amount:         SDR 12.6 million (US$12 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard IDA terms
Project
Description:    (i) Objectives: The Project would help develop a
systematic approach to rehabilitacion of medium size irrigation
schemes, which comprise more than 140,000 ha of rice fields.  It
thus constitutes the first phase of a long-term program to
rehabilitate approximately 116 such medium-size irrigation
schemes. It would develop new institutions for local
administration to assist the farmers to organize and finance the
maintenance of the schemes rehabilitated after project
completion. In addition the project would provide for the
rehabilitation and improved management of one large scale
irrigation scheme.
(ii) Components:
a) strengthening of existing institutions to select, organize
and supervise the rehabilitation of priority irrigation
schemes;
b) rehabilitation in the first phase (covering six years) of 16
medium irrigation schemes covering about 17,000 ha.;
c) rehabilitation of the large scale SAMANGOKY cotton and rice
scheme.
(iii) Benefits: The first phase of the project covering 17,000
ha would increase rice production by 32,000 tons per year. The
project would reduce Madagascar's dependence on imported rice
and enhance the incomes as a group of over 2% of the farm
population whose income per capita is less than half the country
average.
(iv) Risks: Project benefits depend on water users
effectively operating and maintaining the irrigation schemes.
This risk is reduced by requiring substantial water user
participation in the review of engineering design and
preparation of scheme manuals for operation and maintenance;
self-finance and prepayment of part of maintenance costs;
formation of water user associations; and technical assistance
to support these activities. Part of the benefits is dependent
on the development and diffusion of higher yielding new
varieties and of increased double cropping. Even if the
benefits from better varieties and double cropping are not
realized, the economic rate of return would exceed 14%.
This document has a restriced distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officia dutie Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



- li -
Estimated Project Costs
US$ million
local   foreign   total
Management Support to
Ministry of Agriculture          0.9       3.0      3.9
Scheme Rehabilitation                 4.3       8.9     13.2
SAMANGOKY Rehabilitation              3.0       1.8      4.8
Total Baseline Cost:                  8.2      13.7     21.9
Physical contingencies               0.9       1.8      2.7
Price contingencies                  2.3       2.7      5.0
Total Project Cost                   11.4      18.2     29.6
Financing Plan
US$ (million)               Percentage
Total                  29.6                      100.0
IDA                    12.0                       41.0
CCCE*                   6.0                       20.0
EDF                     4.0                       14.0
FAC                     0.1                        -
GOM                     7.1 1/                    24.0
Srcheme Farmers         0.4                        1.0
1/  Taxes on project expenditures are estimated at $4.7 million.
Estimated IDA Disbursements
US$ million     FY1986   FY1987    FY1988    FY1989    FY1990    FY1991
Annual          1.4       2.5       3.2        2.8       1.4        0.7
Cumulative       1.4      3.9       7.1        9.9      11.3       12.0
Economic Rate of Return: 24Z
Staff Appraisal Report: 5379-MAG
Map: IBRD 18285
* US$2.4 million committed in October 1984.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a
proposed Development Credit to the Democratic Republic of Madagascar for
SDR 12.6 million (US$12.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help
finance a first irrigation rehabilitation project. The French Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique and the European Development Fund are
expected to co-finance the project with credits of about FF 60 million
(US$6.0 million equivalent)l/ and ECU 5.3 million (US$4.0 million
equivalent) respectively. The French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation is
also providing technical assistance in an amount of about $100,000.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Situation and Prospects"
dated Occober 25, 1984, was distributed on November 6, 1984 to the
Executive Directors and to participants in the November 1984 Madagascar
Consultative Group Meeting. This report is available as document
5154-MAG. Country data sheets are provided in Annex I to this report.
Main Features of the Economy
3.        Madagascar, with a population of 9.4 million and a GNP per
capita of about US$320 in 1983, is among the poorest countries in the
world. It is a sparsely settled country, with a population density of
about 18 persons per square kilometer. Although generally well endowed
with natural resources and a variety of soils, there are considerable
regional variations in ecology and climate. The central plateau, the most
economically advanced region, has a subtropical to temperate climate. The
south is the poorest region with an arid climate and infertile soils. The
eastern region has a tropical climate and, although rich agriculturaUly,
crops are frequently devastated by cyclones. Agriculture accounts for
about 35% of GDP; about 85% of the population lives in rural areas, and
agricultural products account for about 80X of the country's export
earnings.
Economic Developments in the 1970s
4.        During the past 25 years Madagascar's development has been
sluggish and erratic. For about a decade following independence in 1960
the economy grew at an average annual rate of 3%. Agriculture was
responsible for much of this GDP growth while manufacturing, under
1/ FF 24 million (US$2.4 million) have already been committed.



- 2 -
increased protection, gained in relative importance. For the period
1970-1983, however, there was, on average, virtually no growth in real
GDP. Wlth an average population growth of about 2.8% per annum, per capita
real income in 1983 was about 28% below its 1973 level.
5.        The poor economic performance stemmed in large measure from
inappropriate economic policies.  First, the Government undertook a
widespread nationalization of economic activity. This policy was initiated
following the 1972 military coup and was intensified after 1975, when the
present Government came into power. A second and related theme was the
adoption of an interventionist attitude towards the economy.  Most of the
1970s were marked by the vigorous pursuit of official policies which sought
to reduce foreign involvement in the econowm and, through nationalization
and various economic eontrols, to extend the Government's role in economic
activity. Under these political and economic conditions, private sector
initiative was discouraged. Third, the Government embarked on a strategy
which accorded high priority to the development of industry with protective
policies but neglected agriculture and, in effect, fostered the growth of
an inward-looking and sometimes uneconomical manufacturing sector. The
adverse effects of these policies were compounded by the deterioration of
the terms of trade following the world oil price increases.
6.        Through 1977 the poor growth and development performance and the
extensive institut4onal changes which were being effected were nevertheless
accompanied by continued cautious policies regarding the balance of
payments, public finances and external debt. The external resource gap was
kept at low levels (about 3% of GDP from 1970-78), the overall Government
budget deficit fluctuated around 2.5Z of GDP and recourse to external
borrowing was strictly limited. Total external public debt (outstanding
and disbursed) at the end of 1977 was equivalent to about 13% of GDP,
compared to an average of about 22Z for low income developing countries,
and the ratio of debt service payments to export earnings at the end of
1977 was only about 3%.
The Public Investment Boom of 1978-81 and its Impact
7.        In 1978 the Government adopted a significantly different economic
policy orientation, undertaking a large expansion in public sector
investment with greatly increased reliance on external sources for its
financing.  The increased investment resulted in increased imports and
coincided with virtually stagnant export earnings and a further
deterioration in the terms of trade. As a result, Madagascar's balance of
payments deteriorated sharply in 1979 and 1980 and the resource gap reached
almost 17% of GDP. Madagascar began to run into difficulties in meeting
its external debt obligations in 1980 and foreign exchange shortages grew
increasingly severe through 1981 and 1982, largely as a result of the
rapidly growing burden of external debt service.
8.        With the rapid expansion in external borrowing and a hardening of
average terms, Madagascar's public external debt service obligations
increased dramatically from about US$19 million in 1978 (equivalent to
about 4% of exports of goods and non-factor services in that year) to about
US$265 million in 1982 (equivalent to about 72% of exports of goods and
NFS). In 1981 and again in 1982 Madagascar sought and obtained a



-3-
rescheduling of a part of debt service obligations due. These
reschedulings reduced payments due in 1981 and 1982 by over 50% so that
actual service payments on external public debt made in 1982 were
equivalent to about 35% of export receipts. In April 1984 a further
rescheduling was accorded by the Paris Club and together with debt
rescheduling by London Club creditors reduced debt service due in 1984 from
the equivalent of 80% of export earnings to around 38%.
Recent Developments
9.          Economic developments over recent years reflect the need to
correct serious imbalances which arose in 1978-80 on external account and
in the Government budget. With generally declining exports, the imbalance
on external account has had to be corrected by cutting back imports.
Imports declined in 1981, 1982 and 1983 and for 1983 were about 35% below
the 1978 level. Imports of raw materials and spare parts have been
particularly affected, with disruptive consequences for the economy's
production. The volume of GDP declined by about 9% in 1981, and by about
an additional 2% in 1982; estimates for 1983 and 1984 suggest a growth of
close to 1% and 2%, respectively.
10.         Up to 1980 the balance of payments gap was financed primarily
through external borrowing and running down foreign exchange reserves. In
1980 substantial external payments arrears were incurred; they increased
somewhat in 1981 and 1982. New commitments of external loans have
decreased significantly since 1980; in 1983 net disbursements from medium
and long-term loans only financed about 16% of the current deficit. In
1983 substantial payments arrears were again accumulated. In 1982 and 1983
Consultative Group meetings were organized under Bank chairmanship and were
successful in mobilizing exceptional support to fill the balance of
payments gap in each of these years. A third Donors Meeting under IMF
chairmanship was held in April 1984 and secured additional commitments to
fill the estimated balance of payments gap for 1984, but the November 1984
Consultative Group meeting failed to confirm support that would close the
then estimated 1985 gap.
11.         Madagascar has had, however, considerable success in correcting
the imbalance on Government budget account. The overall budget deficit
which was equivalent to about 17% of GDP in 1980, was more than halved in
nominal terms by 1983, when it was equivalent to about 7% of GDP. This has
been achieved both by containing expenditures and by efforts to increase
budget revenues. Government recurrent expenditures increased by about 9%
per annum in nominal terms from 1980-1983 while average prices in the
economy increased by more than 25% per annum. The level of capital budget
expenditures was substantially cut back, and in 1983 capital expenditure in
nominal terms was less than half its 1980 level. Current budget revenues
in nominal terms increased by about 16% per annum from 1980-83,
considerably faster than budget expenditures.
12.       Since 1979 the drop in industrial production, including mining,
has been especially sharp. Production at the end of 1982 had dropped to
70% of the level in 1979, lower than in any year of the 1970s. Output in
every branch of production was lower in 1982 than in 1979. A particularly
serious aspect was that the output of some basic consumption items (soap,



- 4 -
shoes, matches, batteries) had dropped by well over one half since 1979.
Preliminary figures for 1983 indicate a modest pick-up of abcut 1.5% in
manufacturing output.
13.       The performance of the agricultural sector since 1979 has been
less disappointing than in the immediately preceding years, but has been
nevertheless unsatisfactory. In addition to the effects of poor weather,
there have been shortages of inputs such as fertilizers, pesticides and
improved varieties of seeds. Output grew by 7% in 1979, fell by 4.5Z in
1981 but resumed growth by 4.0% in 1982 and 2.5% in 1983. In the case of
coffee the increase was only about 2.5%, but output reached the highest
level so far obtained. Clove production almost tripled between 1979 and
1980 and declined slightly thereafter. Vanilla also picked up from a low
in 1979 and almost doubled by 1982. These three crops accounted for over
70Z of merchandise exports.
14.       In production of the staple, rice - as with other crops - the
Government's marketing monopoly and price controls from the early 1970s to
1983 led to wholesale disruption of marketing. By the early 1980s,
official prices were so low and official marketing so disorganized that
much rice entering into trade was sold on the parallel market.
Simultaneously, lack of modern inputs and credit, deteriorating extension
service, and poor irrigation scheme management and maintenance left farmers
few means to increase production, even if price and market incentives had
been adequate. Hence, notwithstanding Government allocation of some 40% of
the public investment budget for rice production in recent years,
production stagnated. Paddy production in Madagascar, which grew 5% per
year in the 1960s and increased from 1.2 million tons in 1960 to almost 2.0
million tons in 1970, did not grow thereafter in spite of the growth of
population and the labor force. Madagascar, a net exporter of rice until
the early 1970s, thereafter imported increasing quantities, reaching a peak
of 350,000 tons in 1982, over 20% of total consumption. Since then reduced
rice imports reflect changed policy but also an overwhelming foreign
exchange shortage: 183,000 tons were imported in 1983, and about 110,000
tons are estimated to have been imported in 1984.
Government's New Strategy in Agriculture
15.       By 1982 the Government had acknowledged the failure of
agricultural development policies and the need for basic policy change.
For the period of 1983-85 it set the restoration of production of key crops
to levels reached in past years as an overall goal. For rice, the goal is
an eventual return to self-sufficiency. For the past two years the
Government has been discussing with the Bank and other aid agencies, how to
achieve these goals. By early 1983 the main elements of a new strategy
were agreed upon between the Government and the donor community and
presented at the April, 1983 meeting of the Consultative Group for
Madagascar. The main elements are:
Short-term
- concentration on rehabilitation of agro-industrial enterprises
and large-scale production units, including the very large
parastatal irrigation schemes;



-5-
- emphasis squarely on rehabilitation through existing agents,
including private enterprises, with priority to rice, cotton,
coffee, and livestock;
- regular price reviews and increases to ensure adequate producer
incentives, particularly of rice, cotton, coffee and sugar; and
- rehabilitation of rural infrastructure, particularly rural access
and feeder roads.
Longer Term
- concentration on smallholders and other privately owned
production units; sharp curtailment of investment in large scale,
and Government-owned and operated, farming ventures;
- balanced development strategy promoting a range of crops and
taking into account regional variations; encouragement of
diversification of production systems;
- conversion of unsuccessful and unprofitable parastatal ventures
through sales to private operators and use of management
contracts;
- reduction in state marketing; increased reliance on commercial
companies; and
- improvement of agricultural extension in key production areas and
re-establishment of agricultural research.
16.       By 1984 some progress had been achieved in the implementation of
the overall strategy. The prices of rice and beef were allowed to rise to
market clearing levels, and free trade in these products was
re-introduced. Significant increases in producer prices and improvements
in price setting mechanisms were made for cotton. Studies were completed
on rice and export crops to provide the basis for pricing and marketing
reform in these areas. Input supplies have been imported with external
aid. Input subsidies are being phased out, and fertilizer distribution by
commercial firms has re-started. Veterinary product supply has improved,
again with external aid. A review of ways to revive extension services is
underway and under Bank supervision IFAD is financing a Training and Visit
extension program. A detailed review of the agriculture investment program
has been carried out. New legislation for irrigation water charges has
been enacted. In 1983 the Ministry of Agriculture reduced staff by about
3,000.
17.       The measures represent a major reversal in the thrust of policies
and, therefore, were politically very difficult. The Malagasy Government's
stabilization and recovery efforts have been supported by successive IMP
standby arrangements. Madagascar has met all conditions set under the
standby agreement which expired in March 1985. A new standby is to be
considered by the IMF Board at the end of April. The new standby, in
addition to establishing performance targets for external borrowing,
domestic credit, reduction in external arrears and maintenance of exchange
rate adjustment, will require increases in the prices of major agricultural



products, further measures to liberalize the marketing of these products
and progress towards a market-determined system of ilterest rates.
In November 1984 a Consultative Group Meeting was informed of the
Governmpnt stabilization efforts and expressed support of the Government's
adjustment program in industry.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MADILGASCAR
18.       IDA credits to Madagascar amount to rS$443.05 million (including
US$29.9 million from the Special Fund) and Bank loans total US$32.57
million. Since 1975 about 39% of Bank Group lending has been for
transport, 27% for agriculture, 14% for electric power and petroleum, 6%
for industry and water, 4% for technical assistance and 4% for education,
3% for urban development and 3Z for cyclone rehabilitation. IFC has three
investments in Madagascar in textiles, footwear and fisheries. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC operations
as of September 30, 1984.
19.       Bank Group assistance to Madagascar has been concentrated in the
key areas of infrastructure (including urban and social infrastructure),
agriculture and energy. In infrastructure, three Credits have provided for
the constructioj of a:)-weather highway links between the island's
different regionk-and-three Credits for road maintenance and
rehabilitation. There have been Credits to improve Madagascar's main port
of Toamasina and to support the railway's modernization efforts. Urban
infrastructure development has benefited from a water supply and sanitation
Credit for the capital city of Antananarivo (US$20.5 million). In the
social sectors, education has been the major recipient of Bank assistance
with two credits totalling US$18.8 million. In addition, studies for urban
development financed by the UNDP with the Bank as Executing Agency led to
an urban development project (US$12.8 million in FY84). A first US$5
million DFC Credit was made to the Industrial Development Bank of
Madagascar (BNI) in 1980. In addition a Credit of SDR 9.4 million for an
accounting and audit project was made in 1981. In November 1984 a US$15
million Development Credit for cyclone damage rehabilitation was signed
with the Government.
20.       Energy projects have also received growing Bank Group attention.
IDA participated with several co-lenders in the financing of the large
Andekaleka hydroelectric project, which was successfully completed in June
1982. A US$12.5 million Credit for petroleum exploration promotion is
supporting the Government's efforts to develop a domestic supply of
hydrocarbons and to improve planning in the energy sector. A heavy oil
exploration Credit (Tsimiroro), in the amount of SDR 10.7 million was
approved by the Executive Directors on November 16, 1982.
21.       The Bank Group has supported 14 agricultural projects in
Madagascar. Five projects have been completed: the Lac Alaotra Irrigation
Project (US$5.0 million), the Morondava Irrigation Project (US$15.3
million), the Beef Cattle Development Project (US$2.8 million), the First
Forestry Project (US$13.0 million) and the First Village Livestock and
Rural Development Project (US$9.6 million). Eight are under



implementation: the Hangoky Agricultural Development Project (US$12.0
million); the AgricuJtural Credit Project (US$10.0 million); a Technical
Assistance Project of studies to improve irrigation on the Plain of
Antananarivo (US$2.3 million); a Second Forestry Project (US$20.0 million);
an Agricultural Institutions Technical Assistance Project (US$5.7 million);
a Second Village Livestock Project (US$15.0 million); the Lac Alaotra Rice
Intensification Project (US$18.0 million); and a Cotton Development Project
($17.8 million). In addition, the Bank has appraised and is supervising
the IFAD-financed Highland Rice Project (US$30.0 million) to increase rice
IL          production by providing agricultural inputs and by reorganizing and
strengthening agricultural extension services using the Training and Visit
system of extension.
22.       Problems have arisen in the execution of a number of projects.
The main problems encountered include delays, cost overruns, deficiencies
in management and inadequate financial performance of project agencies.
Recent problems have centered on difficulties linked to the country's
economic crisis, notably the acute shortage of foreign exchange and budget
funds and institutional problems related above all to the parastatal
system.
233.      Since the start of our programs in Madagascar five Credits have
been completed and audited by the Operations and Evaluation Department.
The Audit Report and a recent Impact Evaluation Report on the Lac Alaotra
Irrigation Project (Audit Report No. 1622) criticized both poor project
design and supervision, and insufficient attention to socio-economic and
institutional aspects of the project. These lessons have been taken into
account in the project design of the Lac Alaotra Rice Intensification
Project, in which great emphasis is given to institution-building, to
farmer involvement, to producer incentives and to self-management to reduce
the burden of recurrent costs on the Government. The lessons of the Beef
Cattle Project (Audit Report No. 3600), where large-scale cattle ranching
failed dismally, have long since been reflected in our approach to
agriculture operations in Madagascar.
24.       The recently completed Project Performance Audit Reports for the
Morondava Irrigation Project and the Village Livestock Project emphasize
the enormous project implementation problems during the tumultuous 1970s.
The Morondava project was a profoundly disappointing experience with cost
overruns and poor management being the most serious problems. The Village
Livestock Project fared much better and established a sound basis for
veterinary and livestock services in a key cattle producing region. The
Audit Report No. 2143 of July 1978 concluded that the Third Highway Project
was well justified and had a good rate of return despite substantial cost
overruns. Report No. 2299 of December 1978 concluded that the physical
objectives of the Tamatave Port Project were satisfactorily achieved but
pointed out that the institutional objective was not accomplished during
project implementation because of inadequacies in the staffing of the port
authority.
25.      The program for Hadagascar has been broadened to include sectoral
lending in support of current imports of a priority nature. This process
started with the Sixth Highway project which included US$10 million for



spare parts for the road transport fleet. It was linked to significant
changes in policy with regard to road tariffs and a basic decision to
rehabilitate the private transport fleet. The recently signed Industrial
Assistance Credit aims at supporting Government efforts to rehabilitate the
industrial sector by providing spare parts and raw materials to key
industries. It includes a package of measures to liberalize prices in the
industrial sector, promote export and reduce import prohibitions. In
addition, the Government has restructured the public sector investment
program in industry and is preparing a new investment code. A Credit
similar in design is under preparation for the agricultural sector.
Discussions with the Government on this program are continuing in an active
manner and could lead to a formal appraisal in mid-1985.
26.       The program for Madagascar in the next three or four years will
concentrate oa the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure and on policy
based sectoral lending to assist the economic recovery by providing
resources to increase capacity utilization. It will be closely linked with
improvements in Government policies formulated to bring about supply
responses from industry and agriculture. At the same time this program
will assist the Government in improving the management of the economy
through increased emphasis on training and technical support.
27.       Besides the program of lending for rehabilitation and sectoral
policy-based lending, the Bank's lending in the next two or three years
will support important projects in education, training, and technical
assistance. At the Government's request, the dialogue on the education
sector has resumed. A project at the primary or secondary education level
is under consideration and a second credit to support accounting and
management training has been appraised. In technical assistance the
principal operation will be a continuation of the Agriculture Services
Project, which is providing support to the two Ministries of Agriculture.
An agricultural research project is also a distinct additional possibility.
28.       Few entirely new projects are under consideration at this time,
but these are in critical areas. The first is energy. A fuelwood project
is under preparation and further petroleum lending is a possibility,
depending on the outcome of current exploration. Another area of interest
is flood control and drainage in the Plain of Antananarivo, which is both
important to the development of this key area and is linked to the previous
IDA involvement in the urban development of Antananarivo.  These projects
will require substantial co-financing by other donors.
29.      The Bank Group lending strategy for agriculture and specifically
for irrigation is consistent with the Government's strategy discussed in
paras 15-17. The Bank Group accepts that Madagascar has a strong
comparative advantage - at realistic exchange rates - in the production of
many agricultural commodities including irrigated rice. Consequently the
Bank Group supports the Government's goal of self-sufficiency in rice
production to be achieved over a period of several years. The emphasis on
rehabilitation of both capital and institutions, including the
strengthening of the Ministry of Agriculture (MPARA), is very important.
In the context of such rehabilitation there is a need for a new



- 9 -
institutional division of labor in which the burden on Government is much
reduced through increased reliance on smallholders as the group which will
benefit from production increases. The project proposed in this report
would help implement this strategy.
PART III - IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE
A. Background
30.       Agriculture.  By far the dominant sector of the economy (38% of
GDP), agriculture employs 85% of the population and accounts for
three-quarters of export earnings. Over half of agricultural production is
for subsistence (predominantly paddy, beef and food crops), while export
crops (largely coffee, cloves and vanilla) account for about 15% of
production, and industrial crops (notably sugar and cotton) represent about
7%. Eighty percent of total production value comes from smallholder
activity. Recent sector performance has mirrored that of the economy as a
whole. For the past six years overall agricultural production has been
static, in contrast to the strong growth of the 1960s and early 1970s.
Notwithstanding steady expansion of the labor force, production of the two
basic foodstuffs (rice and beef) and the major export crops has stagnated,
while cotton and sugarcane production have actually declined. A net
exporter of rice until the mid-1970s, Madagascar's subsequent imports of
rice and edible oils have become a heavy burden on foreign exchange
earnings. The supply of raw materials to the predominantly
agriculture-based industrial sector has also dropped.
31        Rice is by far the mDst important irrigated crop, although there
are small areas of irrigated cotton and sugar cane. Irrigation is
practiced throughout Madagascar, on about a third of the island's
cultivated land.  Most irrigation is carried out by smallholders on schemes
which vary in size from a few hectares to large-scale Government schemes of
several thousand hectares.
32.       The kinds of irrigation which are feasible vary according to the
three main ecological regions of the country: the Highlands, the west and
the narrow east coast. Because of the high altitude in the Highlands the
dry season is cool, which greatly reduces the yields of rice and many other
crops grown in that season.  Hence, in the Highlands most agricultural
production occurs during the rainy season. The agricultural population of
the Highlands is highly skilled. Population pressure on the limited
cultivable land available has led to substantial emigration to the western
part of the Highlands where land of somewhat lower quality is available.
Soavina - a scheme completed in 1962 but now to be rehabilitated under the
first tranche of the project proposed in this report -- is one such
westward settlement, composed principally of immigrant rice growers from
-he densely populated faritany of Ambositra.
33.       The second region, the west, is hot; rainfall is usually under
700 mm annually; and the dry season is very long. There, farming
conditions are excellent in the river valleys, the "baiboho", where much



- 10 -
flood recession cultivation is practiced. Livestock rearing in this area
is widel) practiced by populations which are somewhat nomadic. In Behara,
another scheme to be rehabilitated under the first tranche, many cattle
owners are slowly becoming sedentary farmers. The settlers in the Onilahy
valley, which includes Belamoty (the third rehabilitation scheme In the
first phase of the project) also in the west are an example of livestock
owners who have become cult.va'.ors within the last century. In the west
the main irrigated crops are rice and cotton, while pois du cap (butter
beans) are produced for export.
34.       The third region, the warm and wet humid east coast, has a highly
productive agriculture. Westbound winds drop much of their moisture in
this area before they reach the Highlands. Annual rainfall in excess of
two meters is the rule. Certain areas receive three meters or more, such
as the ports of Toamasina and Moroantsetra. Agriculture Is relative'ly
intensive and most export crops, cloves, vanilla, coffee, are produced in
this area. Rice irrigation is practiced in river bottoms; rainfed rice is
also common.
35.       Throughout the island family farms are small, nearly always less
than ten hectares and frequently less than a hectare, including both rice
paddies and the 'Tanety' or raiufed fields. Animal traction is common.
Rapid population growth has contributed to the small size of individual
farm plots, especially in the Highlands, where population has been
sedentary for centuries. In the recenriy settled areas of the west, plots
and farms tend to be larger.
36.       Traditional yields of paddy on irrigated land are generally close
to two tons per hectare in the warm (rainy) season, and about 1.5 tons in
the dry season. As noted, in tUe Highlands low temperatures in the dry
season make rice cultivation a risky and low yielding venture. In the
lower parts of the Soavina scheme, at an altitude of 1,100 m, some double
cropping is practiced, although the length of crop cycles may require land
preparation for the second season before completion of the harvest of the
first season. Irrigated dry season yields in Soavina are typically 1.3 t
of paddy per hectare. On average, rainfed rice yields about 1 t paddy per
hectare, although yields may be substantially higher if such rice is grown
in the semi-irrigated conditions of river bottoms or in the water retaining
paddies of the deteriorated schemes. Paddy yields on the large parastatal
schemes probably exceed 2.5 t on average, and may exceed 3 t.  This is,
however, much below their potential because of substantial deterioration of
these schemes.
37.       Madagascar's irrigation schemes are classified into four types:
a)    Family rice fields developed and maintained by farmers themselves
may cover as much as 500,000 ha and range in size from one acre
to perhaps 5 ha. They involve terracing of valley bottoms,
diverting water from streams and simple storage dams.
b)    Small schemes, developed through local initiative with and
without Government support. They involve terracing of valley
bottoms, diverting water from streams and simple storage dams.



- 11 -
c)    Medium schemes.  There are about 116 such schemes with a total
area under canals of about 142,000 ha (an average of 1,224 ha);
in part because of deterioration of the irrigation works, actual
land irrigated is about 79,000 ha. The Ministry of Agriculture
has primary responsibility for running these schemes with some
support from the local authorities. The proposed Project would
concentrate on rehabilitating about 16 of these schemes.
d)    Large schemes are operated and maintained by parastatal
authorities reporting to the Ministry of Agriculture (MPARA).
Land irrigated is about 80,000 ha and most of the surplus rice
production is consumed in the large cities. The most important
schemes are SOMALAC (Lac Alaotra area), FIFABE (Marovoay area),
SAMANGOKY (Mongoky scheme), SODEMO (Morondava scheme) and the
Andapa Basin Authority.
B. Physical Deterioration of Schemes
38.       The deterioration of the schemes, both large and small, may take
the form of a catastrophic event. The pressures on the various irrigation
works are heaviest during the periods of maximum river flow during the high
rainy season. Following storms the dikes, canals, intake works - any of
these -- may suddenly collapse because of the water pressure, resulting in
inundation, crop land covered with sand, and/or greatly reduced
flow-through into the irrigation canals. The non-parastatal schemes have
largely relied on their own devices for repairs after such events. The
repairs have often been inadequate, so that the ability to withstand future
shocks is diminished. Hence with the passage of time the probability of
disaster and the economic loss associated with any given period of high
water flow has increased. There is also slow deterioration, which
gradually reduces the hectares which can be irrigated in any scheme:
canals gradually silt up with sand carried into the system; they also lose
water at leaky seams and breaks along their courses. As a consequence the
capacity for carrying water by any given canal system has diminished.
Finally, the drainage systems -- drains and outlets of various kinds -
have deteriorated so that land has become marshy and unsuitable for
cultivation or may be inundated at flood crests when the river backs into
the drainage system or breaks through protective dikes.
39.       In the three schemes of the Project's first tranche the combined
effect of these various kinds of deterioration has reduced paddy irrigation
to nearly half of design capacity. In Soavina, of the 1,200 hectares
served by canals, about 200 hectares cannot now be used in the wet season
because of regular back-up inundation by the river. Another 100 ha are
lost because they have been covered with river sand. In Belamoty and in
Behara, sand in the canal system has reduced the system's capacity for
carrying water, so that much of the downstream land in the schemes does not
receive enough water to permit paddy irrigation. Only about 60% of the
areas served by canals can now be irrigated.



- 12 -
C. Medium Schemes: Maintenance, Operations, Finances, Land Tenure
40.       Most medium schemes were built between 1945 and 1970, typically
during the colonial period. The approach to their operation has been a
highly centralized one in which the cultivators on the schemes were
initially considered as tenants or wards while the mobile construction
brigades of the Ministry of Agriculture's Genie Rural were to perform
required repairs and maintenance.  The effectiveness of these brigades
dropped dramatically during the 1970s, and they have been phased out. In
addition, a "chef du rdseau" was posted to each scheme to provide scheme
management. Scheme maintenance has been very defective and largely limited
to the cleaning of the primary and secondary canals by the water users.
The irrigation works (water intakes, desilting basins, weirs, dikes,
drains, overpasses, access tracks) have consequently deteriorated. When
damaged, they have frequently not been repaired, although in most cases had
funds been available purchase of equipment and supplies would have been
possible. Cost recovery has not been practiced on the schemes due in part
to past Government policy and the power of local interest groups, but
perhaps more recently also because of Government inability to collect the
money. The problems of handling receipts through the public finance and
accounting systems are grave, and the tax collection mechanisms in the
rural areas are very weak: the national property taxes once collected at
the local level have largely disappeared, as well as the tax rolls
according to which they were levied.
41.       By 1981 the widespread deterioration of the medium schemes had
touched off a discussion within Government towards developing a viable
alternative approach to scheme operation and maintenance. The result was
a body of legislation of 1981-82. This legislation foresees establishment
of scheme level Water Management Committees (WMC) consisting of Government
representatives, including the "chef de reseau" and representatives elected
by the users. The WMC takes decisions based on discussion in which user
representatives would voice their demands; operations and maintenance
proposals are presented by the "chef de reseau"; users receive guidance for
management of the tertiary and quarternary networks.
42.       The Government is aware that the responsibility for managing and
maintaining irrigation schemes should lay with the users of such schemes.
At negotiations, Government has indicated that current legislation permits
the creation of water users associations within the framework of existing
local and provincial government institutions (Fokotany and Faraisana). The
legislation provides for the creation of structures d'operation with full
legal status and financial autonomy.  These structures d'operation,
constituted of members elected by the water users, will be responsible for
managing the operation and maintenance of the irrigation schemes. They
will determine the amount of the user charges to cover the cost of
maintenance, administer the funds collected, enter into maintenance
contracts and oversee their proper execution. Amendment of the existing
irrigation legislation is necessary and is a condition of effectiveness
(see draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01 (b)). The creation
of the structure d'opgration for each irrigation scheme to be rehabilitated
will be required before civil works start. Evidence of the creation will
be submitted (see Draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 5, para. 4).



- 13 -
43.       Most land is cultivated by the de facto owner on the majority of
the schemes to be rehabilitated under the Project, and ownership rights
have evolved according to Mladagascar's traditional land tenure rights. In
some cases, such as Soavina, which was developed under the Government's
program of "Aire de Mise en Valeur Rurale", land tenure contracts between
the Government and the users were established at the time the schemes were
constructed but are now out of date.
D. The Mangoky Scheme
44.       One component of the proposed project is the rehabilitation of
the Lower Mangoky River Valley Development Agency (SAMANGOKY)alarge scheme
in the fertile delta of the Mangoky on the western coast. An IDA credit
to extend the scheme by 3,700 ha became effective in March, 1980. Because
of difficulties in implementation, the extension was reduced to 2,000 ha
and a management improvement and rehabilitation component was added.
Completion is expected in 1985, at which point SAMANGOKY will be able to
irrigate about 7000 ha.
45.       Deterioration at SAMANGOKY, in large degree because of poor
maintenance, is illustrative of the kinds of physical deterioration found
on the medium schemes. The Mangoky scheme is a gravity irrigation network
supplied by a river intake. A dike to protect the scheme from river flood
waters suffered a break of several hundred meters in 1983 and required
emergency repairs to avoid a second break in the 1984 rainy season. The
intake on the Mangoky River feeds water into a main canal through a
desilting basin. As the dredger for the desilting basin has broken down,
the basin and much of the primary canal have silted up and are no longer
effective. Irrigation is through concrete-lined and prefabricated concrete
canals, most of which are above ground. Many of these leak and need to be
resealed. The drainage system is extensive, but has become in part
ineffective. The resulting high water table has caused soil salinisation
and reduced cotton yields.
46.       Deterioration at SAMANGOKY is also institutional and policy
related. By the late 1970s poor labor discipline, overmanning, low
Government prices on output, and weak administration led to the classic
vicious circle: reduced output and negative cash flow. Maintenance
stopped and basic inputs fell into short supply. Yields on cotton fell
from 3 t per ha to less than one (1981-82); the surface cultivated also
fell drastically because SAMANGOKY was able to plow only a small part of
the total area served by canals.
47.       SAMANKOKY has sustained large losses, which are continuing.  In
complement to the physical restoration, SAMANGOKY's management wili limit
its role to providing wacer for irrigation (which requires managing and
maintaining the irrigation network); to providing extension services; and
to selling agricultural inputs and equipment. Management has also worked
out a five year program with a view to obtaining full recovery of operating
costs. If implemented successfully it would result in a positive cash flow
as early as 1985. The plan includes a capital contribution by Government
to cover the costs of reduction in force, import duties and reduction of



- 14 -
the short-term debt, for a total of FMG 1040 million. Government will
implement the five-year financial rehabilitation program agreed upon at
negotiation. and make contributions to SAMANGOKY specified in it. Payment
of the initial contribution is a condition for the disbursement of the
SAMANGOKY component (see draft Development Credit, Schedule I, para 3).
E. Sector Institutions
48.       The operation, maintenance and repair of medium size irrigation
schemes has been the responsibility of MPARA through its Department of
Rural Infrastructure (DIR). Its Service de l'Irrigation is in charge of
planning and implementing engineering works in all Government-managed
schemes. The rehabilitation division is in charge of supervising
rehabilitation work, whereas the irrigation infrastructure division, with
the assistance of three expatriates, is in charge of supervising studies
and works on new schemes. On large schemes managed by parastatals, the DIR
is responsible for supervising feasibility and other studies, inviting and
evaluating tenders and preparing contracts, and supervising irrigation
works. The Department itself has usually prepared the detailed designs and
supervised the contractors for medium schemes. It is clear that the DIR
has much experience and competence in managing firms to carry out the
engineering aspects of scheme rehabilitation (design work, execution,
supervision). Nothwithstanding the existence of the Rehabilitation
Division, following the transfer of most construction and land preparation
equipment of the mobile brigades of Genie Rural to a parastatal, the
Ministry has virtually ceased to carry out scheme repair and maintenance.
49.       The Service de Gestion des Reseaux Hydrauliques is responsible
for operation, maintenance and development of the medium irrigation
schemes. Its functions include managing the DIR's irrigation personnel at
the medium schemes, coordination with other agricultural services and
assistance to the yet to be established scheme level water management
committees. In 1983 the budget for operation and management of the service
was FMG 600 million (US$1.1 million), almost all of which went to pay
staff.
50.       Each such service also has corresponding provincial level
services. In turn the six regional services, one in each faritany, are
responsible for the 17 administrative areas. The staff of 1,400 includes
33 engineers, many trained in France, as well as three French expatriate
engineers.
51.       The Department for Agricultural Extension (DVA) has a total staff
of about 4,000 and a budget (in 1983) of FMG 927 million. As with the DIR,
these services are also found at the regional levels. The
'circonscriptions de vulgarisation agricole" (CIRVA) are divided into
extension zones (corresponding approximately to fivondroana) and finally
the extension cells, with each cell having, ideally, five extension
agents. Usually one or two cells work on a medium irrigation scheme.
There are about 20 agronomists based in Antananarivo and about 50 in the
provincial services and CIRVA. With over 80% of the DVA budget used to pay
salaries, the extension service lacks funds for transport and field



- 15 -
activities. Hence the field services are out of touch with the central
services, and their activity is neither monitored nor evaluated. Applied
research is very limited, and in the last decade DVA has developed few, if
any, new extension themes. Lack of agricultural inputs, of improved seeds
and of agricultural credit have compounded the problems of the extension
services. The IFAD Highland Rice Project, active in two CIRVAs in the
Highlands (Antsirabe and Ambositra), is providing operatlig and transport
support and a new approach (training and visit) for extension work. Under
the proposed project the DVA would work intensely to increase yields on
schemes to be rehabilitated. Hence the proposed project would provide
technical assistance to the DVA.
52.       The Programming Department (DP) prepares the investment programs
in agriculture. It has received IDA support under the First Agricultural
Institutions Technical Assistance Project. Technical assistance is also
being provided to improve the Department's monitoring and evaluation of
projects. The DP is to be the coordinator for the proposed project.
53.       MPARA's recently created Department for Finance and Personnel is
responsible for establishing the Ministry's budget, for administering and
controlling its execution and for managing all external financial resources
supporting agriculture. Under the First Agricultural Institutions
Technical Assistance Project the Department is receiving technical
assistance to carry out these tasks.
54.       To coordinate the role of the various Departments an ad hoc
Committee chaired by the Secretary General of Agriculture has been
established. The Committee consists of the four directors of MPARA plus
the Director of Livestock and the Director of Forestry of MPAEF and a
representative of the Ministry for Public Works.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
55.       The project results from a long and intensive dialogue with the
Government on irrigation pol.Lcy. Agreement was reached with Government in
1979 on project objectives, and at that time preparation was started. In
1982 a preappraisal mission of the Bank and the Caisse Centrale visited
Madagascar. The findings of this mission led to a joint appraisal mission
(Bank, CCCE, FED) in April 1984.  A staff appraisal report entitled
"Madagascar: First Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (5379-MAG) dated April
3, 1985 is being distributed separately. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. from March 22 to March 28, 1985. The Malagasy delegation
was led by H. E. Leon Rajaobelina, Madagascar's Ambassador to the United
States.
Project Objectives
56.       The project is designed to develop a systematic approach to
the rehabilitation of medium size irrigation schemes and thus progressively
redevelop the country's 116 such schemes representing more than 140,000
hectares of irrigated rice fields. It includes a heavy technical
assistance component to develop the Ministry of Agriculture's capacity to
select, prepare, and implement scheme rehabilitation. Furthermore, the



- 16 -
project would improve the organization and management of irrigation
rehabilitation and thus encourage other external co-financiers to
participate in the overall rehabilitation program. In its emphasis on
self-finance and self-management at the scheme level, the project also
attempts to develop an alternative to reliance on Government management and
funding, which has led to widespread deterioration in the infrastructure of
the schemes. This approach, if successful, should assure adequate
operation and maintenance of the schemes.
57.       The project includes the following elements: (a) management
support to the Ministry of of Agriculture (MPARA) for selection of,
planning for and supervision of rehabilitation; (b) civil works for
reconstruction of about 16 medium irrigation schemes. Three schemes have
already been selected, and their rehabilitation will be financed by the
French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique and the European
Investment Bank. Thirteen other schemes will have to be selected by MPARA
as a first phase of the rehabilitation program. This will also include
preinvestment studies to be carried out by consultants; and (c)
rehabilitation of the Mangoky scheme, including technical assistance,
rehabilitation works, maintenance equipment and studies.
58.       Management Support for MPARA.  MPARA's management, broadly
defined, is of critical importance for successful implementation of the
project.   The proposed technical assistance team to MPARA would provide a
total of 29 staff years over a period of four years. It includes:
(i) a senior advisor to the Project Coordinator to assist him in
financial control, prepare the Project's work programs and
budgets artd review the feasibility studies;
(ii) an agricultural economist to assist the Department of
Agricultural Extension to formulate the agricultural development
plans for each scheme, introduce effective monitoring and
evaluation mechanisms and prepare work plans and reports;
(iii) a training/extension specialist to help implement a program to
retrain the local extension agents;
(iv) an advisor for the Department of Rural Infrastructure to assist
in supervising the engineering consultant firms, review the list
of priority schemes for future rehabilitation, review preliminary
and detailed engineering designs and prepare the Department's
annual work program and reports under the Project;
(v) a rural institutions advisor to assist water-users to begin
managing, maintaining and repairing their schemes;
(vi) two senior irrigation engineers to assist with the various
aspects of scheme rehabilitation; and
(vii) an advisor in project evaluation and monitoring.



- 17 -
59.       The short-list and terms of reference for this team have been
approved. Logistic support for irrigation management and field services
would also be provided. This will include construction and rehabilitation
of office space.
60.       Civil Works: Medium Schemes.  Rehabilitation work is planned over
the next five years for about 16 medium-size irrigation schemes covering
17,100 ha. Preliminary engineering designs have already been completed for
three schemes: Soavina, Belamoty and Behara, with 3,100 ha. Their
rehabilitation (financed by CCCE and FED) will constitute the first civil
works tranche and will include reconstruction of canal embankments,
flood-dikes, and service roads; cleaning and repair of de-silting
structures; relining concrete canals; and repair or replacement of water
control structures. The civil works for the remaining 13 schemes would be
selected during the further planning for scheme rehabilitation.
61.       Rehabilitation of the Mangoky Irrigation Scheme:  The
rehabilitation of SAMANGOKY, one of the large state owned and operated
schemes which is not part of the network of medium size schemes, will
include:
(i) the cleaning of the de-silting basin, of the headworks, and of
the access canal;
(ii) resealing the joints of concrete canal sections primarily for the
100 km of raised canals which require special polyethylene and
polyurethane seals;
(iii) rehabilitation of 45 km of service roads;
(iv) repair and maintenance of the river-intake and of irrigation
gates;
(v) improvement of the main drainage system;
(vi) equipment to make possible improved maintenance of irrigation
structures (spare parts for the floating dredger in the
de-silting basin; power shovels to clean drains and canals;
specially equipped boats to mow weeds growing in the larger
drains; graders, trucks, motorcycles and other vehicles; small
compressors and other small civil works equipment, and painting
equipment); and
(vii) technical assistance in cost accounting.
Project Organization and Management
62.       The project will be administered by MPARA.  The ad hoc
Coordinating Committee (see para 54) has the responsibility to approve the
master plan for irrigation rehabilitation, the three year plan for
rehabilitation, the annual work program and the five year agricultural
development plan. It will also approve schemes selected for
rehabilitation, consultant feasibility studies, bidding documents and
contract awards and the program and maintenance renewals for the operation
and maintenance of irrigation schemes. A project coordinator has already
been appointed in the Programming Department to provide coordination among
the various departments involved and act as the secretary of the ad hoc



- 18 -
coordinating committee of MPARA. Any appointment of a new project
coordinator will be made only after consultation with IDA on the terms of
reference (see draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.04).
63.       Selection of Schemes for Rehabilitation.  The Department for
Rural Infrastructure (DIR)is currently carrying out the inventory of all
the medium irrigation schemes, which should be completed in 1987. The
inventory provides basic agro-economic data for each scheme; a preliminary
estimate of the costs of rehabilitating the civil works and the increase in
hectares irrigated as a result. Selection from the inventory would involve
judgment on several criteria: the cost of transportation; motivation of the
scheme's cultivators; and the extent of supporting infrastructure, e.g.,
extension service and availability of credit. For a scheme to be selected,
a minimum economic rate of return of 14% will also be required.
Rehabilitation of access roads will not be financed under the project, but
if access is a problem the perimeters selected will only be rehabilitated
after repair or construction of the needed access roads has begun. The
Programming Department will submit the evaluation of schemes to be selected
to IDA for review and approval (see draft Development Credit Agreement
Schedule 5, para 1). The Coordinating Committee will approve the schemes
to be rehabilitated.
64.       After a scheme is selected from the inventory for further
processing, the Department for Agricultural Extension would carry out a
baseline survey of the scheme to determine its agricultural, economic and
sociological characteristics. The Project provides for operational and
travel funds to carry out the surveys and funding for consultant assistance
should this prove desirable. These surveys will be used in the economic
feasibility study and as basic inputs in developing a five year development
plan for each scheme. Each five year development plan will be submitted to
the co-financiers financing the scheme's civil works for review (see draft
Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 5, para 2).
65.       Pre-investment Studies, Construction and Supervision.  Once a
scheme has been selected consultant firms (joint ventures between Malagasy
and expatriate consultant firms) would carry out:
(i) preliminary engineering designs and feasibility studies;
(ii) detailed engineering design, and revised cost estimates, which                  r
should not exceed the initial cost estimates by more than 15%;
otherwise IDA's approval of the the decision to proceed with
scheme processing would be required;
(iii) a survey of the capacity of local construction firms in the area,
to carry out irrigation rehabilitation works and routine
maintenance and repairs;
(iv) final engineering design, preparation of bidding documents,
tendering, bid evaluation and contract award;
(v) supervision of works; and
(vi) preparation of scheme operation and maintenance manuals.



- 19 -
66.       The Service de l'Irrigation will supervise the work of the
consultant firms. It will review feasibility studies, pre-select
construction firms, evaluate bidding documents and draft contracts for
construction. IDA will approve the tender documents for the schemes to be
financed under the IDA Credit (see draft Development Credit Agreement,
Schedule 5, para 2 and Schedule 3, part E). The Programming Department
will prepare the annual work program and budget proposal, which will be
submitted to IDA for approval (see draft Development Credit Agreemenit,
Schedule 5, para 4). The DIR, with the assistance of the rural
v           institutions specialist, will develop manuals and budgets for operation and
maintenance which will be reviewed by IDA for the schemes to be financed by
the IDA Credit (see draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 5, para
3).
67.       Following completion of preliminary engineering design and the
feasibility study of each scheme, the Service de Gestion des Reseaux
Hydrauliques would discuss with the water users through their structures
d'operation the engineering rehabilitation plans. The structures
d'operation will review the plans and may suggest desirable changes. If
the water users wish the work to progress, their representatives through
the structures d'operation will sign a document to commit themselves to
fund and carry out the scheme maintenance as foreseen in the plans. The
commitment would include an advance payment by the farmer beneficiaries to
be deposited into an account in the name of the structure d'opgration
before completion of the rehabilitation civil works and these funds would
be reserved for scheme upkeep (see draft Development Credit Agreement,
Schedule 5, para 3).
68.       Monitoring and Program Evaluation.  The Programming Department
would prepare both the annual and semi-annual progress reports. MPARA will
submit a Special Report in December 1988 which will provide feedback on
lessons learned for possible formulation of a follow-on project of
additional rehabilitation (see draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule
5, para 5). SAMANGOKY will also submit semi-annual progress reports and
completion reports.
Project Cost and Financing
0           69.        The total project costs for the five year implementation period
1985-88 are estimated at FMG 22.1 billion (US$29.6 million). Of the total
cost, 61% is foreign exchange. Baseline costs are at mid-1984 prices and
*            were increased 13% for physical contingencies.  Taking into consideration
recent inflation rates in Madagascar, local inflation was estimated at 14%
per year. International inflation was assumed to be 5% in 1985, 7.5% in
1986, and 8% per year in 19B7-89. Duties on locally procured imported
equipment and materials are substantial, and all taxes, including import
duties, were estimated at 16% of total cost.
70.       IDA Credit.  The  proposed IDA Credit of SDR$12.6 million would
finance 41% of Project costs. For the management support component
(MPARA), this would cover 65% of civil works, 100% of expatriate staff and
studies, 90% of trav-.l indemnities and training; and 100% of foreign
expenditures and 90% of local expenditures for vehicles, equipment and
furniture. Of the scheme rehabilitation component, IDA would finance 65%
of civil works and 100% of pre-investment studies and consultant fees.



- 20 -
Finally, the Credlt would finance 65X of the rehabilitation works on the
Mangoky Scheme and 100% of consultant fees, vehicles and equipment. With
the exception of funds for assistance to the Mangoky Scheme, which would be
passed on to SAMANGOKY as a contribution to equity, the Government of
Madagascar would pass on all funds to the Ministry of Agriculture (MPARA).
The table below gives the disbursement percentages for all project
categories financed under the IDA credit.
SDR        Percentage to be
millions       Financed by IDA
Scheme Rehabilitation and Management
Support Components (MPARA)
Civil works                         4.20                65%
Consultant services                 2.00               100%
Vehicles, equipment and             0.50         100% of foreign
office furniture                                  90% of local
Travel costs and training           0.50                90Z
Mangoky Scheme Rehabilitation Component
(SAMANGOKY)
Civil works                         1.50                65%
Consultant services                 0.20               100%
Vehicles, equipment,                0.70         100% of foreign
office furniture                                  90% of local
Special Account                                0.85
Refunding of Project Preparation Advance       0.84
Unallocated                                    1.31
TOTAL                                         12.60
71.       Co-financing.  Under parallel arrangements CCCE would finance 25%
of vehicles and equipment for the institution building component and FAC
would finance the monitoring and evaluation advisor. The EDF allocation
for 1985 is to be a grant of ECU 5.3 million (US$4.0 million) to cover the
costs of rehabilitating the Behara and Belamoty Schemes in 1985/86; and the
engineering studies of additional schemes in Tulear Province for
rehabilitation in 1986 and 1987. CCCE committed FF 24 million (US$2.4
million) in October 1984 to the scheme rehabilitation component to cover
the costs of the Soavina Scheme in 1985-86 and the engineering studies for
four additional schemes for rehabilitation in 1986 and 1987. This credit
will be reimbursed over 20 years with a grace period of five years and an
interest rate of 4.5%. Pending the outcome of these studies CCCE has
tentatively scheduled an additional FF 36 million (US$3.6 million) for
rehabilitation of four additional schemes in 1986. FAC will finance



- 21 -
technical assistance for the monitoring and evaluation of the project. The
cost is estimated at US$100,000.
72.       Financial Implications for Government.2/  Over the five year
implementatron period coveriLment participation -- 10% of total project
costs net of taxes -- is estimated at FMG 1,560 million (US$2.4 million).
Government would make a cash contribution of FMG 1,486 million
(US$2.2 million) to SAMANGOKY to cover its operational losses, as a
condition of disbursement for this component (see Development Credir
Agreement, Schedule I, para 3). It would also contribute to SAMANGOKY
b           FMG 2,535 million (US$3.9 million) for financing civil works and
FMG 6,650 million (US$1 million) for incremental operating costs. Total
Government cash outlays would amount to FMG 4,615 million (US$7.1 million),
which would cover all of the import duties and taxes estimated at
FMG 3,337 million (US$4.7 million), leaving a net participation of
FMG 1,560 million (US$2.4 million). IDA approval of the annual budgets and
financing plans of the project components would be a condition of
disbursement for expenditures, financed under the IDA Credit (see draft
Credit Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 3, Schedule 5, para. 5, and draft
Project Agreement, para. 2.06).
73.       Beneficiary Participation.  Contributions by water users are
estimated at FMG 260 million (US$0.4 million) or 1% of total project costs;
except for the salary of the DIR engineer employed at each scheme, they
would cover 100% of scheme maintenance and operation including additional
labor and cash contribution of water users.
Procurement, Accounting, Auditing and Disbursement
74.       Procurement procedures are summarized in the table below.  All
civil works to be financed by IDA (US$10.9 million including GOM
contribution) would be on the basis of bidding documents divided into lots
to be proposed by the consulting engineers bidding would be allowed for
one, several or all of the lots. Procurement for packages exceeding
US$100,000 would be through international competitive bidding.  On smaller
packages either ICB or shopping would apply. Domestic civil works
contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of 7-4% over the lowest
evaluated bid of competing foreign contractors. Sub-contracting to small
regional contractors would be encouraged on the basis of rules clearly
r'          stated in the tender documents.  IDA would review:  (i) bidding documents
and bid award procedures; and (ii) the bid evaluation and proposed
contracts prior to contract award for all civil works estimated to cost
over US$100,000 (see draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 3).
75.       Consultants to be financed by IDA (US$1.7 million) for the
institution building component are being recruited in accordance with IDA
guidelines. Consulting services for pre-investment studies and supervision
of works to be financed by IDA (US$1.1 million) would be procured following
procedures acceptable to IDA. Vehicles would be procured through ICB or
shopping among all locally represented manufacturers with adequate repair
facilities. Office equipment and furniture would be procured on the basis
of price quotations from at least three local or foreign suppliers.
2/ The FMG costs are estimated using an exchange rate of US$1.00 = FMG
650.



- 22 -
Grouped vechicle, *equlpment and furniture purchases exceeding US8100,000 would
require IDA approval of bidding documents, bid evaluation and draft contracts.
Purchase of specialLzed irrigation and drainage maintenance equipment (US$0.3
million) for the Mangoky schem from a mingle manufacturer would be allowed.
Procurement Procedures
(IDA-financed contracts in parentheses)
OTHER
ICB     OTHER 1/   DONOR         N.A.    TOTAL
PROCEDURES      _      COSTS
------US$ million----            - -
MPARA Management Support Component
I.   Civil Works                            0.3        0.3        -           -        0.6
(0.2)                          (0.4)
II.   Consultants                             -          1.7       0.1                  1.8
(1.7)                          (1.7)
III.   Vehicles, Equipment and                0.3         0.4       0.1         -        0.8
Furniture                          (0.3)       (0.4)                          (0.7)
IV.   Operating Costs 2/                      -          -         -           1.4      1.4
(0.5)3/ (0.5)
Scheme Rehabilitation Component
I.   Civil Works                            7.2        -          8.5         -       15.7
(4.8)                                     (4.8)
II.   Consultant Fees, Pre-Investment                    2.8                    -       2.8
Studies, Supervision of Works                  (1.1)                          (1.1)
III.   Scheme Maintenance and                  -         -          -           0.4      0.4
Operating Costs
SAMANGOKY Component
I.   Civil Works                             3.1       -          -           -        3.1
(2.0)                                    (2.0)
II.   Consultants                             -         (0.1)      -           -       (0.1)
II.   Vehicles, Equipment                      0.3        0.4 4/    -           -        0.7
(0.3)     (0.4)                          (0.7)
Working Capital                        -          -          -           2.2     2.2
Total Costs (including contingencies)        11.2        5.7         8.7       4.0    29.6
(Total IDA)                                  (7.6)      (3.9)       ()        (0.5)  (12.0)
1/  Shopping (three suppliers), sole source or consultant shortlist.
2/ Increased local staff, labor, office rent and vehicle operating costs.
</ Travel costs; training.
4/ Includes local competitive bidding and shopping.



- 23 -
76.       Disbursement Procedures.  No expenditures for vehicles,
equipment, operating expenditures, civil works and consultant services
relating to any year will be eligible for financing under the IDA credit
(unless previously committed) until the program, budget and financing plan
for that year have been approved by IDA (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Schedule 5, para 4). MPARA's Department of Finance and
Personnel (DPF) and SAMANGOKY would claim reimbursement on the basis of
statements of expenditures for civil works and consulting contracts under
US$50,000 and for vehicles, equipment, goods, services and operating costs
under US$15,000. Withdrawals for local expenses above these limits and for
expenditures in foreign currency in excess of US$5,000 would be fully
documented.
77.       Special Account.  To facilitate disbursement and to reduce the
number of withdrawal applications to be processed, IDA would advance to
the Borrower US$0.8 million soon after the credic is effective. The
advance would be disbursed in U.S. dollars by IDA into a Special Account
with a banking institution acceptable to IDA. This account will be used by
the Treasury to pay for expenditures in both local and foreign currency
directly or through the commercial banking system.
Accounting and Auditing
78.       Routine accounting controls for the Project (excluding SAMANGOKY)
will be carried out by DFP. The Project Coordinator working within the
Department of Programming (DP) will, however, have ultimate responsibility
for project budgeting and accounting. The coordinator will submit annually
by September 30 a work program, budget and financial plan for the following
year approved by IDA (see draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 5,
para. 4). Project accounts and special accounts will be audited annually
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and their report would be
submitted six months after the end of the Government's fiscal year (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.01(b)).
SAMANGOKY
79.       Budget review, auditing and disbursement procedures for the
SAMANGOKY component would be similar to the ones described above and can be
summarized as follows:  ti) annual submission by June 30 of a work program,
budget and financing plan, including Government cash contribution to
maintenance and/or extension services for the following year for IDA
approval (see draft Project Agreement, para. 2.06). This would be a
condition of disbursement for the SAMANGOKY component (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Schedule 1, para 3); and (ii) accounts will be audited
annually and, the audit report submitted to IDA within six months of the
end of SLMANGOKY's fiscal year. (See draft Project Agreement, para 4.01
(b)).
Project Benefits and Risks
80.       Benefits.  Benefits include development of standard procedures
for rehabilitating and maintaining medium-size irrigation schemes, finance
and management of scheme operation and maintenance by the users themselves
to reduce the excessive burden on the Government's human and financial
resources. By increasing rice production by 32,000 tons per year the



- 24 -
project will reduce Madagascar's dependence on laported rice and enhance
income for a group of over 2% of the farm population whose income per
capita is less than half the country average. The increased food
oroduction would contribute to improved nutrition in the areas assisted.
81.       The Economic Rate of Return for the entire project is estimated
at 24% (excluding SAMANGOKY, it is 23%). The rate of return has been
calculated by applying the rate of return of the three schemes to be
rehabilitated in the first phase of the project (Behara, Belamoty and
Soavina) to the remaining 13 schemes. It has been assumed that without
rehabilitation the irrigated area would contract through progressive
deterioration by 72 annually until 1992. The consequence is a 40% decline
in rice produced over the 16 schemes to be rehabilitated under the first
phase of the program.
82.       Through rehabilitation of schemes and through Improving
irrigation practices, the Project would have a positive impact on the
environment through better control of surface waters and by arresting the
degradation of fertile land.
83.       Risks.  Project sustain-bility depends on assumption of
irrigation scheme operation and maintenance by water users, which requires
substantial change in village behavior. This risk is reduced by requiring
substantial water user participation at several stages: user review of
engineering design; user commitment to finance of operations and
maintenance; user prepayment of part of maintenance costs before
rehabilitation is completed; technical assistance to support these
activities as well as formation of water user associations; and development
of individual scheme manuals for operation and maintenance. Part of the
benefits is dependent on the development and diffusion of higher yielding
new varieties and of increased double cropping. Research and extension may
not be adequate for the fn-mer. Because double cropping requires
substantial change in use of farmers' time and in cultivation techniques,
the rate at which it increases may be lower than foreseen in the Project.
Nevertheless, selection of schemes for rehabilitation would be such that
even if the benefits from better varieties and double c-ropping are not
realized, the economic rate of return would exceed 14X.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
84.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of Mad3gascar and the Association, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1l() of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.



- 25 -
85.       Special conditions of the Credit are listed in Annex III of this
report. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed IDA Credit
are:
(i) Amendment of the irrigation legislation in order to
authorize the creation of water users associations; and
(ii)  Signature of a subsidiary agreement between Government and
SAMANGOKY.
86.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement to the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
87.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 9, 1985



- 26 -                                         Annex 1
TAILS M                                           Page I of 5
SDITL INIufi        p          atusim ttlMn) 
RIM        Lo  IN= t     icONE        HIDELSi
1ucl       tmft    .nmsntk             UtH OUT II1*1        APRICA 5. OF 3*A3
muA iTuasM SQ. m)
TOTAL                                57.0       167.0       567.0
AORICULTURAL                         301.2      323.7       370.5
ow M  CAPITA Co")                       130.0      190.0       320.0               249.1                  1113.9
KEM CO_TUWIO mm CAPITA
(RILOCRANS OF OIL EQUIVALET)          27.0       04.0        41.0                52.6                   529.0
miTioa ao nTAL ITATISUcS
POPULATION,N10l-YLA  (TNOUSN)       5470.0    0761.0       9199.0
URBAN POPULATION (S OF TOTAL)         1O.1       14.1        l9.1                19.2                   T2.7
PPULATIUN PROCTIONS
POPULATloN IN YEAR 2000 (HILL)                             u. I.
STATtONARY POPULATION (HILL)                               54.1
POPULATION amnm                                             1.9
OPULATION DINSITY
PeR SQ. lM.                          9.3       11.0        15.3                32.5                    55.3
PER SQ. mm. A. LAND                 15.2       18.7        24.2               119.2                   111.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 nRS                           41.0       41.6        43.9                45.b                    41.4
15-6 INS                            55.2       13.9        52.9                51.1                    51.7
5 ASD ABOVE                          3.2        1.3         3.1                 2.9                     2.9
PoruLATIoN CRwTH BATE (2)
TOTAL                                t.8        2.1         2.5                 2.8                     2.6
URBAN                                4.9        1.0         5.2                 6.2                     5.2
CRUDE B1RTH RATW (PER TOUS)           46.7       45.2       46.7                 68.0                    7.0
CRUDE DATH RATE (PER TWUS)            26.0       21.9        17.8                17.7                    15.2
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.0        1.0         3.2                 3. 2                    3.2
PFAILY PLUfNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (TOUS)              ..
USERS  E OF HaRcE  UE                 ..         ..          .....
INDEE OF FOOD POD. PER CAPITA
(19b9-7I-100)                         69.0      1O2.0        94.0               85.8                     91.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLYT O
CALORIES (2 Or REQUIRatHTS)        100.0      107.0       109.0                60.4                    96.2
PROTEtIS (CRAMS PER DAY)            57.0       59.0        56.0                49.9                    6b.7
OF UHt1CH ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.0       17.0        15.0 Ic             16.3                    17.0
CHILD (AC  1-4) DEATH RATE            5.0       32.0        23.0                23.6                    16.7
ALTU
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)         37.2      40.2         47.9               48.0                     51.7
INFANT NORT. RATE (PER TNOUS)        177.0      149.0       116.0               117.5                   102.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (EPOP)
TOTAL                                          11.0        25.0 /d             21.8                    35.6
URBAN                                 ..       A.0         76.0 rd             61.5                    54.1
RURAL                                           1.0        14.0 7;             14.2                    27.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         ..          ..                32.0
URbAN                                 ..       66.0          ..                09.2
RURAL                                 ..         ..         9.0 /d             24.6                      ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            8900.0   10170.0    10170.0 /u           27477.6                  11946.3
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             3110.0 ft 3350.0       3660.0 71 3390.2                            2241.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL MD
TOTAL                              20.0      350.0       500.0 /a           1069.0                   980.9
URBAN                              150.0 /f   210.0       2o0.0 7             395.2                  31.7 
RURAL                              biO. O7    08o.o       520.0 7;7          3094.0                  012.1
AWIISSIONS PUE ROSPITAL BED             ..         ..
Smum
AVERASE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..        5.8         4.7 Id
URBAN                                 ..        5.3         5.0 rd
RURAL                                 ..        5.9         6.7 7i.
AVERAGE HO. OF PERSOIS/ROOM
rOTAL                                 ..         ..
URBAN                                 ..         ..
RURAL                                 ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 oF IIELLINCS)
TOTAL                                 ..         ..
URBAN                                 ..         ..
RURAL                                 ..         ..



- 27 -                                          Annex 1
TABLE M                                             P33 ot 5
1ADAR                  - SOCIAL INDICA ASNA
NADAGAUCAR                    REP~m iRECE   P  (WEIXOMU  AWISORI) 
HOST                   (NUT R        tn)   .
C                LOW IInC    AFRICA    KIDDLI
I96d-'   iq b    zsT        7tt         soUTl oft A IA      AMSI"A  . 01 SANARA
REUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT kATIOS
PRIMYt   TOTAL                      52.0       U1.0       100.0 /a             B I                     91.0
MALE                      53.0      95.0          .-                72.6                    90.5
FEMALE                   45.0       Nl.0          ..                51.6                    73.
C SECONDAR'U 4T^L                    *.0       11.0        14.0 /.             L7.L                    17.2
ALE                        5.0       13.0          ..6                                      23.7
FEALCE                     5.0       9.0          ,,                 1.3                    14.3
vOTIONAL (E or SECO lUA)              9.1        8.7          ..                 7.2                     5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             70.0       65.0        55.0 /              46.1                    33.3
SECONDARY                           23.0       20.0        23.0 7              25.J                    24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE tS)                          39.0        50.0                44.3                    15 k
PASSENGER CARS/TNOUSAID POP            4.0        6.8         7.1                 3.3                    20.7
tADtO RECIVERS/TNOUSAND POP           15.0       79.7       195.1                41.9                   WO.3
TV RECEIVERS/TROUEAND POP               ..        0.5         5.2                 2.0                    18.5
HEWSPAR (-DAILY GENERAL
IlNTERST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION              7.7        3.8                             5.4                    17.2
CINM  ANNUAL ATIENDAECK/CAPITA         0.5 /I     0.7          1. .4                                      0.3
LAMO FORCE
TOTAL LAOR Fro7a (TKOlUS)           3046.0    3620.0        434.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    46.9       46.l        44.5                36.5                    33.3
AGRICULTURE (PEECENT)               93.0       90.D        S7.0                77.4                    57.1
INDUSTlR (PERCENT)                   2.0        3.0         4.0                 9.0                    17.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               55.6       53.4        50.3                41.0                    36.3
ALE                                 60.7       56.o        56.0                52.1                    47.6
FEMALE                              50.9       4.2         34.7                30.2                    2M1
ECONONIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.3        0.9         0.9                 1.2                     1.4
X1U DISTRIBuTIOE
PERCENT OF PRIVATZ INCOIE
ECE;IED By
RICHEST 5 OF HDUSEDOLDS             41.0
HLIGEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS           53.I.
LOWEST 20S OF NOUSEIOIO              ;.:          .....
LOWEST 402 or NODSEWDS              13.0         ......
roz  uS u       W -
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVRTY ISCIE
LEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..         ..       150.0 Le            1.3                     525.3
RURAL                                 ..         ..        86.0 Tj             90.3                   249.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POER?T IXNCME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ''         ''       135. O/             107.7                   *77.4
RURAL                                 ..         ..           .o0              3 65.0                 163.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOY ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOKE LEVEL (2)
URAN                                  ..         ..         50.0 e             34.7
RURAL                                 ..         ..        50.0 7-             65.4
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABEL
NO TES
/a  The group average  for each IndieetDr are populatlon_-welghted  rtjtEc mem. Coverage of counttleS           tbh
indtcator. depond on availlablqty of data and Is not unifocm.
/b   Unlesa otherweie noted. oData for 1960- rotfr to any year betreen 1959 and 1961; 'Da  for 1970  betwee  1969 ad
1971; ead data for "Meet Recint Estimate  betweeD 1980 nd 1932.
/a   1977; id 1975; /a 1978: If 1962; /L Population.
jam, 134



p- .s3*3 - 33.~  .3*  332MI           33.3    Al -w-            r-
-   r  2.2-A            FP-"WLa                            n-L3
3333 2    32*33*.3-  (13   -330 5.           v..33 .13 3.    fo-
3.    - *3.3 .Arj 33  3333323   3 AM3.MI
.-c   3.333.3  -   333331  3152a3a-  31333-3 31233 .- n-l
67,19 Fft-al rTs A rw R! A Is              ~              ~              '339Sal3. tl 3333 3432 213p333    .3 3 33
32 32.33'35 31333343 ~~~~~l30                   ft3T333-J333333-M353.3
3333 -(t.aajmi   -33    33333d  3-33-- 3333-  ~    333333  il33  33343  *3          0333- *3*lUh    34333sjffs  
,-   A   pA.                          M                                        -       El  -  I- d T. P    -v uS.3102,-u.n                       a'.3.,
- 35333333233  3l~~33) 73331-33343533 3)_33   P3333133a'333  -031 3- 532 13-13   33143331 W33  1333  5
'31333j 33333333 3033-3. 33331233333 33.333.  - ~ ~              3-=.3 (         -p-3)3w 133  33  *5  j-    _ 34.333-1   -               .33-3
--I'3333   3333  Pj33 " -      01 '519613 IT- '333.3   I.3
'3313333323             3~~~~-31 W33333335-3   Sq- 3-343 %"        1.q 23-11.-   3333533,
  33134 313.  -(332   33    2 32332 332  33M=..w3 -J3'- -- -J                                    vqp353.2334       n-       (.3 l--43   P-  5333333431.
-                                         ~1~m1raT'32333-3 v3 330 '-3a  03 22331  1323-33% 3
olow   n:jvnuw Nwls - V-Q  W  -%L   ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ 3333  333 332*3133  3133113 -         33d  3331. 33 pIA     W3333*-1  32333r a9-
0 BolooN3'4 -233'.33)                                          M32333  3333~13.I33h.u..31 pW113
333-P3  0  n(3323  33.31'     33)33'31~3333 31-321332   332033.33333333  33-3  33d3133                                                            -33  )
33*333   3-333-3   3333333)33333               .3203*32334333  *311-3.   3  233    332333   333
3-33' 3 olll -M)1  1 -33 - '3I3fl4--3.3  33 -3.233- -          33333)33                   '333Z3    3           3)3334323'33   3331   3    2
NM3  333)33    3,33.  30   1- .1  -J3   333   30   30                                             .3)3333'32333    )-   210333.   1333
233333-3        27l   3.3144  233333  '33   33323335l3                                              324333    13132 1                   -  ago      31333 W  P_33
I B4                   1I243333303333)33=33                                        33   .3.   333333333353 33.333333                -373333233'335
Moo I... 13333333333  32-331-  233n.
.,-P Eb3-   30   -                                 33   33's.  '3332.   322.33*              33    3333   23.3    p33.3.3
'3335*333  333  330-a.3WA33.-2   33-.231  3333 as -AT .                                 3333353  3       __33   - (3323.m32  *33)5333333    133333
333pt       M333*33333233.3*3331 333l33-P.3.3... - 333.ll-3 33333)3334
lm . W  M   W.                                                            zu,~3333-33333  233.3*33.33   A3 3*3-1233  33
MOBO              -3) *333333.3.3 p   3333W-  31   33V S333. 3                     3333383t-2*33  (3."33"'                  33W 3   33333# 3   - 33-*423
3.3202        ---3233   :33333023  2.1 _5*3)             .333  333..33.                                      %-F'1031  1-p M,
323f8om lmam         - 21303-A.Ii            333  333313 *3.333                            3333'.   3  233   3-Z     3333  .323 31 3.1333=14
'23353) 3  333  L 3 333320130    3353  3-33.330  3             2 333173   3         3-P32-.33P332- .33t 333 332I-3
.33)- ....     -1133   3.1                            333.   32    3.33                                                       '.33  Z1301   - '6150  '3     3313233
'33= 3333)3 01)323  3313203-                                      `7                '3.3   33-'.*    3323333333
-I--3~3  3 .10 3333.333'3               *333* 3 1- -9 3333.3. 33                                                          '-.3333   3  '33'33   313
333  3333333033   -323333-...334)3*533~                                                   33-3333 .333   A. 333                 1    IT1-f- p33*2.3133- '32333  22
p-   A- -' IM,-   1-D. I- 3-3       -I 303333-523                   3W.          3332_     33''.*:'3  33233.3'  ' 
--"33  *33P3-.3      -it-                              A-1`0 i. n33-3   33p-1                                                        Al-.'-'3-5
03 3'-   P  -32.3.-3   333.- 333      333   33333  3333.  A3333533333%                                                    'MS.-3..  '333
'3.313331-1  3333233.3333-33333 3  33  333333333I   333  .33   333  33-3.3*3  33  33233 *331WI"       3332 .3333.33322r
35333  3333-533  333  -'33*3333  L333'' 3.33             333?'          333,33M.---       33  3 3331Am'33   333333.3333
3-5311333I3132333- 3*33.333  3 33333)22.3333.33..333*33         11  3 3323 3 333-3331 33253233-3.l4-.a353M4)M'3
'33332w    3)7333.332        SII333d ." 333  33333.I333=!:p53   3232  33  3-
3333333-  -3.3333333.   53533333  s33  33  1333  24333'3323  3232333.3 3133333  333.3333333333  12133333 5.
333  -33332332*~3  333333  3  33333332 '3*3-3393233       33333333  .3333333                -all 33 33 -p3 33 3)- 333333 3333343
P.  -W3. " 333323443-3    313- 3ti- 3-  333  (3333   1;3So.*23-                                                A        M..23      333    321 P. 33331133 W.3 !3333133   2   3
333 p 0pl       %mA 3.2 -     AM O73 l 3333333333-133 `3.13 2333033333*                            A.     3331   3u~ 2_3  n  3-3    333    3.
333-  333333 33333333  ' 4inU,37WZ31irJ~rto3U_33232d3  33..33-. - - J.331 32.3-                                                   3134*33)3.
I.Pw"sA. O-A       5 A.        !;W3 ;l30 i6                  a,m  4!          o 333*33333333 M333   33335 co.3  1323       3333
333333.333        p33.3.3333333333  333  ' ....P33  3333-3g3~
1-.11- J. Wm. pspo3-  3333   333  3231 3  3233P3  2311I....33 23333  30-3
1.3p--  A SWI-9. S.IPP*3333.3.3 3M3.33333..3  323-33333*3313W33  35333-333   3322333la.                                                                .3 l
3-333.033=3)3     "OfIaQV   W.23   o3l.3-   33id3f           3  3.3332332  3-13333  31P...                                             3333  333333333
53  313 1   n.  1.  W.3    T_-33   -          *wo *P *  p14   *-*                     033-33.333333333-32    233
W   Wom I"tswd -WIM  WI-l-   ..-- '",                              ......330  33" A'Iso  . '33   33  5333
A-..- 34Pp33 3  533-3M              " M 332333330-
23333333333-3333.333.23-333             T"'3*1     13'T332
P3331 A2-            '331335W   3333333-   3333  3333M'31  3333 353M.3.333   3333323433333- 3.  -3233 .
S. jaloft -4 PN"IP  "M M , ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~333(33   -'333'13
23333.  33ow.3    mWo si   3.pss.3  3..-32233   333.. 3  31-33Mt     3333b.   -a      t    .W .. .L-%--S - V                                           II.   1...
M  Ja5 3)3  3123-33333- -P P 333P- -35- 3)-d334333333  33333331333333    3'30 ..I                             333 233  333t1- ft3- 33.w33323.33 --A  I333
333 l      -4  P 3'33           Al   W"33333  3333 .3 P"3 ""Pip.]33333    *l433           '..3js3   33333.33 A33  333333  333-P _..3 .    M.rE T'fhr1
33- 33333-3   ~~~  ~     5137333            S    Ip:          .V%MoM    1pN.U                   W               l                     d .          W   
'133   3333t  3333  32333    23            N-2333=           I.%.                                                                            3331031'.3
33333333   33303   '333-33.23-       vA""                  1        "*N* 33.33333033i    'P. 3  3333333  "3s J.- 333333  3333   33*33.335333               3
6'                                3333.33333353332.mm   -al   33.333, I 3-333733VA  -. 333p    3353*333   333.d=3.333lf    WPPP4-11~    .   I                                                 "
Al    33333333  *33  33)-33J3jjf- j.,'33    Pa3e33  333323033-3.33  p3*333333.3 332.33*33  3333                                                               I-S
3.3312-333*343M       3 339233   333313-  M33MI3332333  .33333"33 P.33"I3 .3334333
3- ~ 33-  33  *.*33333333   33*3333*-3*   333   3.33.223..3.   '3324333.3333-3' 333332vW33373.3333
333   323   233333    3233   32323332393333333.333333*33   3  53333330'3333   333333   3333



- 29 -                         .w 4 of 5
HADMOSMR - EMMC  'LDtCA.-
GM6  sDaeS. P C.'C tL 1983                                 AWJL  p1M OF  HiM   Lfi
usS Mn.         z             1970-78  1978-3
__ at Sdarac Prf                2,8D.7         100.0             0.1        0.0
Cammvdoc                        2,646.3         93.3            -0.6        0.8
Gaas Diclc T:csm                  3;8           13J             -4.1       4.2
Ouzs  AC=MC 3A1ws                -324.3        -11.4             -          -
E,var  ci Goods, %FS              324.5         11.4             2.8      -9.5
Tbpor  of Gds. NFS                506.9         17.9            -2.3       -7.0
CJUM  LJa=  F    AND
.'CnmL         IS 1N9d3
Vaiue sided 21        tabour Force 3       VA Per tzr
mSS.'Dn.                 '-                     %an G
4rincu                          1155.1         60.7        U95     88W.        382.1     46.0
InIntry                           418.6         14.8        127      2.7      3,296.1    53Y.8
Smrvie                           1156.2         41.0        357      7.7      3,23.7     5:.a
Urallocatm >,"                    107.8          3.5         51      1.2      2.113.7    344.9
S1 al                            2837.7        100.0      '61       W-S.0      612.9    LOW4I
eXzal Go"erner.
1983             1975    1960    1983
Onwct Resetps                  141.0             13.6    14.6    11.6
G.wm' t Ex>.v.a                143.0             13.0    16.4    11.7
Orerct Deficit                  -2.0             40.6    -1.8    -0.2
Cpl-,! Ee-dc.-Urs               *9.9              3.3    13.4      !.1
Forel      cb  (r.ej            17.1              1.4     5.2      1.4
.EY, crr  nd ?-ICS
1976    1979    1980    1981       1982     1S83
(ULUON1E ff;stazMtI ac tt Lad ci trw ?eilwO)
1'7 and QtMi .'bvy                141.0   173.0   Z6.0   242.0    276.0    ;1.5
3wk Credit to pabLic sec--r         9D.0    99.0   176.0   23L.0    2660       3Y..0
awk Cedi:  to state ereerpses
ad privat sector                101.0   121.0   150.0   164.0    197.0    229.6
(Pereectap or lc:x d&Mw:s)
C           ~biey  ad Qut vber' as  of MP    29.0    29.1    29.9                   M.7       27.7     22.2
GP P?cd  Deflator (1970 - lOOj    195.7   217.9   250.6   313.7    403.9    463.9
Atj1   r:eraF  d=ne ir:
P Pti  Deflacor                     6.8    114.    15.0    25.2       W.8      21.0
Bck C .dit to pmLUc sectcr         D3.0   102.0    77.8    331.       13.7     14.3
B.e Ctadit to sacu er r.ses
ad private sectr               5.2    19.8    as.0      9.3      20.1      '6.5
game: All camme=si-is to dollam ir. :hs table aw ar tlw arrag    h          rare preai11  &zrIM che
peried =wera!.
I/ In 1970 p I   !or 1973-diL and 1982 pris for 1982-1983.
I' At wueet pmcs.
Y/ Tai ir a s-orcl . r 9.
July 196



- 30 -                               ANNEX I
page 5 of 5
MGASrAR - TM1  PAW AND CATAL PCWS
B.NM OF PATNS                                     MEUADISE EOG    (AVhPGE 1981-84)
1982   1983  1984 1/                               US$Mln.    %
(UsS Mflllon)
Coffee                        113.1     37.9
Vardlla                       48.7      16.3
Cloves                        51.6      17.3
Fish p    rducts              20.3       6.8
Exports of Goods & N.F.S.  378.6  363.5  352.3   Meat products                    3.4       1.1
Imports of Goods & N.F.S.  651.7  580.3  469.9   Textils                         10.9      3.7
Petrolau prodicts              9.8       3.3
Resurce Balaxe            -273.1 -216.8 -117.6   Mineral poducts                 I1A        3.8
Other cnazvdities              29.4      9.8
Total                   298.6    100.0
Investuent Ixome (net)    -94.6 -106.3  -132.1
Private Transfers (net)     -1.4  -1.2    3.0   EflM4AL DEBr, lEX      R 31, 1983
USS Mln.
Qwrrent Account Balanre   -369.1 -324.3  -246.7
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed   1,883.9
Official Ubrequested                              Non-Guaranteed Private Debt       -
7tansfers              72.3  63.8   74.2   Total Outstanditg & Dit3btrsd    1,883.9
Net MLT BDrruw1ng:         189.0  51.5  169.9   DMF SERDICE RAIIO FUR 1984 3/
DisburselEnts            209.9  2)0.6  132.7                                   Z
Azortization            -110.4 -183.9  -168.1
ebt Pelief                89.5  34.8  205.3   Public Debt, ir:l. guarante   38.0 4/ 5/ & 6/
Ote  Capital (net) 2/      116.4)         26.6
) 209.0           INIVII. LENDING, MNrch 31, 1984
Chwge in Reserves           -8.6)        -24.2                          US$ milion
irrease  -)                                                             ID 
Otstandi  &
RAIE CF EXE]A              1982   1983   1984       Disbursed         29.50  231.36
Unmlisbirsed               145.41
US$1.00 = FTlG             350.0  430.45  576.60  Outstanding irxx1.
FM   1 = US$              0.0029  0.0023  0.0017    Undisbursed       29.50  376.77
1/ Provisional estimates.                         4/ Paris Club agreed to rescheule about $120
7/ Includes net 11F credit, state and private         milion in March 1984; Lordon Club, $195
sbort-term capital, arrears adl consolidted        mUlion in May 1984.
arrears, ard errors arx omLssions.             51 After efferts ot debt resclhebig
3/ Debt service  ayments as X of expDrts of gpods     arranginnts sier Paris Club.
and sen                                        61 Prvical data will. be revised wben updated
debt data are available.
April 1985



-  31                                          ANMEX El
STATUS OF  LK GROUP OPEUATIONS
IN THI  DL0CNATIC aUPUNLIC OFrMADAGASC
A.  Statement of Bank Loam  and IDA Credits (as of September 30. 1984) 1/
Loan or
Credit
Number    Year   borrower   Purpose                   Bank    IDA    Undluburued
-USa Mllion)-
Ton CrdiLts and Five Loans
have  been fully disbursed                            32.57  112.95        -
CZ  663-HG  L976   Hadaascar  Education II                       14.00 V   1 14
CIl 817-AG  1978   Madagascar Andekaleka
Hydroelectric                43.00 3/  5.82
CG   6J81-A    1979   Madagascar Mcpgoky - Agriculture           12.00      2.85
CR  903-MW   1979   Madagascar  RaLlways rr                      13.00      0.23
CR  938-HAG  1979   Madagacar  Highways V                        24.00      5.0
CZ  977-HA   1980   Madagascar  Industrial Bank - lNI             5.00      1.81
CR 1002-HG  1980   Madagascar   atear/Santacion                  20.50    15.87
CZ 1016-HAG  1980   Madag"car  Pecrol.u. ExpLoration             12.50      2.92
CR 1064-HAG  1982   Madagascar  Agriculture lOak - 5TH           11.50      7.58
CL LO66CAG  1981   Yadagascar  PLaLe of *ntanaudivo T.A.          Z.33      L.0
CR 11553-AG  1961  Msdagascar  AccountLag and Audit              11.50      5.91
Ct 116 1-HA    1981   Madagascar  Forestry 11                    20.00    10.70
CR 1211-HAG  1982   Madagascar  Village Livestock It             15.00    11.27
CZ 1249-HAL  1982   Madagascar  Agriculture Institution*          5.70      2.69
CR 1298-HAG  L982   Madagascar  TaLmroro Heavy Oil
Zxploration                  11.50      5.00
CR.1337-ChG  1982   Madagascar  Lac lsotra                      18.00    15.69
CR.1391-f%L  1983   Madagascar  Slxth Highway                    25.00    22.38
CR.F04-cAG  1983             -                                   20.00    18.21
CR.1433-MAG  L983   Madagascar Cotton Development                 7.90      7.43
CR.FDO6-hG l983 -              -                                  9.20   8.29
CR.F1497-MAG 1984   Madagacar Urban                              12.80    12.80
TOTAL                               32.57  428.054/ 164.84
of which has been repaid          3.61    2.55
TOTAL nov ouescanding              Zo.90  4Z5.50
Amunt sold
of which has been repaLd             -     6.40
TOTAL now held by Bank and mA    28.96  419.10
TOTAL undlsbursed                                      164.84
B. Statement of lIC Invesctencs (as of Hay 31. 1983)
Loan     Equity    Total
(USS MiLliLon)
1977   Socea - Textile Hill at Majunga        11.00     0.29       L1.29
1980   Baca - Shoo Manufacturing in
Ancananarivo                          1.25       -         1.25
1983   Pleheries de lossi-Be                   2.57     0.13        2.70
15 .24
1/  The stacus of projects Listed in Part A' is described in a separace report
on all BankILDA-financed projecce in executlon. which is updated twice
yearly and circulaCtd to the Execucive Directors on ApriL 30 and October 31.
2/ IncludLng a Norwegian grant partLcipatLon of USS7.0 million.
3/  Including a supplenental credit of USS1O.0 million of 1980.
aj  CR1526-OMAG. Cyclone Rehabltcation Projecc for SOD  14.8 mnIlion has been
effective on February 28, 1985. A USSG0 million credit for IndustrLal
Sector Rehebilicatlon was approved on January 15. 1985.
March 1985



- 32 -
ANNEX III
MADAGASCAR
FIRST IRRIGATION REHABILITATION CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY CREDIT DATA SHEET
Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Identification                       1979
(b)   Project Preparation                  1982
(c)   Appraisal Mission                   April 1984
(d)   Post Appraisal Mission              Novemaer 1984 - February 1985
(e)   Negotiations                        March 1985
(f)   Planned Date of Effectiveness        September 1985
Condition of Effectiveness
Amendment of irrigation legislation to authorize the creation of
water users' associations (para 41).
Signature of a subsidiary agreement between Government and SAMANGCKY.
Conditions of Disbursement
-  Governmeat would contribute to SAMANGOKY capital (para 46)
- Approvel each year of the annual work programs for rehabilitation of
medium schemes and annual budget (para. 66)
- Existence of a Water Users' Association (Structure d'operation)
(para 67)
- Approval each year of SAMANGOkY's budget (para. 79)
Special Conditions
-  Submission of five year Agricultural Development Plan for each scheme
to be rehabilitated (para 64)
- IDA will be consulted on any new appointment of a project coordinator
(para 62)
- Schemes to be rehabilitated should have an economic rate of return of
at lRist 14% (para 63)
-  IDA will be consulted if detailed engineering work for rehabilitation
exceeds initial estimates by more than 15% (para 65)
- Water Users' Associations would have to commit themselves to fund
scheme maintenance and should deposit one year of maintenance costs
in an account (para 67)
IDA will review manuals for operation and maintenance of schemes to
be rehabilitated (para 66)
MPARA and SAMANGOKY project accounts and special account will be
audited (paras. 78 and 79).



44-
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~JJ   Q
-ir                                                                                               I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r -
-st~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
MADAGASCAR
FIRST IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
PREMIER PROJET DE REHABILITATION                                        "
DES PERIMETRES IRRIGUES                                              /             - v
LOCATION OF MEDIUM IRRIGATION SCHEMES
LOCALSATION DES PETITS PERIMETRES                                   l     iJI    '',.
or.                 ,   ,    ; .
.  ..              
at ~ ~ ars 1a'..f  -                  .. jgSt   ~i*e   la
ir~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s 1 ' o 'i'.d 0t         "     . 1I
J.*'* _*C  a''10,             g':J*s   
et..
OedrunJt\@P}--                   Minte.'O- -   c
F~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~807aa /r' ..                             ..!sAiI
3,~~~~~~~~~C2
. ~~~  ~ ~     ~                 OTAMASINA       oman
K,,            ~~~~~~~~~ANI'ANANAI VO  (
Tha,aa.                 J, A   _nt  narivo
fltjnd4



EZ                                                                      S  *F     tsho   f |n
eU                 lnzo                                V8nn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~yrmony ,+WFOava j
q  \  ?-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/n9Kl~~~~~~~hbery-Sambjins 2 O v      l0Ul8l1
-a                                                                         M 'a.anndon7<n                                                  FdM
R szarina                                            =    CX v fM
j                          SenarnbseFlanarmt! na
I > T n       BC OID                           ndroFom5t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mor~~otl r  KOETERS O            tOX
Ambda
4nivimbalo4                                                                          of1_swlw>W_ _ rr
TO IsI A R A t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~otomsina >_ st_b
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%-sCWR nosl                                      o ftian  6rmthottlSdw  cm wt_"do d_rJ
MonomboR194,10j^  fl o.J                                                ndnzeDrn 
OJssatn n F/                                         *0911csl )                                       _     ZAIRE (             TANZANIA,,
Tdlua   @ 8Z, 9@|a*1r%1K               :            5ViS                      S   I             J       2  ! '..,. ~        ~~~~~ COMOROB
' '    %.4j^#CJI,7f*  {                                 O I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(5  ZAMBIA   > 
-241                                                                                                         NAMIBIAw1   \ZIMBASWtt-, DE  M0A       ,0J       MADAGASARS
.                               ~~~~~~~~BOTSWANA                      i
/--+'~~towwo                           SOUTH AFRICA
Ant /                                           >S;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTHO  Dnenbnl kXdr 
! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L .... 4 t  0fE



