Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5379-MAG
MADAGASCAR
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 3, 1985
Eastern Africa Projects
Central Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only - t!  perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS/EQUIVALENCES MONETAIRES*
Currency Unit                   M Halagasy Francs (FMG)
US$1.00                         FMG 650 (at first quarter, 1985)
FMG 1,000               =       US$1.54 (at first quarter, 1985)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES/POIDS ET MESURES
1 are (a)                         =       0.0247 acres
1 hectare (ha)                    =       2.47 acres
1 kapoaka (285 grams)*            =       roughly 10 oz.
1 kilometer (km)                  =       0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)          =       0.39 square mile
1 kilogram (kg)                   =       2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)                       =       0.26 US gallon
=       0.22 Imperial gallon
1 tonne (t)                       =       2,20b p.ounds
ABBREVIATIONS
AAA       Parastatal Construction Company for Agriculture
AHVR      Aire de Mise en Valeur Rurale (Area for Rural Development)
ASO       Agricultural Sector Operation
BTM       Bankin' Ny Tantsaha Mpamokatra
(Rural Development Bank of Madagascar)
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(French Development Fund)
CFDT      Compagnie Francaise de D6vRloppement de Fibres de Textiles
CIRVA     Circonscription de Vulgarisation Agricole (Group of Fivaisan)
COROI     Comptoir de Commerce et de Representation de l'0cean Indien
(State Marketing Company)
DP        DirectiGn de Programmation
DFP       Direction des Finances et du Personnel
DIR       Direction de l'Infrastructure Rurale (Irrigation Services)
DVA       Direction de la Vulgarisation Agricole
(Directorate of Agricultural Extension)
EDF       European Development Fund, or
FED       Fonds Europeen de Developpement
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Government
Agency for-Grant Aid)
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization
FIDA      Fonds International pour le Developpement Agricole
FIFAMANOR Dairy and Agricultural Extension Projects (Projet d'Assistance
Norvegienne au D&veloppement de l'Agriculture sur les
Hauts-Plateaux)
FNDE      Fonds National de D6veloppement Economique (Investment
Budget)
GOPR      Groupement Operational pour la Productivite Rizicole (Operational
Group for Rice Productivity)
* The kapoaka is a Nestle's milk tin which is commonly used to measure
rice in rural areas; there are about 3.5 kapoakas of rice to the
kilogram.



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIAlIONS (ccat 'd)
ICB       InternationaL Competitive Bidding
IDA      ITternational Development Association
IEAD      International Fnd for Agricultural Development
FOFIFA    National Center for Applied Research oD Rural Developmnt
(also CEBIRADER)
KOBA      State Wheat Mill
LCB       Local Competitive Bidding
NPAEF     M1instare de la Production Animale et des Enux et Fordts
(Ministry of Livestock, Fisheries, and Forests)
!PARA     NinistAre de La Production Agricole et de la RUforue Agraire
(Minlstry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform)
KwP       Ministtre des Travaux Publics (Ministry of PubLic Works)
ODR       Opfwation, de Development Rizicole (Project to Develop Rice
Production
0 and N   Operatiot and Maintenance
SAMAGOKY SocihtS pour l'Ak &ageuent et la Hise en Valeur de la Vallfie du
Bas-Nangoky (Society for the Development of the Lover Mangoky
River Valley)
T and V   Training and Visit Method of Extension
NEC       Water manaemet Comm4ttee
OVERNMONT ADKMIISTRATION
Fokontany           .          village
Firaisau-pokontanzy            group of Fokontany
(or Firaisana)       -         (former canton)
Fivondronaw-pokontany  -       group of Firaisana
(or Fivondronans)              (former sub-prefecture)
Faritany                       group of Fivondronana
(former province)
FISCAL YE
Government of Madagascar                 January. 1 - December 31
SAMANGORY                                January 1 - December 31
PADDY: RICE CONVERSION
One ton of paddy gives about 670 kg rice. One ton of rice is
derived from about 1.5 tons of paddy.
I This document has a restriced distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnhnce of |
Lheir of iia duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
MADAGASCAR
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I. *BACKGROUND
A.   Project Background ............................       1
B.  The Agricultural Sector ......................         I
C.   Bank Group Operations in Agriculture ..........       5
II.       THE IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR
A.   Irrigation Practices *.........................       7
B.   Physical Deterioration of Schemes .............       8
C.   Institutional Deterioration of Schemes ........       9
D.   Subsector Institutions .**.....**........*.          10
E.  Medium Schemes: Maintenance, Operation, Finances,
Land Tenure  .......... *.      .......             12
F.  The Mangoky Scheme .... o....00 ..* ..............    13
G.   Subsector Issues .....  *..... ...*. ...........     14
III.     THE PROJECT
A.   Rational for Bank Group Involvement ...........      15
B.  General Description .*..... ... ....   ............   16
C.   Detailed Description  .* .............  ......       17
Management Suppor: for MPARA
Civil Works: Medium Schemes
Rehabilitation of the Mangoky Scheme
Participation of Co-financiers
D.  Project Costs a .......................              23
E.  Proposed Financing .......................  .        25
F.   Procurement and Disbursement Profile ..........      27
G.   Budgetting, Accounting and Disbursement Procedures   30
H.   Environmental and Health Impact ..................  32
IV       PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   The Sequence of Scheme Rehabilitation ............  33
B.  Ad hoc Coordinating Committee ............ r.. *....  36
C.   Scheme Finances, Operations and Maintenance ..*...   37
D.   Organization of Work Planning ...................  38
E.   Training and Manpower Development                    39
F.   Monitoring, Evaluation and Reports ...............   41



- li -
Page No.
V.        ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.   Benefits and Rates of Return ....    ............   42
B.   Risks and Sensivity Analysis ................       44
C.   Proposed User Charge for 0 and N and Efficiency    45
VI.       AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Tables in the Text
Table I   Summary Project Costs                          24
Table 2   Proposed Project Financing                     26
Table 3   Procurement Project Financing                  28
Table 4   Economic Analysis: Economic Rates of           46
Returns, Basic Data, and Assumptions by
Irrigation Scheme, First Tranche



~IP~  TABLES. AN, aiAEaS AND MAPS
Detailed Project Coscs                                                         Page No.
Table I   Sc    Rebabilitation - SovLina                                     50
Tble 2   Schme Rehabilitation - BelDty                                       52
Tab]l 3   Schefm Rehebiticm- Behara                                          54
Ta  4   Sc    Rhbelitation - HagkY                                           56
T3ble 5    AU Sdhm  RehabiLitation                                           58
Table 6    ILnstitutim alildfrg. MPARA.                                     59
Table 7   Projert Coaenms by Year. Incuding                                  62
Table 8   Suz5y  =oim=s by Project Corent                                    63
F=cmxc Aktalysis
Table 9    Clculation - the Emnac Price of Pady at the FamrGate             64
Table 10  Faxm Budgets Per Ha of Irrigaced Paddy Productio                  65
Table 1 1  Aloptlcin-es. Yields, Benefits and Costs, per Fkanomic           66
Hectire, *r E3dsrIrg aid Future Tecdial Padckges
Table 1.2     E        Rate of Petumn Cacul.alons                           67
Table 13  Saaaoky PRehabitacica, Ecom2ic Cost akd Benefits                  68
Tahle 14  Samngk:y  Projected Average Ha and Yields by Crop ard             69
lype of  zltivatio  in 1986 arid Succeeding Years
Table 15  Sanang*ky- Projection of FinawJAl Rehabilitation (1984-88)
15A: Projected I;ncome Lacement. Lgricultran               70
Production Deepart
15B: Consolidated Projected Ircwe Statezmet                71
X: Projected Profit ad Loss Statement                       72
15D: Projected Balance Sheet                                73
Table 16  Samazpky: Ix    and ExperditLre Aunc   1982-1983                  74
Table 17  Samagoky: Balaoce Sheet, at Deceder 31, 1983                      75
Other Tables
Table 18  Basic Data mn 27 TrrIgation Sches                                 77
Table 19  Projected Cash Fno of Goverrxent                                  78
Table 20  Estimces Schedule of Dishrwcs                                     79
Table 21  Beterioration in Paddy Oltivaticn, Soaina, Belamoty, Behara      81
ke  I   Materials Aailable in the Project File                              82
kArm 2   Irrigation Legslation                                              84
Oarts ard Maps
Chart 1   Project Organization                                              86
Chart 2   Minsrisy of ArIcultural Productica aid Agrarian Reform            87
(Orgawization Chart)
Chart 3   Directorate of Rural Infrastructure (Orgamization Chart)          88
Chart 4   Project Iqplentation Schadule                                     89
Map I     Ma       r,Lton of rium Schemes (IBBD 18285)
Map 2     Map of Behara, BeIlty, ard Soarina Schemes (ID 18286)
Map 3     Map of Saragoky (MR  18387)



- iv -
There is a separate Implementation Volume (EAPCA) with the
following content:
1.   Detailed Economic Analysis
2.   Co-financiers Aide-Memoires
3.   Euroconsult, Rapport de Syntheses, Projet de
rehabilitation des petits perimAtres



v
MADAGASCAR
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Amount:           SDR 12.6 milliou (US$12 milliom equivalent)
Terms:            Staudard IDA terms
Project
Descriptiou:      (i) Objectives:  The Project would help develop a
systematic approach to rehabilitaciou of 116 existing
medium scale irrigation schemes (142,000 ha under canals)
and is the first phase of a long-term program of their
rehabilitation. A key project objective is to develop new
institutions for self-admiaistration and to assise the
farmers to provide self-financing to ensure adequate
future maintenance of the schemes rehabilitated.  tu
addicion one Large scale irrigatiou scheme i.-uld be
rehabilitated and management of the scheme improved.
Components:
a)   strengthening of existing institutions to select the
priority irrigation schemes to be rehabilitated;
b)   rehabilitation in the first phase of 16 medium
irrigation schemes covering about 17,100 ha.;
c)   rehabilitation of the large scale Samangoky cotton
and rice scheme.                                 -
(ii) Benefits:  By increasing rice production 32,000 tons
per year the project will reduce Madagascar's dependence
on imported rice and enhance income for a group of over 2X
of the farm population whose income per capita is less
than half the country average.
(iii) Risks: Project sustainability depeads oa water
users effectively operating and maintaining the irrigation
schemes. This risk is being reduced by requiring
subscantial wacer user pareicipation at several stages:
user review of engineering design; user commitment to
self-finance; user prepayment of part of maintenance costs
before rehabilitation is completed; TA to support these
activities as well as formation of water user
associations; and developme.t of individual scheme manuals
for operation a-d maintenance.  Part of :rne benefics are
dependent on the development and diffusion of higher
yielding new variecies and of increased double cropping.
Nevertheless, selec:ion of schemes for rehabilitation
would be such that even if the benefits from better
varieties and double cropping are not realized, the
economic rate of return would exceed 14%.



- V1
E.stimacd Proj ecr Costs
percen. of
-   USS millin aforeip            % of cotal
local  fore       toral     eharge   bselie csrts
gD   Supprt to
MtIz.rzy of igriculruwe        0.9      3.0     3.9         78          18
Sch1. Rehabita                 4.3     8.9    13.2          68         60
SM .R R.eabilia                3.0     1.8      4.8         36         Z2
Total Basel'io  Coss:          8.2    13.7    21.9          63        100
Physical cirsgrries           0.9      1.8     2.7         63         13
Price ropn^i                  2.3     2.7      5.0         53         22
Tbtal Projecc Goscs           11.4    18.2    29.6          61        135
FIotmcfrmg Plan.
sch
total    mA,       Cr        EDF    FAC      M      faaHrs
US$ (million)       29.6    12.0       6.0    4.0    0.1    7.1*          0.4
Perceczage         100       41       20      14       -      24          1
Iwesed tW!9, resultig frem project eqm&iures are estiuted at 54.7 mfillfIo.
Estim  Dirrseis
us$ mi 11 nr
.Pl           o    eulative
1986           1.4              1.4
1987           2.5              3.9
1988           3.2              7.1
1989           2.8              9.9
1990           1.4             11.3
1991           0.7             12.0
F .cc Rate of Return: 24%
Staff Appraisal Reprt:
ps: MM 18285
18286
18378



MADAGASCAR
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I.  BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      For more than a decade the Government of Madagascar and the Bank
have discussed a project to rehabilitate the medium size irrigation
schemes, which are an important part of Madagascar's Irrigation system.
Because of the tumultuous political and ecoromic circumstances in
Madagascar during this period, preparation bas been slow and sporadic.
Agreement on basic project objectives was reached in 1979. By 1982 a
preparation report was completed, which concentrated on rehabilitating five
medium irrigation schemes as a pilot endeavor. A pre-appraisal mission,
including representatives of the French 'Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique", visited Madagascar in November 1982 and reco_mended: (i) cost
reductions of about 25% for the five by reducing low priority irrigation
investments (canal linings, water inlets, weir designs); (ii) that the
project's complex organization required further study; and (iii) that an
inventory of the medium size schemes should be carried out to determine
their priority for future rehabilitation. The Government agreed to an
additional study to cover the above items. The study was carried out and
the resulting report was submitted in January 1984. It became the basic
document supporting the appraisal mission of April 1984, which was led by
A. de Largentaye, and included J. Meerman, J. Weijenberg, J. Porter and H.
Boumendil (consultant). Representatives of the Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and of the European Development Fund (EDF)
accompanied the mission and participated in discussions. This was followed
by two post appraisal missions led by J. Meerman in July and October, 1984,
again with participation of the CCCE and the EDF.
B. The Agricultural Sector
General
1.02      Madagascar, an island more than 1,500 km long, is slightly larger
than France, although its climate, topography and soils are all far more
diverse than those of France. Rainfall, for example, varies from that of
tropical wet-forest to near desert conditions. With a population of 10
million, the country is sparsely populated but there is great pressure on
productive land in some regions. About half the population is below the



-2-
poverty line.  Rice, most of which is produted under irrigation, is the
most important crop. (In 1983 total production was 1.4 million tons, about
140 kg per capita.) It is followed by cassava, most of which is consumed
oa the farm. For 1980-82, coffee exports contributed almost half of
Madagascar's total export earnings. Cloves and vanilla accounted for most
of the remainder. Other important cash crops, not currently exported,
include sugar, cotton and tobacco. The cattle herd, of about 10 million
head, is almost entirely owned by herders - accounting for a large part of
the popuLation - who employ traditional, extensive husbandry systems. As a
result, productivity and off-take are low. Beef exports are a fraction of
former levels, notwithstanding increased foreign demand. Noonetheless there
is excellent potential for augmenting production through improved herd
management, and for iacreasing output of other forms of livestock, notably
pigs and poultry.
1.03      Most of the estimated 1.5 million farm families--about 80% of the
population-are small holders engaged in subsistence farming. A
traditional land tenure system prevails with individual, heritable rights
to cultivated land and collective rights to pasture. Smallholder farming
techniques range from irrigated rice cultivation involving elaborate
terracing and partial water control to slz3h and burn cultivation and
semi-nomadic cattle raising. There is some large-scale mechanized farming,
usually oa Government-owned farms. During the 1970s, the Government's role
expanded substantially; most noteworthy were the nationalization of
larkecing of foodcrops (especially rice), of the sugar industry, of input
supply, of meat processing, and of export marketing.
Irrigation Subsector
1.04      Past agricuLtural development has concentrated on irrigation with
heavy investment by both Government and external agencies. Out of a total
cultivated area of roughly three million ha, official irrigation systems
serve about 250,000 ha, nearly all of it to produce paddy. In addition,
about 700,000 ha of traditional paddy fields have some form of water
coatrol. At present, the key issue in this subsector is deterioration:
Madagascar's decaying irrigation infrastructure is yielding far less than
it should, in part as a result of failure to maintain the schemes which in
turn results from the deterioracion in management, and the lack of budget
funds and foreign exchange for inputs and equipmeat. Although the
traditional paddy fields have fewer problems, their yields have dropped
because of reduced supply of inputs, and negative price and market
incentives. Looking to the far future, it is probable that further
development of irrigation, drainage, and flood control, will be
concentrated on relatively large schemes siace most areas suitable for
small-scale farming (terraced rice fields in small valley boctoms) have
already been developed. The scope for further devel_pment, however, will
remaia uncertain untit basic cost and benefit data are generated on
potential areas for development.



-3 -
1.05      With assistance from cofinanciers, the Ministry of Agriculture
(MPARA) has begun the rehabilitation of the larger-scale networks, which
once produced most of the marketed rice and which suffer the most acute
management problems.. The proposed Project would begin the rehabilitation
of the medium-sized schemes by improving management arrangements, improving
operation and maintenance, and by carrying out rehabilitation. These
rehabilitation efforts are likely to occupy the Government for many years.
It would also provide assistance to one large scale network, SAMANGOKY
which has been supported by IDA but stands in urgent need of rehabilitation
investments and a new approach to management.
Recent Sector Performance
1.06      In production of the staple, rice - as with other crops - the
Government's marketing monopoly and price controls from the early 1970s to
1983 led to wholesale disruption of marketing. By the early 1980s,
official prices were so low and official marketing so disorganized that
production stagnated and much rice entering into trade was sold on the
parallel market. Simultaneously, lack of modern inputs and credit,
deteriorating extension service, and poor irrigation scheme management and
maintenance, left farmers few means to increase production, even if price
and market incentives had been adequate. Hence, notwithstanding Government
allocation of some 40% of the public investment budget for rice production
in recent years, production stagnated. Paddy production in Madagascar,
which grew 5% per year in the 1960s and increased from 1.2 million tons in
1960 to almost 2.0 million tons in 1970, did not grow thereafter, in spite
of the growth of population and the labor force. Madagascar, a net
exporter of rice until the early 1970s, thereafter imported increasing
quantities, reaching a peak of 350,000 toos in 1982, over 20% of total
consumption. Since then, reduced rice imports reflect changed policy but
also an overwhelming foreign exchange shortage: 183,000 tons were imported
in 1983, and about 110,000 tons were imported in 1984.
New Agricultural Strategy
1.07      By 1982, the Government accepted as a fact the failure of
agricultural development policies and the need for basic policy change.
For 1983-85, it has set the restoration of production of key crops to
levels reached in past years as an overall goal. For rice, the goal is a
return to self-sufficiency. For the past two years the Government has been
discussing with the Bank, and other aid agencies, how to achieve these.
The main elements of Government's new strategy, as accepted by the donor
community, were announced at the April, 1983 meeting of the Consultative
Group for Madagascar:
Short Term
- concentration on rehabilitation of agro-industrial enterprises
and large-scale production units, including the very large
parastacaL irrigation schemes;



I -
- emphasis squarely on rehabilitation through existing agents,
including private enterprises, with priority to rice, cotton,
coffee, and livestock;
- regular price reviews aad increases to ensure adequate producer
incentives, particularly of rice, cotton, coffee and sugar;
- rehabilitation of rural infrastructure, particularly rural access
and feeder roads.
Longer Term
- concentration oG smallholders and other privateLy owxed
production units; corollary, sharp curtailment of investmnet in
large scale, and particularly Governmeat-owned and operated,
farming ventures;
- a development strategy promotirg many crops and taking into
accouat regional variations; encouragement of diversification of
production systems;
- conversion -of unsuccessful and unprofitable parastatal ventures
through sales to private operators and use of management
contracts;
- reduction in state marketing; increased reliance on commercial
companies; and
- improvemenLt of agricultural extension in key production areas and
reestablishment of agricultural research.
1.08      By 1984 there was some progress in implementating the overall
strategy. The prices of rice and beef were alLowed co rise to market
clearing levels; and free trade in these foods was re-introduced.
Sigmificant increases in producer prices and improvements ia price setting
mechanisms were made for cotton. Studies were completed on rice and export
crops to provide the basis for :heir pricing and marketing reform. Input
supplies have been imported with external aid. Input subsidies are being
phased out, and fertilizer distrLbution by commercial firms has
re-started. Veterinary product supply has improved, again with external
aid. A review of ways to revive extension services is underway and under
Bank supervision IFAD is financing a Training and Visit (T and V) extension
program.  A detailed review of the agriculture investment program has been
carried out. New legislation for irrigation water charges has been
enacted. In 1983 the Ministry of Agriculture reduced staff by about
3,000.



Sector Lending Strategies
1.09      The Bank Group lending strategy for agriculture and specifically
for irrigation is consistent with the Government strategy discussed in para
1.07. The Bank Group accepts that Madagascar has a strong comparative
advantage - at realistic exchange rates - in the production of many
agricultural commodities including irrigated rice. Consequently the Bank
Group supports the Government goal of self-sufficiency in rice production
to be achieved within several years. To exploit this comparative advantage
requires policy evolution, again along the lines set out above. The
emphasis on rehabilitation of both capital and institutions, including the
rehabilitation of the Ministry of Agriculture (MPARA) is highly desirable.
In the context of such rehabilitation, there is the need for a new
institutional division of labor in which the burden on Government is much
reduced through increased reliance on suallholders as the group which will
realize production increases; increased reliance on private entities to
provide inputs and to market output; and increased reliance on market
clearing decentralized prices to guide the movement of resources between
sectors and within agriculture itself. The proposed project would help
implement this strategy. It is based on increasing smallholder production
at the medium sized schemes through their permanent rehabilitation.
C. Bank Group Operations in Agriculture
1.10      The Bank Group has supporced fourteen agricultural projects in
X2dagascar. Five projects have been completed: The Lac Alaotra Irrigation
Project (US$5.0 million), the Morondava Irrigation Project (US$15.3
million), the Beef Cattle Development Project (US$2.8 million), the First
Forestry Project (US$13.0 million) and the First Village Livestock and
Rural revelopment Project (US$9.6 million). Eight are under
implementation: the Mangoky Agricultural Development Project (USS12.0
million); the Agricultural Credit Project (USSI0.0 million); a Technical
Assistance Project of studies to improve irrigation on the Plain of
Antananarivo (US$2.3 million); a Second Forestry Project (US$20.0 milLion);
an Agricultural Institutions Technical Assistance Project (US$5.7 million);
a Second Village Livestock Project (US$15.0 million); the Lac Alaotra Rice
Intensification Project (USS18.0 million) and a Cotton Development Project
($17.8 million). In addition, the Bank has appraised and is supervising
the IFAD-financed Highland Rice Project (US$30.0 million) to increase rice
production by providing agricultural inputs and by reorganizing and
strengthening agricultural extension services using the Training and Visit
system of extension.
1.11      Four agriculture projects financed by the Bank Group have been
completed and audited by the Operations Evaluation Department: the Lac
Alaotra Irrigation Project, the Beef Cattle Development Project, the
Morondava Irrigation and Rural Development Project, and the Village
Livestock and Rural Development Project. The Audit Report and a recent
Impact Evaluation Report on the Lac Alaotra Irrigation Project criticized
both poor project design and supervision, and insufficient attention to
socio-economic and institut!tnrta  aspects of the project.  These lessons
have been taken into account in the project design of the Lac Alaotra Rice



-6-
Intensification Project, in which great emphasis is given to
institution-building, to farmer involvement, to producer incentives and to
self-management to reduce the burden of recurrent costs on the Government.
The lesson of the Beef Cattle Project where large-scale cattle ranching
failed dismally, have long since been reflected in our approach to
agriculture operations in Madagascar. The PPARs for the Morondava
Irrigation Project and the Village Livestock Project emphasize the enormous
project implementation problems during the tumultuous 1970s. The Morondava
project was a profoundly disappointing experience with cost overruns and
poor management the most serious problem. The Village Livestock Project
fared much better and established a sound basis for veterinary and
livestock services in a key cattle producing region.
1.12      A_sociated with the recent policy and institutional changes has
been a resurgence of the lending program of which a key element is the
Agricultural Sector Operation (ASO) which is now nearing appraisal. It is
designed to support continued policy changes which would help lead to an
agricultural sector characterized by market-clearing pricing and
decentralized, competitive marketing of inputs and production. These
changes would contribute to the s' tess of the proposed Project, since
project success requires substantial increase in produCtion by smallholders
in response to increased market opportunities on the one hand; and on the
other hand to increased availability of inputs. To support the many policy
changes, the ASO would finance import of the agricultural inputs and
equipment most needed for restoration of agricultural production, of both
rain-fed and irrigation systems.
1.13      Agriculture's renaissance and its future development requires
initiative, support and management from effective agricultural ministries
which in turn require stability, good internal organization, good
leadership, and. many skilled and dedicated people. The World Bank Group
has been supporting such institutional development thorough the First
Agricultural Institution Project. Much of the analytical underpinning for
the recent Ministerial reorganization in 1982, for example, was promoted
and financed through that project. Analysis carried out under the project
has also helped the Ministry in its decisions on certain policy reforms, in
the rice sector for example (para 1.08). The project has also financed a
study of parastaEal performance in agriculture leading to a number of
recommendations which are beginning to be implemented: some management
audits and reorganizations are underway. It has financed a study of issues
and constraints in agricultural research, and recommended several changes
in management anc organization. This process of institutional development
will be reinforced through the Second Institutional Development Technical
Assistance Project now in preparation. In addition to continuing the
ongoing work, through the project, Government will seek to (a) come to
grips with the many problems of reforming the parastatal enterprises; (b)
to make agricultural research address the country's agricultural production
problems; (c) improve procurement and disbursement procedures; (d) develop
a capacity for carrying out the agro-economic analysis MPARA needs for
operations and for investment planning to promote agricultural development.



-7-
It. THE IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR
A. Irrigation Practices
2.01      Irrigation is practiced throughout Madagascar on about a third of
the island's cultivated land. Most irrigation is carried out by
small-holders on schemes which vary in size from a few ha to several
thousand, but there are also several large parastatal schemes using modern
techniques of water control and maintenance. The kinds of irrigation
which are feasible vary according to the three main ecological regions of
the country: the Highlands, the west and the narrow east coast. Because
of the high altitude, in the Highlands the dry season, or austral winter,
is cooL which greatly reduces the yields of rice and many other crops grown
at this time. Hence, in the Highlands most agricultural production occurs
during the rainy season. The agricultural population of the Highlands are
highly skilled traditional cultivators. Population growth on the limited
cultivable land available has led to substantial emigration to the western
part of the Highlands where land of somewhat lower quality is available.
Soavina-a scheme completed in 1962 but now to be rehabilitated under the
first tranche of the project-is one such westward settlement, composed
principally of immigrant rice growers from the densely populated faritany
of Ambositra. The second region, the west, is hot; rainfall is usually
under 700 mm annually; and the dry season is very long. There, farming
conditions are excellent in the river valleys, the -baiboho, where much
Elood recession cultivation is practiced. There are also several large
irrigation schemes in the west. Livestock rearing in this area is widely
practiced by populations which are somewhat nomadic. The Androy of Behara,
another scheme to be rehabilitated under the first tranche, are an
example. Many such cattle owners, however, are slowly becoming sedentary
farmers.  The settlers in the Onilahy valley, which includes Belamoty, a
third rehabilitation scheme also in the west, are an example of livestock
owners who have become cultivators within the last century. In the west,
the main irrigated crops are rice and cotton, while pois .du cap (butter
beans) are produced for export. The third region, the warm and wet humid
east coast, has a highly productive agriculture. Westbound winds drop much
of their moisture in this area, before they reach the Highlands. Annual
rainfall in excess of two meters is the rule. Certain areas, such as the
ports of Toamasina and Moroantsetra, receive three meters or more.
Agriculture is relatively intensive, and most export crops, cloves,
vanilla, coffee, are produced in this area. Rice irrigation is practiced
in river bottoms; rainfed rice is also common.
2.02      Throughout the island, family farms are small, nearly always less
than ten hectares and frequently less than a hectare, including both rice
paddies and the -tanety- or rain-fed fields. Animal traction is common. -
Rapid population growth has contributed to the small size of individual
farm plots, especiallv in the Highlands where population has been sedentary
for centuries-. In tile recently settled areas of the west, plots and farms
tend to be larger.



-8-
2.03      Rice is by far the most important irrigated crop, although there
are small areas of irrigated cotton and sugar cane. Abouc two-thirds of
the population cultivates at least some paddy. Traditional yields of paddy
on irrigated land are generally close to two tons per hectare in the warm
(rainy) season, the so called  second" seasoa because it begins late in the
caleadar year, and about 1.5 tons in the dry season ("first" season). As
noted, in the Highlands, low temperatures in the dry season make
rice-cultivation a risky and low yielding crop. In. the lower parts of the
Soavina scheme, at an altitude of 1100 m, some double cropping is practiced
aLthough the length of crop cycles may require laad preparation of the
second season before completion of the harvest of the first season.
Irrigated dry season yields in Soavina are typically 1.3 t of paddy per
hectare. L/ On average rainfed rice yields about 1 t paddy per hecrare,
although yields may be subscantially higher if such rice is grown in the
semi-irrigated conditions of river bottoms or in the water-retainirg
paddies of the deteriorated schemes. Paddy yields on the large parastatal
schemes (para 2.06) probably exceed 2.5 c on average, and may exceed 3 t.
This is however much below their potectial because of substantial
deterioration of these schemes.
B.. Physical Decerioration of Schemes
2.04     The deterioration of the schemes, both large and small, may take
the form of a catastrophic event. The pressures--literally--on che various
irrigation works are heaviest during the Periods of maximum river flow
during the high rainy season. Followiag storms, the dikes, canals, intake
works, any of these, may suddenly collapse because of the water pressure,
with consequences such as iaundation, croP land covered with sand, and
greatly reduced flow-through into the irrigatioa canals. The
non-parastacal schemes have largely relied on their own devices for repairs
after such events.  The repairs have oftea been inadequate so that the
ability to withstand future shocks is dirairjshed. Hence with the pasSage
of time the probability of disaster and che economic loss associated With
any given period of high water-flow has increased. There is also 510w
deterioration which gradually reduces the hectares which can be irrigated
in any scheme: canals gradually silt up with sand carried into the System;
they also lose water at leaky seams and breaks along their courses. As a
consequence the capacity for carrying wacer by any given canal system has
diminished. Finally, the drainage systems - drains and outlets of various
kinds - have deteriorated so that land has become marshy and unsuitable for
cultivation or may be inundated at flood-crests, when the river backs into
the drainage svstem or breaks through proteccive dikes.
2.05      In the three schemes of che Project's first tranche (para 2.01),
the combined effect of these various kinds of deterioration has reduced
paddy irrigation to nearly half of design capacity. In Soavina, of the
1,200 hectares served bv canals, about 200 hectares cannot now be used in
the wet season because of regular back-up inundationr by the river. Another
100 ha are lost because they have been covered with river sand. Ia
1/    One ton of paddy equals about .65 cons of rice.



-9-
Belamoty and in Behara, sand in the canal-system has reduced their capacity
for carrying water so that much of the down-stream land ia the schemes does
not receive enough water to permit paddy irrigation. For the three only
about 60Z of the areas served by canals can now be irrigaced (Annex Table
21).
C. Institutional Deterioration of Schemes
2.06      The Government of Madagascar has classified irrigation schemes
into four types:
(a)    Family rice fields developed and maintained by farmers
themselves, may cover as much as 500,000 ha and range in size
from one are to perhaps 5 ha. They involve terracing of valley
bottoms, diverting water from streams and simple storage dams.
(b)    Small schemes, developed through local initiative with and
without Government support. Their size varies from 5 ha to 1,000
ha; the total is about 300,000 ha. In many cases these
traditional systems are operated by local commuaities, and
require few nom-labor inputs for their maintenance.
(C)    Medium schemes were largely built with financing from FNDE (Fonds
National de Developpement Economique, that is the investment
budget), although frequently FNDE resources had their origia in
foreign aid.  The surplus rice produced in such schemes is
usually sold at local markets. There are about 116 such schemes
with a total area under canals of about 142,000 ha (an average of
1,224 ha); in part because of deterioratioa of the irrigation
works, actual amount irrigated is about 79,000 ha. In theory at
least, the Ministry of Agriculture has primary responsibility for
running these schemes with some support from the local
authorities. The proposed Project would coacentrate on
rehabilitating about 16 of these schemes.
(d)    Large schemes were designed and constructed with external
financing, and are operated and maintained by parastatal
authorities reporting to the Ministry of Agriculture (MPARA).
Land irrigated is about 80,000 ha and most of che surplus rice
production is consumed in the large cities. The most importaut
schemes are SOMALAC (Lac Alaotra area), FIFABE (Marovoay area),
SAMANGOKY (Maagoky scheme), SODEMO (Morondava scheme) and the
Andapa Basin Authority.
2.07      The large and medium schemes, (c) and (d) above, form the
official system. Their management, maintenance, operation, repair, and
finances are responsibilities of the Ministry of Agriculture (MPARA).  In
the case of the large schemes, SAMANGOKY, SOMALAC and so forth, these
responsibilities rest with the associated parastacals. Low output prices,
poor Labor discipline, inflated cost structure, including substantial



- 10 -
overmanning, inadequate maintenance, weak cost recovery and shortage of
experienced middle management have brought extremely high financial losses,
sharp decreases in output and grave deterioration in the physical works.
The main large irrigation schemes are receiving external assistance for
physical rehabilitation and management support. IDA is currently active in
two of these: the Lac Alaotra Rice Intensification Project which includes
substantial civil works to reconstruct irrigation and drainage structures.
The rehabilitation work at SAMANGOKY is described in para 2.16.
2.08      The problems in the medium schemes are-similar, if less
spectacular, to those of the large schemes. TIeir operation, maintenance
and repairs have been the responsibility of the XPARA acting through its
Directorate of Rural Infrastructure (DIR). Maintenance and repairs of
these schemes have been defective in part because of inadequate financial
allocations. But deterioration has increased further because of the
failure to encourage cultivators to carry out that maintenance of which
they are capable. The traditional irrigation schemes usually are small and
are managed by the farmers themselves. They do not have the management
problems of the larger schemes. Since the traditional schemes have
substantial potential for increasing production, they have also attracted
Government and external support.  The resultiag projects have been limited
to the improvement of water inlet structures and, in certain cases,
drainage outlets, whose construction is beyond the technical ability of the
farmers. At least 2,000 traditional schemes have been improved in this
manner, affecting more than 80,000 ha of irrigated land. The FED has been
the largest foreign donor in chis area.
D. Subsector Institutions
2.09      GovernmeLt reorganized the Ministry of Agriculture (MPARA) in
1982. Four of the five resulting Directorates would be heavily involved in
the project and are therefore described here. The Directorate of Rural
Infrastructure (DIR), the successor to Genie Rural, has three central
services (Chart 2). Its Service de l'Irrigation is in charge of planning
and implementing engineering works in all Government-managed schemes. The
Service includes a "division des &tudes(design division), a rehabilitation
division and an irrigation infrastructure division. The rehabilitacion
division is in charge of supervising rehabilitation work, whereas the
irrigation infrastructure division, with the assistance of three
expatriates, is in charge of supervising studies and works on new schemes.
Oa large schemes, managed by parastatals, the DIR is responsible for
supervising feasibility and other studies, inviting and evaluating tenders
and preparing contracts, and supervising irrigation work. The Directorate
icself has usually prepared the detailed designs and supervised the
contractors for medium schemes. It is clear that the DIR has much
experience and competence in managing firms to carry out the engineering
aspects of scheme rehabilitation (design work, execution, supervision).
Notwithstanding the existence of the Rehabilitation Division, following the
transfer of most construction and land preparation equipmeat of the mobile
brigades of Genie Rural to a parastatal, the Ministry virtually has ceased



- 11 -
to carry out scheme repair and maintenance. The Service de Gestion des
Reseaux Hydrauliques (Irrigation Scheme Management Service) is responsible
for operation, maintenance and development of the medium irrigation
schemes. Its functions include managing the DIR's irrigation personnel at
the medium schemes, coordination with other agricultural services, and
assistance in the yet to be established scheme-level water management
committees (para. 2.14). In 1983 the budget for operation and management
of the service was FMG 600 million ($US1.1 million), almost all of which
went to pay staff. The Service de l'Ame'nagement Rural operates the
Toamasina grain silo, and several edible oil mills. Each of the above
services also has corresponding provincial level services. In turn the six
regional services, one in each faritany, are responsible for the 17
administrative circonscriptions'. The Directorate's staff of 1,400
includes 33 engineers, many trained in Strasbourg, France, as well as three
French expatriate engineers. Many senior level staff are recent graduates
who lack experience and need professional guidance. The DIR's experience
in setting up and supervising civil works, and its grass roots organisation
would be important positive elements in implementing the proposed Project.
2.10      The Directorate for Agricultural Extension (Direction de la
Vulgarisation Agricole, DVA) has a total staff of about 4000 (ldd 1984) and
a budget (in 1983) of FMG 927 million. At the national level, the
Directorate has three services: Plant Protection, Support to Extension,
and Coordination with Research. As with the DIR, these services are also
found at the faritany levels. At the next lower level there are the
"circonscriptions de vulgarisation agricole" (CIRVA). Below the CIRVAs are
extension zones (corresponding approximately to fivondronana) and finally
the extension cells, with each cell having - ideally - five extension
agents. Usually one or two cells work on a medium irrigation scheme.
There are about twenty agronomists based in Antananarivo and about fifty in
the provincial services and CIRVA. Zone chiefs often have six years of
secondary school and extension agents usually have three. With over 80% of
the DVA budget used to pay salaries, the extension service lacks funds for
transport and field activities. Hence the field services are out of touch
with the central services and their activity is neither monitored nor
evaluated. Applied research is very limited, and in the last decade, DVA
has developed few, if any, new extension themes. Lack of agricultural
inputs, of improved seeds and of agricultural credit have compounded the
problems of the extension services. The IFAD Highland Rice Project, active
in two CIRVA in the Highlands (Antsirabe and Ambositra), is providing
operating and transport support and a new approach (training and visit) for
extension work. Under the proposed project, the DVA would work intensely
to increase yields on schemes to be rehabilitated. Hence the proposed
project would provide considerable technical assistance to the DVA.
2.11      The Programming Directorate (DP) prepares the investment programs
in agriculture. It has received IDA support under the First Agricultural
Institutiops Technical Assistance Project which provides technical
a3sistance for training in this task. Technical assistance is also being



- 12 -
provided to improve the Directorate's monitoring and evaluation of
projects. The statiscical service within the Directorate of Programming is
charged with processing agricultural data generated by the agricultural
extension service.  The DP Is to be the coordinator for the proposed
project (paras 3.05-3.08).
2.12      MPARA's recencly created Directorate for Finance and Personnel 's
responsible for establishing the Ministry's budget, for administering and
coatrolling its execution, and for managing all external financial
resources supporting agriculture. (This would include the proposed
project.) Under the First Agricultural Institutions Technical Assistance
Project, the Directorate also is receiving technical assistance to carry
out these tasks.
E.  Medium Schemes: Maintenance, Operations, Finances, Land Tenure
2.13      Most medium schemes were built between 1945 and 1970, typically
during the colonial period (Annex Table 18.)  The approach to cheir
operation has been a ihighly centralized one in which the cultivators on the
schemes were initially considered as tenants or wards while the mobile
construction brigades of the Ministry of Agriculture's Genie Rural were to
perform required repairs and maintenance.  The effectiveness of these
brigades dropped dramatically during the 1970's, and they have been phased
out.  In addition a "chef de reseau", was posted to each scheme --and still
is-- to provide scheme management. Scheme maintenance has been very
defective and largely limited to the cleaning of the primary and secondary
canals by the water-users. The irrigation works (water intakes, desilting
basins, weirs, dikes, drains, overpasses, access tracks) have coasequently
deteriorated. When damaged, they have frequently not been repaired,
although in most cases had funds been available, purchase of equipment and
supplies would have been possible. Cost recovery has not been practiced on
the schemes due in part to past Government policy and the power of local
interest groups, but perhaps more recently also because -of Government
inability to collect the money. The problems of handling receipts through
the public fiaance and accounting systems are grave and the tax collection
mechanisms ia the rural areas are very weak: the national property taxes
once collected at the local level have largely disappeared, as well as the
tax rolls according to which they were levied.
2.14      By 1981, the widespread deterioration of the medium schemes had
touched off a discussion within Government towards developing a viable
alternative approach to scheme operation and maintenance (O and M). The
result was the body of legislation of 1981-1982 (Annex 2). This
legislation foresees establishment of scheme level Water Management
Committees (WMC) consisting of Government representatives, including the
DIR's "chef de reseau' and representacives elected by the users. Ideally,
the WMC takes decisions based on discussions in which user-representatives
would voice their demands; 0 and M proposals are presented by the -chef de
reseau'; users receive guidance for management of the tertiary and



S                          - 13-
quarternary networks. A dina - a traditional solemn contract - would
spell out the mutual obligations of the Government and the WMC. In brief,
WMC are to manage water-distribution, and provide for adequate scheme
operation, maintenance and repairs. To make this possible, the legislation
stipulates that user charges for water are to be collected under Government
authority and would be administered by the WMC under the direction of the
on-site -chef de r&seau" but Government would also substantially subsidize
O and M. Paradoxically, the laws also include provision for collection of
charges to cover some part of the costs of scheme rehabilitation.  IDA's
position is that both the proposed subsidy and the proposed development tax
are undesirable (paras. 4.07-4.08).  The laws do not give the WMC or the
users, say as an association, the right to make contracts, collect funds,
or disburse them. Nor do they delegate this to local government. To the
present the WMC have not been organized except in perhaps four schemes; and
these four have not been effective.  The need to develop institutions for
scheme 0 and M remains, since failure to develop such institutions is the
basic reason why there has been such widespread deterioration at the medium
schemes. This is addressed under the proposed project.
2.15      Most land is cultivated by the de facto owner on the majority of
the schemes to be rehabilitated under the Project, and ownership rights
have evolved according to Madagascar's traditionil land tenure rights. In
some cases, such as Soavina (para 2.01), which was developed under the
Government's program of "Aire de Mise en Valeur Rurale (zone for rural
development), land tenure contracts between the Government and the users
were established at the time the scheme was constructed but are now out of
date. In selecting schemes for rehabilitation under the proposed Project,
land tenure arrangements and any issues specific to the scheme would be
reviewed. The impact of the proposed rehabilitation on land values-and
the likely community production response to these opportunities will be
assessed initially during scheme-selection and evaluated in the associated
base-line survey (para 3.07).
F. The Mngoky Scheme
2.16      As mentioned, the proposed project would assist the
rehabilitation of the Lower Mangoky River Valley Development Agency
(SAMANGOKY), the large parastatal irrigation scheme in the fertile delta of
the Mangoky, on the western coast. Of SAMANGOKY's 7,770 ha under canals,
7,000 can be irrigated productively about equally divided between paddy and
cotton cultivation. Deterioration at SAMANGOKY, as a direct result of poor
maintenance, is illustrative Of the kinds of physical deterioration found
on the medium schemes. The Mangoky scheme is a gravity irrigation network
supplied by a river intake. A dike for protection from river flood waters
suffered a break of several hundred m in 1983 and required emergency
repairs to avoid a second break in the coming rainy season. The intake on
the Mangoky river feeds water into a main canal through a desilting basin.
As the dredger for the desilting basin has broken down, the basin and much
of the primary canal have silted up and are no longer effective.
Irrigation is through concrete-lined and prefabricated concrete canals,



- 14 -
most of which are above ground. Many of these leak and require resealing.
The drainage system is excensive, but has become in part ineffective. The
resulting high water table has caused soil salinisation and reduced yields
of cotton.
2.17      SAMANGOKY has suffered large annual losses which continue (Annex
Table 15). To restore financial balance, the scope of SAMANGOKY's tasks
and responsibilities have been reduced: Civil works for extension of the
irrigation scheme, which were to be executed by SAMANGOKY, have been
contracted out. SAHANGOKY's cropping activity is being reduced and acreage
is leased to large enterprises, such as SOTEMA, a cotton textile company.
These will be responsible for all aspects of land preparation. In rice
production, farmers are substituting draught oxen and human labor for
mechanical land preparation by SAMANGOKY.  In irrigation, the
responsibilicy nf SAMANGOKY will be limited to operation and maintenance of
the main it:rigation and drainage canals. Farmers will be required to
maintain I..ertiary and quaternary canals and to pay higher water-fees than
in the pAst. SAMANGOKY's staff is gradually being brought down to a
reasonatle level.  In late 1984 total employees were 460, Less than half of
the tot-lI of two years earlier.
2.18      SAMANGOKY is also introducing individual standard contracts which
should encourage production, by giving cultivators incentives to improve
their plots. It gives usufruct rights to the surviving spouse or one of
the adult children of farmers who paid regularly their water fees provided
the heirs continue to meet such payments. The demand for these new
contracts far exceeds the number available and only farmers who have paid
their debts to SAMANGOKY are being considered for the new contracts.  In
the case of cotton, farmers with a history of low yields (less than 1.8 t
per ha) are being discouraged from signing contracts, since at lower yields
the high water charges would mean a relatively low return to their labor.
G. Subsector Issues
2.19      The main current issues peculiar to the sub-sector can be
summarized as follows:
(i)    Planning.  The Government needs to establish a general strategy
for dealing with the many issues involved in irrigation, flood
control, and erosion conctrol. This strategy should guide the
Government in carrying out daily activities, in dealing with the
recurring hurricanes and in development programs. A plan
consistent with the strategy is also ceeded for carrying out
effectively the many rehabilitation investments which donors are
likely to support ia the near future. This is particularly
urgent as an aid to improved coordination of external financing.
The proposed Project would contribute substantially toward this
goal (paras 3.01 and 3.02).



- 15 -
(ii)   Operation.  Operation of the schemes can be improved at all
levels. A strategy is needed to clarify institutional
arrangements, help strengthen and coordinate Government services
to the schemes, and develop appropriate management systems. A
basic consideration here is the optimal distribution of tasks
between Government and others. Hitherto, Government and
parastatals have clearly been overburdened. But alternative
arrangements for irrigation maintenance and operation (0 and M)
remain to be developed. The proposed Project would move from
administrative procurement to greater reliance on decentralized
market activities for provision of agricultural inputs and
irrigation services. It would also institute scheme level
management of 0 and M.
(iii)  Finance.  Insufficient cash flow and inability to acquire inputs
are a serious and pervasive problem, most clearly seen in the
larger schemes. The legislation of 1981-82 to introduce
irrigation cost recovery on the official schemes needs to be
completed. In part because of the strong political resistence
which its engenders, adequate cost recovery merely to fund 0 and
K remains one of the risky elements in the proposed Project. To
reduce this risk, several institutional innovations are included
to support'scheme level finance of 0 and M at the schemes to be
rehabilitated (paras. 4.06-4.10).
(iv)   Economic considerations.  Investment cost per hectare depends on
the degree of rehabilitation and improvement, including the
degree of water control desired. There has been considerable
discussion in Madagascar on the trade-off between more capital
intensive irrigation works, with greater demands for
sophisticated management compared to simpler improvements which
are less demanding of 0 and M but less promising for boosting
production. This issue would be addressed in the proposed
Project's studies of the individual schemes. It is believed that
priority should usually be given to rehabilitation rather than
new developments, because of presumably lower costs per benefit
gained. This is probably true, but the possibility of developing
new schemes with superior benefit-cost ratios should not be
dismissed as a long run consideration.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for Bank Group Involvement
3.01      Production of irrigated rice on the medium-sized  schemes makes
an important contribution to one of Madagascar's immediate agricultural
goals: food self-sufficiency. In part the means to this goal are to
consist of restoring infrastructure and returning to agriculture's
production frontier", that is attain the level of production implied by
efficient use of all existing resources. In this perspective the proposed



- 16 -
Project has potential which goes well beyond the 17,100 ha to be
rehabilitated through it in that it is designed to develop a systematic
approach to scheme rehabilitation which could be progressively applied to
the estimated 140,000 ha in medium schemes and part of the 300,000 ha in
the small schemes. Hence it also could directly benefit a substantial part
of the farming population. In order to realize this approach the Project
includes a heavy technical assistance component at MPARA to develop
ministerial machinery to select, prepare and implement scheme
rehabilitations, both during and after Project implementation. This
machinery is to be designed so as to encourage other external financing
agencies to participate in the overall rehabilitation program, assuring a
good economic rate of return to any funds so invested.  In its emphasis on
self-finance and self-management at the scheme level, the Project is to
develop a general alternative to the reliance on government management and
funding which has led to the maintenance failure and widespread
deterioration in the infrastructure of the schemes. This approach, if
successful, would assure adequate operation and maintenance for the medium
schemes. The Project is, therefore, the pilot phase in a long term program
for rehabilitation of the medium schemes, and perhaps some of the small
schemes as well.
B. General Description
3.02      The project would support the rehabilitation of and about 16
medium sized irrigation networks, irrigating a total area of about 17,100
ha, and of the large-scale SAMANGOKY scheme. It would include an important
institution-building component to reinforce planning and management
capacity, for the Ministry of Agriculture and for individual schemes, and
specific irrigation rehabilitation works. For each network, the
rehabilitation cycle would start with a planning exercise, involving both
MPARA technicians and on-scheme representatives. It would include a
socio-economic review leading to a feasibility study and conclusions on
scheme-management arrangements, and then execution of civil works per se.
The result of this exercise would be, for each scheme, a rehabilitated
irrigation network and agreed mechanisms for financing and maintaining it
on a self-sustaining basis in the future. Project investment costs also
include certain expenditures in support of agricultural development
(preparation studies, travel support to extension staff), although most
such expenditures are to be financed through parallel programs like the
on-going IFAD-supported Highland Rice Project, or the FED technical
assistance in the Toliary region, and through input-purchases by farmers
themselves.   Output increases including that of SAMANGOKY would be
achieved by expanding the area under irrigation in the schemes, by
increasing yields per ha and by additional double cropping.
3.03      Reconstruction would normally be designed to restore existing
structures and to avoid further deterioration of the schemes, but in some
instances would also include correction of design flaws (for example
improvement of desilting structures). Works to improve water control above
the original standa-ds would be undertaken if they prove economically
justified and if it is probable that users will have the higher degree of
discipline required for successful management and increased production.
Detailed engineering design is being completed on the three first schemes



- 17 -
selected under this process which would be rehabilitated during 1985 and
1986. These will be a model for the additional rehabilitation works, which
would nonetheless, be the subject of individual planning exercises. The
expectation is that rehabilitation programs and management arrangements
will vary substantially, according to local circumstances, from relatively
sophisticated schemes involving substantial capital investments, to
relatively inexpensive repair works to support a simple gravity scheme.
Criteria governing choice of technology appropriate to each scheme have
been discussed and would be reviewed at negotiations; the central issues
would be ability to maintain schemes and the economic return to proposed
investments.
3.04      The Project includes, therefore, the following components:
(a)    Management support for the MPARA, primarily through a
broad-based technical assistance program to support the
several dimensions of the rehabilitations (civil works,
scheme finances and 0 and M, agricultural development);
(b)    Civil works for reconstruction of medium irrigation
schemes including pre-investment studies and planning for
scheme operations and maintenance to be carried out by
consultants; and
Cc)    Rehabilitation of the Mangoky scheme, including technical
assistance, rehabilitation works, maintenance equipment
and studies.
C. Detailed Description
3.05      Management Support for MPARA.  MPARA, the executing agency for
the project, would manage implementation through four of its five
Directorates and a Coordinating Committee, most of whose members are MPARA
Directors (para. 4.05). (Project organization is shown in Chart 1.) This
Committee has overall steering responsibility to assist a Project
Coordinator, in the MPARA Programmes Directorate (DP), who as the general
manager of the Project, would be responsible for overall project
implementation, planning, management and coordination. He also serves as
Secretariat to the Coordinating Committee. Line responsibility for the
functions set out below will be handled by the MPARA Directorates
indicated:
(a)    Directorate of Rural Infrastructure (DIR) --engineering
design, civil works, and on-scheme arrangements for
self-finance and management;



- 1.8 -
(b)    Extension Service (DYA) -al' aspects of agricultural
development related to the project; and
(c)    Finance Directorate (DFP) -financial management and
controls.
3.06      Effective management by MPARA's directorates and the Coordination
Committee is of critical importance for successful impleamentation of the
project. But MPARA's shortage of experienced personnel, office-space,
office equipment, vehicles, and support for staff travel (official travel
indemnities for civil servants can cover only a small part of per-diem
expenses) would greatly reduce Project effectiveness. The Project
therefore includes measures to alleviate each of these shortcomings where
it bears most directly ou implementation. The proposed technical
assistance to MPARA of 29 man/years would be on board for four years and
includes:
(i)    a senior advisor to the Project coordinator to assist him
in financial control, preparation of the annual Project
budgets and work programs, review of feasibility studies,
and contract preparation and management;
(ii)   an agricultural economist to assist the DVA in organizing
and supervising the baseline agro-economic studies (para.
3.07' on schemes to be rebabilitated, including training
of interviewers; formulating and reviewing the
agricultural development plans for each scheme;
introducing effective monitoring and evaluation
mechanisms; preparing annual work plans and reports for
the directore's activities under the project, including
working out support activities with cooperating services;
(iii)  a training/extension specialist in the DVA to re-train the
local extension services for the various planning tasks
(ii above) and their implementation;
(iv)   a senior advisor to the DIR to assist in supervising the
engineering consultants firms, in reviewing the list of
priority schemes for future rehabilitation, in reviewing
preliminary and detailed engineering designs and in
preparing the directorate's annual work program and
reports under the project;
(v)    a rural institutions advisor to the DIR to assist water
management committees in organization and operations
(para. 4.09);
(vi)   two senior irrigation engineers to assist provincial
irrigation services in appraising, selecting and
supervising the consulting engineers for irrigation
rehabilitation works; and



- 19 -
(vii) an advisor, in the DP, in project evaluation and
monitoring (para. 4.14).
3.07      Under the Project those members of the extension services working
on schemes t;o be rehabilitated will receive additional training, guidance
and equipment from MPARA to carry out or to help carry out the baseline
surveys and work out the agricultural development plans [para 3.06 (ii)].
The baseline surveys will include a brief history of the scheme; data on
production, population, production techniques and inputs used; land tenure
situation; marketing channels, input availabilities, prices, storage
capacities, family incomes, principal cash crops. These surveys will be
used in the economic feasibility study, and as basic inputs in developing a
Five Year Plan of agricultural development of the scheme. In addition
there will be an annual implementation plan based on the Five-Year Plan
(para. 4.11).  Implementation of the agrecultural development plan will
require the cooperation of existing organizations, including
market-oriented operators, for its execution and will use resources
independently available. Government has agreed that the Five Year
Agricultural Plan for each scheme to be rehabilitated would be submitted to
the relevant cofinancier for review. Governmet also agreed that IDA would
review and approve the Five Year Agricultural Plans for the schemes to be
financed under the IDA credit.
3.08      The agricultural development plan of each scheme would define the
technical packages and their delivery system. In the Highlands,
agricultural technical packages are well known as a result of intense
research carried out until ten years ago under the GOPR program. 2/ There
are also technical packages which remain cost effective for areas outside
the highlands area. The agricultural research institute, FOFIFA, and the
FAO-financed Madagascar Fertilizer Program are doing research in the area
to confirm the validity of the existing packages and to develop new ones.
The Norwegian-financed FIFAMANOR dairy and wheat extension Project and the
French-financed KOBAMA flour mill project are conducting research on
cultivation of wheat as an off-season irrigated crop in the Highlands.
3.09      Capital investment under this component includes pick-up
vehicles, four-wheel drive sedans, motorbicycles, bicycles, construction of
offices and office equipment (Annex, Table 6).
3.10      Civil Works:  Medium Schemes.  Preliminary engineering designs
have been completed for three schemes, Soavina, Belamoty and Sehara, with
3,100 ha under canals. Their rehabilitation will constitute the first
civil works tranche. Rehabilitation works will normally be limited to
essential i.rigation structures including primary and secondary canals, but
not tertiary and quarternary canals which are entirely maintained by the
users. For the first phase program, the civil works would include repair
of:
2|   'Groupement Operationel pour la Productivite Rizicole, a FED
supported program during 1965-73 to provide increased rice production
through extension work and dissemination of technical packages.



- 20 -
(i)    1.5 km of flood protection dikes (1,500,000 m3 of
earth-fills);
(ii)   river intakes and drain outlets;
(iii) desilting structures (cleaning and enlargement);
Civ)   40 km of canal embankments (100,000 m3 of earth-fills);
(v)    concrete lining of 20 km of canals (100,000 mi2);
(vi)   water-level control structures; and
(vii) scheme service roads.
The content of the civil works for the remaining 13 schemes would vary by
scheme and would be defined during the planning for scheme rehabilitation
(paras. 4.01 to 4.03).
3.11      Rehabilitation of access roads would not be financed under the
Project. If access is a serious problem, however, the scheme in question
would not be rehabilitated until repair of the needed access road had
begun. Agreement on this point was reached at negotiations. The Ministry
of Public Works, which is a member of the ad hoc Coordinating Committee,
will be consulted in situations where access is a problem.
3.i2      Reihabilitation of the Kangoky Irrigation Scheme: The most urgent
works in the Mangoky scheme are being carried out in 1984-85 with funds
from the Mangoky Agricultural Development Project. These include
re-outfitting the dredge; closing the breaks in the protective dike; and
reconstruction of a secondary canal. The proposed Project would finance:
ij    the cleaning of the desilting basin, of the headworks, and of the
access canal;
Cii)   resealing the concrete section joints, primarily for the 100 km
of raised canals which require special polyethylene and
polyurethane seals;
Ciii) rehabilitation of 45 km of service roads;
(iv)   repair of the river-intake gate and of irrigation gates;
(v)    improving the main drain outlets;
(vi)   equipment to make possible improved maintenance of irrigation
structures (spare parts for the floating dredger in the
de-silting basin; power shovels to clean drains and canals;
specially equipped boats to mow weeds growing in the larger
drains; graders, trucks, motorcycles and other vehicles; small
compressors and other small civil works equipment, and painting
equipment);



- 21 -
(vi)    technical assistance in cost accounting.
3.13      The three senior technical assistants-hitherto financed by the
CCCE--will be financed in late 1985 through 1987 under the IDA supported
Cotton Development Project. They include an agronomist who is responsible
for agricultural operations; an engineer responsible for planning and
carrying out the maintenance of the irrigation system; an engineer
responsible for restoring the repairs garage and spare parts depot to
effective operations. Under the proposed Project the fourth long-term
technical assistant is being financed to develop a system of analytical
cost accounting for SAM&NGOKY and to oversee its implementation- involving
training on the job - and integration into SAMANGOMY's operations. (To
the present it is difficult for SAMANGOKY to distribute its costs by
categories such as maintenance, extension, agricultural production,
marketing and so forth. Determination of costs of services and inputs
received by different producers - farmers by size of plot, large farms and
so forth - is also a time consuming and ad hoc cxercise).
3.14      In complement to the physical restoration and basic
reorganization, SAMANGOKY's management has redefined and reduced its
objectives (para 2.17). SAMANGOKY now provides water for irrigation (which
requires managing and maintaining the irrigation network); provides
extension services; and sells agricultural inputs and equipment.
Managemnat has also worked out a Five Year Work Program with a view to
obtaining full recovery of operating costs (para 3.15). The updated
version of this plan was reviewed at negotiations. It requires a further
reduction in SAMANGOKY employees from 408 at the end of 1984 to 313 by
1988. It includes payment by Government of the local costs of project
items to be imported in 1985 (FMG 183 million); a capital contribution by
the Government (FMG 597 million); conversion of part of Samangoky's short
term debt into a 10 year loan to the BTM (FMG 260 million) for FMG 1,040
million in total. It also includes annual payments from Government for
maintenance of the headworks structures (FUG 245 million in 1986, and FMG
67 million in succeeding years). SAMANGOKY would be profitable by 1988
(Annex, Table 15 ) given valuation of capital at historical prices.
3.15      Several elements in the Five-Year Rehabilitation Plan are
crucial. In 1984, 46% of SAMANGOKY's useful land was cultivated. In the
Plan 97% is to be cultivated by 1986, while because of double cropping,
ha cultivated would be 112% of ha available. By 1988, ha cultivated should
be 124% of ha available (7,700 ha), at which time most rice land would be
double cropped. In addition, substantial increases in cotton yields and,
to lesser degree, rice yields are foreseen. To achieve these objectives
SAMANGOKY is radically reorganizing its relations with its clients. In
addition to individuals, private and public farms are entering into
long-term contracts with SAMANGOKY in which SAMANGOKY supplies land and



- 22 -
water against a fixed rent. These would account for about 60Z of total
cultivation in 1988. (In late 1984, such contracts covered five firms for
2,150 ha). Individual cultivators would still till 40Z of SAMANGOKY's land
in 1988. They are being selected on the basis of past performance (para
2.18) and will pay higher water charges than in the past. !i the case of
paddy these will be 500 kg per ha per crop cycle. Average yields at
SAMANGOKY are 3.6 t per ha. This makes returns per ha, after payment of
the user charge, far higher than returns on Highland irrigation where
yields are 2 t per ha. Notwithstanding the continuing fiscal burden of
SAMANGOKY, Government believes that further increases in user-charges are
not currently feasible, perhaps because of the radical changes in
cultivator relations at SAMANGOKY which are still underway (paras
2.17-2.18).  At negotiations it was agreed that execution of this plan
including the cash contribution of FKG 597 million to Samangoky would be a
condition of disbursement for the Samangoky component of the project.
3.16      Participation of Cofinanciers. The principal cofinanciers (CCCE,
FED and IDA) have worked together intensively through Project preparation
and appraisal and have expressed agreement in detailed joint aide-memoires
on Project objectives; on division among cofinanciers of financing; on the
mode of operations from selection of scheme through completion of the civil
works. 3/
3.17      IDA would be the principal supporter of institution-building.  It
would finance the technical assistance to MPARA and some of the preparation
studies for future rehabilitation. IDA, along with the other cofinanciers,
would also finance reconstruction of medium schemes. Initially the FED
would concentrate on rehabilitation in the faritany of Toliary, and the
CCCE in the Highlands. The rehabilitation program, updated every year,
would specify the distribution of studies and civil works among
cotinanciers. The Project has been designed with sufficient flexibility so
that if an additional cofinancier wishes to participate, it will be
feasible to engage an additional consulting firm to carry out the studies
needed to permit expanded operation. It would also be possible to use the
same sequence (selection, studies, construction, execution of works) for
some of the traditional schemes should this prove desirable at a later
time.
3/    The basic aide-memoire of the co-financiers is contained in the
Project Implementation Volume.



-23-
D. Project Costs
3.18      As indicated in Table 1, total Project costs are estimated at FKG
22.1 billion (US$29.6 million), of which 61X are in foreign exchange.
Physical contingencies equal to 13% of base-line costs are provided for.
Local inflation is assumed at 14Z per year. International inflation is
taken at SZ and 7.5% for 1985 and 1986, and 8% annually for 1987-1989. The
exchange rate was adjusted for these different rates to preserve its
purchasing power parity of mid-1985.  It moved, therefore, from FM(' 650 to
the US dollar in 1985 to FMG 846 in 1989. Consequently, combined five year
baseline costs in US dollars were inflated only 22Z for price
contingencies. No provisiou for physical contingencies has been included
for staff and equipment for which numbers are clearly established. Because
value added tax and duties on locally procured imported equipment and
material are substantial, taxes are estimated at 16% of total costs, and
burden principally the civil works category. Taxes and duties on technical
assistance, vehicles and equipment directly imported by MPARA or SAMANGOKY
are excluded. Costs by project component are detailed in Annex Tables 1-8.
3.19      The unit or mean investment costs per ha of medium scbeme
rehabilitation for a total of 17,100 ha are assumed equal to those
estimated for the first tranche rehabilitation at the schemes of Behara,
Belamoty and Soavina. Total costs for the medium scheme rehabilitation are
estimated at about $800 per ha. in 1985 prices. The unit costs by category
are detailed in Annex Table 5.'



lbble 1. Sumry Project Costs
Share of     Foreign
ProJect Conut                          loa         Fore         Total    I          Foreg          Tbtal      Ba sote Etxce
FM Mill1,                        US  mi llionX
MPARA 1M   iement Support Co2olnt:
Ctvil Works                            113        210         323        0.2        0.3          0.5          2             65
Epqtriate Staff Studies,
Consultant Fees, hAdits              114      1,024        1,138       0.2         1.6          1.8         8             90
Vehicles, Equlpment and
Furniture                             43        385          428       0.1        0.5          0.6          3             90
Operating Costs                        285        357          692       0.4         0.6          1.0         5             56
Sub-total                              555      1,976        2,531       0.9        3,0          3.9         18             78
Scheus Rehabilitation Ctonunt
Civil Works                          2,414     4,483        6,897        3.7        6.9         10.6         48             65
Ccuultant Fees, Pe-inyesta nt
Studies, Supervision-of Wblsk       292       1,165        1,457       0.4        1.8          2.2         10             80
Scheim Maintenaze and
Operatirg Costs                     62          155         217        0,2        0.1          0.3          2             29
Sub-total                            2,768      5,803       8,571        4.3        8,9         13,2         60             68
SMANOY Qonnt
Civil Works                            464       862        *1,326       0.7         1.3         2.0          9             65
Expatriate Staff, Studies,
Consultant Fees, Atlxts,              3B         10           48       0.1         0.0         0.1          1             20
Vehicles, Equipuent                     O         276          296        0.0        0.5          0.5         2             93
Worklng Capital                      1,486        OOD        1.486        2.2        0.0          2.2        10             00
Sub-total                            2,008      1,148        3,156        3.0        1.8         4.8         22             36
la  Mmej  aut                           5,324      8,927       14,251        8,2       13.7         21.9       100             63
Physical rxtirancis                       619      1,IU8        1,807       0.9         I.,         2,7         13             bb
Price Qontigwncles                      2,516      3,570       6,086         2,3        2,7         5.0         22             53
Total Project Gosts                     8,466     13,685       22,152       11.4       18.2        29.6        135             61
(taxes)                                                    (3,536)                              (4.7)        21



- 25 -
E. Proposed Financing
3.20      The IDA Credit of US $12.0 million would finance 41% of Project
costs (Table 2). For the management support component (MPARA), this would
cover 65Z of civil works (para 3.09); 95Z of expatriate staff and studies
(para 3.06); 75Z of vehicles, equipment and furniture (para 3.09); and 36%
of operating costs (travel allowances, para 3.06). Of the scheme
rehabilitation component the IDA credit would cover 30X of rehabilitation
works (para 3.10) and 40% of preinvestment studies and associated
consultant fees (para 4.04). Finally, the Credit would cover 65% of the
rehabilitation works on the Mangoky Scheme (para 3.12) and 100% of
consultant fees, vehicles and equipment (paras 3.12, 3.13). with the
exception of funds for assistance to the Mangoky Scheme, which would be
passed onto SAMANGOKY as a grant, the Government of Madagascar would pass
on all funds to the Ministry of Agriculture (MPARA).  A PPA request is
being processed, primarily for funding for the T.A. Team to MPARA and for
engineering studies for scheme rehabilitation to enable timely Project
start-up and preparatory studies needed for the second tranche of
rehabilitation.
3.21      Co-Financing.  Under parallel arrangements CCCE would finance 25%
of vehicles and equipment for the institution building component (para
3.09), and FAC would finance the monitoring and evaluation advisor (para
3.06, vii). The EDF allocation for 1985 would be ECU 5.3 million (US$4.0
million) to cover the cos0s of rehabilitating the Behara and Belamoty
Schemes in 1985-86; and three additional schemes, also in Toleary Province,
in 1987 and 1988. In 1984 CCCE has committed FF 24 million (US$2.4
million) to the scheme rehabilitation component to cover the-costs of the
Soavina Scheme in 1985-86 and the pre-investment studies of four addition.al
schemes for rehabilitation in 1986 and 1987. CCCE has also scheduled in
1986 about FF 36 million (US$3.6 million) for rehabilitation of four
additional schemes in 1986-88.
3.22      Government's Share.  Over the five year implementation period,
Government's participation is estimated at 10% of total project costs, net
of taxes, as indicated below (US dollar millions):
financial contribution for civil works                        3.9
working capital, SAMANGOKY (para 3.14)                        2.2
incremental operating costs of MPARA                          1.0
7.1
taxes                                                         4.7
net contribution                                              2.4
This amount is reasonable, given the extreme scarcity of Government budget
resources which is expected to continue throughout the project period. IDA
approval of the annual budgets and financing plans of the Project
components would be a condition of disbursement for uncommitted
expenditures financed under the IDA credit. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Government would make available funds required for
project implementation. The level of budget support required and
provisions for it would be specifically reviewed each year as part of th.e
annual work plan exercise.



Table 2.  Proposed Project F'ianeing
Project C9!!!ent:                         Totcal     IDA              - cS           FAC        C4       Beneficiaries        iDA
Tui milLion                                          2
iWARA t!Mgment &~icQoe
CiviU Wbrks                                  0.6       0.4         -        _- _j.2                             -               65
Expatriate Staff, Studies,65
Obnsultant Fees, Audits                    1.5        1.4        -         -         0.1       -              -               93
Vehicles, Equlpsnt and
Fuwniture                                  0.5       0.3         -         0.2       -         -              -               70
OperatLng Costs                              1.1        0.3        -         -                   0.8                             30
Scke Relmbilitation Cboponent
Civil Works                                 12.7        3.8        2.7       4.1       -         2.1             -               30
CDnAultant Fees, Pre-invesutnt
Studies, &zpervision of Works              2.0       0.8         0.5      0.7        -         -              -               40
Schi. HaLnteranoe and
Operatfrg Cbsts                            0.4        -          -         -         -         -              0.4             00
Civil Works                                  2.3        1.5        -         -         -         0.8                            65
BEpatriate Staff, Studles,
Consultant Iees, h dits                    0.1       0.1         -         -         -         -              -              100
Vehicles, Hquipwant and
Iurnictre                                  0.5       0.5         -        -          -        -               -              100
WorkiLg Capital                              2.2       -           -         -         -         2.2            -               00
Refurdving PPA                                  0.8       0.8         -         -         -         -              -              100
Oxbtiroencies (price)                           4.9        2.1        0.8       1.0       0.0       1.0            -               43
Ibtal                                          29.6       12,0        4.0       6.0       0.1       7.1            0.4             41
Percentage                                    100        41          14        20        (1       24                1



- 27 -
F. Procurement and Disbursement Profile
3.23      Procurement procedures are summarized in Table 3.  All civil
works to be financed by IDA (US$10.9 million including GOM contribution)
would be under bidding documents, divided into lots to be proposed by the
consulting engineers and allowing bidding for one, several or all of the
lots. Procurement would be through international competitive bidding and
domestic civil works contractors would be allowed a preferential margin 7*Z
orer the lowest evaluated bid of competing foreign contractors.
Sut-contracting to small regional contractors would be encouraged on the
basis of rules clearly stated in the tender documents. IDA would review:
(i) bidding documents and bid award procedures; and (ii) the bid evaluation
and proposed contracts prior to contract award, for all civil works
estimated to cost over US$100,000. International consultants to be
financed by IDA (US$1.8 million) for the institution building component are
being recruited following IDA guidelines. Consulting services for
pre-investment studies and supervision of works to be financed by IDA
(US$1.1 million) would be procured from local engineering firms, possibly
in joint venture with international firms, following procedures acceptable
to IDA. Four annual lots of vehicles would be procured through
international competitive bidding or shopping among all locally represented
manufacturers with adequate repair facilities. Office equipment and
furniture would be procured based on price quotations from at least three
local or foreign suppliers. Grouped vehicles, equipment and furniture
purchases exceeding US$100,000 would require international competitive
bidding following IDA guidelines and prior IDA approval of bidding
documents, bid evaluation and draft contracts. Purchase of specialized
irrigation and drainage maintenance equipment (US$0.3 million) for the
Mangoky scheme from a single manufacturer would be allowed. Assurances on
these procedures were obtained at negotiations.



- 28 -
F
Taohl 3. ProazeEEit Procedues
ERXd&tur  -CategorDes                          ICB          (7R 1   D,   [      NA.   U1L
--US$ Id IWIcx-
)mAM mmwer- sipport Caipanent
I.  MAIL Wo*                               0.3          0.3        -         -      0.6
(0.2)                      (0.4)
II.  C ltants                               -            1.7        0.1       -      1.8
(1.7)                      (1.7)
m.  Vebcls, Fqdpint ad
Furniture                            0.3          0.4        0.1       -      0.8
(0.4)                      (0.7)
IF.  0ratingC osts 2/                      (0.3)         -          -         1.4    1.4
-                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(0.5)3/ (0.5)
Sqbe ReuaUitati 
L   CLvil Works                            7.2          -          8.5       -     15.7
(4.8)                                   (4.8)
II.  c4ltaat Fees, P
Stwdies, S    saE of                 -            2.8                 -       2.8
(1.1)                      (1.1)
Scbeme gbitemp and
>er-atieg GDsts                                   -          -         0.4    0.4
V.  Civil Wlbks                            3.1          -          -         -      3.1
(2.0)                                   (2.0)
VI.  c'ultant                               -            (0.1)          _ _         (0.1)
VII.  Vebicles, Equpt                        0.3          0.4        -        -       0.7
(0.3)        (0.4) 4/    -        -     (0.7)
Wae1dhmg (Vital                                                         2.2    2.2
]btal  sts (incif               )          11.2          5.7        8.7       4.0   29.6
iBetal Il)                                   (7.6)         (3.9)      (- )     (0.5) (12.0)
V  Snppdxg (thee aw1is), sole surce or cmaatat s         ;orcst.
2/ InCreawd local staff, l1, office   ad vicle operawtig aosts.
31 Travel inammitj  ; trainig.
4/ Tes local c          uettiv bLdddr,g and abo1izg.



- 29 -
M
3.24      The IDA credit would be disbursed as follows (SDR millions):
Schime Rehabilitation and Management Support Components (MPARA)
Category I       Civil Works, 65% of total expenditures        4.2
Category II  :  Consultant Services, 100% of
total expenditures                           2.0
Category III :  Vehicles, Equipment and Office
Furniture, 100% of foreign
expenditures and 90X of local
expenditures                                 0.5
Category IV  :  Travel Cost and Training,
90Z of total expenditures                    0.5
Mangoky Scheme Rehabilitation Component (SAMANGOKY):
Category V       Civil Works, 65% of total
expenditures                                  1.;5
Category VI  :  Consultant Services, 1002 of
total expenditures                           0.2
Category VII :  Vehicles, Equipment, Office Furniture,
100% of foreign expenditures and
902 of local expenditures                    0.7
Category VIII:   Special Account                               0.85
Category IX  :  Refunding of the Project
Preparation Advance                          0.84
Category X       Unallocated                                   1.310
TOTAL:                                                        12.6
The schedule of disbursements is at Annex Table 20. The average
disbursement period for Bank Group financed irrigation projects is 9
years. The proposed credit would disburse more rapidly: The SAMANGOKY
component is in large part for emergency civil works in which time is of
the essence. Detailed engineering work was completed in February, 1985 and
works are scheduled to start in the fall and 93% of the component's



- 30 -
expenditures would occur during the first three project years. The MPARA
management support component is scheduled to fully disburse during the
first four years. This should pose few problems since the technical
assistance team and the Malgache group which they are to support would be
on board from project year one. Most expendit6re for the scheme
rehabilitation component will be for civil works. Work on the last schemes
to be rehabilitated under the project would be scheduled to begin in
project year three. Normally two years would be needed to execute the
simple kind of civil works to be expected under this component.
Nevertheless, three years have been allotted in the Project for each of the
16 schemes to be rehabilitated. The closing date would be June 30, 1991.
Final payments would be completed 6.6 years after Board presentation on
April 30, 1985, that is December 31, 1991.
C. Budgetting, Accounting and Disbursement Procedures
3.25      Accounts will be kept separately for the management support and
scheme rehabilitation components of the Project by the Directorate of
Finance and Personnel (DFP) of the Ministry of Agriculture which is
receiving technical assistance from international consultants under the
ongoing Agricultural Institutions Technical Assistance Project
(Cr.1249-MAG). However, the Project Coordinator will have ultimate
responsibility for project budgetting and accounting. He will submit
annually by September 30, a project execution program, budget and financial
plan for the following year approved by IDA (para 3.22). Project accounts
will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and
their reports would be submitted six months after the end of Government's
fiscal year. Assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations.
3.26      Disbursement Procedures MPARA and Imprest Account.  No
expenditures for vehicles, equipment and operating expenditures and
non-committed expenditures for civil works and consultant services relating
to any year will be eligible for financing under the IDA credit before the
program, budget and financing plan for that year (as prepared by the
Project coordinator para 3.25) have been approved by IDA (para 4.12).
Withdrawals for expenditures will be claimed under the usual Bank
procedures, including reimbursement of expenditures pre-financed by MPARA,
direct payment to suppliers, etc. To facilitate disbursement and to reduce
the number of withdrawal applications to be processed, soon after credit
2ffectiveness, IDA would advance US$0.8 million into a special account with
the Central Bank or other banking institution acceptable to IDA. These
funds would be utilized to begin Project implementation. This should
enable DFP to group claims for reimbursement and submit applications for
withdrawals from the special account of not less than US$20,000 through the
Treasury in the Ministry of Finance (usual channel). The account will be
used to pay for expenditurea in both local and foreign currency directly or
through the commercial banking system, and against all categories of
expenditures. Transactions for all expenditures will be effected using the
exchange rate of the day.



- 31 -
3.27      Disbursements on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).  DPF would
claim reimbursement on the basis of Statements of Expentitures for:
(i)    civil works contracts costing less than US$50,000
equivalent (Disbursement Category I);
(ii)   consulting services contracts costing less than US$50,000
equivalent (Disbursement Category II);
(iii)  vehicles, equipment, furniture and operating costs (travel
allowances) for single items costing less than US$15,000
equivalent (Disbursement Categories III and IV).
Withdrawals for local expenses above these limits and for expenditures in
foreign currency in excess of US$5,000 equivalent would be fully documented
(invoices, evidence of payment, etc.). The suitable format for this was
agreed at negotiations as part of the disbursement letter. DFP will retain
all the relevant supporting documents for reimbursement claims under SOEs
for inspection by supervision missions. During the course of the annual
audit of the Project's accounts, the auditor will be requested to certify
that all expenditures claimed under SOEs during the year have been properly
incurred for the Project.
3.28      Disbursement Procedures SAMANGOKY.  SAMANGOKY's accounting
system, which was instituted under the ongoing Mangoky Agricultural
Development Project (Cr.881-MAG), is adequate for its current activities.
Bank supervision and appraisal missions have, however, identified need for
an analytical budgetting and cost-accounting system. Under the Project,
IDA would finance additional consultant support to design and implement
such a system (para 3.16). SAMANGOKY's 1983 accounts have been audited and
certified by independent auditors.
3.29      Budget review, auditing and disbursement procedures for the
SAMANCOKY component would be similar to those describe-  in paras 3.26 and
3.27:
(i)    annual submission by June 30 of the next annual work
program, budget and financing plan, including Government
cash contribution to maintenance and/:r extension
services, for IDA approval (disbursement condition);
(ii)   accounts audited annually and the audLt report submitted
to IDA within 6 months of the end of SAMANGOKY's fiscal
year;
(iii)  upon credit effectiveness, SAMANGOKY would also draw
against the Special Account (para 3.26);



- 32 -
(iv)   withdrawal applications grouped into lots of not less than
US$20,000 as submitted by SAMANGOKY to the DFP for
processing;
Cv)    disbursement on SOEs to be allowed for civil works and
consulting services costing less than US$50,000
(categories VI and VII) and for single items of vehicles
and equipment costing less than US$15,000 (category VII),
expenditures in foreign exchange above US$5,000 would be
fully documented. At the annual audit, the auditor will
certify all expenditures claimed under SOE's. Assurances
on these arrangements were obtained at negotiations.
H. Environmental and Health Impact
3.30      Through rehabilitation of schemes and through improving
irrigation practices, the Project would slow the degradation of irrigation
land. The increased food production, will lead to improved nutrition for
farm families. The level of health care and hygiene among farmers remains
low, so that schistosomiasis and malaria infections are comon. Since the
populations on the schemes to be rehabilitated are already exposed to these
diseases, increasing the area under irrigation - and the stagnant water
which is necessary for their propagation - would bave slight effect on
their incidence. The overall impact of the Project on the environment and
health status of those affected would be positive.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
4.01      The principal responsibility for project implementation would be
with 4 of MPARA's 5 Directorates; for example project management, planning
and coordination by the Programming Directorate, irrigation-works
rehabilitation by the DIR (Para. 3.05 and Chart 1). A project cQordinator,
already appointed, in the DP would have specific responsibility fo-r overall
project planning, coordination and management. It was agreed at
negotiations that the Project coordinator would have adequate
responsibilities, experience and qualifications and that the borrower would
consult with IDA before makiSng any employment for the position of project
coordinator. A basic project objective is to strengthen the Ministry's
capacity to handle the range of responsibilities involved in rehabilitation
of the medium schemes. Thus a substantial technical assistance component
is included (para. 3.06). In order to ensure that project preparation and
execution of works are well coordinated, an ad hoc coordinating committee
has been established and would meet periodically to consider annual plans
and key documents (para. 4.05). The technical assistance team would also
promote effective coordination in that the advisors would be working in the



- 33 -
several directorates. In addition consulting engineers would be engaged to
prepare individual scheme rehabiltiation design, supervision of
construction, manuals for scheme operation and maintenance, and
agricultural development plans.  Although establishment of water management
committees involves local government responsibility, at the Faritany or
fivondronam-pokontany level, In practice the DIR has sheparded water 0 and
M legislation through its various stages of approval and has exercised
leadership in the very limited development, hitherto, of the WMC. Under
the Project, the DIR would continue to exercise this function but with
reinforcement from the technical assistance team and the consulting
engineers (para 4.07, 4.09).
A. The Sequence of Scheme Rehabilitation
4.02      Selection of Schemes for Rehabilitation.  Three teams set-up by
the Directorate of Rural Infrastructure, each including an economist, an
agriculturalist, an irrigation engineer and a sociologist are carrying out
the inventory of all the medium irrigation schemes. The inventory provides
inter alia basic agro-economic data for each scheme; a preliminary estimate
of the costs of rehabilitating the civil works and the increase in ha
irrlgated as a result (Annex Table 19). The complete inventory should be
ready by 1987. Preliminary selection of schemes for rehabilitation from
the inventory would involve judgment on several criteria. Access, that is
the cost of transportation, will be an important consideration (para
3.11). Motivation of the scheme's cultivators will be a selection
criterion. Whether the scheme fits into a regional rehabilitation strabegy
- is one of a cluster of schemes to be rehabilitated- and the quality and
density of supporting infrastructure, e.g. extension services, availability
of credit, will also be considered. Schemes will also be selected by their
benefit - cost relationships roughly estimated, initially for the option in
which the scheme is restored to its original scope of operations; and
secondly for the option in which restoration would be to the most desirable
level of improvement. To be selected for further processing the ERR must
exceed 14% assuming the persistance of traditional yields; deterioration at
7% a year stopping in 1992; and double cropping at historical rates. At
negotiations agLwament was reached to apply these criteria.



tMUNWE or gW9 We l1ltILTATI3N OV A DIl) IMZ4TICN SUllW.
Otmth of                                                                                                                   Ravtuv ai Approval
clalttxn                                                                                                                     fhrdnittir           Ebr cdca  t be fin
of tak)    WAW/DIR                      IA'IA /LNA           fiult1rw FVjIneery  Gxtnctnionfim f.    ClawW itterar 'inu       Cdmitte"          __r IDA credit
I           -seluct edna tru                                                                                                                           X
bsrentory
5                                        e-bmllmr sLuv                                                                             X
-retrainizrq witar
lion trM affl
altn ctdff
7                                                            -prellirary ergl-                                 X
reerlrE desiDI
8                                                             -leaslbillbty oituy, OMH                                             K                   X
plan (preliminary)
9                                                            -5 yr. 41rl.,d-                                   X                   X (UVA)             X
elopiunt plan
10                                                           ,Ietallal erlrnr-                                                     X                   X
tra dcalV' tr
11                                                           -prepar  bidd%                                                        X
&cwenhI
-bId evutlion/Wntract it                                                                                              X                    X
13                                      -ansl agric. plan                                                      X                   X
-I4,mtatIa  of
14                                       aicisir, plt     n _   puon of   llg       tla  w
16
17                                                                                                     t biplerntaltion),> 
la
-fomitlon Of allr.
aoa tlon
20
21
22                                                                                                     -Zlactin of OC
23
24                                                                                                     96rs/owt.contract                               X
(dim)
2b
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ml N  prvptm~
depwited
36                                                           -pnrupw O/H Mmu                                                       K                   X
37                                                                                  %rzka cizlsctI
42          -Gcmpa wise                                      -e$pt$ wil                                        X
j/    lz ss RWMu d Oftrs  Tauhr surd.
3' Itzt to pay fuU onrUw wnd mlnuarm cts, as well - a prepsynt
to ib d=LtMi before cvil wtdA amu am ted.
y      l wdvw aciLiw an xi     ano  of p rUwr.  ericulbual directorato.
Ur vM  rni    ad 4pns bid evalatim  ad  draft  ntrsct only.
ft  Lh lm  of the foto& tsw    wIs IlJicble. ith DDt wuld nro  go   t tk  tatwpu  dAt. for ghir achlwvan  four sach whistIn ruiablillAtiun.
kim |  u.ar cr aLe Ia)Imt bam.t



p                         - 35 -
4.03      Baseline Surveys.  After the scheme is selected from the
inventory for further processing, MPARA would carry out a baseline survey
of the scheme to determine its agricultural, economic and sociological
characteristics. Agreement on the terms of reference for these surveys,
has been reached (para 3.07). This work would be supported by an
expatriate agricultural economist specially recruited under the Project,
(para 3.06) with field extension agents from the DVA and census agents from
the Directorate of Programming. The Project includes supplementary
operational and travel funds to carry out the surveys and funding for
consultant assistance should this prove desirable. A baseline survey for
one scheme is likely to last four months of which two months would be in
the field.
4.04      Preinvestment Studies, Construction and Supervision. Joint
ventures between Malagasy and expatriate firms would carry out this work
which would include:
(i)    preliminary engineering design (avant projet soma-ire); a scheme
five year agricultural development plan, based on the findings of
the baseline survey; and a feasibility study including a rate of
return and sensitivity analysis and a discussion of alternative
rehabilitation options;
(ii)   detailed engineering design (avant projet detaillU), and revised
cost estimates; (Revised cost estimates should not exceed the
initial cost estimates by more than 15%, if the scheme is to
continue to be processed for rehabilitation without
reconsideration. Reconsideration would involve re-doing the
feasibility study and further the processing of the scheme in
question only if the economic rate of return still exceeds 14%.
Assurances of this were obtained at negotiations).
(iii)  final engineering design (dossier d'execution), preparation of
bidding documents, tendering, bid evaluation and contract award;
(iv)   a survey of the capacity of local construction firms and labor
gangs in the area, to carry out irrigation rehabilitation works
and routine maintenance and repairs;
(v)    supervision of works; and
(vi)   preparation of scheme operation and maintenance manuals (para
4.08).
For each scheme to be financed under the IDA credit, IDA's review and
concurrence would be required for the selection of the scheme from the
inventory; the decisiou based on the feasibility study; for construction
firms, terms and conditions, bid evaluation and draft contract for
construction. Government's acceptance of these conditions was obtained at
negotiations. (A schema indicating the sequence of steps for
scheme-rehabilitation is included above.)



-36 -
B. Ad hoc Coordinating Committee.
4.05      Project implementation would lead to a final product:  physical
rehabilitation of meditm irrigation schemes with substantial
self-management and self-finance and a program of agricultural development
tailored to the environment of the individual scheme. This will require
timely inputs from several directorates of the MPARA in cooperation with
several other organizations. To facilitate this, MPARA has set up an Ad
Hoc Coordinating Committee, chaired by the Secretary General of the
Ministry of Agriculture and including the four Directors (chart 1); plus
the Director of Livestock and the Director of Forestry from the Ministry of
Livestock and Forestry, and a representative of the Ministry of Public
Works. The DP through the Project coordinator (para. 3.06) would provide
the secretariat to the Coordinating Committee. At appraisal it was agreed
that the Committee would approve:
(i)    the master plan or plan directeur, which would cover at least ten
years and indicate in broad brush terms the entire set of
rehabilitation activities to be undertaken for the medium schemes
including the policies to be pursued with respect to types of
reconstruction, with respect to agricultural development and with
respect to scheme organisation and funding of 0 and M;
(ii)   the moving three year plan for rehabilitation, which would be
coordinated with the Government's 3 year investment programs;
(iii)  the annual execution program and associated financing plan
(para. 4.11);
Civ)   the consultants recommended by the DIR for pre-investment and
engineering studies, as well as their terms of reference;
Cv)    schemes selected from the inventory for possible further
processing;
(vi)   feasibility studies;
(vii)  Five Year Agricultural Development Plans;
(viii) bidding documents and contract awards for construction;
(ix)   the programs and manuals for scheme 0 and M.
IDA would also review and approve the annual work program, budget and
financing plan (para 4.11).



- 37 -
C. Scheme Finances, Operations and Maintenance
4.06      Government accepts that moving to a decentralized approach of
reliance on scheme self-finance, self-maintenance, and self-administration
is the best direction to take. The irrigation legislation (Annex 2 and
para 2.14) and its implementation regulations are designed to bring this
about. The initiative with the cost-recovery legislation came from the
Government and reflects substantial public discussion and support for the
decentralized alternative. This Implies a better environment for moving
forward on cost-recovery than was the case in the past. Nevertheless, it
remains necessary to grant to the users the right to association with the
right to act as a legal entity which can collect funds, disburse them,
enter into contracts, and borrow money. In this way self-administration
and self-finance will become possible. This issue was discussed at
negotiations and it was agreed that a legal entity (structure d'operation)
would be established for each medium scheme to be rehabilitated which wuld
be empowered with the requisite authorities. The amendment of existing
legislation to be consistent with this approach would be a condition of
credit effectiveness.
4.07      The rehabilitation sequence includes, as a necessary step,
water-user review and approval. Following completion of preliminary
engineering design and the feasibility study, MPARA personnel including
consultants would go to the scheme and discuss the engineering
rehabilitation plans with the water-user representatives. At this stage
the consulting engineers would indicate the annual irrigation budget and
the activities to be financed as well as an indication of what work could
be done manually.  The WMC would review the plans and might suggest
desirable changes. If the water-users wished the work to go forward, they,
through the WMC, would approve the plans; and their user representatives
would sign a document to commit thpmselves to use their own resources to
finance fully and carry out the scheme-maintenance as foreseen in the
plans. The users would also make a din&, a traditional collective
commitment, with the sane content. The commitment would also include an
advance payment equal to the financial costs of one full year of
maintenance, whlch would be deposited into an account of the users'
association before completion of the rehabilitation civil works and which
would be reserved for finance of the needed scheme upkeep. Assurances on
these procedures were received at negotiations. Both the FED and the CCCE
have endorsed this approach.
4.08      Government also has an irrigation improvements tax on the books
(para 2.14, Annex 2). Because beneficiary incomes are so low, capital
recovery is not recommended (para 5.05). Nevertheless, water users



-38 -
would be expected to cover the full costs of scheme operation and
maintenance.
4.09      The rural institutions advisor would assist in (a) bringing about
the elections for the WMC in timely fashion; (b) developing a simple budget
and expenditure system to be used by the WMC; (c) contribute to the
development of the user-charge collection-mechanisms; (d) train the WMC
(treasurer, president) in the application of the cost-recovery procedures;
(e) sensitize the water-users to the need for formal, regular, and
compulsory cost-recovery; (f) help organize the users association. As
execution of the civil works nears completion, the supervisory engineers
would prepare a manual of 0 and M which would describe in detail the
maintenance and other operations, their cost, in labor and cash, their
sequencing and the manner in which repairs could be carried out. They will
also propose a division of responsibilities and functions for 0 and M, and
provide training for the water-users in the use of tht 0 and x manual. The
DIR with the assistance of the rural institution specitist would develop
with the WMC the associated annual budget of 0 and M. Assurances were
received at negotiations, that Government agrees to IDA review and approval
of the manuals and budgets for 0 and M, for the schemes whose
rehabilitation would be financed under the IDA credit.
4.10      Scheme operations would be guided by annual work plans prepared
by the extension services (chef de secteur) and the DIR irrigation head
(chef de reseau). They would be approved by the WMC. On the agricultural
side, the plans would reflect the implementation of the scheme's five year
agricultural development plan, derived from the baseline survey. Both the
extension and the irrigation services would report annually by June 15, to
their respective central directorates on the performance of the scheme in
terms of areas irrigated, yields, production and 0 and M finance during the
previous year. These results would be reported in the semi-annual progress
report and provide feedback for the Project's annual work plan in the
following year.
D. Organisation of Work Planning
4.11      The annotated list below indicates the proposed organization of
work planning, including review responsibilities. IDA would review MPARA.'s
annual execution program and financing plan because of their key importance
for the success of the scheme rehabilitation part of the Project. The
Program would indicate the entire work program for the coming year
organized by 4 categories: (a) scheme rehabilitation per se
[identification of schemes to be rehabilitated and related tasks
(engineering design, feasibility study, construction)]; (b) scheme
agricultural development (baseline surveys, agricultural plans, retraining
for extension agents, implementation-plan); (c) development of scheme level
O and M (formation of users associations, (structures d'operation)
users-Government contract, 0 and M prepayment, 0 and M manual and budget);
(d) incremental and extraordinary expenditures ox MPARA for program



S                         -39 -
execution (travel indemnities, fuel). This annual work program would be
consistent with the human, material and financial resources to be made
available through Government budgetting procedures (para. 3.22). The first
such annual execution plan would be for 1986 and would be forwarded to IDA
before end September, 1985 for approval. Execution plans for the
succeeding years would also be subject to the annual review process,
following their receipt by IDA during September. It was agreed at
negotiations that disbursements in the beadget year (the calendar year) for
goods and services to be procured with IDA funding for disbursement
categories I through IV and, for which no prior contractual commitment
exists, would be contingent on IDA approval of the annual execution program
for that budget year (para 3.25).
E. Training and Manpower Development
4.12      Much of the training and manpower development under the Project
would be done on-the-job through joint ventures between Malagasy and
expatriate firms for the preinvestment studies and through subcontracting
to small regional firms. These contracts may include an explicit component
for on-the-job training. The capacity to train and delegate would be a
criterion in the selection and evaluation of the technical assistance
recruited to strengthen MPARA. The withdrawal of this technical assistance
in the fourth year of the Project would indicate the success of this effort
and the need for technical assistance ir- an anticipated follow-up project
(para 4.13). The Project would also require possible specific training
activities including (i) field agent training for baseline surveys; (ii)
budgeting and accounting training of WMC; (iii) retraining of extension
agents. Responsibility for these training activities will rest
respectively with the agricultural economist, the rural institutions



-40 -
Organization of Work Planning
Formulation       Reviewed and/or           Implemented
responsibility    Approved by                   bY
MEDIUM SCHEMES
Plan Directeur (para 4.05)           DP                 CC, technical            All
directorates            All
Three Year Plan (para 4.05)          DP                 CC                       All
Annual Execution Program and         DP/DFP             CC, technical            All
Financing Plan (para 4.11) 11                           directorates, IDA
Five Year Agricultural               Consultants 2I    CC                        WMC, DVA
Development Plan (para 3.07)         and DVA
Annual Agricultural                  DVA                                         WMC, DVA
Development Plan (para 3.07)
Manual for Scheme 0 and M            Consultants 2/    CC, DIR                   WMC, DIR
(para 4.09)
Consultants 2,
Scheme 0 and M Standard Budget       DIR                CC, WMC/DIR              WMC, DIR
(para 4.09)
SAMANGOKY
Five Year Rehabilitation Plan        SAMANGOKY          GOM, BD, 3/              SAMANGOKY
(paras 3.14-3.15)
Annual Work Program, Budget          SAMANGOKY          BD 3/                    SAMANGOKY
and Financing Plan (3.29)
Annual Maintenance Contract (3.14)  SAMANGOKY           DIR, BD 3/               SAMANGOKY
1/  Includes planning for carrying out inventories, base-line surveys, engineering
designs, feasibility studies and so forth. Includes as components work plans of DIR,
DVA, VP. .
2/  Consultants for studies, engineering design supervision and so forth, of scheme
rehabilitation
3/  All of SAMANGOKY's plans would also be reviewed by its Board of Directors.



- 41 -
advisor, and the training/extension specialist (para 3.06). Centers with
facilities capable of housing small groups of trainees would be selected,
and per diems would be provided for participants in training courses.
F. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reports
4.13      Three years after the date of credit effectiveness MPARA would
submit the Special Report to the Government including the Planning Agency
and to the co-financiers. Coordinated by the DP, it would evaluate project
performance and draw upon lessons learned in designing a follow-on
project.  The report would su"mrize achievement under the rehabilitation
contracts, analyze difficulties encountered and suggest measures to
overcome them in the future. Specifically it would assess the work on
developing scheme-level self-finance, maintenance and management, and reach
a conclusion on how such institutional development could best proceed in a
follow-on project. It would also address the degree to which the technical
assistance to MPARA had been adequate for training and its other functions,
would include a plan for TA phase-out (para 3.13) and possibly a plan for
phasing in additional TA for a second project. It would also evaluate the
programs of agricultural development and physical rehabilitation of the
individual schemes. Following receipt of the Special Report (1988), the
Government would convene a work-shop with the co-financiers to discuss the
feasibility and content of a second irrigation rehabilitation project.
4.14      Project monitoring and evaluation would be the responsibility of
MPARA's Directorate of Programming, and specifically of an officer
responsible for this aspect, who would be assisted and advised by a
technical assistant financed by the PAC. Operating costs related to this
position, such as housing, transport and travel indemnities would be
financed out of the proposed credit. The DP would prepare the annual
report on project implementation. Consistent with para 4.13, the annual
report and the monitoring and evaluation function would include measures of
progress in developing water-user associations; in collecting user charges,
in kind and in cash; an assessment of 0 and M performance; and certain
agricultural data (scheme level production, introduction of technical
packages and so forth). SAMANGOKY will submit semi-annual progress reports
as well as a timely project completion report. Assurance on the format and
timing of reports was obtained at negotiations.



- 42 -
V. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS 4/
A. Benefits and Rates of Return
5.01      Benefits resulting directly from the Project would consist in
part of increased production of cotton and rice in SAMANGOKY. But the bulk
of the benefits would result from the reha',ilitation of 17,100 ha of the
medium irrigation schemes. Economic analysis was carried out for the three
schemes for which detailed costs and benefits have been estimated (Behara,
Belamoty, and Soavina), that is for a total of 3,100 ha under canals.
Costs and benefits per ha for the remaining schemes to be rehabilitated
through the Project will be similar to these first three, because of the
selection criteria which will be applied (para 4.02), and because the
selection process for these first three schemes was not biased towards
schemes with above average ERR. Projecting the expected average results
for the three, annual paddy production will be 48,000 tons more at full
development (year 9) than it otherwise would be. This would be about 2% of
paddy production in 1983 with an economic value of about FMG 6.7 billion
(US$12 million) in 1984.
5.02      At SAMANGOKY, failure to carry out the proposed rehabilitation
investment would reduce yields and the amount of land cultivated for the
following reasons: the increasing amount of sand in the headworks and
access canals continually reduces through-flow; beginning in 1985, it will
be insufficient to irrigate the total irrigable area. With each additional
year, the water shortage would increase. The leaks in the canals, reduced
drainage and poorer canal maintenance would cause increasing salinisation
and excessively high water tables with an associated reduction in yields of
cotton. An increasing amount of land would become undrainable, and
therefore uncultivable, for either cotton or rice. It is assumed that as a
consequence of the proposed rehabilitation investment (para 3.15),
SAMANGOKY would maintain all land under canals in production at good
yields. (Yield information in Annex, Table 14.) It is also assumed that
failure to carry out the proposed rehabilitation investment would mean a
reduction in hectares cultivated such that the decrease in production
benefits would be 20% of annual benefits. SAMANGOKY's costs are assumed to
be independent of the reduction in ha cultivated. The ERR under these
conditions is 32X (Annex, Table 13).
4/   The detailed economic analysis is included in the Implementation
Volume.



- 43 -
5.03      For the entire project (SAMANGOKY included) the economic rate of
return is estimated at 24%. Excluding SAMANGOKY, it is 23%, that is the
combined average rate of return estimated for Behara, Belamoty and
Soavina (Table 5). In making this estimate for the three schemes the costs
of construction, design, and supervision were included, plus the additional
costs directly resulting from the project to the Directorate of
Agricultural Extension. One half of the costs of strengthening the
Directorate of Rural Infrastructure were also allocated to the economic
costs. The recurrent costs associated with these inve.tients were also
evaluated and included. All labor, family and paid, was valued at on-site
market wages in early 1984.   Being competitively determined, they are the
opportunity cost of labor. Foreign exchange costs and benefits were valued
at US$1=FMG 657 (as opposed to the rate prevailing in April 1984 of FMG
542-US$1). The three year average price-centered on 1983-of Thai 5%
brokens (US$ 345 per ton, CIF Malagasy ports) was used to calculate the
farmgate value of the lower quality local rice, assumed to be US$ 274 per
ton, CIF Malagasy ports. This price is assumed to hold over the project
lifetime. The derivation of the farmgate price of rice, the economic rate
of return calculations for the first three schemes, and farm budgets are
included in the economic analysis tables of the annex (Tables 9 to 12).
5.04      Based on the engineering assessment, it is assumed that without
rehabilitation, the deterioration will be such that ha irrigated decrease
7% annually through 1992, then stabilize, at which level villagers keep the
schemes in production indefinitely. In the case of the three first tranche
schemes, this means a further reduction in production of 30% (Annex Table
12). The associated decrease in production is only 4% annually, because
land going out of irrigation goes into production of rainfed paddy.
Rehabilitation will arrest further deterioration and restore irrigation
capacity (Option A) and in the more-extensive alternative, further
improvements will permit more effective water management permitting a
larger area irrigated, above all in the counter-season (Option B). Yields
per ha in both Options A and B remain at traditional levels. In Option C,
improved practices are adopted above all a new technical package involving
the re-introduction of high yielding varieties (in year 5). By full
development (year 8) average yields of paddy are assumed to have increased
42% or 940 kg per ha (Annex Table 11). Option B plus crop development,
that is Option C, is recommended for Behara, Belamoty and Soavina. In the
Highlands benefits from Option B are reduced because dry season yields are
low, due to cool weather. But Option B will also permit a greater degree
of water management which can permit higher yields.
Beneficiaries
5.05      Because the average on scheme holding is small (0.5 ha for
Behara, Belamoty and Soavina combined,) it is estimated that more than
34,000 farm families will directly benefit from Project activities, more
than 2% of the farming population. This corresponds to the existing
population farming on the schemes to be rehabilitated. The number of
benefitting families is expected to be higher because of migration to the



- 44 -
areas being rehabilitated in response to enhanced opportunities for
generating income. The beneficiary population probably has, on average,
per capita incomes which are about one third of the national average per
capita: Per capLta income in Soavina is higher than ia either Belamoty or
Behara. In 1982 it was FHG 41,000 (US$76). Per capita GNP in 1982 is
estimated at $320.  The national income concept most nearly comparable to
Soavina's estimate is national income per capita, (net of depreciation and
indirect taxes) which was probably about $220 per capita in 1982.
B. Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
5.06      An important risk of the Project lies LA the implementation of
effective self-finance and self-management at the scheme level. The
Government is not expected to maintain and repair the schemes. Either the
user will play a far larger role in scheme operation, maiatenance and
finance than hitherto, or history will repeat itself, and the schemes will
deteriorate again. The new approach described La paras 4.05 to 4.08
implies an extraordinary amount of difficult change in behavior of the
water users, and local authorities. To reduce this risk five measures
would be implemeated: enabling legislation for forming water-user
associations; prior approval of scheme rehabilitation by the WHC's; advance
payment by the water-users; long term technical assistance for forming
WMC's and scheme budgeting for 0 and M; scheme level manuals for 0 and M.
5.07      The traditional practice of mostly single cropping impLies an
additional risk. Under Option B, the additional Lnvestment would permit
more economical use of water in the cool or counter-season and substantial
double cropping is projected during the counter-season in Option B. This
would provide an-important part of the incremental benefits from Option B
as opposed to Option A. (Table 4 below). Achievement of such double
cropping will be difficult because it implies a radical reorganization of
the traditional ways in which farmers use their time, including a possible
reduction in some highly valued activities. It also implies change in
cultivation techniques including use of shorter cycle varieties and
re-organization of tanedy (off-scheme) cultivation. To promote these
changes there would be a high producer price of rice (para 4.15); and
careful selection of schemes in which motivation of water-users would be an
important selection criterion (para 4.02).  Sensitivity analysis on this
risk was made for Behara and Belamoty, in that the expected benefits from
Option B were halved. The ERR from the unchanged incremental costs and
decreased benefits were 13% and 24Z for Behara and Belamoty respectively.
The continuing growth of rural population may also be forcing changes in
farming systems in Madagascar which reduce this risk. For example at
Belamoty irrigated land is in very short supply. The average fanm family
has 0.24 ha it irrigated paddy land and 0.14 ha iG ralifec paddy. There,.
double cropping (average per family 0.20 ha) is already practiced to the
limits of water availability.



- 45 -
5.08      There is risk that che increases in yields expected under Option
C will be less than assumed either because of failure to develop the new
varieties; failure to make the seeds and other necessary iaputs available;
or failure of the agricultural-extension organization to propagate
successfully the desired changes. The expected rate of return from full
implementation of Option C is extremely high. Even if only half the
expected benefits are achieyed, the resulting incremental ERR's (benefits
and costs of C alone) of 29% and 30% greatly exceed the opportunity cost of
capital. Nevertheless, in the limiting case of-no agricultural development
whatsoever, the expected ERR (Option A or B) continues to justify the
project.
C. The Burden of the Proposed User Charge for 0 and M and Efficiency
5.09      Short run production efficiency will not be reduced by the
proposed user charge: the burden on household income would be low. It is
estimated that the water charge will be less than 5 x of average family
income of the cultivators on the schemes. Cash incomes have been less than
a fifth of total income, but could be higher because the local markets for
rice are well developed. Irrigation with a user change which fully covers
the cost of 0 and M-would still remain a very profitable undertaking:
irrigation doubles traditional yields from about 1 t of paddy per ha on
good rain-fed land to about 2 t per ha. The value of the increased paddy
production would be at least 7 times the proposed 0 and M charge; while che
return per work day on owner occupied irrigated land would also remain very
high in that it includes an elemeat of renc (Annex Table 10). In fact
irrigated land commands substar.tial rent; FMG 40,000 per ha was a common
rent in 1983. Hence following rehabilitatioa, producers would cover all
costs including the full charge for irrigation 0 and N and realize a
substancial net rent on land. The strong financial incentives to put as
much land in irrigation as possible would persist, notwichscanding the
user-charge equal to a substantial proportion of recent cash income.
5.10      The proposed 0 and M charge would also be distributionally
efficient, in that it would be a linear function of amount of land
irrigated while per capita income is clearly a positive function of che
same variable. The latter condition is met since most medium scheme land
is owaer operated. Hence the charge would not make farm income more
unequal. Allocational efficiency would be served as well: tocal user
charges would be a positive function of scheme area. For any given scheme,
average user charges per ha would decrease as the number of productive ha
which are actually irrigated increases.  Users as a group would, therefore,
be given a strong incentive to conserve water so as to maximize the number
of ha irrigated and minimize the charges paid by the individual users per
ha. Specifically, upstream users who consume more water than is essential
for their production might reduce their consumption in aa effort to reduce
the user-charges which they would otherwise have to bear.



-  _        - 46-
Tlble 4         EtCMIC  ALYIS:  EOICl   RMMS OF RMI5
BASIC DSA AtlD ASSWXSM   BY  1GFG( SCEME, F1M             N
- ~~~~~~~~~~~Soavina  &banoy Bhra
Interal Rates of Retu   M):
Qpticn A (restore s&aw to forw level)             14         07       15
Optio B (A+ water ontiol   ks)                    13 I/      16       21
Optica C (B + crop deelopwt                       19         23       26
Optim Cl (A + crop development)                   21         18       20
Basc Data amd Ass :tions:
Ar  oclygnaUy served by wrater and
drainae cala (he)                             1,100      1,2M0      800
Witout project In year 
surface 1rr4pted (ha)            -          750        640      450
surface, cultivated but rt
izrted (ha)                                100        410      250
surface irrigated In double culture (ha)    200        52        -
Wittxut project In year eight
surfaoe irrigated (ha)                      475        320      225
surface cultivated but rot irript (ha)    575          730      475
surface irrlgated in double culture         100        260       -
Sirfae irrigjted (ha) durirg the rainy
son after rehabilitation
Optiom A                                  1,100        900      650
(yr.2)    (yr.2)   (yr.3)
Option B                                  1,100      1,20M      700
(yr.2)     (yr.2)   (yr.4)
Surface irrigated (ha) in courer-
seac after rehabiLitation
OptioaA                                     500        520       -
(yr.5)    (yr.2)
Option B                                    900      1,100      280
(yr.8)    (yr.4)   (yr.3)
Ozrent Yields (kg of padd7 per ha)
arigated, rainy season        -           2,000      2,000    2,000
Rainfed                                   1,000       .200       -
Coamter-season                            1,300      1,500    1,900
Fangate parity price of paddy (f}k               136        127      145
Eoc altS of rehablitation 2J
(H milio_s)
Optica A    -                               400        345      273
Option B                                    575       463       426
Option C                                    527 (C1)  601       507
I/  In fioancirg the rehabilitation of Soavizia. tbe4O3E is exeadig
coosiderable resources to ase encedch                                    e
increases in yields following crop devielopment above those assumed in the
ecocaic analysis. lhe amoun of this increase has not been detennLned.
Because of the indetermlinate and pilot- nature of the undertaking. the rate
of returm calculation rsmains based on the gerera]l assumption of ma
increase in yields of 4C7. followirg adoptior, of Improved practices in
Option C.
2/  Construction costs only; shadow e>Xch1re rate (CR3 657 to US dollars)
-   apDlied; prices at avoralsal, sprirg, 1984.



- 47 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      At negotiations assurances were received from Government on the
following:
(i)     For the technical assistance in the component for
management support to MPARA, IDA would review and approve
the tender documents, bid-evaluation and draft contract
(para 3.06);
Cii)    Review and approval by IDA of tbe Five Year Agricultural
Development Plan for schemes to be financed by the credit
(para 3.07);
(iii)   No scheme would be scheduled for rehabilitation for which
road-access would remain a problem (para 3.11);
(iv)    Government will make the necessary annual budget
allocation as required by the annual project financing
plans of MPARA and SAMANGOKY (para 3.22);
Cv)     IDA review and approval of bidding documents and bid award
procedures and review prior to contract award of bid
evaluations and proposed contracts for all civil works
estimated to cost over US$100,000 - (para 3.23);
(vi)    Annual auditing of MPARA project accounts by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA; report would be
submitted within six months of the end of the fiscal year,
auditor to certify expenditures claimed under SOE's
(paras. 3.25, 3.27);
(vii)   Auditing conditions of (vii) above will also be applied to
SAMANGOKY (para. 3.29);
(viii) IDA to be consulted on the appointment of the project
coordinator (para 4.01);
(ix)    Application of inventory selection criteria including ERR
of 14Z minimum (para 4.02);
tx)    For schemes to be financed under the IDA credit, prior
approval by IDA to proceeding with a scheme's
rehabilitation processing in event of 15X or more increase
in costs estimates of detailed engineering design, over
preliminary engineering design (para 4.04, ii);
(xi)   For each scheme to be financed under the IDA credit,
approval by IDA of the decision on a scheme's further
processing based on the results of the feasibility study;



-48 -
approval by IDA also of preselection of construction
firms, terms and conditions, bid evaluation and draft
contract for construction (para 4.04);
(xii)     Requirement that water-users review and approve
rehabilitation plans; commit themselves to fully fund and
carry out scheme-maintenance as foreseen in the plans;
agree to advance payment to be paid in before completion
of rehabilitation (para. 4.07);
(xiii)    IDA review and approval of the manuals and budgets for
scheme operation and maintenance for the schemes to be
financed under the IDA credit (para. 4.09);
(xiv)     For MPARA semi-annual progress reports, special report,
project completion report; for SAMANGOKY semi-annual
progress reports and the project completion report Cpara.
4.14);
(X7       Housing, transport and travel indemnities for the
technical assistant for M and E to be financed out of the
proposed credit (para 4.14).
6.02      The folUoving is a condition of credit effectiveness:
Government has established the necessary preconditions to
allow the formation of water-user associations with the
rights to carry out basic financial operations (para
4.06).
6.03      The conditions of disbursement would be:
Mi)    Initial disbursement for the SANANGOKY component would be
contingent on deposit of the Government cash contribution
required for achieving financial balance of SAMANGOKY
through implementation of the Five Year Work Program
(para. 3.15);
(ii)   Annual submission by September 30 and approval by IDA of
annual execution program, and of the budget and financing
plan for the HPARA management support and scheme
rehabilitation components before considering eligible for
financing non-comuited expenditures for disbursement
categories I through VI (para. 4.11);



- 49 -
(iii)  Annual submission by June 30 and approval by IDA of annual
program, budget, and financing plan for the SAMANGOKY
component before considering eligible for financing
expenditures for vebicles, equipment, and operating
expenditures and non-committed expenditures for civil
works and consultant services (para. 3.29).
6.04.     Subject to the above agreements being reached and the conditions
of effectiveness heing met, the proposed Project would be suitable for an
IDA credit of SDR 12.6 million (US$12 million) to the GDvernment of
Madagascar.



MfuKM
IHISAtION ItMOILIlAlIM  PIUCV
tS PIIUIIPIII  lIIMS
KSt to,   kiM  ocww  WMIPA    UII
lAbiA 101. SO*VWIIl PItSINIFIUl l0t1N
nIltHAPILOIIA11 IV KkIlqD It StA91II
ktnlled Cotl 1I."
1111 cootl
trmo 1001~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pewlr
tw"Ilt                               Irrr terl    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ittier
kuonllo                                                         fill Coils                          v
_   ..........................                                    ...c..                         . . -   -  - -.e.n. for              o Ormss   S_arw
hAIt        IM5    IM        1"?    1t           1 01 l S t  hit AilCst    IMU        I5        1P        lA It"      le ttl    Role  Each. low *I# Acomta
... .  EuIa . ...... ,uaflgag Ia@.aaau  an~s  ....5553.... 851   5398l| flftluI8   35IIewt.I..I................. SffhI3133   58333313   333335    3    3353  3.33 . 138333teg
s. In&wwmEN  casts
................
A. hlhiSt P     _          l K iSlE                                            - m-                            - isl                       412                               122000    0.2  0.45       0.25       Cv
a. naos mutdts 9211tt
6UE  ff StClWoo
...................
1. tCLIMNI  X IKWAe                              10          2t140  11.21           -            -   430             9.1 t14 ?J          52*                   -    -    4tU        9.2  9.4         4.2      CV
2. I[AWtIIOUuK AIS l31                                        29IU.I)5               -  37199                        9.? 1    46 24  I4)   1 1.1               -         221241    912  9.65         92        cv
3. WIM    lLSI      ItSt1111/ c AKI1 I            N3         251m    30.19  3000            -    -   54.01t          1..    44.112   54.I3       S4.           -        1549162    0.2  9.45         0,2       CV
Tetwl rilo nWnCli ff tlXto                                                                      ---- -- ----- --------... ...... ......  ....... ....     .....
U-184  1 fto     idl MITCII7 lixt/t@0                                                                                                                                 *11@1
pigs  K   IOTICtIIU                                                                                                          441077   43*493   $14,0           -          1131.11
t. FttA  IA1hS/WOM6S A tCtFlS                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
.............................
1. 611O51                                         I3            450      35         *            -    tooO            25   l4.o5    3Ios*                     -    -   25,000    0.2  9.65        0.25       cv
2. FLAUITIllS INA      IUI SiL  IAIS             GATE           4.5      2.5                     -         7         40       2.700    II.                                4200        0  0.75       0.25      CV o
SIJ-letalnt IIP   ItM/0A S  h CLAtES                                                                                             leoor    i12017                              2tOm
0-1.111611" CAIIWUC              A Il   II0-
.....................................
I. EXCAVATION  IS nCEINS/01C1E2S NJ                          21.450 11.55               -        - IIlo9o t.?    151444    3.314                      -             -   21744    9.2  9.45          0.25      Cl
2. [AU tWIItI/IIIS tiACIES                       NJ          7low0   404           -            -   12.000          1.3    14.00       7.6*                   -    -   21,100    0.2  0.45        0125       eV
J. COCtK! 132Ki Or CMLS/
EWVIEMNI K  KIS1 K  C            r /b                                            -       -              -45                          2.0                              22.400    9.2  9.5        9.25       Wv
kS-Totlal lUlUAFIW0  CM SI/ AMt    3 IEIGATIO                                                                                  44 044   231.11           -                  671t1
I.l miY/llXltniigz aiiiiclt**gt1 2                               13.000    799         -2,09r                            9. 9o14           5040                         -   14.400    0.2  9.5         0.25       dv
toI. 1 I0   Plt ItIt  111151 W
t1010   K  RIME   t1.
......................
I. IxcAeClPlitAJls                                RI          2in3       100        -       -    -    20000          97         t93       544                  -    -      .440    9.2  9.u          9.2      CV
2n  "life                                         ITS         5t.0       7ee                           ?00            25    32.509   27599            -        *         59,099    0.2   0.3        0.2       CV
kb-hi.i) LUI OM usircIM WWII
1010!E  SIt  610(1 t13.5                                                                                                               111004                  - *       51,40 
S. MIMISt PUNKS.  Few/                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I-
PSI, PASPEELESP VMS!                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0 
........ ........... .  .
I.   fItWals/mlP             U     Sf il lA r                                                              2 IISm                       to0 o ".*              *     -    31.40       9  .n5       0.25       cv
?. OCIW W     IMUAI LLIIK KIM   MNW                A*                       I       *          *    *       I        SO            *-I- 50                           *      SO       0I         9.25          CV
3   ULWU1SIn0OIS                                PYWS!              I                                                 14t        540         *         * I  9                          t .75        0.25       CV
4. tClflUtSUIU N T    hNSALLAIIU
II EPLIEA  PiN CImilt                                          *        *                                                 235         650 *                           2.9          I * *0 s t05            CV
Std-Iot,I KIS. OWUAStS. lol'-                                                                                                         --
POll. *IASIsmLLt 3KMP                                                                                                        54,459      *75                         *   73 0 9
H. tUIngIS



Iso,1 I0LE   (KFfM                                 El                        -        *       * [            I A  I    30* 3                            -            -         300       0    .3          0 
2.uIrm.ssU smnu"1Ql                                                              -        -      -           i 7s                  ou*4        -         -        -    -       e.s       O  e.s           o       w
t h-l,il VINIOS                                                                                                                     1.245                            -    *    1.2A
lo uSMISIONO V urn
MILWI" Kg IU301 IC
...... . ......... _ .ze=@@* *
1. SUlMlV1011 V  ClIlt  Ms
3RUILLAN     KS    IE                           NA          film          -        -      *    *         00          33    25,n00           -                  -    -   25.300    4.2   0.1          0.2       IA
..*.1OIaI *MI!IIIIU V~ ~ ~ ~        ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~.... .......... ...........
WIUM LM    13T~  /c                                                                                                             25.300         *                            25.20N
1. I1116.tI1 CAUII /d
...... . .... _   _  .. 
I. C0LMI6101CMA                                    N2         41.000  211000                       -   621000          0.I I      eW      2.100          -        -    *      120o    0.2  0.u6         0,2       Cw
2. DWIATIIU fr   0.0I1f
K     AI FM                                      2         22.000  11.00           *      *    *   3.000            0.1    151.40    7,20             -        -    -   23.740      0.2  0,45        0.2       Co
3. WLl HIUl
51115     EWA1CS                               12          1.000  10,000  10-000                    2000           l.o     14400    1100   11.000             -    -   50.400    4.2  e.65          0.2       cm
le-J.l 1i1mi11i M  CMI /d                                                                                                          34,310   23.020   lI.OtO           -    -   603O0
K. MIE  I I1MA /Pl3 f  I EAU                         [A               -      192        *                     1*2         410          -   43.110                    -    -      .l      00   0.15        0.25       eV
L. iflISISE TEWUS                                     [A               -                 -         *             -                      -   313200           *       -            -   33.200   e.5075      0.25       Cl
1. MAII                                               rJ          40uoe0  3.040  30.o00                   10*000           0,1    2600    2.200   21,e00             -    *      5.600     0.2  0.?1      0.25       Wl
Total IMSrM         M ISS                                                                                                            212002  2NU2N           A 33400              64383s
8a111113  11Us113  1-3 22133 "a        1,     IlflZulg
1 IICIMNI CuS15
..............
A, KKK9  W"MIRA       KIUI/IEII     K  MSAUJ
...... . .................
1. SmeFls/6101unS                            stArr-Nmw           12        12      12      12    -         4e                    Ne U8 o"    4U               4S0           IO 1               02  e  et        S                                     -
2,3      . 00KVMI ItOHM                                           10       10       0o      10   -         40            2         20        20        20       20             30       00.o5            0    [ON
Sub-ItoI talC1 OIRNAIIWUMIIIam  K  3E1U54*11                                                                                         5         500       140      340     -    2.000
tO SCIEK  MHINJJI/EITNTI(N  RIKAU
....... . .......... . ........
It NAITltilFt CONIXlCltls
EmNTuIIS  (11TlrlN                             NA               -        *   lo,1     1,100    *    2.200            10 t                  -   110          0           22000        0  0.*5  0o?2           lol
S-TMaI 1i0(    MINTEZ/EMI3Ef                   u fti  *A                                                                                         -   14,O00  11.000       -   22e00
......... .......... a0* @6.Z * ....... ....... .... ..........  @
total  a.rNIm  CulSt                                                                                                                     50         50s   I150t  11500    -   24.000
AJglosal  means,;   llaG  8an      8 man as  szs;:gs
fetal                                                                                                                                 262,502  2431733  15.1l    11500          -  "  7H3
.. . ............................................................................................................................................. 
Ia    5 S 111t OV   F IIIL  M  VuKe  ICLUDIE PIam  Or      EA ITWILL/Rt1             LA lAtiOl  MI  SKI K  ti DIl  31.1 Y       ItIII MA MNIS  rA                                                                                                              p
/b  MIAWlgA1A406    5 CilMIE nu1    S 1      rON O  COWACK   L.1  1 4IS:2J/ESlIIllI09M1 WAIIA-IR   SAR rcUl5 P S 1 It K  EUWTEII  W12N1                                                                                                                       0    O
Ic  lWWATIU  S3 IIIIEIIIO CAIEI 0UT  I                  A W AI  FUNDING1 (CR. 1241-116. AMEC1AIWM   IlN urIoIUI                                                                                                                                                     rD
/d AIIIIML rmMi? lOlt INW11 miii mEu1i1                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N
al  FM  EWE-Inv   v 0w    321 IPS/L   130 Po rKnoo 11 *A          00 1i   rrB/0ooo msa,2 50  roa  Mi1i(tWAIt  101i AL MI     Ay 20 000 rWI.Djtoo KR                                                                                                             O
... .     w   ........................................................................................ 9       ..........................................................................................
ftrwri 51 IM    1110



rANA
1413    0 UIMIUIL3IAIII NOiCI
FucS     K  MIUILI11301
KS PI1O1imI MI"M
132m. KIK KWilitiUA *U
XNAMIlU 1t1011 II nilU1 K UELAM11
k3aile Coslt 1431
ins~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v w                                        @@Xe@@e@"@
kMIIwb                                                    lw  C.o9.                        h..
owtiti*                                             hill                               . lo.......... ........
......................................-  .---.-0*-e-i a.lfSu
h.it       Ion     I90N     39 I01    In00   1939Ttl    IhIt Col cu t9n         3      III?    IM       3    otl 0     9.1   1a43  Ia.U RU. . cam
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"|$g a ua 8t 8*| g6X@#w86gee@ ""^ g^.................. ..uu .
0.IIIAMI66 SW OMIIk 931110Wu
a IWDMIIU  KaSlAM    &         S  3*93433313      13            41      241                          IN70        3 0  434    Jo 430           -                   .        .002  0.43   0.1n      cv
3. 35960  KN        CAW. 11MU1W
913*93130 No KIDS W Co
lt Well Ilil lmw                                                          -              .                             4        2.                -             100       0.2  0.65     0.02      (v
C. 35tLi3K  IWKSWLM                                                          -       -            -       -                440    2u5            -       *0 *e2  0.5                        0.2      CM
3. 33Ii    uSltdlla 3 19166333
_.._..............................
I. CLMItUJIKCaK 12                                             5030.5    30.000               - Ig.lo o.3                 ne    l.es    l3,09 *    *s                                    off    
2. ICMIIlUM, AII                                 103         I.MA   5.2           *      *        lst50         0.7     7.920    3.230        *       *    *      0W      0.2  6.4       e.2      to
3. WIW3L*    uLqIm CIC ISI                        u            . 10    12.5   1009       -    *1.03             3.    1320   23.330l*                          "06         .2  0.43       .2      C
*...... ........ ....... we..... .... .........
".1-IfAd  393111006     0W1I103 IIGII                                                                                     33.240  93.340  39.300040
S. flOS  1e00 luC3   03*5*
amO K IMIECIIN
._...................... 
3. 141lIL00/KCM S tNUllS                          I9                 3 U                          4..000        0.3     2VI 3.60                                4.    02   *.             .2      dv
2.3 W I tWI                                                                                                                                                          113  U  K.5   22.3  .  .    -  6.0  3.5    3.13    39.69  .  331.0W  .2  0.4  0.2  co
2,asWl/'0                        "        "'                '             -       '           '    !   :                    3             :                ..  :   0.4  ! 0.2  ,0                                                            N
M  ,..., ,&O" Mi,,s,," fl/........   ...............
01411 K PUiIciIU                                                                                                       10.103   413.0                 -        333.0l
r. 94U40/
I. 13W3 UK 3                                      U         3 l.0                                m4 0                  22.060 *206 *                           3411160    0.2  0.4       0.2      00
2.- W1I1/011u  1M   WAU6* K  WE                  l3           1        200                   -      0           25   13.000    low           -0                         0.3  0.4        0.2      Cv
..; ...s ....... .@...... ....... .... ^ ........*.w
I*1i i1 MAIN/0                                                                                                            35,464   I9                    . *      34* 5
It 3*30 1311if3331 I UN                            Mims5             .       3                    .      9         453              43.0rA       .                  39       .05  .15M    0,25       (v
U.                                               IteUUWu3  5                24                           24      1,000             24.0          *       -        20.0         e 0.1       0.n       0
I.   INML S/             3A3M3                     101             -                                    3       3 . 5         .    7            .       .    .       ,3          0.3      3.3       cm
JKM33UN  NjU      I33U0 Qp"i             SIAMI                    14                           50          6               3,39                           300     00.65   0.33    0
L. tUllUlCIIZ lin
IKIIAtAIIM  El KflhNlM   111 03 1iNI                             .                       .    .       .                 369    III,9k         .                50M         0 0443        0.       00
1.M 3IKILIo(rKI                                   I              3        -         *       *      *                      9          .        . -          - Mn            *   .*3                                 0 W
2.53d1%53                                         U6             7        -       .      .   -         7        335      9n5          ..                          94       00.0            0      9                                             v
*iM*lu   901W1$                                                                                                            3.245                                    M.245
U. 9351953 39ll 111 MI
MIISIS vm s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
11U 1015  Us  I1m                         lIyrff   IN                                           JIM           33 2*.69                                         6      0.2   0.1       3.3      la
kbstoi.  I         4.                                                                                                   ..       .   ... ... . .. .............. 
JIM    1451M01 N11   S2........1........ ....... ...................
blaB  11413903 dM30                                                                                                         243.620  21926  19.0e           *    * 4147367



N C!
CNI.
re L
ur16
.01
'le
In
(IMIftLitNt    IV3VW I-409 '01NIO    ILTAX V     IM    M   MIII 131 4! '3 VUMIP3
uunauamt mum y 'mu*#v  ci   IW  umywa cm   am 33  1W2PN11"15113 flh        nIffiN 3
3"1111 31111C  1131 8ilonWA   1t" 31   W
ttlltltl ~ ~ ~ ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      1 1111 fllh     3ttlf *1uh  h*thhhhA1   "1* 
... .... ... ..... ....... ...... .......
*tc  onu; own  w e  o X                                                                                                   3132 NM  I  1S1
.....~~~~~~....... ............ @* 
V!  it'l 0    WOtt         Oif'U  000'S! -       *                                                                      NUNooimo  5311 I/JIMOIIIlU  t'i'1-U'
/113u         1s0 13Im  'I
P31v E]IILNIJIVDIUIUI NM Is
$tzZ        on     en    on       on                                                                      "N  1f3 Po "11|11W1APM   I"114@1"S
IlDe   e  ee e       Z          eue'  -   161    np Op  Op                                 elN IN elINNhIU   3130 tfl'
fig I              S       00          005    00    00        0       0         00     * S         I0   01      0!vx MEN                                     YWSI't
TN         0        0 o   K'l   -             coN en         oft en             3* n        LI   LI    UL        l       NIJJII           3INU 33X JIU1   mUI
/"By111 SlUG 1E N1MKW 'I
vim IanIl '11



IMIUhIIS KIMIIIIAIIU IUCT
FOXECI K   EISLIIATI
KE PriOlIici Mlli
Table 103. ICHIM  S E ILSI*A1 41 - KMW
KSILUI AIION  U   AIRSEIM  K  KMI
htailS4 teatl labl
jUMII                                                liiiCHI
Guntitv                                                   said C*616                     hm
.......... . ........ ......_. . ...- . .....           .......... .............                         tm, rev.   koss  5.ini
llt        19M    It"    119 19I   1919  hGtal    uniCt cut    191             I91     1.t9    IM   19M  l.1.1 Ratab, In  l.et kcsAW
iiiiU*i   iiu     mama  mmmii mama miia msa  miaiua  |amaua *aia                         masma mmiimiiiaia  ams  mi ssiis    ausi
*. 13111WAE K rl
I, WPIl OF 01iii. RUIr   6IIus nIL
malihom  RUSCE SATE C*IihITIOW
EFUAIIN S Mi    iiI! YOlK V      UIUMMTAIKi-                                                    -                               35,71    5925                -     -    hO       0,2  0.65      0.21      co
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                          ..   .. . .   .. .     ......    ....    .......__
Sub-TotIf 5iflom/WJll K  Muf                                                                                                        35,710   I92tem3.0
1. E            Ull  U  CAVA  LINIU
KEIhIE45    Kl   CAE     -M                                                           -   -        -    -         -               600   31.00            *      -    -  10000       0,2  06        *al       C
C. SuLISU PuW
KU "1 CMIICII                                                                -        -       *    -    -         *                 45       2*450                    -    7.4o    0.2  0.u5        0.2      co
t. 11V6|1*1"111 CW
._.... ...._
I, CLEANIIVKCWlE                                              92        3o0o    4000    0o00    -    -  500000             0.l     3.00      4.0o0   1o00       -    -   50000    0,2  0.65         0.2      CU
2. EXCYTIIIUKKAIS                                             29         3,150   30   4,o00        -    -   lo.0           0.7     2,20    2i772   2.           -    -    7?92      0.2  0.65       0s2      cU
3. EIWfI I/uIIU    WAVe ESfi                                  N         5 1,150  51,10  20,ee    -    -   Sleo0           IS     23 O70   MM3  3s,             -    -   91,W       0.2  0.5        0.2      W4
tu I,IItl IU16AISlN CMALi
cmA   I 3 SUSloAhO                                                                                                                 21,931   36.902  4Ulm1                109,7
E. UimuNsimilhimu1U
K  SlUnt*iT                                                                   -       -       -    *    -         *                 4.550    2.4         -       *    -    1.000  02  065          0.25      cm
F      SIEW l                                                                    -       -            -    -         -                22,500   H9w           -      -        34- w     *.  0,75 ens25           C
I. 111. VtEll UI/EWUJtIS
EI.LIMES It WYILLAKS                                                                  -      -          -         -                   650      3         -       -         l20      0.2  en 0      0.25      C
U. SWI/IIN
It PeCASMIIUKMAS                                             11          4.225   2,21         -    -    .      1060        0.7     1O42    5,636                           4.40     02  0,65        0.2     tCU
2. 1UU111I115UI re
011AKMajtEl                                                N3           In       105       .    -    -       30          21     4315    2.s           -       -    *    71500   0o?  05          0.2      c
Fuji ii FAISMLLES                                                                                                                    i;i       ;a                            2
1. s1^l I AUrSgg/ N 
MtIMiS tl tlfS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  w  w
1. MI WIIPOuIS                                              11tII           3        2       -          -        S      s         50o  S  AO 600        *       -    -      e0   0    00e.5       0.25      cU m0
i.   WAt IE      MKLLSI                                    OM   ArA           I       I       -    -    -                  600        d0      6of                          1.200      0  0en       0.25      cU                                      LI
ihT.U Mim IMI m MASS(i
nfl1 E     l PEaI                                                                                                                  4,00  4 , 200         -      -    -   50,200
,  n It I HAUKLUS                                                                                                                    tolo
J. OMINCE d15511E K L16111
5.    -1F151                                                                          *4 *                                                                                               Se -  -  -    *   seee    0.   0.u  0.2  cU
2. UIEU FAIEi
win UIEIKi                                                                         -          -       -        -                3,000         *       *       -    -      .0o e          d       0.2      CU
WIgiaI EV........... . . ...  . .......000  -  -  -    - ... 6 0_
lub-his  KAIUwltE         1 te 5l   It ulult* *|                                                                                                    -        -      -    -



i. mucus
Is          a   usuv                                 u                                     -              SW m   [A-   -                              s       eo.n5         a     w
5. U tfj                                             LA            I      .         .              1        N       9s0                                       0  fl
XI.*t,Q    thIUICl1                                                                                                  1.241              -     *        8 .2U1
1. 1SUYIU 1FS /e
........_..........
1. SWAeIIIU r ClVIL NOW
ULL        Ks ,t^                                  Hi                   -               - - 4            23    1           -       -     -                1 .2  .5      lo2   1I
1la1 UMOTioI UllS                                                                                                     aiiml  816.765  58.60      -   -  un.1
Witut~~~~~~~~~~~~~ W l,t VW"  ,,,,a,,
lsul WASTIUI~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~uaaa uas88uuhm
II.    eW  Callm
.... ._ ....
.  a       UIIW
.._...._.....
1. M^MIII                                        sffUYlli            12 la      12  12    -      a         4       40 55    4      43  43-              2     S    S       0    L
?.ulmmaIUWKUM                                                    to  to   810s-    40    24   20    20  26   2                                     -   065   50..           I ar
1011 NJ                                                                                                             W        WJ    63    6      - 6.
I. KM  e      1uwui
lo MiliIAEM   CUTI&AC11I
OJEUIK  E ElhAIIX                                 U             -      -    SW  3t -                      o                          time I-ING -             0-.4U    5.2    IO
6A-leal  KK      111K   W -- ._
OIMIMI liii                                                                                                                  -  3.60  3.63    -  84,8W
Igal                                                                                                                  223.181,4  31150 3101,41   - 434,W
*~~~~ao  "68  Apass a s . t.
~~~~~~~. ... .. .. _._ ......__..... __......... . . _......... .... .. .. __... . _........... ......
A FIEPAAIII 2101111 KIM tEllI OUT OM  EPUAhI "III  ICA. 1249*INe A.IPUIU.I INIIITIINII
Fiawtu 5. 16 84855
O 0
...
IM 14144~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



MJEllll    KIU MILITATIfiNO T
PSOECTl K fIIlllN1T11E
Ks IIIKS IMI sI
Table 104. gm   K ILITATIN        - Mim
WMIILITATIOU     u MPUUTE U  Wilt
5O1l3 Cost Table
(FB 'm1
OUMIIIW                                                INM  CWis                            fl.
------------                            - ----            -     ---    CntFor. Fo r,   1s   uar
UtlAi   IM  15 6 I"1 9M   I    Total  nuit Cost                In it1   I"       I1      39       Total    laW   Excl. Tax  late Aetot
Bass  8888 3848 a38  mass 8s8ae  38ga3  38.888888  3a1 8ss8 3a88gag81   s33"8W  8 1ast1s 88338s a11183388   saga8  see88 3ea8se1s 383588
i. IST           !1l
* . TWOIUCM. SItUISM
MusI lsuIISE do
3. FIUIML IECIIW
oiI TI FIWIU  (WiMMII                                            I    I    I    I    -      4      12100       12,000   12000   12,00  1?OX0                  4000        0   0.2         0      1T
MSTIld  TIEIC. MISAIIIT
AUiIMu  TWSIU  /1 I2sM00   M2M000   D2.000  122010                                                                                                         -     U1000
It WMEuwxTEI UT1
3.IITME ITIIEIW
UllK       RIEEKlEU IX                                           -        -     -     -     -                  29U004                  -       -        -     291000   0.25  obs       0.22      w
2. ESLTIM mWN AN NM8 CW
ENU U   CT             L *iN   C-                                           -    -                            1770000         -        -       -        -    170,000   0.25  0.15       0.2      CV
3. MLATIU STWJCT1IOCll
EK1n1EET K  -            -K    -i2.x                                                                                          -        -       -        -     12.50   0.21  0.u        0e2s t5 CV
4. Sll  cm/m            I mml-                                                                                                            -                     124.000   0.25  0.65       0.2      cm
.._ . ....._ .____....
SAM-I 1EMM5It IE  IMI                                                    533500                                                     -                -        -    33.50o
c. 311161311 CAM   uCrm        Ciuius C0MWI I 3*imiIU1
It WA CMI U*ML                                                         -       -               *1700   77.400   77,400                            -       -    193,500   0.25  0,45        0.2      CV
N. WmUlCTW/ECIM WIN
l lIN1 SCTfISECIITU fM IhTI                                      -        -     -     -                        22.600   416500 U400 0          -        -    3113300   0.25  0.15       0.2      cv
ilif Um   CI CU1m        lSlffllf                                -        -     -     -     -   -              OM2400   s10    4,5o0           -       -    212.000   0.25  0.65        0,2     CW
MTM UECIUIECTI           AIUTI                                    .        .     .     .    -                  21.400   42O100   42,300        -        -    30o1000   0.25  0.65       0,2      Cl
WIAlWAM lM ff111    T L-SUTIM                                          - .     .     .                          340       6.30     6,300       -        -     17.000   0.25  0,15       0.2      aV
WhTOlu1 WuN ECTWUCTII  WN                                                                                         1930    79,100  379.600          -       -    449.000
*1@bTo   IlMlUillO  CMS$  TC31ICTES CM    O IxSlE ilSi                                                            120.500  257,000  257,000         -       -    62.500
0
1h



O. PIECIIW  31                                                                                      -                 1via1. .-.. .-.47-500    0.1 O.&5                                        0.25      cm
I. P      Tlh3l  e  -   SITIV
ISTALLIOU                                                                    - f        -                       200I000         -                         -    "0.00       0.1  0.S      0.25       C
F. alAg  WitL .WI..LMuhIfI/                                                                                                      OO     Ve       000
hMhf ATAIU  FUl K  SMElT                                                                        -VIM.W 25.0                            70047006.0   1,456,000                  0     0         0      NC
S. IUIATIOU MI EMU  ElIFOI-
MURIEL 3 ENIEIEU
_ .... . _.... . ..
1.K IU* H     K  Mt IK1  MO KI                               EA      I    - -    -                                10000-    100.000                                            0  0.95         0      tO
2.DMITM FJCIRE S                                             [A      2    -    -    -           2      12000       240                                            2000         0  0-95         0      Et
3. ES1 reu           S                                       [A      1    -    -    -    -      7       7.000      49000          -        -        -       -     49000        00.95           0      to
. 4. rUIE EIWIO  M0MUK
PU   KlIlE    UATtmIER                                    CA      7    .- .            -     7       r0oo0      49.000         -        -        -       -     49000        0  0O95         0      CD
s. KUIS IEIEJMLIOMEuWS                                       CA      3    -    -    -    -       I      7.000      21.000         -         -       -       -      213CO0      0  0.9          0      t0
6 I I nE u 3KS    tfLus                                     CA      5    -    -    -    -      5         I30         540         -        -        -       -         50       0 0.e5          0       El
7. KNulz       I  1E11EIdl    W aN
El 11  3C31.35l1l1                                        EA      I         -     -    -      I     12.000      121000         -        -        -       -      12.000    0.1  0.55         0      ED
S.CUKU           452 CY) Y CtPiS
SIKSTMLS AMll                                             [A      I    -    -    -    -       3      7.044       7.0           -         -       -       -       7.04       0  0.3s         0      t
9.   IWEIEK  WILE MO L E1
VII   A AISJILUE                                          IA      I    -    -    -    -      1       36           1.62 6       -        -                -       362I       0  0.95         0      El
lo WUWE                                                      EA      I    -    -    -    -       I      1126        1424         -         -       -       -       10626      0 0.f5          0      El
1.hTstaI IMISATIOS VAINMIEMt  ElUlIEJtI
MlURIEL D u1u1nu                                                                                                   265.3-                   -       -       -    265.51
11. mi1BS
IsPIC-W414                                                  EA       - -        2       -       2       7000             -        - 140000                  -      34000       0 05            0      VI                                          I
2. VOIWlEU ES                                               IA      -    -    2 -        -     2       5.o0                          lo - o0m0     -       -      l0eeo       0 0.5           0      VI                                        %
LW IIe4Z4                                                    ES      -     - 1 - @-              I      7.00    -        -        -    7,000         -       -      7-000      00.5            0      rI
S.Tgj   WUtUS                                                                                                                        -   319000        -       -      313000
Total   MIINOR                                                                                                                        CDSI  ;23 1 4 S;4000  367.000  79,000  67oo0e   MU5=33
ToUtl                                                                                                                  2.329.338  534.000  167.00  79.00   67,000  3,356.33
Sit UlSl-T -YS 11 TEIDUICI A5InS1L  INSaIn. MINIEIwJIE ENfI2EE.s 3                      W    AMZS  I IRFN 1M-5  KING FINKSI uNKS Ck. 134-MO COWlON
... ....  . ... ....... .. ... .. .... .... _...... ..._ .................... .................................. ...... ....... ...... ................ _.............................................. ................................ ............. ...... ...
brA?. 1915  15:21
to
Ns 
^                                                                                                                            rb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



KUASCMA
1LISAtIIN REUHIILtifAIIO MlACT
M Eci K  IItHMILlIATIOII
KS FtIRMIFSS IIRIBER
1bit 110. SOCK   MNINLIVAIlON4MAPItIlATION KS FURIKEIES /a
hiagled Cost labIe
Farautnws
.................   ............................. 
intiti                                                                law Costs                                 "N.
------------------------           -                                          -                                                   Cant. Fr.    rs ---- ---S-------S------------------------------------------------    St. rr.   Ntost   S t
Unit  1I5    1116   1`17   tIN        InI   retil    UAit Cast   I15            31,6        1 IN?      1M        193        Jtal       Rate  fuch. fax RatAccount
Ban:  annaa a:as133 1a131ta8as s13131    st11 s31    aag:aa    asa3385   aeamanaal  s13:13a3a3 13 _1:1l38  anuaa:s:33  3SSi33S*s3   a331  11183s 3:1133&1 a5  1113
1 IEJCENIII C0511
............
A. CIVIL *QIS/G11E CIVIL            oH            2.000  4W000   4.500  3.500  14.000         381.4           -    762.760  1.525.520  1.716.210  1.134.U30  5.031.320    0.2  0.45            0.2       cm
t.MIhNWIN;f  S1UIlS/IIUKS    Mt    2.OO  7.000  7000   7.000                  -  2st000           38   264.o0      26.000    26.000    2"6.000               -  1.064.000   0.05   0.1         0.2       IA
C. UNVISIOI  Of mUSt
SLWWIlLLNCI IRAMU x"                         -  2.000  4.000   4s50e  3.500  14.00             23          -      44.000      92.000    10350   006500    3224000   0e2   0.1               0.2       1*
1. MS6  LIE SIEWS/
INUHIE Kl  MSE                    NA         -    NO  5.000   4.000         -   lw00           I0          -       low        500         40000            -     13000    0.2  0.65        0.25       cI
E. WNICRES                           Pm         -    5     5.0o    4.lo0       -   10             2.2          -        160       6.000       4.920           -      11.e9        0  0.55         0       W
~~~~~~~. ..... .. . .......... ....... .......... .......... ..........
Veitl IW4SINENT COSIS                                                                                      266,000   1s063lMu7    1.931.520  2.130630  3.415330  6.3 WH5200
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............... .........   
A. CIVIL   S    MININNICE1                                                                                                                                                                                                          0IA
ENIMEIIEI  IWPAIIR9IIIU          HI        -       -  J.to0   10,100           33.200         30                -            31- 000    101.000           -    132.000    0.1  0.45        0.2      ion1
~~~~~~..... .. ............. .......  ........ ...... ...                                                                                         I
folal K     nr COSTS                                                                                             -           -      31.000    103.000            -    133.000
.X~~~~~t:.aaz   s: ......as.xz   t.xs.tg   s : : : :z
otal                                                                                                        26.0O    9t.3oM1   1140s520  2.231.6I I   1e415as30  6,967,200
....... .  ........_. ........................
/a MUD ON KMiW ELAMIT ANO SOAINA COSIS
.    ....................... ........................................................ ......... ........... ............... .    .....................
Frst,fs 5  uM      lrn
lb
p.



IBISIAUIOI MEIMILITA1IOS UC
PMOLCT K  KH M8ILITAIION
KS ltIC EIIKES IIR16UES
Table 501. IKTIIUTION IUIINJRE IMNTCE IENI DES INSIITUTOIOS
betalS2 Cost Table
Fe rameten
OwtItl                                                       hsr Costs                         ft.
..                       .            ...              ................................... ................  cant. ------f--X**-*-----*----------at   o ra. 6poss   Seao
Unit       ISMS   17P4   IS7   137  B          Total   Whit Cost   ISBS       I        I"?7   IU    I         Total     Ratt  Ixch. lax Rlat  Aaet
Xasz       z  :::::::: ::  ::: :::  ::::::::::  :::::::::z   zza                Z.r.:a::  : : :azaa     r:asa-a: asa. * .as........ * .... .. ... ......
1. IBINE TU  CMIS
lIfUliRXSlIO tCIRI
....................
1. SENI0R 11B11SAIION ALIIS. 1MW
CONSEILLR PFIIICIPALS  IW                           SlTF-TEAR        0.5       1       I    0.5    -       3     54.400    27.000   S4.000   54.OO   27,X0    -    162IO00                            0      IA
2. RUAL   IIIUT1TUTIO  SICIALIST/
SCtlSIMSIE I  INSIIliMi   RIM.TS                    SIIF-tEAR        0O5       I       I    0.5    -       3     14.000    27h00   54.000   149000   27.00          -    1I2.000       0     1         0       1A
3. RWINtL  ADVISR. TLKIART/
Ct IhhLLO FRW3IKIAL. TOLIAAI                        STFF-TEAR        0.5       I       3    0.5    -       I     54,000    27.000   3400    54,sOO    27.000    -    132,000           0     1         0      IA
4. FMIRKIAi ADVISE WAM IGAW
COISEIUR MWINCIMA   NMAWl5                          STAFF-IEAR       0.5       I       1    0.5    -       3     54.000    27M000   549000   54. 200         MO     -    162.Goo       0     I         0      TA
5. CSISTRUCTION
CEUNItA. FlVCW/IMArX T     /1                            12            -    '76        -      -    -    :76       767.5          -  2121382          -        -    -    212,3a'        0  W.S       0.25     611
FP IKIA  VFICIESAUX PMNINCIAUX lb                        2             -      84     94      94    -    252         520          -   4360   43.O         43.60    -    331.040         0  0.65      0.o25    If
..... .............. ___....... .... * >..__. ......
S-otal CUISTRCTIEN                                                                                                                  -  256,0a2   43.680   43.110            34,4'22
6. rIuEInE.s SUPPtICSt                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tJ
....................
OFIE  tIlIt  IROIILICR IUIEAU /i                     SET             -       5      9       5    -      IR        200          -    1000 GOO     O      13000    -       3.800       0   0.2      0.25     IVF
Wl1CE IQUPIENT/FOWI1IIUS MEAU /d                      SIT             -      I       I    1      -    3-l      36,000           -   31.000   364000   3.400    -    111600            0  0.75    O.5      Sit
AES1NIIM 1151UTRNURE/1181    LOWEST                   Yll              -      3      3    0.3    -    6.            400          -    1J0IM    2,00        320    -       21520       0  0.65      0.25     IV
h-lTtal FURNITUREt SUM1ES/
ROIILIERs FSO ITUIES                                                                                                              -   38.200   379000   401720    -    11792S0
7. WUHtLES
FOLK-MEl DR18E/lOUI IERRAIN                             (A             4       -      -       -    -       4      9o000     36.000         -         -        -    -      36.000       0  0.85         0      YE
FICW  YEAICLiE i                                        Ul              -      5       1           -      13      7.000           -   351.000  t21000   35000    -        S1lOo        0  0.85         0       YE
3AIR or ElXISTIN 4-IIL  RI             /1               [A            11       -      -                            1 -  11  1350    14.150  -        -        -    -      141r.O       0  0.85         0      YE
EMII (F OTIHE  11111  WHICLES /I                        EA             16      -       -      -           16       3.00    36.900                    -        -    -      1680         0  0.85         0      YE
5th-lotal  HICLES                                                                                                              P7.450   35.000   21 000   35D00O    -    358.450
5th-letol IIRECTlAIUE oF RMA
lrASTIRItU  (IlkDIR)                                                                                                         15650   45.262  3117MO  227.400    -   .247.992
3. BIIECUATIE (F AGRICLtlURIL
flIENSION IMMI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ao
._ . ..........
to EIPATRIAII MR. ECDONIBOISIt IMW
AMIIOEC4(     1[ EIPAIRIEs TWM                      STAFF-YEAR       0.5       1       1    0.5            3     54   O       705 000 54900 0 S4M00   PsOO          -    162,00        0              0       I                                   0
2. AM    F-IS UER EIIIESION                            ITMF-               -      I       I      I    -       3      54.000          -   54 000   54.000   54.000    -    16 .000         0      3        0       TA A
COMSIMTIE1



UFIUIIUM au K
UK 111IM MWIl21II) /3h                             02            20     50     75     N0    -    m0                   too0     2.500    3.75e    4OO            11.2054     0  041      0,25      IN
Il-012 l CUI tI l                                                                                                           .000    2.00    3750   140000    -        1150
4, tMI ,Mfms
msta. vmems
lrIitrIUIITL   /II                                   Ku              3      3      4      3*          13        100       100      300      400      130            a.o0       0  0.41     0.25      IV
5115 IUWMWI
FM        SIAU/"                                  SEI             2             4      5    -      13        s50     1.200              3,100    2,750           7.I50      0  o0d       025      Ut
S*-fetl flITKE SMEUS/
M IUa. E Si         I                                                                                                   10400      3       1.70    300             18450
S Los   aao  PINJ
5  WUM _01130   I W
o0il NSeIUI mUJCIf   25a1                           [A             2      I      1                  4        200       404      200      200           .           500      0   0,5         0      to
lIAN                                                  EAI5 U   U    2       1      1      -           4          54       i0n       54       54         -             211      0   0.?         0      El
RIKE  ftlU/811ltW DIAN                                [A             2      1      1                   4        108       214      106       106           .          432      0  0O?          0      El
UlD                                                   (A             2      1      1                   4         05       170       05         5                      1  34 0    009?          0      E
A/MU/N MUOUIEI                                       S1E             2      1      1            -      4        t0o       200       too      100                      400       0  0.9         0      1E
KA5   I000a)/UiC1( (II I                            [A             I     l2     lo     l5    -      43        400     3o.0    7.200    7.200    7.20    -        25.20       0   0e?         0      El
AU mIlLs ESSIMSIUO                                #11             9     l8     Is     Ii    -      43        134    12044    2.06    2i.O        2,066    -      7.3I       0   0.9         0      E0
I Ti. tal TWIKI   S   COT1    IOI I ARdIAI
061I11 " IIW      4ll60IUAIIII                                                                                          5.731   913 US      535 ?11          .     346945
IICCLSI A                                             EA            10     21    21      22    *      73        I31    12350    2.831    2.835    2.35   9*355                 0  0.s         e0      W
OOIITSCIL8IUOIUCICIESI 11                                            3      6      4      4           21        300       9       l.00     2,800    1.800    *        300       0 o0.0s        0      Y
PICKIV cmU
UI0lflu PI-W                                       E [A           3      4      2      2    *      2       7.000    22000 21.000    40oo0   14.000              77.000       0  0.05        0      Vi
E.h-TOtl WNIU                                                                                                             23.250   32.14    28435   28,435             3. 515
TtEOMCA  auatINI a /a                            slArr-11n                  2      4      7    *                540              l.0io     2.240    l.00            4.320      0      1        0      TA
..... U   .  ...........  .......
lCOICAL aSISIUIci /o                               SF-fSA            I      I      I      -    -       3    54.4I000    54.000   W40    543000       o       - *242000          0              0      IO
aSKItU 5111S                                          [A             2      ..    .                    2      70000     4.000                                         1 -  -  *4.000  0  0.05  0      VI
.W6.  .. @... .@.@.w..... ...  .. :......
Suh-TI.l FISE  4   KWOu     IIKCIOATE                                                                                        la,e000   54s000   54 o00        *            47000
191eb  IITIIIIT CSIS                                                                                                           32.034  7531U2  519.740  344.453    -  I15.843
1I  51.        CMIIll Wl
a, WIW r       SIMF/FUSmhL
At MMUIOML SINFIPIVAKL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PP
.. _._ . ....... . ...... F
to 111 OIDMIIN/lNUIEUR EUIIE km    /i.              S F-IEAR           2      2      2      2    *              l ow820   340    3.440    3440   3J440    *          14.560      0     0       0.2     Sm                            0*    O
2.U on     MIU2 UISlA UIMM NM/i                     slArF-YIM          I      3      4      5           13 *.40            .4o00    4.200    1.400    7s04Q    -     l2I:/       0      0      0.2     sM                                       (5
3. tUICIEiI NIF2m    10113. /l                      SIMF-YA            4      4      4      4           2-      2,220     4,840    4.i54     4.40    4.540           Is360       0      0      0.2     SM
4, 11NW   IIMUAICUPS IFIlAIKg                       SAFF-1CAR         12     12     22      .           36      III20    22.840   221540   22.540         -          21,505      0      0      0.2     sM                                       C
Ohp-lslA  3WEU2IW   ITAF/FIUUILM                                                                                            32.2      410 3.20 2,0                      1,4
I. WFICE VW *KLAK IIINUM                                   02           20 0220  * *                   300             2    200 20e  200                     * *            400 le   0    0   IE
C. 1T1L ALWAUS AM CIS/
WTi1 IMINIES.l rjRS
T.... ...........__... _



1. CIECII AS tlN9  I1IW112ll1                           WIR 0111      430    640    000    940         2 2    1       4 IJ 5  .1430    3140   IO3OO   121t90    -       NIN0    0.1        0         0      it
2.    TUlr /lWlTlAIE  IITIIIES                        FIRt 311      11000  1100   I.O0O  1.000        4.000        135    131500   131540   l13500   131500    -        54.000    01      0         0      11
3. IM TUTllO/I TAI K  TRUA    CUstS                  AIR rlAS          34     36      36                 100         70      21320    2.50    21520                      7,560    0l2  0.3         0.2      21
4. NUIIE S MWTITI[S K UE
INEMIIES                                      FAR DIEII    1000  11000  2.0   low00    *  4.O                 5     5.000    51000    5.00    51000             20.000    0.1      0        0       If
5.   ITRAWL CW1T                                       00e            200    200    200    200          30          200    20.000   201000   201000   20.000            N0N000    0.1      0         0      T1
........ ........ ........ ... ..... . ... ................
tClUIM   TIIFMIII. 1   WtL ES A  S47.500   0940   511320   511440    -                                                                                                   00.440
3. WNIICLE WIATfIW
........ . ........   e
It P20111 WHICLIS/WHItiL  IICKIt /s                       A            241    33      38     40    -    235       .I2M      232O0    39600   45i.00   430               1 62.0000   0.1 0.           0    [D011
2. FM-IUEL   WI   OtCUItIlMAIN It                                      I s     IS     15     15 I         60      1 *50     2200   22.400  22.500   22400    -           9000    0.2  0.35           0    EO[A
3. eTfCICLN OTKTCY1TEITE                                               3      9      15     21    -      48        400      1.200   31.00    6.000    8.400             29.200    0.2  0,15         0    COCA
S*ell UliltLE eltUl10                                                                        -------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....  ......  ....... ...............
F0CII CIIEIKt  WUitLO                                                                                                       521500   451700   741100   73.900           271.200
1. 1IIAI2h3AhII0                                       IlkAIIE-DAI        50      10     s0     0o          200         15                 750       750      750            31000   401       0        0      It
F. tffIII    An  MIITECMCI
Is WILIIE  MINTIIEIN                                                    -             -            -       -                                   SI720    3.523    2.720    27.94    0i  OI9          0    [DM
. WPIIMINlTCNMI                                LW                2     23      .      .            .3      2. 450     2.40     432       4.2      432       -     25.386    0il 0.55          0    UiM
:  EOUUIOII ral'li   Ct                 IU~~tW   SUI       I    1.S    1.0    1.0            3 F      a5          50    44121   411?    4o317        "     IIU         1OlS                  lD
31 9FF     1111                                       LII  250          2       2      2      2            4      4,000      41Xt    4.000   4M0OO    4.000    -         26.000    0.3  O.i!         0    [GM
St-til WERA10W  us MINIOWC                                                                                                      1.450   11.022   14.35       .0;?            ; 49.340
........ ........ .......... ........ .... ...................... 
Total MttWNI COtS 139.220  16 K2  179.425  157.422    -    *42.220
fhultlh 333333  333.3..333  :33**  -31 ,,,, ........
total                                                                                                                              441258  92 4  69.335  502075    -  2.562.033
:35*111  II.IIuII 31335833 81811118 game 533113h333
.  .     .... .. ... ...    .  ... ... .. ... .. .. ... .. ... .. ... .. .. ... .. ... .. ... .. .. ... .. ... .. ... .. .. ... .. ... .. ..
/a  110-SI2Y UN1IRK  OrF02E WILDING 4276 121 I23M.2(S 15 rFIC2S1  A LIAE 2001IN2   EeANM IW OIL1S
lb  POIK1 . WFFlCE  2I2MIm  12224 ) JULUI II 011201FIISt A  M   R t A RWOC  FOR AM I.AD S t83141   VMSS
ic  IEUKCI maIEI   MIERIA.. uTIEl  IUIPENT. 2 PINOCTO   MlIOIES.  S2IETCII 11AC IESI.IP`IEf IRDS 1.'0 MIE CX MCULAATS
Id  INUIES lU i  I6 MII. 1W11115 CSJIPMKNi  2 PlIIC     HAD)IIES. 2 SUKIL CIC                              Kil. 1 S  CACULAIOIS
do  Wt (AM  FOR  2HI1 or PRYIKIL   SERVICE MS CIRCOSIPT1ON,
it ISlIMhClS A1 I   ff TIH  WHItELE S IO      ISTIE A 151 O  LA VIEUR 14 WHIMUlE
s  IS  INATIM    Al 151 or HE   HIItNIC   S MTWISIIIM  A 251 KLA VAILIN P! WH2ICLLE
lb 25 12 oFIM5 1(3 EACH oF IN[ 92Z2(S OUISIE IFA, RE62GN
It   MIKIAL rr1E WUILlIS 4126 112 IENVUS 1   OFFI                ASIP 30011 A M   FOR ARwCWI M rt*M     AITAIIUN WORKS
/e  IN2122S SIEtIL l 5Illt KIU  CAlCILATRs. IlKilll1  PAK. IIISC. FOR (tlO  oF Fr    CIlMOISILK IfAO REGON.
71  FOR  fIlilIS  UICOLM  IWS U      I  IA ULIHE W YS
1  1F0115 CH KE  StIIEUS
Io  FOR c1    IXK  log  MO cKrs DE C01 [I2
In  cuinHllelIN6 AO Ema U IIlI    SKCIAL)SI
/t  24 1LeN 110   3 2s500 WOO 8 210 L   321 1r1/L a 61 410/5O X 1180 * 1750 OO0/1  FOR FULLMD 40.000 FrR MIR         (ICE  a s I.MOO2O./UAR
1.  (1l1kL LEVEL
I NWINCIIL LUIEL
/t  PI0IIIL LEYEL
/s  14 L/lO  1 I I2O0 UVIIO a 210 L   321 FrG/L * 67 420N  I 11 NO a 750 000/lk FOR FIELID 4o0oo0  rIR MINTEVICI a  ,2Qo0eO/IEAR                                                                                                                        P  P
It  PINCI1L  LEYEL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     co
NIaftf t     I29   15125 022'
Ith
a                                                                                                                           Li~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IRRIGATION REMIIILITATION PROLCT
PROECT BE REHAIILITATION
DES PERINETRES IRRIGES
Projct Cwoetnu s by Year
Totals Includini ContiniemcMes                                     Totals Includini Contifnincles
IFHt  '000)                                                        (US$ '000)
... ... .... .... ........ .............. ........ ........................................  ..................................................   ...... 
I15          1986         1987         1988         1989         Total        1908    1986    1987    1988    1989    Total
aa..a.aaaaa wuu.a..auso  3I.3833.3.3 onaxaisaauh     3a3338:miuu xa3u313a3338  managua zinniga. :a:a:aa a.aaaaa saushsa asauaaua
A,IfA*A  WAIKEENT SUPPORT                488,2960 1.034.764,1 1.03I1,59#4   8794226.5                 -  30433,445.9    751.2 13437.2 13356*8 1,096.3            -  4,641.5
o SCEllE REIMIL1TATION                1,255,499.9 20387,043,4 3,552,126.4 4,2443059.8 3,093,970.7 14053!eQiol  1,93I5 3,315.3 4W67M.9 5,290.6 3W6572 M8U866M5
C.a MIY SCM           AILITATION       2,487,246.0   7509310,3   631542.1   156,138.2   154.460,3  491804297.0  3,826.5 10429   831.0    19407   182.6  6,077.7
........    .......     ................   .......     ........   .....     ..........,................
Total PROJECI COSS                       4.231,044.9 4,172,717,7 5.214.B27,9 5#278,424.5 3p248#431,0 22,145.443.0  64509,3 5#795.4 6.861,6 6.581,6 3,839.  29587.7
.. . .............a.............................  ............        .a................  13................ u... U... 3.. 1............ 33...............38
Februar  5 1915  1614
a
'I 
e'
0*



JRRIOATION REHADILITATION PROXCT
PROJCT D  REHASILITATION
DES PERIIETRES RRIWES
Suaarv Accoit bw ProJect Cowoamnt
(Fib 'OGO)
Phvsical
HPMAA                                                        Contingencies
HAN ENT           SCKHE        HANGOKY SCHEME                   ....-.....
SUPPORT    RENAVILITA1ION  REHARILIATAION        Total        2      Aount
I. INESTnET COSTS
A. CIVIL IAS                                             -     4,964621.0        1.325,500,0   8.222#121.0  19.6 19606t172,5
D. IJILDINGS AND FURNIYURE                      45O820,0                                          4 -  50i820s0   0,0       0.0
C. EQUIPMENT                                     34p696,0                 -        265PS38.0      3004534,0   0.4    1200,0
D. KHICLES                                      265,805.0         15615.0          31,000.0      312,420.0   0.0           0.0
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                       1,138.320.0      1.457,300.0          48,000,0   29643.620.0   5,0   131.860O,
F.  MING CAPITAL                                         -                -      1,479000 0 1.479,000.0   0.0               0.0
. .. .. ..., .  ..............  ........   ............  ... ......
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                          1889.641,0       8.369N536,0       3.149,338,0  13408.515,0  13.0 1,741h232%5
11  RECURENT COSTS
A. IRRIGATION OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                -        194.000,0                 -      194i000.0   6.8    13i200,0
Be INCRlENTAIL STAFF                           117.640#0          5.760.0                 -      123400.0   0.0           0.0
C. EQUIPMENT OPERATION AND MAIENANCE           320#539,7          1.680.0                 -      322t219.7   Y.9    32,054.0
D. IRAWL EXPENSES                              2046040,0                 -                -      204.040,0  10.0    20s404,0
...........  ..............  ..........................  .... ............
Total RECURRENT COStS                              642,219.7        201,440.0                 -      843,459.7   7,9    65658.0
Total MASELINE COSTS                              2.531846007      86570.976.0       301490330.0  14.252.174.7  12.7 1,806.890.5
Ptwsical Contimnncits                             52.458,0      1,473.982,5         280i450.0   14806.890.5   0.0            0.0
Price ContinJtncies                              849.127,3      49456#741,6         750.509,0   6.086,377,8  12.S   759iJ41.4
..  . ....w . . _  -  .. _............  .............. .... ....... ..  .. -.. ........... 
Total PMOJECT COSTS                               3,433,443,9    14.531.700.1       4.1808291.0  22.345.443.0  11.6 2.566.031.9                                                 H
uuuEaUUusa  :z:gg.ua:|uuu::  suzz:ar::: ;::-=::;:                                                                             ::::::::
Taxes                                            188.655,2      2.952.342,2        394,637.8   3.535.435.2  14.4   50860043l                                                 co
Fortin Exchane                                 2.600.050.0      9P&009332,0       148U6148.3  13.686,530.3  12.1 1,650.190.2
February 5.195  1-631         .4...................................                                    .................
Febrtiarv S, 1985 16:14



- 64 -
Table 9
Economic Analysis
CALCULATION OF THE ECONOMIC PRICE OF PADDY AT THE FARM-GATE
(import parity in 1983 prices)
Soavina   Belamoty   Behara
Price FOB Bangkok, 5% brokens, US dollars 1/       285        285       285
Quality adjustment 2/                              (71)       (71)      (71)
Freight and insurance                               60         60        60
Price CIF Malagasy port, US dollars                274        274       274
Price CIF Malagasy port, FMG 3/                180,000    180,000  180,000
Financial charges (5.5% of price CIF)          9,900      9,900    9,900
Port handling                                 14,000     14,000   14,000
Importer's margin (5% of price CIF)            9,000      9,000    9,000
Transport to center of consumption 41         16,000        -       6,200
Storage, selling cost, and margins             9.100      9.100    9,100
Retail price of rice, center of consumption  238,000    222,000  228,200
Hilling cost                                   (10,000)   (10,000) (10,000)
Value of by-products 5/                          4,000      4,000    4,000
Bag depreciation                                  (990)      (990)    (990)
Collection costs to transport point 6/         (15,000)   (15,000)       -  7/
Transport to center of consumption 47           (5,100)   (11,740)       -  71
Storage and selling costs                       (7,700)    (7,700)  (4,400)8/
Farm-gate price of rice                        203,210    181,570  216,810
Farm-gate price of paddy 9/                    136,151    121,652  145,263
It   EPD's prices for Thai 5% brokens per ton at May 1984 were $293 (1982,
average); $272 (1983, average); $285 (1984, projection). The price
above is their average.
2/ Quality adjustment of 25% reflects lower quality of domestic rice (30%
brokens).
3/   The shadow exchange ratt is FMG 657 to the US dollar.  See
explanation in the Implementation Volume.
4/   Transport costs are consistent with data on actual charges.  The t/km
charge for the railroad is 20 FMG; truck transport charges vary from
50 FMG to 80 FMG t/km. See data on transport charges in
Implementation Volume.
5/   10 kg husks at FMG 50/kg and 70 kg bran at 50/kg.
6/ According to AIRD Final Report.
71 Behara will continue to import rice for self-consumption following
rehabilitation.
8/   Storage losses of 2% of value.
9/   Assumes milling outturn of 67%.
7 June 1984



Table 10
NERIAL FA1M  3DGE1S PE RA EH& PFDCL PAMY FOr , 1983-84                Ecoranc AiaLysis
(values in RIG)
Irriati-on
UnLit          Rainfed           Traditioral      Fxisting Improved I.  Future Tmprov'ed I
Prc    Quatic    tos    guur    C-    qutt                       Cost    unit        Gs
vaLue              valu                  value                value
1. labor work-days         500       77        38,500      110    55,000      123        61.500      140     70,000
2. PLowdrg/traipli
harvestirg         28,000                 28,000              28,000                28,000               28.OUO
3. Se  (kg)                130        50        6.500       50      6,500      50         6,500
4. Improved Seed ()        20                                                                         50      10,000
5. Urea (kg)               175       -             -         2        350       8         1,400        8       1,400
6. NPK (kg)                175        -            -                                         -       200     35,000
7. Sacks, deprciation      990                    990                990                    990                 990
8. Irrigtion labor b/      500                              12      6,000      12         6.000       12      6,OOU
9. Water-users charges                         12.000              12,000                12.000              12,000
_0. Ocher inputs al       6.000                  6,000              6.0C0                  9.200              11.20U
U1.   Total Costs f/                            91,990             114,840               128,090             174.570
12. Value of paddy (kg)    100 dl  1,010       100,000   2,000   200,000    2,280        228,000    2.840    2B4,000
13. Surplus                                      8,010             85,160                99,910              109,410
return OD labor per day
(includirg surplus) e/                         604               1,274                 1,312               1,282
a/ Chemical treatcenrs, manure, use of aIgady sickIes and otber equipment.
S/    scheme labor for clearirg ard repair only canals, drains. etcetera.
C  To be institted during project implecntation. DDes wt inlude returm to schm  capital.
TI Indicative only. Price differences of several htwdred percent within several mronths; arid over several hundred kit
annn durirg the period 1983-1984. Change to free marketirg ard heary change in imports imreased rormal
seasonal ard spatial differenaces. For price data durirg this period by month ard place see A.I.R.D., MP-RA.
Direction de la Prograumation Service de Coordinati.on du Secteur Riz, Ecude Secceur Rizicole, Rapport Final.
Anr.ee E.
e/ Most of this is faTily labor.
1/ Does not inclucle land-cre



ADOnI'N RAll:, YIE1J, ENIFIIS AND MMlS, PER EXM)IC IIECrARE; FOR                      FtonamLc Analysis
EXIrSI  AND nMRE TOtICAL PAXKA                                           Table 15
1986    1987     1988      1989      1990     1991      1992      1993-onards
Fxistirg package
Qmulative aldltional adoption
rate                                      0.125    0.250     0.375    0.650      0.70
amadative aldlttonal increase In
yield (kg)                               50      100       150      260        280         280       280        280
AIditional orr-fam costs (FMG)          1,781    3,562      5,344    9,262     9,975       9,975     9,975       9,975
New package
Qmulative adoption rate                                                 0.125      0.250      0.375      0.650      0.800                    c,
Quulative Increase Ln yield (kg)                                       88        175        263        455         560
Mditionmil or-fann costs (FMG)                                      5,580     11,625     17,437     30,225      37,200
Cbmbined packages
Qimilative increasr   In yields            50      100        150     348        455        543        735         840
Quulative increase in orrfarm costs     1,781    3,562      5,344   14,842    21,600    26,412    40,200       47,175
Fann-gate valm of increased yields
Soavina A ('000 M) I/                    6.8    13.6       20.4    47.4        61,9       73.9      100.1       114.4
Ilaroty B ('000 FMC)                     6.1    12.2       18B.2    42.3       55.4       66.1       89.4       102.2
eliwara B ('000 RMC)                     7.3    14.5       21.8    50.6        66.1       78.9      106.8       122.0
(Valtm? of increasel yields)-(Incroased fanm costs)
Soavtna ('(XX) FM)                       5       IO        15       33         40         46         60         67                          m
Belamty ('000 RM)                       4       9         13       27         34         39        49          55
Behara ('000 tMC)                        6       11        16       36         45         51         67         75
1/  bLkw packae not appilcable In Highlands durlrg cotnter-season because of low twperAtures.
NE: 'te careful application of the exs           tk   Jncreasse  yields 400 kg. per ha.
- n'e careftil application of the new pace inceases yields 700 kg. per ha.



EOltMIC RATIE OF REUN CDAIONS
(Values in RFM milllons)
Production of                           Inrrcased                                                   Recurrent
Paidy WLthout   Incrae    Value oE  Oa-Farm    Onstnxtion   Investomts   Sclhem  Operation  GCsts                 ot
Project Year   Project (t)      Output (t)  Increaae   Coots    COsts _    DAE/DiRl               maintenance       DRI/DAE      Strewn
Behara
MIRR  26%        1             900              --          -          -           2748 -                                                     -285
2             820             580         84         -32        -149            -81            -16               -02         -1%
3             740           1,175        170        -64           -              -             -16               -02           88
4             660           1,419        206         -76          -              -             -16               -02          112
5             600           1,673        243        -89           -              -             -16               -02         -136
6             540           1,837        266         -99          -              -              -16              -02          149
7             480           1,985        288        -109          -              -             -16               -02          161
8             450           2,202        319        -121          -              -              -16              -02          180
9-30             450           2,305        334        -128           -             -             -16-              -02          188
BelamoEy
ERR: 239         1            2,552           -780         99          55         -287            -              -12                -         -343
2           2,452             431         55         -19        -176           -138            -24               -03         -305    '
3           2,322           1,123        143         -58          -              -             -24               -03           58
4           2,222           2,0OM        255        -108          -              -             -24               -03          120
5           2,122           2,544        323       -139           -              -             -24               -03          157
6           2,045           2,856        363        -158          -                            -24               -03          178
7           1,968           3,127        397        -176          -             -              -24               -03          194
8           1,906           3,611        459        -210          -              -             -24               -)3          222
9-30           1,906           3,842        488        -226          -              -             -24               -03          235
Soavina 1/
ERR: il%         I            2,260           -210         -29          16       -251             -              -11                -         -275
2           2,171             431         59        -19         -149          -127             -17               -03        -256
3           2,081             649         88         -27          -              -             -20               -03           38       ,
4           1,992             953         130      -143           -              -             -2()             -03            64 1
5           1,902           1,401        191        -56           -              -             -20               -03          112
6           1,813           1,765        240         -79          -              -             -20               -03          138
7           1,733           1,986        270         -96          -             -              -20               -03          151
8           1,655           2,371        322        -118          -              -             -20               -03          181
.9-30           1,655           2,539        345       -130           -              -             -20               -03          192
1/  Opti(n A plus Option C.



- 68 -                                                        Table 13
SWmf rEmBIrxT= aIcUc a Srs AID BENETS
pa                                      1985      1986      1987     1988       1989     1990-205
in In pdi                          2853     2930      2930      2930      2930        2930
Total rodicctian (r)               9643      9903      9903     9903      9903        9903
fcadmdc valE cE
Piaddy tF;C .111km   b/           1254      1287      1287     1287       1287       1287
Fma costs of productlcm
(FIG cllion) Y/                   415       426       42        426       426         426
Valm leu fa cut                    839       861       861       861       861         861
Cotton
Ha In cottl                       290D      30D0       3Q40     340       3040        3040
*lbl podu           (tonu) d/     522D      7600       7600      760D 7600
Fbanoxi isme of deton              1804     2626      2626      262S      2526        266
Ebra coat of      tn               578       606       606       606       606         606
(RC milion) f/
Value lem  fam  -ota              1,226      2020      202      20MZ      2020        202D
(FIG ml1on)
Paddy -d Cotto
otal poduction. bfita              2065     2,881    2,881     2,881      2,881      2,881
(FM muilon)
Cbts: RGC ndllon)
Cot of SAMW1
oFrarim                                 1303     1448       1482     1563      1543        L543
cos di mililtario  8                    1565      293        78        20
subsdxl for int                          183      250        77        77        77          73
for emion                                  95        95        95        95          95
Total costO                            3051      2086       1732      1735     1715        1. 15
*t Fai for enterprise                  -986       795     1,149     1.146     1,166       1,166
Projece bfts                            413       576       576       576       576         576
Projecr costs N                        1565       293        78        20
e Flow for Pmwecr                     -1152       283       498       556       576         576
ER: 41 (for project)
a/  Yields  rr pt  3.38 cm  of pM;  SMMI  c3 thate
S/   Fauta vilm of pddy FR  130 per Kt (1984). atm   to hold ar project-life.
F           Fm   ota var ha for rmy mm   effttad by SWM1M  at RG 145,455. Slngle craw     Is asmd, although
do.i ctoprg In lkely.
d/   9mo c  SM W* 's yLeld eatm   (2.5 r. at ful prect Iqaenitation).
/  SWR, .apm:Ctton Devel_p't ProJect. llJ30J83, p.55: FEae     prcm  eqofvalect of seed-totem U5S526
per ti. S      e chnge das of RS 657 per US doUar.  Pe walue Is RC 31.5,52 per ton. This Is
csistent ESth XCS C tty Price Forects (R. Thxm, upate, 3 Octob  1984) idth follcmg pdm  for
aoce  flIe per Kg in US dollAr: 1.65 (1983); 1.77 (1986); 1.75 (1995).
B amd on StfWf  pw t s                  of 213 wo* dpys mc n  72D  r day ph. Ind preparatia  (mzi traction)
of RC 45,880, or DC 199,240 per be.
~( FmorL cot of SMWIflW  rbaiiteion:
Civil u.odc, eu*lpne (foreigd        g  S1.435 -.li           943
CIvil wc,  quldpnt, lcal meta    I a                          419
Tedrdcal assista  (forelip    I  g 0.6 dillion)               394
Ted_ic1l asstaxo, local J,st                                  200
MMEL                                                   1,956
h/  Defir-i s       2I   of oal. pSductton ans (pars 6.0.
r Souzrcs for dara an S&AM1 -. 1-R.1.ltac2o, d la SAW                fgg  Q. d.qLwmW   Terive, 1984
(draft) pp. 9-16; S    tM =, D1StCC de Is Produlcon Agriaol, -Project d'lnrodn LM de 1 OAg1e AchxII, 
'mondaa. 20 Jly, 1984; Cxt tiW ,     IR. PSM



- 69 -
Table 14
FROJEcIM AYEMM
SAM.a: PRDJEC) AVER?"  RO AND YElDS IY ClOF AND WE OF CJLTXIMM2 ni 1986 AND IS               : YEARS a/
ecu         1 ai ,vat
FF                   13 i.cal
Cotton                      1200       40       3D40      2.50
RIce                        1400      1530      2930      3.3
Legims (in Fallw)            600       600      1200       b
Other                                            530 Cf
TotaL                       320       3970      7700
at Assmes  S  1 4I-aC4ni,  su   Implemted   In pcopose  projec
b/ Yields suh dat value of pro&xzron cirm fazn osts.
C/ TrI:l4l   . y    levelled  rid  serviced by secmwtary casl olLy and ha overed over with sand.
Fbre: Cotton Yields ar SAI9N exceede 2.5 t before 1976. For c  years 1972-73 anl 1973-74 they
averaged 3.0 mm. Average rice yiels in eess of 4 tom tare ic m  throgh c          &k  1970's.
Tu 1980-84 yields were oxsiderably beLiw thse of thm table for coctcrm; bar pidd,  - -Lds ware
neirly 3.6 t./ha. 1t  probbility of these yields beWy r&"chlewa  Is increased :ae of
SdMANGCK's EV system of user c       s iLch are larely f** acnrding w awunt of lamd
culrivated and its selecr.ln of only the mom productive peants for cmied operations (para
3.18).



- 70 -
SAMANGOKY                                                                Table 15A
COMPTE PREVISIONNEL D'EXPLOITATION
(DIRECTION PRODUCTION AGRICOLE)
PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENT, AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION DEPARTMENT
(En Millions FMG)
1984      1985       1986       1987      1988
II. DEPENSES
- Achat de matiires consommables          254        241        386       489        575
- Frais du personnel                      125         63         65        52         50
- Imp8ts et taxes                           0,2        0,2        0,2       0,2        0,2
- T.F.S.E.                                 43         16         29        37         39
- Transports et deplacements                13        18         18        19         19
- Amortissements                          285        310        306       257        246
Total dEbit             720        648       805        854        930
II.  RECETTES
- Redevances fixes Fermes                  14        125        219       239        280
- Redevances fixes C.A.                   314        107        147       192        215
- Travaux mecanises Fermes + C.A.          16        262        282       110         80
- Cession d'intrants                       32         94        187       316        402
- Traitements aeriens                       -         11         15        18         18
- Redevances variables Fermes               -         24         23        31         33
- Rimuneration sur livraison
Cotongraine                              10          7         10        12         12
- Vente de Riz decortiqu6                  12         83        153       196        217
Total Recette           398        713     1,047      1,114      1,237
RESULTAT                               (322)        65       242        259        306



- 71 -
Table 15B
RECAPITULATION COMPTE PREVISIONNEL D'EXPLOITATION
SAMANGOKY CONSOLIDATED PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENT
(En Millions FMG)
1984      1985       1986       1987       1988
I.   DEBIT                                 |
11.  Achat matiires consommables           489        492        635        739       824
12.  Frais de personnel                    323        200        202        189       187
13.  Impotss et taxes                        4          5          5          5         5
14.  Travaux, fourniture,
services exterieurs                    82         37        50         58         60
15.  Transports et dtplacements             54         45         46        46         46
16.  Frais divers de gestion                16         13         13         13        13
17.  Frais financiers                      100         63         48        33         19
18.  Amortissements:
s/Fonds Propres                     82        147        147        158        162
s/Subventions                      283        305        302        241        227
19.  Provisions                            145          -          -         -          _
TOTAL DEBIT                         1.558     1.307      1.448      1.482      1.543
II.  CREDIT
21.  Redevances (C.A. et Fermes)           328        232        366       431        475
22.  Ventes Riz decortiques                 12         83        153        196       217
23.  Ventes intrants et prestations
de service                             48       367        484        444        500
24.  Transports livraison coton             10          7         10         12        12
25.  Marches Entretien Reseau              183        250         77        77         77
26.  Produits accessoires                   37         30         30         19        19
27.  Subvention sur vulgarisation            -          -         95         95        95
28.  Redevances variables
coton Fermes                            -         24        33         31         33
TOTAL CREDIT                          618       993      1.248      1.305      1.428
III. RESULTATS                               (940)      (314)      (200)      (177)      (115)
IV.  CASR FLOW                               (430)       138        249        222        274



- 72 -
Table 1SC
SAMANGOKY PROJECTED PROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENT
COMPTE PREVISIONNEL DE PERTE ET PROFIT
(En Millions FMG Constants)
1984      1985       1986       1987      1988
I.   DEBIT
RfsultL' d'Explcitation               940        314        200        177       115
I.B.S.                                   1          1          1          1         1
TOTAL DEBIT             941        315        201        178       116
II. CREDIT
=  Rgsaltat d'Exploitation                  -          -          -         -          -
* Profit Rsultat Subvention
d'Equipements                          283        305        302       241        227
TOTAL CREDIT            283        305        302       241        227
III. RESULTATS (Perte)|Benfnice              (658)      (10)       101         63        il1



- 73 -
Table 15D
SAMANCOKY PROJECTED BALANCE SHEET
BILAN PREVISIONNEL
(En Millions FMG Constants)
1983      1984       1985       1986       1987       1988
CAPITAL                                 295        295        295       295        295        295
*  Fonds de dotation                    947     2.489      2.489      2.489      2.489      2.489
*  Reserves et Report a nouveau        (642)   (1.454)   (2.112)   (2.122)   (2.021)   (1.958)
a  Rsultats                            (812)     (658)       (10)      101          63        111
*  Situation nette                     (212)      672        662        763        826        937
*  Subventions d'Equipements          1.353     2.231      2.527      2.225      2.021      1.794
.  Dettes A moyen terme                 933       249        166         83          -          -
CAPITAUX PERMANENTS                   2.074      3.152     3.355      3.071      2.847      2.731
*  tumobilisations brutes            5.745      6.623      7.224      7.224      7.261      7.261
  Amortissements                    3.486      3.851      4.303      4.702      5.101      5.490
ACTIF DMMOBILISE NET                  2.259      2.772     2.921      2.522      2.160      1.771
PONDS DE ROULEMENT                     (185)       380        434        549       687        960
V Valeurs d'Exploitation                538       491        465        489        598        660
=  Valeurs realisables                  789       231        463        459        552        565
ACTIF CIRCULANT                       1.327        722        928       948      1.150      1.225
DETTES A COURT TERME                  1.141        342       353        386        489        575
BESOIN EN FONDS DE ROULEMENT            186        380        575       562        661        650
Trgsorerie Positive                      56          -          -         _         26        310
Trgsorerie Negative                     427          _       (141)      (13)         -          -
Tr6sorerie Nette (-)                   (371)         _       (141)      (13)        26        310



COn4PTH O'EXlI.0olTATION CrENERAL.E 9.30.82. All 31 DECEMURE 1983
INCOIME AND EXI'ENUI *RE Al(:l:)lIN'r 1982-1983
C 11 A R G E S                                                        P P    ItTS  PP f I T S                1 I101TAtITS
,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                                 I.                              ,.                                      I
I                    I                                                I        ,i
Stock Initial                              I     638, 361443s5       S Stock final                                |     547.003.552    I
Achats                                        S,06.A67,31         - loins PravisiQns                                     (8.677.646)   1,
frals do personnllO                              530.013.010      - Ventes Coton                                      ,1140.417198
lmp6ts at taxes                                     1 1.597 020   t - Ventos Pi.  1                                      31.4fi4,540   ,1
TrvAVux,fourniturem ot seuvicm a    t. 4,t10.130.125               - Vonteo autreo nrodults agvicoldu s'                 39.302.060
Transports et d6placeento                        . 74,040.714     - Travaux de r4$aratipnddgSts cycl6plques  I           73.100,4I
rrais.divers du geotlon                           12,4h2.182      - Travaux de remloe en Atat A I1'lsino I                              I
frals financiers                                 1 i33.843,471   :  Canawi    '                                          '1,037.772
rotationM aUx umortisfeo'mints             1     510.749.311,   I   Ventes divorsui                               I      3v,26.0Uu      ;
I              I ~~~~~~-c.auuions m,otiarea Ai e4o tiovu               67. 132,9110    I
Dotatiorn  aux provisions n                        1lA.R56AR47I
-  6fitaxo anrionl. oewroll                            3.139.500       ,
_   X                      ;                    |~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - Rtstou1rgog  .                  i      25,5'e3,'eao    1
- Subvention FI'DC rnutr entIwtion rOsa                              I u
\                        h 1  tiydraulique                t    u102.416.B ssr,    I
\  1                 1 - Prmduits acceaonlrns                                11.fln3.237
\|   Bdevances cultivat Awl assoel6            I      7tI,3^5.35o
\   I                I - R.ud1ovanca fmon                                    26. 7C'g.5'43    1
\  t                 , - Pm duits financiers                                  3.6i16.603
Pro4uatlqn  Ilmolp; bit)Isations                    II,50.72a 
Mo IdultatI Pi-trt41e txploitatilon            I   1, I n6,3'i1I,005 I 
X           .   N  ..   .       .   W    .................  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~2    V..O   I)n #7    sl 5 5 1    1
I   2.n22.Oe.I.,603   1                                ~*~
* *USlUasuuaum                                                           2.U7,  II*,tu7,5j gf
:-, .: . -  *  '            '         '4aaMaa~au



- 75 -
rILA1? AU 31 DE ME '.9813                   Tab le 17
ACT I F                            3ALAXCE SHEET, 1983 at cECEL1BER, 31
_-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J 1O_- tlETIN *G_ *                                     *2
COMHPTES                      MOWrAT Br ;            &       '    HTs.I
FIS D'ETABIS:SE!-.T
.  - FRAIS  E CCWiSTTTMILN  -T D'ltiDE   .   *   -
riE SOCIETE                                    S. 000.000!     5,OOO.0O0
- FRIS D'EtUZ  D'I?l!LANTATIC2I ;SIfE      ,,
DiEMAG  cTCO                             i     1.Soo.ooo       l.S0,-000 *O 
zSwS                      ~~              ~~~t  !           ! 
- IN I5O SATIONS SUR SUBVTNTONS            ! 4.012.383.816! 2.729.79i4..3S9 ! 1.282.59S.457a.
.._ DIOBIUS-ATI0NS SUR FflND  PROD ES         1.298.200.455L   756.CM25.19 ,  542.175.305
M- MIUSATIaNS EN COURS                           4.27.566                       434.325.5    ,
.  AFrRES VALEURS I.MMcILLSM a  s -                .452.360!       _                452.36E
JPLZUR  DiEoYrA.TIN                        1   5'47.003.5521     8.677.646 '  C36.325.90E
I  tA1RS REALISABLES A COUM  TE2           !               ,
I Fr DISPOKnBLES                                                             I
AV- AV.A     AUX FOURNISSEURS              ,- 
!- CI:DENTS                                !     1 47.5&.206!       -       !     7.4S5.106 !
- RASYES  -                              1    12.106.269!    -  -         ;    12,36.269
-. SOONTMIY                               ,     7.656.628t                       7.656.622
. -ETA    DE -'   106.102.312,                                        -          165.102.31 .
B-R'D    9.332.320.                                               -             5.332.320
FED                                            6.430.000          -             6.42G.COO
!  CLIENTS DoUEUX                          ;   53.UC2.2EO0!    53.4C2.350 1          _
t- PERSNNEL                                 ,    38.790.649          -       ,    38.790.5z.&S
' - O2IrIVATECRS ASSOCIS                          9 84.3R1.3a3!      _            84.3GI.843 '
r -ETA.T TUT    CTIES   rzs99.025.;9                  4,             - .99.026.19t
! _CREWCES DCuTUSES SU-R cutrm7ms    !
. ;  AS5U-1L5                                   5.146.5413!   5.146.f4 W
- DEEIEU     RS ,IE                             "5.3e5*q;                  - ,   45.365.59,
I - ACI!ATS ET  IMIS  AXYES n"AVAKCE         '   23.900.7Q'          - _          29.7I26
.- PODUITS A, iCVCi;           .           ,  204.039. 230          -       , 2CLu.33.23C
t  ~3ANQUS                              '.   50.2.91e.962-      -       *    SC.1C1.25 --;
- CAISSES -                                      S.796.1.20;        -       ,      .7s6.;20
PEMTES DE LEMPCI=! ,                          12.a". 42 6,. Sly .-2 .
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~44 .  ,9,,2t. r'
t           -                   r   ~~~~~  ;                    !                :V 
!                        .                  !               V    .           ! ,I    90,-
!                                            '              !                !---==    = 



PASSIF                     -~~~~~~~~76-
Tau: e 17
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                  9  
I                             CO*E
t CgpIThUX m!'O0v"-S FET IeSE S MS
i- L"PITAL SOCIAL                                                      I   29!5.000.000r
I -  S  DE DOTAflON                                                  !   9F7e199.4f
- _ sE7ILEGALE                                                             22.873.797  !
-SEPVE POL.R INVESTISSE?N1E-TS SOCI0-FCO.       -                        315.167- 79 
i - EPOFT A !IOUVEAt DEBITEUR                                        !  (979.566.015) !
' SDEINTI0NS D'L-ENAIEMENT ET D 'EUIPEJl  RECUES 
- SUBVE1TIONS PEUES DU FAC                                                 875.8e7.98S
I - SUBVENTICS POUR HARCHE ler ET 2m  FEP                              I   312.568.222  r
-. SUVENTONS  CLEsS W BUD GEtT cIEPAL rT  F                           , 'T  32.716.97-9
- ST!9VENTIOS POUR MARCEE 3Nn  FED A?ENAGEIrIS  WS TF.R1ES               2.080.050.733
,s- SVE ONS POUR. MARCHE 3me FED XI ATEPM                                    10.1LS3. 000
-   - SDVENTIBNS FRMIS DE ler ETaBI0SSE?f.T FAC        .                      5.000.000  !
- !WYUlJTIONS POU  ?!ARCHE BIPD/sAmWmGOK;                                  765.994.960
; - SONBVEMOIS I?NSCITES A PEWES ET PROFITS                            r (2.729.784.359) !
EMlWNh."S. A PLUS D'?JW AN 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
, - AVAINCE YAFCHE 3n MMGOIr IVt                                           682.899.701
- E 2rUNT BT'                                                   ,     t   2419.670.639  !
t TES A COURT 'TEZ                                                     ,
- ouizssEzps                                                          ,   228.737.426
i- Fol(ONTANyY                                                       -         .179.fi45  ;
I - oPPOsITIoIIS PErso!-                                                     19.150.608  I
- ETAT (Tur, IB, TAXE AERONEF)                                      1,47.347.338
, - CItEDITEUR DIVEPS                                                       1 l97.915.503  .
;- TRESORERIE PRINCIPALE:                                                    19.995.817
- ACNATS Er CHARGES A PAYEr.                                          t    93.565.565 S
t  PRODIXI'S PERCUS D;'AV!iNC                                                   s,7G 
PRDDEMTS PEPICL  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ IR7.750 
I -  A$ERIS   4EUFS 3f ATSE 'E tIE PPISrrio)N        -        @ *      ;     34.327.566  ;
,   CO1PTS FI!TA?tIEPS 
' - llANQtiE:S                                       ! ~~~~~~~~~~~I  42?.Lag5.353 .
, !
.                                                                      I  '". 45'4. 892. 371  I
9~~~~~~~ .                                                      !  ===-== 



Tb,lu 18
IWLBOu Ihata an 'I'wuiity Hoven Madiur, Irriatioon Scliemes
QIIeullejus D)onnaus  i'tlncipadles des 27 Reueutix Sectionnus
Num dIo purirubtre    Surlaee       Sutr1;cee       Surface         Extenuiloii   Talile moyenne    Nemlbro    Rendamemnt          Age
ulumiide    irriKutile      ruliyue         dvenituelle    des rizl&res         de pay-   rizicale    ra-6mduA
(ha;,)       (lhd)       s1Uwoit 1982-         (Ila)        par explol-        5as         actluel
1983 (hdaj                        tint (ha)                     (t/ha)
-Dasse-Andlrolaja       3900         25110           2146                60              0,48           1350          3,2         1968
-h1alaaluolldu          23b0         2360             1684              150              1,5            1200          2,9         1973
-01tive                 IS00          800              760               -               0,7            1072          2,2         1956
-Auaanu56U 560                        5b0              345               55              0,65            887          2,0         19.10
-Amlauhibary           300U          2650            2650               307              0,45           7180          3,0        39.38
-Anlrag,otoglak;i      3000          2800             820                80              0,5s           1583          2,3        1947
-Fi1akikerilna          400           315             375                -               0,9             200          2,1        1968
-"anantdona             50            400             340                -               0,65            250          2,1        19J69
-Slatmllwo              450           200             140                25              0,35            411          2,5        1964
-AmbabluIkolalhy       1045           795             315              480               0,75           2484          2,5       1367
-Ianidvtsay            1650          lb5so           1280              370               0,7            2446          1,9        1912
-Ikaboun                800           650             450                -               1,2             315         2,0         1968
-Varal.lhu              400           40U             330                30              0,4            1250         2,1         1923           1
-Vinamlinuiy           2000          3800             970              Sod               0,4            3170          1,7        1923
-Analavory              400           38u             350                30              1,0             148         2,1         1960
-Vi ravaliana          1370           920             840               40               0,8             800         2,5         1957
-Ambuhidrapeto          600           600             600              200               0,6             882         2,8         19J50
-Amljalaniraiaa         350           295             250                45              2,0             134         2,5         1969
-Ambai,ivaiibe         600           450             300               ISO              2,0             812          1,5        1955
-Soavila                1600         1200             900              200               2,0            .296. '    2,0           1962
Fauilvelona            330           330             247               117              0,4             900          1,2        1960
-Sahiavaro              Jo0           160             160                40              3,0             250          1,5        t971
-lehiara               2:350          840             475              325               0,9             695          1,2        1946
-Ankilizato              o00          700             480                20              1,0             500          1,5        1943
-tlNelahue              3110          150              80                70              0,6             663         1,2         1964
-Voiidrove             4w00          1500             600              900               2,0             200          1,7        1949
-AAlldull ranu/                                             %
Itatiombo            I0000          6800            2000                -                -            6370           10         IYI5
Surfaue       Stirfacu         Sturface          Possiblo    Averaguo           tIluih or      Padidy YielIds
tlinder       poteltial ly    irrigatezd         etteinsio,i  irri.gated         of              (t/3ia)
eaniala       irrigable         1982-83           .(119)       loldinig per    Puasali1ts
  (l3u)       (l9u)             (hau)                        cuiltivatur                                                 a
(tin),,,,,                     __ 
a) tiu cotoi. o
SOUIIRC:s  EIIl0CONS1II.l"'Pro,jet du Iteillbilitiltioll ilus IlPtits 3'brI,btrus, Rapport  ldtffilnitif
F'ul)rsiLry  3984, 'I'uni  11, 1). 19h



Table 19
,MA
Irrlptln Rehabilitation Proect
OoezTaent Projected Cash.Flow
((Dat. in 1MCRJli&ons)
Project       Priect CDt Finrcirg             DCbt service          Total        Taxes from       GoverrLrunt     R40 per
costs                                                          C(verrnu           project        cash flow      US dollar
M-  0O0c   FE)    Q't              IDA  aOO          outlays       implementation
1985     4,231      1,058    1,000    631   1,542         42      23         1,607              505           -1,102          650
1986     4,173      1,400    1,074    600   1,099          50     98          1,247             651             -596          720
1987     5,215      2,787      802    608   1,018          59    140         1,217              855             -362          760                    1
1I8     5,278      2,874      846    677      881         70    184          1,135             905             -230          802                    o%
1989     3,248        998      812    474      964        76    228           1,268             619             -649          846
1990                                                      80    584                                             -664          893
1991                                                      85    599                                             -684          942
1992                                                      89    614                                             -703          994
1993                                                      94    631                                             -725        1,049
1994                                                     Im     643                                            -743 *      1,106
1995                                                      245    658                                            -903        1,167
1996                                                     257    671                                             -928        1,231
1997                                                      270    682                                            -952        1,299
Note:   Values are In current FMG.  11e value of the lC is assuml to depreciate 5.5  amrially with respect to foreip exchange.
lF; dollars FF aid EO mintan coristant value with respect to each other.
No attempt has hem wade to eattnate the tlnreased taxes on the increased economlc output generated after project lmplemntatlon.
'he debt service, homever, for 997 would be equivalent to about 6X of the value of lditional rice productton foreseen under
the project. Uhkder many fiscal reglaim the assoclated increase Ln taxes would fully cover the project's debt uervice.



- 79 -
Tal 20
MN)AGISC                          Page 1
etuted Schdt&ze of   Ia
Plan d.e  D{seo
CU$ nrfl l)
T. ffscal year ac2d quartier      Qjarterly                    Camxdlative di     ts at end of quarter
EmrcEse et trlzestre MDs                    trizestriels                  cumlatifs en fin de trimstze
1985
June 3D, 1985                               0.1                                 0.1
1986
9bptsi~er 30, 1985 a/                       0.1                                 0.2
December 31, 1985 b/                        0.8                                 1.0
March 31, 1986                              -                                   1.0
Jime 3D, 1986                               0.4                                 1.4
1987
Pet'Pr 30, 1986                             0.6                                 2.0
Decemter 31, 1986                           0.6                                 2.6
March 31, 1987                              0.6                                 3.7
Jtme 30, l987                               0.7                                 3.9
1988
SepceiSe 30, 1987                          0.8                                  4.7
Dzi-.er 31, 1987                            0.8                                 5.5
arch 31, 1988                               0.8                                 6.3
Juae 30, 1988                               0.8                                 7.1
1989
Septe*ier 3D, 1988                         o.q                                  7.9
Deerw 31, 1988                              0.9                                 8.8
Ma1c 31, 1989                               0.6                                 9.4



Table 20
- 80                                      Page 2
IDA ff scl yewaad quarter          Qarterly                     Omlative                at ecd of quarter
Exercie et tr1wstre IDs                      trimestriels                   cum.atlfs en fin de trhastre
Jun 30, 1989                                0.5                                  9.9
1990
Septemer 30, L989                           0.5                                 10.4
Decezter 31, L989                           0.4                                 10.8
March  31, 1990                             0.3                                  11.1
June 30, 1990                               0.2                                  11.3
1991
Septer 30, 1990 C/                          0.2                                 11.5
D3aube 31, 199D                             0.2                                 11.7
Marzch 31, 1991                             0.1                                  11.8
Jue 30, 1991 d/                             0.2                                 12.0
/Disbursemu 1    PPF, expected date of   .ief           v
saw PPA, date d'entre en vigueur dui cr&dit.
b/  Initial deposit irto project Special Accuwcs (US$ 0.8 mio).-
Dpot iridil  dams les Coqpes Spia: du Projet (EI 0.8 millioc).
cf  Expectel dae of Project Cmpletim-
Date d'eNiton du Projet.
d,  Expected clisrg date of QIet.
Ibte de clure du Qgdit.



- 81 -
ihhie 21
IEIIRKfNI IN P1mW  aTLVAItI, SOAVIN, BEALY, liA
(hectares)
Paddy Oldwvat                         (6)
Irrigatio   Sirgle.WWod Ibtal Ha Iripted  Total Ha Irrilated
Irr tion    rgaio In  Rainfed   lble            Dry Season   In Rainy Seon 3/  at E:LIer Seasn b/
mm  1/    Wet Sesom        Wet         p       Ig       2/ Total Ha in Basin   Total Ha iu Basin
Beuam        800           500                                 50              63.                 69Z
B Dy    1,200               640         410      520                            53Z                 53C
Soavia    1,200            550          100      200          200              42Z                  63Z
1/  Txcl area originaly served by irrigaion cos.
'Z   1983. Nq overlp substa laly with 1et-seasom cultivation
iSM19-84



- 82 -                          iAnnex I
7e-geT=
MADAGASCAR
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Materials Available In the Project File
Documenr
INo.
A. Sector or Sub-sector reports and studies:
Al Madagascar Agriculture and Rural Development
Sector Memorandum. June 30, Report No.
4209-MAG (EnglLih)
(French)
A2 Madagascar. Irrigation Sub-Sector Review.
Central Agriculture Division. December 30, 1982
(Madagascar Irrigation (3) Bank Reports)
A3 Irrigation Legislation                                107.270
A4  Note Gingrale sur la gestion des p4rimecres          107.924 Xt
bydro-agricoles amenages de Madagascar. Ministere
du D4veloppement Rural (fevrier 1973).
B. Project related reports and studies
BL Etude de la Rhavilitation de cinq petits              106.637 B
perima tres dydro-agricoles (Maharanona - Behara -
Soavina - Belamoty - Anbalabe) EEDR
MmokacralGersar.  Raport de Synthise
C2 volumes). Aout 1982
12  Avant-Projet DetaillS des Quatres PMrimtres.         107.924 K
Soavina - Belauoty - Mahavanona - Behara
33  Sch&a d'A&nagemenc de Soavina. Mai 1982              107.924 3
B4  Sch6ima d'AinFageuenu de Behara. Mai 1982            107.924 C
B5  Schema d'Aa6nagement de Belamoty. Kai 1982           107.924 F
B6  Projet de Reha?'ilitation des Petits P6rlmAtres.    102.635 I
EU2ROCONSULT. Fevrl,ec 1984
37  Rapport de Mission.  E. Boumendil, Consultant
Senior en Irrigation. 26 Juillet 1982
(Madagascar Irrigation (3) Bank Reports)



83-
Annex 1
Page 2
B8 Pre-appraisal Report. B. Bounendil, Consultant
en Irrigation. February 14, 1983 (Madagascar
Irrigation (3) Bank Reports)
39  Rapport de Mission.  L. Peyrichou. Agronome.
Dfcembre 1982. (Madagascar Irrigation (3)
correspondence file, Vol III)
B10 Note sur lea Aspects Socio-Economiques, V.A.
Rabotoanisoa, ConsuLtant. Deceabre 1982
(Madagascar Irrigation (3) Bank Reports)
BLI Techniques de la Riziculture AnmliorEe (Ministeray 108.224
Ny Faapandrosoans my Ambanivohicra sy my
Fanavaozana ny Fizakan-Tamy). Octobre 1978
312 Rapport de Mission. E. Boumendil, Consultant en
Irrigation.  Decembre 1983.  (Madagascar
Irrigation (3) correspondence file, Vol IV)
B13 Rapport de la Mission SAMANCOKY de MM. CHavancy ec 109.021 A
Esrun, f&ibrier/oars .1983
B14 Rapport d'Expertise sur La Rehabilitation du ???   108.887 B
B15 Etude de l'efficacitc du drainage dans la zone cocoan du
p6rtitre de la SAMANGOKY en vue du danger de salinite ec de
l,entretien mfcanisLs  des reseaux hydrauliques de ce
p4rimatre. EUROCONSILT. Mars 1984 (rapport provisoire).
C.  Detailed Cost Tables
D. Madagascar FLrst Irrigacion Rehabilitation Project, Analysis
Assumptions and Data Used in the Economic Analysis, June 19,
1984 Jacob Meerman
E. Aide-HeMoires of Co-financiers



-84-
Annex 2
Page 1
Irrigation legislation
The Government promulgated 'Ordonnance no. 81 026" regulating the
Zclassification, management, and police of the irrigation schmes- in 1981
and 'Decree no.82 353 to implemant Ordonnance no 81 026," in 1982. Inter
alia thesa texts provide for the maintenance, operation, and taxation of
the users of the irrigation schemes and for their organization into wacer
management committees.
The texts provide for the establishment of a water management
committee (UMC) for each irrigation scheme to be chaired by a
representative of the users. The WKC is made up of:
(i)   a representative of the firaisana (local governmenc) concerned;
(ii)  the administrative delegate from the firaisana (appointed by the
Ministry of the Interior);
(ii) a second representative of the - administrative structure' of the
scheme,
presumably the head of the DIR's irrigation services on the
scheme;
(iii) a representative of the Ministry of Agriculture; and
.(iv)  a representative of the users for each. aaille  vho is elected for
three years. ( A maille is an irrigation unit often about 200 ha
i in size, a tertiary network, depending on a coinon water intake.
_      The president of the WMC members.
The texts stipulate that the main responsibilities of the WMC are:
(i).  to manage water-distribution from the scheme's main water intake
down to the individual plcts;
(ii)  to provide for the opetAtion and maintenance of the irrigation
system and the observance of the agriculture calencar (periods for
planting and transplanting);
(iii) to establish annually the list of users with their taxable
cropping areas; and
(iv) to prepare the budget for the operation and msaintenance of the
scheme.
User obligations are to be stipulated in an "arratf de classemenc
(implementation regulations) and in a -dina- (traditional collective
contract among villagers) adopted by the WKC.



85 -                           Anxex 2
Page 2
The texts define two wacer charges. One is to repay, at least in
part, infrastructure improvements according to conditions stipulated in the
contract for rehabilication of the civil works (Article 6, Ord. 81 026).
The other is to cover scheme manage_ nt and maintenance costs. Both
charges are defined on a per hectare and user basis. The charge for
reimbursing the costs of irrigation infrastructure improvements is to be
borne solely by those users who will have beneficted from agricultural
civil works.  The  contractual  payments are to be in cash per crop cycle
(Article 10, Decree 82 353). Bur Article 11 of the decree also states that
a second charge for reimbursing some of the same costs is to be levied and
to be equivalent to 50 kg of paddy per crop cycle. All proceeds from the
improvement tax are to be deposited in the National Treasury and reserved
for a rice developmenc fund. The Ordonance foresees sanctions against
users who fail to meec their payments, including seizure of crop.
In the Ordonnance, the water charge to cover costs of scheme
maintenance and management is to be set by the president of the executive
committee of the faricany based on the recomoendation of the local
technical services of the mdnistry responsible for rural development, and
on the advice of the WMC. In the decree, however, the still future
implementation regulations to be-adopted jointly by the Ministers of
Agriculture, Finance, and the Interior, are also co specify the share of
total maragement and maintenance costs to be borne by the users. The
Ordonnance foresees contributions by both natioval and Local governments
for the part of administration and maintenance costs not covered by the
user-charge. The Ordonnance also states that payment for either user
charge - investment or management and maintenance - can be in money, ia
k'ind, or in labor. As concerns the resulting fund for administration and
maintenance, it is to be managed by the person - responsible  for the
scheme, presumably the DIR's local official, who will be accountable to the
WMC.
The establishment of the contributor rolls for the scheme level
administration/maintenance charge is the responsibility of the local
represencative of the Xinistry of Finance, working at the fivondronana
level (former sub-prefecture). Rolls are to be prepared on the basis of
the list of users submicted by the WMC. According to the decree, actual
collection of users charges is to be carried out by the local goverument
authorities according to the roles after they have been approved by the
President of the Executive Comeittee of the fivondrona concerned.



- 86 -
S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~h    I
No= ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~
-          SId.zd bY S- r'l X A*AW Mr  ?U"SW,m :mb
l1wh  MUL W. DE, W.M. NW. .M  of
_          ~~~- _ ML  --t O ftat Pv
Th~~~~~~aI~~   _         p_ _a 
TArn md
D _ _s.'W                of:~_~~~b-fN
ML cowe                              - pldg                    - qaa        S
- f2       -lC           - SCK_ s      S
-   ~  ~IeJIm                  - 5 !m-_L s.p.d
-01K
Sdm
.-                                      l                     _Jc     ' c
-M    'Is   
-~~~~~dm0UIan x*xd
as. - ticemt for&M   ft b.,.l           wq -m "  Il  _NLc ,l
ce - OLeoma  of P_   .- I               %m     ttyof  LeLo&  FWwL. w For_>
ab2to -tp1 -i ofo
OVAP - 0D[z_e of YV1ozLcuaL Eaunm
W   - ftmcm~ of Fl_m



- 87 _
Chart 2
MADAGR
MINIAYOFAGRICULJRML PRODUCTION AND AGAIAN REFORM
0 CF t
GROUP OF R~~~~~~~~~~IONOAONANA~~~~           ~AWW
Sole. D~~~~~~~~bNo S3-2E .A*.~-"I    afe.k                AVI0&0I
Wool
_ I
- ~ I       
;       t~~~~~~~~~~f 1 1X 
Sbr5e                          _b               5              5
FARfIUNYtFORER PRWINCE) (6)d ._ |
GR  P OF RIVONDRONWANA 
(O7RMER PROECTtOE (17)                                                  so* .-f,   u -
samce~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ nu% It 93ual IO  hW.5 
a DO*ISD 11S2X0 zurZl IQU ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    26



WIASCAR                                            Chart 3
DA      R RUR^AL3MDSWLJR
OmEcONOE L      _ A9 RRALE
cmaN (4)                                                 _  _g_
F-
INI
-               ___~~___)____ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
PRmYIMc~ (8)
GOtIPOFRWWCRW4AN
(vRamLvCU.M (17)
I---1 3                                                   MM O



E'flWMmff0J_..usw.U"' I
-I          --1-bYf- --||WIVfll- - @----                        IWMk--- --19 1---  l--*---  ----a---
khy                            bry                             Palsy                           P.PA W Vai
ba.                              lone,                           lan a_    .     .      .         _ .... ... ._ .. ...  ......... ...... .. .......
*  1 11 UII lu 11 111   3}      0 b 11U 9201 112 11    a 1 4   1 0        "11 1      2 IWI   Ii I I  2A 11 6   11 12 1   I 1 4 1 b 1 5   111it 11    I   1 2 4  to  I /    911 111 11t
FqpS Tad   a)W"         .'s   I
olotolg.. _b          ...   __.._.____.___, _ . _ .  , ca_:  .w- fur
bud     tMbIIIad    d1  M4
I. smm : bids, wsksLIs. WJr    u
i'.... W  .m d          .                 ..  ,   ..... .......
Mhdiag elaSl la
bmlad Tcl O_                    . _                      _               .........
Wus.Jhleiu 1  k l,W. 1  1
1Se, bIs, wvalsalam, mitral eag   lut
carstl                               ,,,, ,,, a.
mansutlem..                                                   _                          ______________
vI.IIcura d l ad N    l14               ....                           . .... . .......                  .....
letad WTrdlsl (     .    IV) i
Law,, bid. u 1lstt.amu  arr4                 _                     ..........
Ctruasiaal l                                                                                                 1--
aplwieaaIue aid U emil skealgid01
lead   Wads. wi  : _U, Ila)
pltqs dtfiham- Sidl                                  ....
r vital 4-w. k.  ,ALM. U.Iw   A&
Stem, Old. aea)eelu, atismz WI,'.._,
cars t Ia,                                                                               __                                       _ __________00_
awilcaitisl d U ad                              1 w.uIs.                                           ......... ._ .. .
Third trade  6 ei*d, IM^)
mi4sIs  CE eglinl'_ig aasltads.., 
Lu*tez     la ...                                                                                                                                                                           .. ..b. . .__ .ner    est
Yusi    adlt U , IU C, tIUI .                 . ..... .)              .
Flail ts'., OtISa, edl&mt,j,+ 4 ,1 ....a  .sa..   .
widlaCtt, .ealp_sa
gabeled ml ttOlrst                                                                                                     .I     .
has:t kuh.ql Srta Iac. telatl at Us tal tU4tb 4lcsr, Eateryt, f'lOnsry, se mud.,U
is l ttt lltttt sdmsr ItdJI WI UItYci -leadrsr, aofewaII lkieAmJ.r, IWOt.



44                                                                                   4r
Anlserianan
,., I... . ,Z      
MADAGASCAR                                                                                              'v
FIRST IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
PREMIER PROJET DE REHABILITATION
DES PERIMETRES IRRIGUES
LOCATION OF MEDIUM IRRIGATION SCHEMES
LOCAUSATION DES PETITS PERIMETRES                                                                      NTSERANANA
Anhau,j,a~~~~Aibll
*AMlDJIi,JIIO                 AOlD.p.n
AmbemfFa \o,
AlIalb AIi dW ,od,o
AncIauc,oha A,,,p.bdb            \                    ,w,at  Mamta
Maha4ang       m W                                       T*g,advnwka
*~\   t Anx,odslmetS  Andohalindo
AIUWloslllla                   dfG.U*V d'dfnibo          AmhOodlA/         A
MAHAJ   IGA rA,_ l.l,O.iv
Ankhla a           AndItnol          ,
Mnxodifvlml*  0                                                              mMI
L l e               m~~~~ ~~~~~Arnuno wift,
Arnbodrmn Vauy
VetonaligJ                                  5              ;_Xtttoro*F                   \<jXenan
r.dnlfla                                       Uhf WSfl?t* ^bo a
.naloua    AtIrul
8v''w Mahla ,jr iiPo                                                         .          A
........nb                                                      TOAMASINA              Toamaina
K.            /               ANTANANA VO                       I
I   ,  k                                lnr hInhIlnh )



t'                                                                        Feemrlho   J      ItV,
p I           t      \    hSberysombnot  oOntre    I                                           @~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MedlumlIrrlgalion8Schamoe
'   A  hjl*  nds nolot                M                      8Jafi~~~Pot PMON
Ma ^nandow      ,                                                     River                             r
.   W   , ., Y                   .,                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Flesmt et nRwlv:;t
salb4i#f floal                                         0  t \ /     <      w_                             NallonalRoad (paved)
@   lnAlillo  5           SoJrin^@    \\J*   _~Flisk                                         Routo NoOonah{ (oudronnde)t
;P;~ ~ ~~~~0                ain Cap   itttealt
t ;-"                              Faribny oundary
Mjnddb  /                     XAnA~~      ~       ~~~~~~onmj,                         Umile du PAM u
8           ~~~~~Flariaranl40o_         IN<   >   Mj
/                   r  ~~~~~~~~Sehambiv
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /                                               @    ON    1 0               l00              nlo
Il_<sv )sBtVt sd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n;/ _ okomby,  Nmommond  
TOI0                                     FINA          SO        h.avlan                             MI
|                           YJhre~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Astib l |
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nAomiboo"P Rsol llon br n;nwbod yf IA .t' _W anxm"llo* kw  t Aowo  /lof
Umnmb-RnciUa  iindm randohSnO v ltthd  u
o r/,^f.".tl., / ......... ,r3/# % | _ o_ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZAIRE                                   (       '2TANZANIA,;
Toliata< ,.,,ed, I -                                                                                                            I   J       ]j t  COMORO8
r.lis41lilJ0 FeleQs                                                                                         J  MAIAWl
rs'lk   1101"WQ16sr                                                                      Z'AMBIA,     
24~~~->Il  '                                                                                 24.                                    s J 8
-24'~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~o ( 1>  , sA*lko'I'y/    NIs                                                 MISIA~       i8^W   :  0^81U                    MADAGASCAR
'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~- BOTSWANA  ,_ g                              '         d 
--                                                        4 62. t ,.      YZILAND
o'   ^~~' n Two                 80~SUTH AFRICA
(OTHO       _--  ~~~InteJrnational Bouridary 
8                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Umneo d'Etrdt
|                    _~~~     ~      ~      ~~~~414'                   _                            4                                                                          |



AMORMOW       ~~BEHIARA            LBWEOZAMBIE
0    1    2     I/.tIuri
MAAGASCAR~
ARWALADUm
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  -  
&  ^_         BE                   t              0~~~~BLAOT
*  /       rIv
-:_-  0   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ar ~~~~~~ 4r-d
,:''  -~~~~~~~~~
Nj  .
+                   b.c               '- X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
l                                             a          l~~~~~~~~~~~~AidArM
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Aaos
_ , '~BEAMT



MADAGASCAR                             ~~~~~~~~IBRD 18286R
l                                  ~~~~~~MADAGASCAR
FIRST IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
PREMIER PROJET DE REHABILITATION DES PERIMETRES IRRIGUES
PROJECT IRRIGATION SCHEMES
PERIMETRES IRRIGUES DU PROJET
Paved Road                                 -..-*.  Dike
Route Goudronnee                                       Digue
Road to be Rehabildated                                Riee r
.  |           ~~~~~Route a Rdhabiliter                                 Reuve et ebir
Track                                          .*g Vilage
Piste                                                  V1llage
;ii               Main Canai                                              Escarpment
Canal Principal                                        Escalpement
H                 Branch Canai                                            Inundated Area
Canal Seeondaire                                       Zone Non-Cultvable
,i                Drain                                                   Sanded-over Area
Drnin                                                  Zone Ensabl6e
Drainage Outlet                                       Irrgated Area
Ouvrage dEvacuaton du dran                             Zone Irngable
Tunnel                                           ,:  Soils of area not suitable
Tunnel                                                   for rice cultivation
!                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Zone pgdologi guunenet
TonIboaicvo
SOAVINA
j      ~~~0      12                                                                           -
KLOMETERtS
Arbm,f Andibo
,  J    -~~~~~-.~,- I
--_  -I             ; 
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i                           /           - ,/   
I s  Afffmhas_-
4AMVRt                      FLadanana
I  Soavina
I IAmbo rw
| . /                                   K                                        .' ' /-
Ambalakmana                                       a~~~~~~~~~~~~~CM-h mh. a....... 
.. d..d  NW - ~
J ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - -ififi
Tsaratana r a
Fiaamantsina
FEBRUAflY 19as



IBRD 18378
1.40.                               42W    i~~~~~~~~usLE 1964
:                   \           '\                                                   JbI~A  ADAGASCAR                         1|
FIRST IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
,K    X                  -.                                    PREMIER PROJET ri RE/MASII riArIOA
. _ *                                                                 DES PERlMETrES IRRIGUES
MANGOKY DEVELOPMENT AREA
.-.;\-X ~,,                                     PcEMAfcRE DU AIANGOKY
i'T;                             I                                                     -- Boundcrr of AMVR
: 'A ..L;  .tv#a;t  de I'AAWP
I >J {  -  <  i                                                      t        1     Irrigated  Area
-_      *-            .4..__.'                                                                l              Zone irrigoble
t   '  ,'-    Main Canal
_   -       /                '.                                                     |              Canal Prihi;pol
XC; ~~~~~~~~~~~                                                    * ~~~~~ Dike
, ~    ~      II S                       t                                                           Riw: r       ifI
Main Road
IRote PdnrCpak
_ ~-   f                         %-                       N                                 Is|oZ*  .81
I                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
/                                                          I?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     6 6 TO
10 ' \sl *  \ iKIIOMETERS
' ,,\/ EXtTENSION   \  \T,    ,
Airfield
Z AS!                                                        daA 1o               I'''I
1  ASA         ..f -'-.-)                                               s      o2 
~~    *~~~~   ~~~. ~The  MAe     Roa s     stf e xchsv*d~~
BJIAr(             -                          m' convSence ot mw
~~    40  ~~~~~                         reaSders rnds mSckiswvely forfthe
SOTSWANA ,.    /1                                       Nnt~ use of The rbrid Bart*
cr-~ -Et                          / t-.-C ,.D       
Co.porabon The de,wr.Wtuns
-      ,.                 t,        . >         N          rr;, andfetrator,ns Frganred                                9
used andf Me bOe.E1ies show.n
an -ths rma do ta t erob,. on VWe
!O  AN   OCtAN                 part of The SWWd .n aWi Mte
'.'VD  -AN  OCEAN     O*  eeniabana FEwie coqioaton.                                    Intak I
C~~~~    cyp~~&/# d-EW              of  ~~~~any' ji7enty or ti ea   ta
@iOTSA                % f  - 
--    oSi.~.i   t                 fniersene or saceofauJe of
fmtwiM d'hi eto n7 v         such bu oq. dse
'   .          on ths rreo oonotnEsho                \    ~~~~~~~~~~~ \T tc






