Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14671
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1589-MAG)
JUNE 26, 1995
Agricultural and Environment Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATES
Year        Malagasy francs (FMG)          Malagasy francs (F`MG)
per SDR                        per US$
1985                698.4                                662.5
1986               941.6                                 676.3
1987              1,751.0                               1,069.2
1988              2,054.1                               1,407.1
1989              2,085.4                               1,603.4
1990              2,012.0                               1,494.1
1991              2,673.8                               1,835.4
1992              2,626.5                               1,910.2
1993              2,500.0                               1,950.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 are (a)                      =           0.0247 acres
I hectare (ha)                 =           2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)               =           0.62 miles
I square kilometer (kM2)       =           0.39 square mile
1 kilogram (kg)                =           2.20 pounds
I liter (1)                    =           0.26 US gallon
0.22 Imperial gallon
1 ton (t)                      =           2,204 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
CCCE        Caisse Francaise de Coop6ration Economique (now  called Caisse
Frangaise de D6veloppement, CFD, French Development Agency)
CFD         Caisse Francaise de Developpement (formerly called Caisse Centrale de
Coop6ration Economique, CCCE, French Development Agency)
DAP         Directorate for Agricultural Production
DRW         Directorate for Rural Works
FAC         Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Development Agency)
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization
FED         Fonds Europ6en de D6veloppement (European Development Fund)
PRWS        Provincial Rural Works Service (Service Provincial de Genie Rural)
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
MPARA       Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (Ministere d'Etat a
l'Agriculture et au Developpement Rural)
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
NCU         National Coordination Unit
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
PCR         Project Completion Report
WFP         World Food Program
WUA         Water Users' Association
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 26, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND TIE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Madagascar -
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1589-MAG)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Madagascar Irrigation Rehabilitation
project (Cr. 1589-MAG, approved in FY85) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Part II was
prepared by the Borrower.
The project was to develop and apply a systematic approach to rehabilitating Madagascar's
many medium-sized irrigation schemes. It aimed to rehabilitate 16 schemes with a total irrigated area
of 17,000 hectares.
The project was consistent with both Government policy and Bank country strategy. After
initial difficulties agreeing a common methodology for rehabilitating schemes, the project was
effectively implemented with cofinanciers. Physical targets were fully achieved albeit with a 2.5-year
delay. Unit costs of rehabilitation works were higher than estimated in the Staff Appraisal Report in
local currency, but as a result of the depreciation of the Malagasy franc, total project costs in SDRs
were lower than envisaged.
The project benefitted from the liberalization of rice pricing and marketing under the
concurrent Bank-financed Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit. These reforms led to higher prices
giving farmers a strong incentive to take advantage of the rehabilitation. Farmers responded with
expeditious selling at the farmgate. As a result, agricultural yields grew faster than anticipated, and
incremental gains to farm incomes proved much higher than estimated at appraisal. The expected
economic rate of return is 18 percent.
The project outcome is thus rated as satisfactory, sustainability as likely and its impact on
institution building as substantial.
The PCR is complete and informative. No audit is planned.
Attachment                                                  l
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1589-MAG)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................................
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ...........1
Project Identity  .........................................
Background ............................................ 1
Project Objectives and Description  .............................  2
Project Design and Organization ...............................  2
Project Implementation .................................... 3
Project Results ....................... 6
Project Sustainability .......................   8
IDA Performance ....................... 9
Collaboration with other Donors .......................   9
Performance of the Borrower .......................                                      10
Consulting Services .......................                                              10
Project Documentation and Data .......... 11
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER PERSPECTIVE   ...                              ........ 12
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ...........                    ..        ............... 16
Table 1: Related Bank Credits  ............................... 16
Table 2: Project Timetable .................................. 17
Table 3: Credit Disbursement ................................ 18
Table 4: Project Implementation  ..............  ............... 19
Table 5: Project Costs and Financing  ........................... 20
Table 6: Project Results  ................................... 22
Table 7: Compliance with Credit Covenants ....................... 25
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources  .............................. 26
Maps: IBRD 18378 - Mangoky Development Area
IBRD 18285 - Location of Medium Irrigation Scheme
IBRD 18286R - Project Irrigation Schemes
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR 1589-MAG)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project in
Madagascar, for which Credit 1589-MAG in the amount of SDR 12.6 million (US$12.0 million)
was approved on April 30, 1985. On November 14, 1988, an amount of SDR 1.5 million was
canceled, following Government's decision to exclude the Mangoky component from the project.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1993, two and half years behind schedule. The last
disbursement was on June 6, 1994, at which time, the undisbursed balance of SDR 1.094 million
was canceled.
Parallel financing was received from the Caisse Francaise de D6veloppement (CFD),
formerly the Caisse Centrale de la Cooperation Economique (CCCE), equivalent to SDR 6.5
million (FF 90 million), the Fonds Europeen de Developpement (FED), equivalent to SDR 3.9
million (ECU 9.7 million), the United Nations Development Program (UNDP/WFP-PAM/FAO),
equivalent to SDR 2.2 million (US$2.9 million) and the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC),
equivalent to SDR 0.3 million (FF 2.0 million). The Government contribution is estimated at
SDR 4.9 million (FMG 12 billion).
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture and Environment Operations Division of the
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department, Africa Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary,
Parts I and III). This report is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development
Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower,
internal Bank memoranda, a field mission in December 1993 and an evaluation report prepared
by the Borrower in 1993. The Borrower and the other financiers of the project were sent copies
of the PCR for comments, but only the Borrower responded; its comments form Part II of the
report.



-



iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1589-MAG)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.    Agriculture is an important economic activity in Madagascar, contributing about 31
percent to gross national product and 60 to 65 percent to export earnings.  Agricultural
performance had suffered in the seventies and early eighties from ill-conceived Government
policies that were aimed at protecting the interests of the politically vocal urban consumers; farm
prices were set at too low a level to make agricultural investments attractive and as a result,
sector performance was well below the population growth rate during the seventies and early
eighties. In the early eighties, Government faced a fiscal crisis following its heavy reliance on
borrowing to finance its ambitious public investment program. In response to this crisis,
Government embarked on a structural reform process which included the liberalization of prices.
Prices for most agricultural products were liberalized by 1986, with a strong production
response.
2.    Prior to this project, IDA financed three other irrigation projects in the country, including
two large irrigation schemes in the Lake Alaotra region. Although these two Lake Alaotra
projects succeeded in expanding the irrigated areas and in expanding crop production, they failed
to strengthen the executing agency and to create a self-sustaining financial mechanism for
operations and maintenance.
Project Description and Objectives
3.    The project's main objective was to develop a systematic approach to the rehabilitation
of medium size irrigation schemes and thus progressively redevelo,. the country's 116 such
schemes representing over 140,000 hectares of irrigated rice fields. Other objectives were to
improve the organization and management of irrigation rehabilitation and thus encourage other
external financiers to participate in the overall rehabilitation program. In its emphasis on self-
financing and self-management at the scheme level, the project also sought to develop an
alternative to reliance on Government management and funding, which had led to widespread
deterioration of the schemes.
4.    The project's components were: (a) management support to the Ministry of Agriculture



iv
and Rural Development (MPARA) for selection of, planning for and supervision of
rehabilitation; (b) civil works for rehabilitation of about 16 medium irrigation schemes. Three
schemes had been selected earlier during project preparation, while thirteen other schemes were
to be selected by MPARA as a first phase of the rehabilitation program; and (c) rehabilitation
of the Mangoky irrigation scheme, including technical assistance, rehabilitation works,
maintenance equipment and studies.
5.    The project was to be financed by the Caisse Francaise de Developpement (formerly
called the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique; SDR 6.3 million), the European
Development Fund (SDR 4.2 million), the French Fond d'Aide a la Cooperation (SDR 0.1
million), the Government (SDR 7.9 million) and IDA (SDR 12.6 million).
Project Implementation
6.    During the first three years, there were difficulties in agreeing on a common methodology
for rehabilitating schemes. This factor, added to the policy of using a maximum of local
engineering and contracting firms, often with insufficient experience and financial capacity,
created delays and errors in studies and works. Consequently, some extra studies and works had
to be done for some schemes. Because of these delays, farmers were disinclined to pay
maintenance fees on time; they preferred to wait until all works had been finished.
7.    The coordination of services of the Ministry of Agriculture that had operational
responsibilities (bidding, control of studies and works, extension, etc.) was difficult. The
Coordination Committee did not work and a reorganization took place. However, the two main
Services (Agricultural Engineering and Agricultural Production) remained too centralized and
inadequately staffed.
8.    Costs of rehabilitation works were higher than estimated: actual costs were US$1,730
per hectare compared to US$1,050 per hectare at appraisal. 1/ This increase was due to: (a)
lack of experience and competence during the first years of the project of engineering and
contracting firms; (b) delays by Government in paying its share of rehabilitation costs to
contractors, who subsequently increased their submissions in follow-up contracts; and (c)
political insecurity during the period 1991/92. Average cost of studies manuals, training and
supervision increased from US$610 per hectare in 1986 to US$870 per hectare for recent bids.
9.    As a result of local political tensions in the Samangoky region, where the Mangoky
irrigation scheme is located (a large scheme of 7,000 ha for rice and cotton production) and
misprocurement in the selection of a contractor concerning this component of the project, the
Borrower and the Bank decided in November 1986 to exclude the rehabilitation of the Mangoky
1/    The actual average rehabilitation cost per ha for the Lake Alaotra Rice Intensification
Project was US$650. This cost is, however, not directly comparable because work in
the Lake Alaotra area was less extensive and much more experienced staff was available.



V
irrigation scheme from the project and to cancel SDR 1.5 million from the Credit proceeds.
Since the cancellation happened only 9 months after Credit 1589-MAG was declared effective,
this PCR does not include observations about this component of the project.
Project Results
10.   With a delay of 2.5 years, the project almost achieved the rehabilitation of the planned
17,000 hectares (actual: 16,750 hectares). Total project cost, estimated at appraisal at SDR 31.1
million amounted, in the event, to SDR 27.7 million.
11.   After some delays and mistakes, an adequate methodology for rehabilitating schemes was
devised and is now implemented. Farmers are now involved early-on in the rehabilitation
process. Local consulting firms now have the necessary experience for pre-selecting schemes,
undertaking farmers' orientation studies and carrying out technical studies, preparing bidding
documents and supervising works. Ministry agents have also gained from that experience and
showed a great sense of willingness to draw lessons from past mistakes and difficulties in
improving their working methodology.
12.   Three schemes representing 3,200 hectares were rehabilitated, that should not have been
selected (large scale up-stream erosion, insufficient water, susceptibility to cyclone damage).
Rehabilitation works have almost been completed on the remaining 27 schemes. Supplementary
works have been carried out on a number of schemes in response to environmental problems,
design mistakes and farmers demands. Farmers of all schemes have created Water Users'
Associations (WUAs) that are active, but by June 1994, only 45 out of 85 WUAs had been
officially recognized by the Ministry, the remaining 40 are still under review. For schemes
where all works are finished, WUAs have begun to collect maintenance fees, and for the three
schemes that had been fully operational during the 1993/94 agricultural year about 80 percent
of participating farmers had paid these fees.
13.   Agricultural production results are also successful. Increases of rice yields are higher
than estimated at appraisal and the final yield increase of 940 kg per hectare predicted for year
9 after rehabilitation will be attained. The average economic rate of return over 30 years is 18
percent. This rate is the weighted average of 9 schemes for which data exist: 6 "normal"
schemes representing 5,870 ha, and 3 "risky" schemes in terms of environmental problems,
representing 3,200 ha. Farm incomes are much higher than estimated at appraisal, which is due
in part to the effects of price liberalization. The incremental net financial benefit for 1993 is
estimated at 310,000 FMG per ha in constant 1986 FMG versus 67,000 FMG per ha at
appraisal.
Project Sustainability
14.   Overall project sustainability is likely. Some individual schemes will require additional
investments in order to address environmental issues that had not been adequately analyzed
earlier. Sustainability is doubtful only in the case of the three rehabilitated schemes mentioned



vi
earlier which experienced serious problems of siltation, climate and lack of water. The
feasibility of further remedial works on these schemes is presently being studied.
15.   In terms of institution building, WUAs will need to be assisted for some time to come
to strengthen their managerial capacity for the collection of maintenance fees and the
organization of water usage. Capacity building and decentralization have still to be strengthened
in MPARA and the rehabilitation methodology used by Government and donors needs to be
further fine-tuned (greater farmer participation in each phase and phasing of rehabilitation
conditional on continued farmer participation).
Lessons Learned
16.   The main lessons learned are:
(a)   The selection criteria for schemes to be rehabilitated are essential for the success
and sustainability of the rehabilitation. In particular, a balanced set of criteria has
to be used with respect to:
(i)     physical characteristics of the scheme: water resources, soil
fertility, environmental aspects and climatic hazards (cyclones);
(ii)     social cohesiveness considering tribal and ethnic aspects as well as
the need for cooperation between up and down stream farmers;
and
(iii)    financial potential considering the costs of rehabilitation and the
economic costs of accessing the area for works, agricultural inputs
and outputs.
(b)   Water users are ready to pay for maintenance provided that rehabilitation works
are adequately designed and formulated with participation of likely beneficiaries,
maintenance fees have been agreed with them prior to the rehabilitation and all
works have been completed.
(c)    Regulatory changes should have been initiated at the beginning of the project and
made effective before rehabilitation works were finished in order to allow timely
management transfer to WUAs.
(d)    A monitoring and evaluation system of the project needs to be established at the
onset of the project.



vii
(e)   In view of the difficulties experienced by individual agricultural projects such as
this project in obtaining the support of national service projects such as extension
and research, arrangements for such cooperation, together with the necessary
funding, should be formally agreed upon and included in the contracts of the
projects requiring such assistance.






1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1589-MAG)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name              Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Credit Number             1589-MAG
RVP Unit           :      Africa
Department               South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Country            :     Madagascar
Sector             :     Agriculture
Sub-sector               Irrigation
2.    Background
2.1    Agriculture is an important economic activity in Madagascar, contributing about 31
percent to gross national product and 60 to 65 percent to export earnings.  Agricultural
performance had suffered in the seventies and early eighties from ill-conceived Government
policies that were aimed at protecting the interests of the politically vocal urban consumers; farm
prices were set at too low a level to make agricultural investments attractive and as a result,
sector performance was well below the population growth rate during the seventies and early
eighties. In the early eighties, Government faced a fiscal crisis following its heavy reliance on
borrowing to finance its ambitious public investment program.  In response to this crisis,
Government embarked on a structural reform process which included the liberalization of prices.
Prices for most agricultural products were liberalized by 1986, with a strong production
response.
2.2   The Government's goal for the sector is to achieve self-sufficiency, increase the
production of export crops, expand agro-industries to process raw materials and increase rural
employment. During the sixties, Madagascar was a net exporter of rice, but because of the ill
conceived macro-economic policies, the country became a net rice importer (over 200,000 tons
in 1984). However, elimination of price and trade controls in the mid-eighties helped check this
trend, with only 40,000 tons imported in 1992.



2
2.3   Prior to this project, IDA financed three other irrigation projects in Madagascar (the
Morondava Irrigation and Rural Development Project, Cr. 0322-MAG, the Lake Alaotra
Irrigation Project, Cr. 0214-MAG, and the Lake Alaotra Rice Intensification Project, Cr. 1337-
MAG). The Morondava Project suffered greatly from Government's macro-economic policies.
As a result, the project had to be drastically restructured (high local inflation and price controls
on inputs and outputs). The PCR rated project performance as unsatisfactory. The two Lake
Alaotra projects succeeded in achieving their physical objectives. They both failed, however,
to strengthen the executing agency and to create a self sustaining financial mechanism for
operating and maintaining the irrigation network. Consequently, project results have not been
sustainable.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.1   The project's main objective was to develop a systematic approach to the rehabilitation
of medium-sized irrigation schemes and thus progressively redevelop the country's 116 such
schemes representing over 140,000 hectares of irrigated rice fields. Other objectives were to
improve the organization and management of irrigation rehabilitation and thus encourage other
external financiers to participate in the overall rehabilitation program. In its emphasis on self-
financing and self-management at the scheme level, the project also sought to develop an
alternative to reliance on Government management and funding, which had led to widespread
deterioration of the schemes.
3.2   The project's components were:
(a)   management support to MPARA for selection of, planning for, and supervision
of rehabilitation;
(b)   civil works for reconstruction of about 16 medium-sized irrigation schemes,
totaling about 17,000 ha. Three schemes had been selected earlier during project
preparation and their rehabilitation was to be financed by the French Caisse
Central de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and the Fonds Europ6en de
Developpement (FED). Thirteen other schemes were to be selected by MPARA,
as a first phase of the rehabilitation program; and
(c)   rehabilitation of the Mangoky irrigation scheme, including technical assistance,
rehabilitation works, maintenance equipment and studies.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.1   The project was designed to develop a systematic approach to the rehabilitation of
irrigation schemes with the aim of transferring the operation and maintenance (O&M)
responsibilities to the farmers at the end of the rehabilitation phase, thus reducing Government's



3
financial involvement to a minimum and increasing the prospects for sustainability of the
investment. This conceptual basis for the project was clear to and accepted by the Government
and the various co-financiers.
4.2   Project design depended heavily on active collaboration/participation at all stages of the
rehabilitation process between farmers and government services (Directorate for Rural Works,
DRW, and Directorate for Agricultural Production, DAP) at all levels. The difficulties in
achieving this in practice were, however, greatly underestimated. As a result, at the beginning
of the project, when the rehabilitation methodology was still in a testing phase, the criteria for
selecting schemes for rehabilitation did not take into account some non-technical aspects such
as relationships between groups of farmers and environmental hazards (upstream erosion,
cyclones). This resulted in rehabilitation delays (an average of about 40 months per scheme
between the start of studies and the end of works), the need for additional works after the
rehabilitation was finished, and problems in collecting user fees.
4.3   In terms of project organization, the National Coordination Unit (NCU) was responsible
for planning, monitoring and evaluation (M&E), and dialogue with the co-financiers. The DRW
was responsible for supervising the consultants and contractors for civil works, while the DAP
was responsible for the agricultural production components including research, extension and
M&E. As the project financed training and only a limited quantity of operational requisites
(such as vehicles and equipment) for these two Directorates, it was clear that the project was
accorded only low priority. The Coordination Committee, which was to play the role of a
facilitator and coordinator for these Directorates, did not assume its intended role despite
repeated donor efforts. The NCU was originally located within the Planning Department of
MPARA, but in 1992 it was decided to place it directly under the Secretary General of MPARA,
which greatly improved its effectiveness. Other services of MPARA were unable to provide the
expected level of training and M&E, leaving the NCU overburdened with a number of tasks for
which it was not designed.
5.    Project Implementation
Macro-Economic Environment
5.1   The project became effective at a time when the prices of agricultural inputs and outputs
were being gradually liberalized. As a result, real prices of rice inc-'uased more than the cost
of inputs, and net incomes of rice growing farmers improved. In general, this project was not
negatively affected by conditionality imposed by sectoral adjustment credits. However, the
freeze on hiring new staff to replace retiring staff, imposed as part of the conditionality for the
Public Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1941-MAG), hurt project implementation because it was
impossible for MPARA to hire new engineers and other technical staff to assist in project
execution.



4
Project Effectiveness and Closing
5.2   The Credit was declared effective on February 3, 1986, a delay of less than two months.
The planned closing date was June 30, 1991; due to delays in rehabilitation studies and civil
works execution during the first three years, the closing date was extended three times. The
credit closed on December 31, 1993.
Project Cost and Financing
5.3   In SDR terms, actual project costs were about 10 percent less than estimated (SDR 27.7
million actual versus SDR 3 1. I million estimated). In US dollars terms, they were higher than
estimated at appraisal, because of the depreciation of the US dollar relative to the SDR and the
currencies of main trading partners.  Actual project costs were US$38.2 million versus an
estimate of US$29.6 million. IDA contributed US$12.1 million versus US$12 million estimated.
Actual contributions from other external donors (CFD, FED, FAC and United Nations
Development Program) were US$17.8 million versus US$10.1 million estimated and
Government contributed US$6.8 million versus US$7.1 million estimated.
5.4   Increases in project costs resulted primarily from  higher than estimated costs of
rehabilitation. Actual rehabilitation costs (excluding studies and supervision) were US$1,730 per
hectare compared to US$1,050 per hectare at appraisal. 2/ This increase was due to: i) lack
of experience and competence, during the first years of the project, of engineering and
contracting firms; ii) difficulties of Government in providing timely counterpart funds to pay
contractors who then increased their unit rates in subsequent contracts; and iii) political
instability during 1991 and 1992. The average cost of studies, operational manuals, training and
supervision increased from US$610 per hectare in 1986 to US$870 per hectare for recent bids.
Moreover, the extension of the project by two and a half years necessitated the longer than
expected presence of consultants who were providing technical assistance and thereby contributed
to the increase in project costs.
Disbursements
5.5   Disbursements initially lagged due to the slow start-up of project activities, however, this
lag was greatly reduced during the last two years of project implementation. As a result of local
political tensions in the Samangoky region and misprocurement in the selection of a contractor
for that component of the project, the Borrower and the Bank decided to exclude the
rehabilitation of the Mangoky irrigation scheme from the project and to cancel SDR 1.5 million
from the Credit proceeds in November 1986. The last disbursement was on June 6, 1994, at
which time the undisbursed balance of SDR 1.094 million was canceled.
2/    The average rehabilitation cost per ha for the Lake Alaotra Rice Intensification Project
was US$650. This cost is, however, not directly comparable because work in the Lake
Alaotra area was less extensive and much more experienced staff was available.



5
5.6   Disbursement arrangements through the Special Account were not satisfactory due to
foreign exchange restrictions in effect during most of project Implementation; all payments were
made by a New York bank, resulting in substantial delays in payments to local contractors.
Also, the cost sharing arrangements in the Development Credit Agreement between Government
and IDA for civil works (65 percent IDA and 35 percent Government) proved unrealistic during
the later stages of project implementation, when Government was not able to provide its share
in a timely manner.
Implementation Issues
5.7   The lack, at project start-up, of a well defined rehabilitation methodology, which included
farmers' participation in its different phases, led to a number of problems ranging from poor
engineering designs to farmers' reluctance to pay O&M fees. It was not until mid-1989 that an
acceptable methodology based on stronger farmers' participation and training at all levels, was
developed by the NCU and agreed upon by all co-financiers. This methodology included the
following steps: (i) pre-selecting schemes; (ii) sensitizing and mobilizing farmers to create
WUAs; (iii) carrying out the necessary studies in consultation with the beneficiaries; (iv)
selecting contractors; (v) supervising the execution of the contracts; (vi) estimating and collecting
annual maintenance fees; and (vii) developing agricultural development plans and annual
production plans for the schemes.  Following completion of the rehabilitation, regular
maintenance was to become the responsibility of the WUAs.
5.8   The Bank recognized the need to develop a well-thought out rehabilitation methodology
prior to undertaking any rehabilitation activity. 3/ Other co-financiers, however, went ahead
with the physical rehabilitation hoping to solve the participation and training problems along the
line.  These two different approaches initially sent conflicting messages to water users.
Moreover, for some schemes this led to ill-prepared rehabilitation studies, which necessitated
supplementary works after completion of the initial rehabilitation. This was the factor which
led to the unwillingness of farmers to pay O&M fees before all works had been finished.
Nevertheless, with the implementation of the revised strategy in mid-1989, better results were
obtained, and the design and execution of rehabilitation works was carried out in closer
participation with users.
5.9   Project implementation was based on dynamic coordination between the NCU and the
DRW and DAP at the three levels: national, regional and local/scheme. At the national level,
the Coordination Committee did not work.  At the regional level, the responsibility for
coordination was, for most provinces, given to the Provincial Director of Rural Works, which
in some instances led to conflicts with the Provincial Director of Agriculture Production. At the
local level there were three agents: one Training Advisor (paid by the project) for helping
farmers' associations, one extension agent from the DAP and one Head of Irrigation Scheme
from the Provincial Rural Works Service (PRWS). Monthly meetings of those three agents were
3/    The Bank's position was also that the Borrower (see para. 2.1, Part II).



6
held under the leadership of the Head of Zone from the Provincial Agricultural Production
Service (PADS). This arrangement, involving rehabilitation and shared leadership between
PRWS and PADS agents did not facilitate coordination.
5.10  Extension, research and M&E efforts in rehabilitated schemes were to be executed by
the DAP, with support from the IDA financed Agricultural Pilot Extension (Cr. 2150-MAG) and
the National Agricultural Research (Cr. 2042-MAG) projects and by technical assistance
financed by CFD. In practice, however, the project received very limited assistance from these
two projects. Schemes rehabilitated with CFD financing received more intensive extension and
research support because of closer coordination between the various CFD supported projects.
5.11  The Coordination Committee established at the beginning of the project convened several
times, but, due to inter-departmental rivalry, it never took an active role in the implementation
of the project. After the first two years, it ceased to function and was slowly dismantled despite
frequent reminders from the co-financiers. Eventually, in early 1992, the project was placed
directly under the authority of the Secretary General of MPARA, which led to a better
coordination between the various directorates dealing with the project. Early weaknesses in
staffing and composition of the NCU also contributed to its weak initial performance. However,
with the appointment of a new National Coordinator and the replacement of some expatriates,
the situation improved dramatically in late 1989/early 1990. New development methodologies
were put in place (see also para. 5.7), an M&E system was designed and implemented which
was helpful in monitoring results in the field (surfaces, yields, number of farmers, etc),
agricultural plans for each scheme were devised, and training programs were implemented.
5.12  Works for the IDA financed part of the project were awarded, through local competitive
bidding, to local contractors, even though they did not always have the requisite technical and
financial capacity. It was felt that the advantages of this approach, primarily increased local
involvement and capacity building, outweighed the ensuing implementation delays. In contrast,
some of the large consulting engineering companies, participating in the project, had a tendency
to discuss technical problems directly with the donors, bypassing local governments and WUAs,
which undermined the much needed farmer participation.  However, the limited financial
capacity of some of the smaller contractors put them in a difficult situation when Government
was unable to make timely payments for its share of the costs of civil works (35 percent)
because of the precarious state of Government finances (see also para. 5.4). Most contractors
inflated their subsequent bids in order to compensate for this factor, which was a major cause
for the higher than estimated rehabilitation costs.
6.    Project Results
6.1   The project was successful in achieving its main objective: to develop a systematic
approach to the rehabilitation of medium sized irrigation schemes with increased involvement
of beneficiaries, as an alternative to reliance on Government for management and maintenance.
This rehabilitation methodology is to be applied nationwide in the follow-on project under



7
preparation. About 310 schemes have been identified for possible rehabilitation, and 140 have
been pre-selected for inclusion in the follow-on project. 4/
6.2   The objective of rehabilitating 17,000 ha had almost been achieved by the end of the first
quarter of 1994 (12,989 ha had been rehabilitated by the end of 1993, 3,761 ha were to be
completed by the end of the first quarter of 1994 and 452 ha scheduled to be completed by mid-
1994, depending on availability of Government funds, for a total of 17,202 ha). Although
further repairs and complementary works will have to be carried out on some schemes, mainly
due to lack of experience of local engineering and contracting firms, the rehabilitated schemes
are generally of sound technical quality. However, three schemes should probably not have been
rehabilitated in the first instance, in view of adverse environmental factors that are too expensive
to remedy: (i) Behara - insufficient water; (ii) Belamoty - siltation due to upstream erosion;
and (iii) Taheza - cyclones. These three schemes represent 3,200 ha or 19 percent of the
rehabilitated area.
6.3   Project design called for strengthening existing MPARA services but not for creating an
independent organization which would provide the same services outside the Government
structure. The NCU coordinated the operations of the DRW and DAP. Three main obstacles
remain: i) difficult coordination and collaboration between the two branches at different levels,
particularly with the DRW which is too centralized in the capital; b) the weak absorptive
capacity of field agents from both directorates due to their poor technical education; and c) the
difficulty in improving personnel skills mix by replacing staff going on retirement by younger
and better trained new staff, since all recruitment was frozen as part of the effort to rationalize
public finances. The impact of technical assistance on staff development was less than planned
because of the lack of counterpart staff and poor timing of technical assistance.
6.4   Except for production on the Behara, Belamoty and Taheza schemes, agricultural
production has increased following completion of the rehabilitation (including establishment and
training of WUAs). On a sample of six schemes representing 5,870 ha (34 percent of the
rehabilitated area), rice yield three years after rehabilitation rose to 605 kg/ha compared to 150
kg/ha estimated at appraisal. No scheme has been rehabilitated for long enough to reach a
constant yield after 9 years to properly assess project impact, but all data indicate that the
appraisal objective will be attained. For the sample of six schemes, the rehabilitation allowed
farmers to grow a diversity of off-season crops (wheat, potatoes, vegetables, etc.). About 20
percent of the rehabilitated surface is now used for this purpose (practically none before
rehabilitation), adding substantially to farmers' food security.  A, schemes have now an
Agriculture Development Plan that has been formulated by farmers with the assistance of
extension workers.
6.5   During project implementation, about 85 WUAs were created with the assistance of the
4/    This includes medium-sized and small irrigation schemes. The number in para. 3.1
refers to medium-sized schemes only.



8
Training Advisors (temporary employees paid by the project from counterpart funds). Due to
administrative tardiness, only 45 WUAs had been officially recognized by MPARA by June
1994. This will delay the transfer of scheme management to the WUAs and thus affect project
sustainability. The fact that about 80 percent of the farmers on the three fully operational
schemes paid maintenance fees for the first time by the end of the 1993/94 agricultural year
demonstrates that farmers are willing to pay for maintenance, but only when all works are
completed and of good quality, and maintenance fees have been discussed with WUAs prior to
rehabilitation, with follow-up discussions planned to take place every year. It will be crucial
for the sustainability of the project to monitor closely the collection of maintenance fees. On
some schemes, farmers created associations for obtaining bank credits and for procurement and
marketing.
6.6   Economic Results.  The economic analysis for the six sample schemes yields an
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of about 20 percent. The same assumptions were used as at
appraisal, with the exception that the hypothesis of declining farm income in the without project
situation of 7 percent per annum over the first six years of project implementation was dropped
because it was found to be an invalid assumption. The ERR for the 3 environmentally "risky"
schemes (Behara, Belamoty and Taheza) representing 3,200 hectares is negative.  On
extrapolating the data for these nine schemes to the entire project, the ERR is found to be 18
percent, as compared to the appraisal estimate of 23 percent. For farmers served by the Soavina
scheme (1,200 ha), for which estimated and actual results are known, the incremental net
financial benefit for 1993 is estimated at 310,000 FMG per ha in constant 1986 FMG versus
67,000 FMG per ha at appraisal. The main causes for the differences between the actual and
estimated financial benefits are higher paddy prices, resulting from the elimination of price and
trade controls in 1986, lower production costs, and intensification of land use with off-season
crops. For this scheme, the actual ERR is 33.8 percent (21 percent estimated at appraisal).
6.7   An important side effect of project implementation was substantial capacity building at
the local level because of the selection of a large number of local firms for participation in
engineering studies and works execution. Experience shows that great care has to be taken in
selecting and monitoring local firms in order to enable their performance to be sustainable.
Local contracting firms were asked to hire a maximum of unskilled labor and hourly paid
workers from populations near the site. This policy brought employment and income to local
residents, and some of those former workers are now better trained to participate in maintenance
works on the schemes.
7.    Project Sustainability
7.1    Overall project sustainability is likely. Some individual schemes will require additional
investments in order to address environmental issues that had not been adequately analyzed
earlier. Sustainability is doubtful only in the case of the three rehabilitated schemes mentioned
earlier which experienced serious problems of siltation, climate and lack of water.  The
feasibility of further remedial works on these schemes is presently being studied.



9
7.2   In terms of institution building, WUAs will need to be assisted for some time to come
to strengthen their managerial capacity for the collection of maintenance fees and the
organization of water usage. Capacity building and decentralization have still to be strengthened
in MPARA and the rehabilitation methodology used by Government and donors needs to be
further fine-tuned.
8.    IDA Performance
8.1   The project was carefully and regularly supervised by the Bank and the other main co-
donors (CFD, FED, FAC). Bank supervision missions, however, consisted usually of only one
Bank staff, an irrigation engineer. It would have been helpful to include in some of these
missions an agriculturist, in particular, for helping the NCU to make arrangements with the
PNVA and the PNRA projects. Supervision missions insisted on the necessity of having a
systematic approach to irrigation scheme rehabilitation and involving farmers in the different
stages of the process with a view of facilitating the transfer of responsibility for the schemes to
users at the end of the rehabilitation process. Several supervision missions raised doubts about
the effectiveness of the training program, which was judged to be too theoretical for field agents
(extension and water management). 5/
8.2   The Bank and the Borrower gave insufficient attention to the pre-qualification of local
contractors and since all contracts were based on Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), this led to
the award of some contracts to contractors with doubtful credentials and insufficient experience.
On the other hand, if strict pre-qualification rules had been adopted, very few local contractors
could have qualified. Subdividing works into smaller contracts proved to be a good solution.
8.3   Bank staff did not arrange for procurement training of project staff until late in the
project, which was partly the reason for several procurement delays.
9.    Collaboration with other Donors
9.1   During the first 2-3 years of the project and probably due to the fact that Government
and other donors did not share a common approach toward scheme rehabilitation, donors had
a tendency to go it alone. Each donor selected separate areas to finance rehabilitation: IDA
(Central and North-West), CFD (Central Highlands) and FED (North and South regions).
During those first years, MPARA agents (NCU, DRW and DAP) had the impression that the
expatriate technical experts were there to assist the donors and not Government. This perception
did not help in motivating MPARA personnel. Later on, relations improved as a consequence
5/    The Borrower feels that the resident mission could have played a more active role in
facilitating the approval process, the latter, however, lacked the trained manpower to do
so (see para. 4.4, Part 11).



10
of some changes in the technical assistance team and changes in NCU management and its
relocation within MPARA.
10.   Performance of the Borrower
10.1  The NCU performed well in executing the project, especially in the last 4 years.
However, the lack of a single rehabilitation strategy and the relatively weak leadership during
the initial years did affect to a large extent the course of the project and resulted in substantial
delays. The under-staffing and lack of experienced engineers at the DRW, with most staff
located in the capital, contributed to the need for additional works to correct errors.
10.2  The Coordination Committee did not function as foreseen and stopped meeting after the
first two years of the project.  The Borrower did not actively pursue the objective of
coordination between donors. The relationship between the NCU and the DRW was not always
smooth, in part due to the unclear definition of the role of each agency in contract award,
supervision and disbursement decisions. Despite improvements, there is still a lack of active
collaboration between agents of the DRW and DAP at all levels (national, regional,
local/scheme).
10.3  The lengthy process of awarding contracts was one of the major bottlenecks in the
execution of the project (usually taking 6 to 10 months). In addition, lack of counterpart funds
invariably led to delays in paying contractors.
11.   Consulting Services
11. 1 The project used a large number of consultants for technical assistance. This team did
bring in considerable technical expertise, benefiting MPARA staff. However, even though a
sizable training effort was undertaken, some expatriates left without having been able to hand
over their responsibilities to counterparts, for lack of qualified local staff.
11.2 The project used a large number of expatriate experts in different areas (irrigation,
agriculture, extension, institution building, training, finance, and general management) at
national and regional levels. Although at the beginning of the project, they had the tendency to
run the project as their own with difficult relations with their local counterparts, in general, they
performed well throughout project implementation. At one time their number became too high
(14 long-term positions in 1991) as some donors preferred to have expatriate technical personnel
at both the regional and central levels of the project.  This practice led to different
implementation approaches for each cluster of schemes, depending on the source of financing.
The number of members of the TA team was subsequently reduced to 6, most of whom will



11
leave by late April 1994. 6/
11.3  The few studies carried out by individual consultants were generally of good quality.
Unfortunately, the performance of some local consulting engineering firms was, in some cases,
not up to standard, which resulted in weaknesses in design and poor rehabilitation.
11.4  Auditing of project accounts was undertaken over the course of the project by two
different auditing firms, both of which proved to be of an acceptable standard.
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.1  The one and five year work programs were available and updated throughout the course
of the project. These reports proved to be very useful in supervision and monitoring. A
comprehensive M&E report was produced in 1992. This document provided the basis for the
preparation of the follow-up project.  Orientation studies, pre-feasibility studies, feasibility
studies and final designs have been produced all along the project for each scheme. In addition,
a large number of documents and reports dealing with the various aspects of the project
(agricultural production, rural institutions, financial accounts, etc.) were prepared by project
personnel and made available to visiting missions. For each supervision mission, the NCU
prepared in advance a set of short reports which proved beneficial in discussions with
Government and beneficiaries.
12.2 The SAR was useful in providing a framework for project implementation; it was very
often referred to during project implementation although its presentation did not always facilitate
the readers' task. Data were, in general, readily available, thanks to an understanding between
the NCU and the Bank, on the need for proper databases and M&E. During the first two years
of the project, some production data were estimated using ill-suited approaches.  The
methodology was subsequently adjusted and the reliability of estimates improved. Production
data used for the economic analysis of the project were obtained from the M&E section of the
project and the DAP.
6/    The Borrower has commented that the timing of bilaterally financed technical assistance
did not coincide with its particular needs (see para. 3.1, Part II). The mismatch in
timing was a real problem.



12
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1589-MAG)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER PERSPECTIVE
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT (MPARA)
NATIONAL COORDINATION UNIT FOR THE IRRIGATION
REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.    PROJECT COORDINATION
1.1   Project coordination was assigned to the Programming Department, perhaps because it
had a rice coordination office whose head was appointed National Coordinator and whose entire
staff was incorporated into the National Coordination Unit for the Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project.
1.2  In principle, according to project documents, the Coordinator was to ensure the secretariat
for the Coordinating Committee. The Coordinating Committee ran smoothly in the early years,
but subsequently the project teams within each department gradually severed themselves from their
hierarchical attachments and clustered around the National Coordinator. The result of this was
a lack of interest on the part of the directors, and the meetings of the Coordinating Committee
became merely information briefings on project activities without true involvement of the directors
in decision-making.
1.3   The problem of the location of the Coordinator in the hierarchy of the Ministry was
resolved by attaching the Project Coordination Unit to the Secretariat, with the rank of Ministry
Director for the National Coordinator.
2.    PROJECT IMIPLEMENTATION
2.1   The project got off to a premature start; the appraisal document does not appear to have
thoroughly analyzed the actual implementation of the various project components. Activities
should have started with the inventory and formulation of the methodology for establishing the
water user associations, before any studies or rehabilitation works were done.
2.2   Unfortunately, the rehabilitation works at Behara (EDF), Belamoty (EDF) and Soavina



13
(CFD) began immediately, as did the rehabilitation studies for the four central highlands
irrigation rehabilitation areas (CFD), when only the major principles of farmer accountability
had been mapped out. One of the key objectives of the project was the establishment of
autonomous management and maintenance by user associations.  The methodology for
establishing those associations should have been formulated first, but that document was not
finalized until January 1991. The rehabilitation operations should have begun after that date.
2.3   There were three categories of irrigation areas:
(a)    Category 1: The first three schemes rehabilitated. The water user associations
were set up following the rehabilitation works. Because of their ill-conceived
structure and organization, the framework for farmer involvement in these areas
must be totally revamped.
(b)   Category 2:  The four central highland (Antsirabe) schemes.  The farmer
organization methodology was based on actual experience in these irrigation
areas; the dialogue with users during the studies was not undertaken
systematically. Supplementary works were found to be necessary following the
resumption of farmer consultations.
(c)    Category 3: All irrigation schemes after 1991. The methodology was finalized
and the results in terms of farmer accountability are promising.
2.4   The schemes to be rehabilitated were scheduled on the basis of a list of classified areas,
without their exact status being clear cut. The results of the inventory/survey and pre-selection
briefs should have been in before the scheduling of the areas to be rehabilitated was done. This
was covered by the project document entitled " 1991-95 action plan" prepared in December 1990.
2.5   Because the technical teams reported to the Regional Coordinator, the technical
departments did not consider themselves responsible for the implementation of the pertinent
component; for example, the agricultural development component in the rehabilitation studies
was monitored only by the central project unit and the Agricultural Department remained totally
out of the picture, despite the fact that the implementation of agricultural development programs
and cropping plans are the responsibility of the regional agricultural services.
2.6   The inclusion of SAMANGOKY in project financing seems to have been a mistake; in
point of fact, the issues at stake were different (large irrigation schemes) and the establishment
of water user associations was not planned. Moreover, its implementation was completely
outside the overview of the National Coordination Unit.
2.7   One of the project objectives was strengthening management support to the Ministry of
Agriculture; vehicles and equipment were acquired under the project. However, the day-to-day
running of the project was not expressly covered in the project document. As it turned out,
project agents had to make field visits (inventory, surveys, studies supervision and works, etc.)



14
and their pay from the government barely covered the cost of a dish of rice. The cost of the
day-to-day running of the project was therefore included in the technical assistance contract,
which prevented the Project Coordination Unit from providing management oversight. In the
future, the heading of day-to-day project administration should be considered part of the
investment and should be mentioned clearly in the Credit Agreement.
2.8   With regard to disbursements, a special account was opened with a bank outside of
Madagascar (Irving Trust, New York). The interest on the special account was lost because the
payment deadlines were close to those for direct payments. A project account managed by the
National Coordinator and opened in a local primary bank made it possible to resolve payment
timing difficulties on the one hand and on the other to ensure project cash flow for day-to-day
operations.
3.    TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
3.1   Project technical assistance was very badly planned. The timing was poor, given the
large-scale arrival of technical assistance at the start of the project (especially regarding rural
engineering) and the project activities, which focused on the inventory/survey, pre-selection
briefs and farmer organization.  Subsequently, the number of technical assistants in rural
engineering was reduced precisely when needs swelled with the start-up of the studies and
works.
3.2   Better scheduling of technical assistance throughout the duration of the first phase of the
project would have had a positive impact on the transfer of know-how to the offices of the
Ministry of Agriculture.
4.    RELATIONS WITH DONORS
4.1    Although at the outset project appraisal was done jointly by the three main donors (IDA,
CFD, EDF), subsequently each conducted project supervision on an individual basis.
4.2   EDF has continued its operations in the south and north of the country, whereas CFD
has concentrated on the central highlands in the southeast.
4.3   The CFD and EDF technical representations in Madagascar facilitated contacts and
discussions and shortened the decision-making time frame.
4.4   With regard to IDA, the office of the resident representative did not contribute much to
the project, other than serving as a mailbox for letters to Washington. Channels were therefore



15
very lengthy owing to mail delivery. 7/
4.5   Because of the personality of the Task Manager who served until the end of 1990,
national coordination for the project was seen by the other donors as the domain of IDA, which
was not conducive to good coordination with the donors. After 1991, when a new Task
Manager was appointed, the situation improved markedly; discussions with the other donors
were effective during supervision missions and the wrap-up meetings always included all parties.
4.6   However, with a view to strengthening coordination among donors, a joint monitoring
mission by the donors should be held at least once a year.
7/    The resident mission lacked the trained manpower to play an active role during project
implementation (see para. 8. 1, Part I).



16
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1589-MAG)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Credits
Credit Name   Credit         Purpose         Year       | Status      Comments
Number                        Approved I
PNVA           2150-MAG   Strengthen         1990        On-going    To be closed
agricultural                             in June 1994
extension
PNRA           2042-MAG   Strengthen         1989        On-going    To be closed
agricultural                             in Dec. 1996
research
Lake Alaotra   1337-MAG   Large              1983        Closed on
irrigation                  March 31,
schemes                      1991
Rural Credit   2459-MAG   Rural credit       1993        On-going    To be closed
in June 1997



17
Table 2: Project Timetable
Item                     Date planned        Date revised       Date actual
Identification               1979                                  1979
Preparation                  1982                                   1982
Pre-appraisal                11/82                                 11/82
Complementary Studies       01/84                                  01/84
Appraisal Mission           04/84                                  04/84
Post-appraisal I                                                   07/84
Post-appraisal II                                                  10/84
Credit Negotiations          03/85                                 03/85
Board Approval               04/85                                04/30/85
Credit Signature             09/85                                09/12/85
Credit Effectiveness         01/86                                02/03/86
Credit Closing             06/30/91           06/30/93            12/31/93
Project Completion          12/31/91           09/30/93           03/31/94
Comments: This project was viewed as a pilot project to test methods for rehabilitating
small and medium size irrigation themes at pre-appraisal, further studies had to be done
by the Borrower (scheme surveys, costs, etc.) due to delays in studies and works
experienced during the first years, project closing was postponed three times.



18
Table 3: Credit Disbursement
(in millions of US$)
Fiscal Year        Estimated                  Actual           Actual as % of
Estimated
(Cumulative)
Annual   Cumulative    Annual   Cumulative
1985             0.1         0.1           0            0                0
1986             1.3         1.4          1.3         1.3               92
1987             2.5         3.9          0.4         1.7               44
1988             3.2         7.1          2.5         4.1               58
1989             2.8         9.9            1         5.1               52
1990             1.4        11.3          1.7         6.8               60
1991             0.7        12.0          0.8         7.6               63
1992                                      1.5         9.1               76
1993                                      1.2        10.3               86
1994                                      3.2        13.4              112
TOTAL             12.0                    13.4



19
Table 4: Project Implementation
Item                         Appraisal        Actual      Comments
Estimate      Estimate at
Closing Date
Technical Assistance
IDA Financing               29 man/year    33 man/year   Longer than planned
Other Donors                    n.a.       47 man/year
Total                                      80 man/year   6 TA present on Dec.
1993
Local Training              man x days      man x days
For project Coordination        n.a.          1,180
For production MINAGRI          n.a.          3,400
For Genie Rural MINAGRI         n.a.           300
Farmers' Associations           n.a.           500
Training outside country     man x days     man x days
For project Coordination        n.a.           450
For production MINAGRI          n.a.           569
For Genie Rural, MINAGRI        n.a.           210
For Program Director            n.a.            55
Investment cost per ha      US$1,050/ha    US$1,730/ha   Without technical
(studies & works)                                         assistance
Note: n.a. = not available



Table 5: Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
Item                                   A  raisal Estimate                      Revised Estimate                       Actual (estimate)
Mitlion FMG      SDR '000          %        Million FNG    SOR '000         Million FMG        SDR '000           %
Works                                8,900         12,400           40          31,500         15,000            27,500          13,000              47
Equipnent & VehicLes                    300           400             1          1,000             500            1,500             700               3
Technical Assistance,                2,900          4,100           13          17,600          8,400            25,000          11,800              43
Studies & Training
Operating                            2,600          3,700            12          4,200          2,000             3,100           1,500               5
Contingencies                        5,800          8,100           26           8,500          4000-                                  -              0
Samangoky                            1,700          2,400            8           1,900             900            1,000             700               2
Total                               22,100         31,100          100          64,700         30,800            58,100          27,700             100
O
Comments:  Due to FMG depreciation during the period, project cost in FMG has considerably increased over
appraisal while project costs in SDR have been lower; the cost of Samangoky component was planned to be SDR 2.4
million. Actual cost for the component was SDR 0.7 million (component stopped 9 months after Credit effectiveness).



B. Project Financing
Item                                    Apraisal Estimate                      Revised Estimate                        Actual (estimate)
MiLLion FMG      SDR '000  |                 ition F1G |        R '000      Million FMG        SDR '000 W
IDA                                                     _                                                                                                  l
Works                                3,000          4,200            14          3,800           2,550            3,100           2200                 8
Equipment & Vehicles                    400           500             2            800             510            1,000              700               3
Technical Assistance,                 1,800         2,500             8         10,400           6,900            8,900           6,230               22
Sturdies & Training                                                                                                                                        l
Operating                               600           900             3               -              -                 -               -                0
Prefinancing                            600           800             3             100             70               100              70                -
Contingencies                           900         1,300             4            250             170                 -               -                -
Samangoky                             1700                            7 400      1,350             900            1000              700                3
Sub-total IDA                        9,000         12,600           41          16,700         11,100            141100           9,900               36
Other Financiers             __
UNDP/PAM                                                            0           1,000             700            1,000             700                3
UNDP/FAO                                                -           0           2,800           1,500            2,800           1,500                5
FED                                 3,000          4,200           14          10,400          4,200            10,200           3,900               14
FAC                                    100           100            1             900             300              900             300                1
CFD 4_400                                          62300           20          17,400          6,600            17,100           6,500               23
Government                          5, 600         7,900           25          15, 500         6,400            12,000           4, 900              18
Sub-total Others                    13,100         18,500                       48,000          19,700           44, 000         1 7,800              64
TOTAL Project                       22,100         31,100          100          64,700         30,800            58,100          27,700              100
Comments: Due to heavy devaluation of the FMG and due to the obligation of the Government to pay 35 percent of
cost of works as counterpart funding, the Government total contribution  to  the project increased  from   25 percent
(appraisal) to 34 percent (actual).



Table 6: Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                                      Appraisal Estimate                  Estimate at Closing Date             Estimated at FulL Development
Hectares rehabilitated                                 17,000                         12,989 at closing date                          17,202
4,213 within 3 months
17,202 total
Number of schemes                                        16                                21 completed                                 30
9 within 3 months
Number of WUA's                                          16                                      84                                     84
Number of Agricultural                                   16                                19 completed                                 30
Development Plans                                                                          10 in process
Number of beneficiaries                                34,000                                  29,420                                 29,420
Incremental yield of rice after:
year 1                + 50 kg/ha                             + 286 kg/ha
year 2               + 100 kg/ha                             + 578 kg/ha
Year 3               + 150 kg/ha                             + 605 kg/ha
year 4               + 350 kg/ha                             + 687 kg/ha
year 9               + 940 kg/ha                             + 940 kg/ha                             + 940 kg/ha
Percent of irrigated land with                        marginal                            20% of surface                          30% of surface
contra-season crops                                                     .
Annual maintenance cost                           15% of revenues                         2% of revenues



B. Economic Impact
Appraisal Estimate         | Actual                      | Coments
A  (at Final Development)
Economic Rate of Return
* of whoLe area, 17,200 ha                   23%                          18%                           both rates at constant FMG,
vaLue 1986
* of "normal" PPI, 14,000 ha                 n.a.                         20%                           based on 6 schemes
* of "risky" PPI, 3,200 ha                   n.a.                         negative                      3 schemes with
cyclones/siltation or Lack of
____ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ water
Sensitivity to rice revenues for
Soavina scheme (1,200 ha)
* base IERR                                  21%                          33.8%
* rice revenues - 10%                        n.a.                         32.7%; - 3% compared to
base
* rice revenues - 20%                        n.a.                         31.5%; - 7. compared to
base
* rice revenues - 30%                        n.a.                         30.1%; - 11% compared to
f base
Assumptions
* analysis done over 30 years at             1986                         1986
constant FMG value
* paddy price, CIF Taomasina                 $274/ton                     $260/ton                      used for extrapolation over 30
years constant price for years
8 to 30
* shadow exchange rate                       + 21%                        average 12% between 1986
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ &   1993     _  _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _
. constant incremental paddy yieLd           940 kg/ha > year 9           940 kg/ha > year 9
* evolution yields "without" project         - 7V//yr, 6 years            no deterioration
C. Financial Impact
Appraisal Estimate        | ActuaL Estimate             | Comments
Net Incremental Financial             67,000 FMG/ha               310,000 FMG/ha                 In eqLuivalent FMG, value 1986 (example
Revenues due to the Project:                                                                    of Soavina rehabiLitated schemes)



24
D. Studies
Name of Study              Purpose as Defined at           Status                       Inpact of Studies
_   Appraisal t
Pre-selection Studies    Sort areas to be further    done for 140 sites                 pre-selection of schemes
studied                                                                                    l
Orientation                Appraise potential and          done for 64 detected         helped in selecting
costs estimates                schemes                       proper schemes, except
for 3 schemes
Preliminary                Define basic technical          done for 49 detected         helped discuss with
Engineering Studies        choices                         schemes                      farmers and sensitize to
the need of WUAs
Detail Engineering         Define detail technical         done for 46 detected         helped build confidence
Studies                    and economic analysis           schemes                      with farmers
for final scheme
selection
Development                After scheme selection,         done for 19 schemes in    helped discussing with
Agricultural Plan          define agricultural             process for 10 schemes    WUAs their production
develop 5 year plan                                          potentials__
Annual Agricultural        Define each year                done each year for 13        helped keep contracts
Production Plan            agricultural production         schemes; done with the    with farmers
activities                     ODR method for 5
schemes; can be done
only when
rehabilitation is
finished
Operating Manual for       Recommendations for             completed for all 30         help WUAs to comply with
Water Users                water management and            schemes                      their responsibilities
_   network management
Development Actions        Methodology to define           terminated in Dec. 1990   done by the Coordination
in Schemes                 development actions and                                      Unit
their implementation
Management Transfer        Analyze issues                  terminated in Sept.          base for preparing legal
to Farmers                 concerning the transfer         1992                         documients
of scheme management to
WUJAs
Evaluation of WUAs         Perception by members of    terminated in Aug. 1991   allowed better focus of
their WUA and proposals                                     training programs of WUAs
for the future                                              members and field agents
Creation of WUAs           Evaluation of                   terminated in 1991           same as above
methodology concerning
consultation of WUAs in
ODR                                                                                       l,,
Animation Advisors         Analysis of jobs,               terminated in Sept.          useful for better
motivation, problems           1992                          defining respective roles
with Production and Rural
G6nie agents
WUAs' Capacity             Capacity in managing            terminated in Feb. 1993   allow to realize that
schemes and paying                                           farmers are willing to
maintenance fees, in 2                                       pay maintenance fees if
regions                                                     works are correctly
H                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~finished



25
Table 7: Compliance with Credit Covenants
Covenant      |Subject                              |Status
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
Section 2.02 b   Opening Special Account              Completed.
Section 3.01 a   Government provides promptly funds as   Practically never provided
needed                                when needed.
Section 3.01 e   Government provides necessary proceeds
required by the project, on the basis of
Annual Work Programs
- to Minagri                          Completed.
- to Samangoky                        Component cancelled on
November 14, 1988.
Section 3.03 b   Government consults IDA for the      Completed.
position of Project Coordination for IRP
Section 4.01 b i Financial audit                      Completed.
Section 4.02    Government submits annual maintenance  Component cancelled on
contracts concluded with Samangoky, by  November 14, 1988.
Oct. 31
Schedule 5. 1    Selection of schemes for rehabilitation  Done.
Schedule 5.2    Pre-investment studies                Done.
Schedule 5.3    Detailed studies and rehabilitation works  Done.
Schedule 5.4    Annual work program                   Done.
Schedule 5.5    Mid-term special report (1988)        Done.
PROJECT AGREEMENT (SAMANGOKY COMPONENT)
Section 2.04    Samangoky to duly perform all its     Component cancelled on
obligations                           November 14, 1988.
Section 2.05 b   Samangoky informs IDA of any         Component cancelled on
interference with the progress of project  November 14, 1988.
Section 2.06    Samangoky furnishes an annual work    Component cancelled on
program                               November 14, 1988.
Article III     Management and operation of           Component cancelled on
Samangoky                             November 14, 1988.
Article IV      Financial audit of accounts           Done through 1988.



Table 8: Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Staff weeks                      1984      1985      1986     1987     1988      1989      1990      1991     1992       1993     1994    TOTAL
Preparation                       28.3                                                                                                         28.3
Appraisal                                   30.7                                                                                               30.7
Negotiation                                  2.2                                                                                                2.2
Supervision                                  2.6       19.6    12.9      12.5      10.8      14.7      9.5      15.7      12.9       5.6      116.8
Project Completion Report                                                                                                            4.0        4.0
TOTAL                             28.3      35.5       19.6    12.9      12.5      10.8      14.7       9.5     15.7      12.3       9.6      182.0



B. Mission Data
M onth/Year       No. of         Days in         Specialization       Performance          Type of probtems
persons         field          represented 8/
Appraisal                      03-04/84            5              25                 M,T               n.a. 9/
Supervision 1                    10/85             3              10                F,M,T                 1
Supervision II                   04/86             4              7                  F,T                  1
Supervision III                  11/86             3              10                 F ,T                 2
Supervision IV                   06/87             1              6                   T                   2
Supervision V                    11/87             1              9                   T                   1
Supervision VI                   07/88             1              8                   T                   2
Supervision VII                  11/88             1              11                  T                   2
Supervision VIll                 09/89             1              10                  T                   3          procurement
Supervision IX                   06/90             1              13                  T                   3          procurement, studies
Supervision X                    09/90             1              6                   T                   3          procurement, studies
Supervision Xi                   07/91             1              14                  T                   2          work quality
Supervision XII                  02/92             2              15                  T                   2          work quality
Supervision XIII                 10/92             2              11                  T                   2          work quality
Supervision XIV                  04/93             1              8                   T                   2          water fee collection
Supervision XV                   11/93             1              10                  T                   2          water fee collection
8/       F=Financial; M=Managerial/Economist; T=Technical.
9/       n.a.  = not available






IBRD 18378
4 /ZI2                                        43.5                          M D GAC R3'                               JUMADAGASCAR  '3'50  JUNE 19R4
FIRST IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
PREMIER PROJEr DE REHA 811rAT/ON
DES PER/MErRES IRRIGUES
2C20'                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21'20'
MANGOKY DEVELOPMENT AREA
PiER/METRE DU MAVGOKY
I() a  <   {  v \\                                                             5    --  Boundary oF AMVR
LimlPe de IAMVR
I                                                                Eli  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Irrigated  Area
Zone Ibrig ahle
-Main Canal
Conal Principol
-'        w  IDike
4,S V X   <                                               1\                Digue
River
I                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fleuive  et rfviere
Main Road
I          ~~Route  Principole
-21-30                                                                                                                                                           2-30'-
MILES
0    2          4          6
1                                                                                              I  Ts,an,hy     KILOMETERS
/ v   X            /  "oRrfi >                     O            <                                 IAmbh   I
AN ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ N0A~MNNS
/31   [                \                   No~~~~    ~ ~ ~           ~     ~    ~ ~~matoo  /                       \
2 P40                                                                                                                                                   2145-JBe na,r
ZAHEE               TANZAN/AANDRANIOMANI
<                            W                      ~                           A   l o ic                                           aNoI
roMonm.be        <                                                                   Tananda,,.^\
|.  Z^1RR  g    ?\JA"NZANIA              .                                                                                         <
ANG0LAI       _      .--
~MA WI
ii /   }    xO4   >   5    tY    I  This map has been prepared by/-..
r .IMBABWE S                            J                  The World Bank's staff exclusivefy
AMIBe IA             Ito'Z            E    \   u           AlSO    for the convenience of the
!MIA   >                                                           readers and is exclusively for the                                                gegulation
BO.SWANA                                                           internal use of The World Bank                                                    stwctwe
SOTOWANA  r  \        .Jand the Internatonal Finance                                                                              Berehoi   \Desanding
/                        /         4z  3  fCorporation rhe denominations                                                                         bos,.
I \J   !              l     /                   used and the boundaries shown
}_,   fi/AztaNo      \~                           on this map do not imply, on the
INDIAN. 0CfA4                          part of The World Bank and the
2P55  International Finance Corporation.                                         n      t
(Lesr9o 0         *   NetbIi~I #       4GN t             any judgment on the legal status
SOUTHt AFttCA                        C     o  4 w                    of any territory or any
tw- ntattilbd  4ac                endorsement or acceptance of
d/i/t~ li ' tetw                such boundaries
A3__0                              IToThi5    ToTui., 45






MADAGASCAR
FIRST IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
PREMIER PROJET DE REHABILITATION
DES PERIMETRES IRRJGUES                                             /
LOCATION OF MEDIUM IRRIGATION SCHEMES                                                    -C-
LOCAUISATION DES PETITS PERIMETRES
ANTSERANANA 
,             WA~~~~~~~~~T
\~~ ma^   ......     1m-           -.       . L /
S @ 1 ~~~~~~~OMASIAJ - 
AN      NA 0                          4, J  ... r
,  fs.unns             MAI-IAJ  GA                    * ~
C)~~~~ )   ,s
.  i    ~~-A.                        NW/
"' '    )   i     */^ole   )       r            .~4ev. ,r 
ar                      I    .,    MSrsedofs' /_      arte     ..                        INDIN OCEA
j.- .
A- a...    An  anaiv
Ci ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~l
y ~ ~~~~~~              ~~~~ FianalF 
-~               ~ ~             IDlQL am.                                                   River
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RsBts |NaoesrmlSo (go  ,.Adt7ianade=j
IL~~~~~~~CV
lImamS sud/az5   \  U    \~~~Faeeraaao  .{ ,. ' / h
.~~~~~~~I                            t'h..t,I=Ieiol                                Mat- -Ismoa  -    AhA ,,AL 
,~ ~ ~ ~ .                                         .L. pi.  -.                    - '.   S ,- )  }  ,
A&  . ,            .ee.g,.hTWAAv.                        / \
I    :-                         a                 
.   c  ,/  ,                                  OLE,FOTHO                            _~~~~~~~~~~uo cpk
.~~                                                                                           ~     ~ ,*Sa  ____  LD___________BOU________
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c _                                                          APrWI
FIAN.A.                                      ZABI -A-
TOLIARA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~AABA% ZMAW
N    \M.B5 ZIBA               tAAGASCAR
BOTSWANA      ,/.
c                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lmits d'Etat0






iZ    ZAMBIt      M               COMORoS                                                         MADAGASCAR                                               101286R
R e                                                                  I 2  '   \ZIMBABWE,  #Eii1  PREMIER PROJET DE REHABILTATION DES PERIMETRES IRRIGUES
PROJECT IRRIGATION SCHEMES
-<                                     (SWAZILAND )   t/@   @       *,PERIMETRES IRRIGUES DU PROJET
-t                                                         souTh            .i&,,AFRaCP,rABA PA   *                           Paved Road                                      ..............Dike
LSSOThO  *   ~~~rowRoute Goudronn6e                                                                           Digue
Behara~~~~~~~~~"                     - ~~~~WW 91T-                               Road to be Rehabilitated                                   River
l.,te B5d,1   y                       Route a RAhabiliter                                          eieuve et Rividre
-I.  ______,,_____                         _ oTrack                                                                    .*      Village
N  -'                                                          1                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Piste                          Village
\'   ~~~~~~~~~                                                            _______ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Main Canal                                  ri-,,~    scarpment
->                  a                                      , I Canal Prncipal                                                                                                                       Escarpement
Branch Canal                                               Inundated Area
-,                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Canal Secondaire        --       Zone Non-Cuffivablfe
Drain                                             .--:..  Sanded-over Area
Drain                                                      Zone Ensabl6e
A     Drainage Outlet                                            lZrngated Area
Ouvrage d'Evacuaton du drain                               Zone lrngable
,r           9                                                                                                     Tunnel                                                     Soils of area not suitable
A/~Arilns  hSZone pedof giguement
_ To Amborrasrw                                                                                  / ma                                                                                      non-rui  tivable
A ,, H BBzB                  Anr"BELAMOTY                                                SOAVINA                              T7mborlnv                                                     A
Mah2uomort .                                                           8 -~~ krrrns                                                                                                                    ArdmaOXla.
Ma' !-- ........_.,a.,,os. .....- ......
-~ S.kmu,,   \                                                                                   ,                                                     k,, r Aboh,,bt1ry  Andbo.
"-,Ma,be,a       -     , c,_Beadabo                            /
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/a,v -ins                                                                                                          7r&'h    .          _---ot,,a
8 8 . <___* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AMVFI                                                              FTj nr _A-rs', | 
MrrtaIly  > -               .4 AnrJnh  7ry                BSoavina                              y                       A,nzr,ron ra
Ankil%                                                      a..,tnN 3-
~~~~~~~*                      /   ,  'WAb4tknnl   A 
,   Belamoty
_ | ! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SrBtaraunn                                                                                                                                                                          amnrsm  - 
Twatana,t, me
FU,,wts,r.~~~~~~~~~~~~EBUR'W












