I       CREDIT NUMBER 1589 MAG
DCUMEMh~
Development Credit Agreement
(Irrigation Rehabilitation Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSO:IATION
Dated                         1 /  ,1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1589 HAG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT Af1REEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   J                  < -    , 1985, between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) part of the Project will be carried out by the Societ6
pour l'Am6nagement et la Mise en Valeur de la Vall6e du Bas-
Mangoky (SAMANGOKY) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to SAMANGOKY
part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(C) by agreement dated February      14, 1985, the Caisse
Centrale de Coopgration Economique (CCCE) has agreed to make
available as a loan to the Borrower an aggregate principal amount
of twenty four million French francs (FF 24,000,000) to assist in
financing part of the Project;
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from CCCE an addi-
tional loan in an amount of about FF 36,000,000 to assist in
financing part of the Project;
(E) the Borrower intends to contract from European Develop-
ment Fund (EDF) a grant in an amount of 5.3 million ECU to parti-
cipate in financing the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and SAMANGOKY;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,


﻿-2-
(t,he General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires. the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "SAMANGOKY" means the Socifti pour l'Amenagement et la
Mise en Valeur de la Vallee du Bas-Mangoky, the Lower Mangoky
Valley Development Corporation, established as a corporation on
June 2, 1961 and transformed into a mixed company pursuant to
Decree No. 62-526 dated October 17, 1962 and Decree No. 67-007
dated June 28, 1967, as amended, to the date of this Agreement;
(b)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and SAMANGOKY of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such, term includes all .ched-
ules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(c)  "Subsidiary  Agreement"  means   the  agreement  to  be
entered into between the Borrower and SAMANGOKY pursuant to
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time;
(d)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(e) "MPARA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agricultural
Production and Agrarian Reform;
(f) "MPARA Annual Work Program" means any annual work
program prepared by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(g)  "SAMANGOKY Annual Work Program" means any annual work
program prepared by SAMANGOKY pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement; and
(h)  "Coordinating   Committee"    means   the   Comite   de
Coordination du Projet de Rehabilitation des Petits P6rimetres
Irrigugs as established within MPARA, inter alia, for the
purposes of the Project.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section  2.01.   The  Association  agrees  to  lend  to   the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twelve million six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 12,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a bank accept-
able to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1991 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.


﻿-4-
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 1995, and ending Febru-
ary 1, 2035. Each installment to and including the installment
payable on February 1, 2005 shall be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such princi-
pal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end: (i) shall carry out Parts A and
B of the Project through MPARA with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and agricultural practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for Parts A and B of the Project; and (ii)
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall cause
SAMANGOKY to perform in accordance with the provisions of the


﻿-5-
Project Agreement all the obligations of SAMANGOKY therein set
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable SAMANGOKY to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out Part B of the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
allocated for the carrying out of Part C of the Project available
to SAMANGOKY on a grant basis under a subsidiary agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SAMANGOKY, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Credit, and except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e) Without   any   limitation   or  restriction   upon  the
provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall,
during each year of execution of the Project, make adequate
provisions in its annual budget for the funds to be provided as
the Borrower's contribution: (i) to MPARA on the basis of the
MPARA Annual Work Program for any such year to be prepared
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii)
to SAMANGOKY on the basis of the SAMANGOKY Annual Work Program
for any such year to be prepared pursuant to Section 2.06 of the
Project Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to in-
surance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively)
in respect of Part C of the Project shall be carried out by
SAMANGOKY pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall employ, at all times
during execution of the Project, a Project Coordinator with
adequate responsibilities, experience and qualifications.
(b) The Borrower shall consult with the Association before
making any employment for the position of Project Coordinator.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain through the
Directorate of Finance and Personnel of MPARA or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts A and B of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out Parts A and B of the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by the said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof


﻿-7-
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records   (contracts,  orders,   invoices,  bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided.
Section 4.02. (a) By October 31 of each year during execu-
tion of the Project, the Borrower shall submit to the Association
for approval its annual maintenance contract to be concluded with
SAMANGOKY for the following year.
(b) The Borrower shall transfer to SAMANGOKY all funds as
stipulated in the maintenance contracts referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:


﻿-8-
(a) SAMANGOKY shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
SAMANGOKY will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(c) The Borrower's Decrees referred to in Section 1.02(a)
of this Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of SAMANGOKY to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SAMANGOKY or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 (d) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are speci-
fied:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and SAMANGOKY in accordance with the provisions of
Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement; and


﻿-9-
(b) the Borrower has amended its Ordonnance 81.026, dated
December 22, 1981 and the Decree 82.353, dated August 13, 1982,
in order to authorize the creation of legal entities (structures
d'op6ration) in the context of its Ordonnance 76-044, dated
December 27, 1976; such legal entities to involve all water users
of a given irrigation scheme and to have adequate authorities to
operate and manage any such irrigation systems, to assess the
user charge to be collected for maintenance and operation, and to
decide on the use of such funds.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association namely that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by SAMANGOKY, and is legally
binding upon SAMANGOKY in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date 90 days after the date of this Agree-
ment is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministre aupres de la Presidence chargg
des Finances et de l'Economie of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre aupres de la Presidence
charge des Finances et de l'Economie
Antananarivo 101
Madagascar
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINFIN                               22336
Antananarivo


﻿- 10 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and. year first above
written.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCI TION
By
Att;lvq Regional Vice President
Ea tern and Southern Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   Thei table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works under           4,200,000        65%
Parts A and B of
the Project
(2) Consultants'                2,000,000        100%
services under
Part A of the
Project
(3) Vehicles, equip-              500,000       100% of foreign
ment and office                             expenditures and
furniture for                              90% of local
Parts A and B                               expenditures
of the Project
(4) Travel cost and               500,000       90%
training under
Parts A and B
of the Project
(5) Civil works under           1,500,000       65%
Part C of the
Project
(6) Consultants' serv-            200,000       100%
ices and training
under Part C of
the Project


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(7) Vehicles, equip-              700,000       100% of foreign
ment and office                            expenditures and
furniture for                              90% of local
Part C of the                              expenditures
Project
(8) Special Account              850,000       Amounts to be
deposited pur-
suant to para-
graph 3 (a) of
Schedule 4 to
this Agreement
(9) Refunding of Project          840,000      Amount due under
Preparation Advance                        Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(10) Unallocated                1,310,000
TOTAL                12,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made: (i) for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; (ii) for expen-
ditures under Categories (5), (6) and (7) of the table in para-
graph 1 above unless (A) the Borrower and the Association have
approved  a   five-year  financial  rehabilitation  program  for


﻿- 13 -
SAMANGOKY and the Borrower has made a cash contribution to
SAMANGOKY to restore its working capital to a level acceptable to
the Association, and (B) such expenditures have been approved by
the Association in the context of the SAMANGOKY Annual Work
Program for any such year or a previous year pursuant to the
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement; and (iii)
for expenditures under Categories (1) through (4), unless such
expenditures have been approved by the Association in the context
of the MPARA Annual Work Program for any such year or a previous
year pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 of
this Agreement.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to develop a systematic
approach to rehabilitate medium irrigation schemes, to develop
new institutions for self-administration and self-finance of
irrigation schemes by irrigation users and to rehabilitate
irrigation schemes in Mangoky in order to increase outputs pro-
duced by SAMANGOKY.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Management Support for MPARA
1.   Provision of technical assistance to four Directorates and
the Coordinating Committee within MPARA to strengthen their
capability to coordinate and monitor execution of Part B of the
Project and to assist in the establishment of water management
committees and irrigation user associations.
2.   Construction of additional offices for MPARA.
Part B:   Rehabilitation of Medium Irrigation Schemes
Rehabilitation of about 16 medium irrigation schemes in
accordance with procedures set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Part C:   Rehabilitation of the Mangoky Irrigation Scheme
1.   Cleaning of the desilting basin, the headwork and the access
canal;
2.   Resealing of the concrete section, joints, including about
100 km of raised canals;
3.   Rehabilitation of about 45 km of services roads;
4.   Repair of the river-intake gate and of irrigation gates;
5.   Improvement of the outlets of the main drains;


﻿- 15 -
6.   Acquisition of equipment needed for maintenance of irri-
gation schemes; and
7.   Provision  of   technical  assistance   to  introduce  cost-
accounting.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1990.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Parts C and D hereof, goods and works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in August 1984 (the Guidelines).
Part B.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin
of preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C.   Local Competitive Bidding
Goods for Part C of the Project estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or less may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D.   Other Bidding Procedures
Office equipment furniture and civil works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or less may be procured under con-
tracts awarded on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bid
invited from a list of at least three local suppliers in accord-
ance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.


﻿- 17 -
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4
(the Special Account Schedule) to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment and Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of the Project Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A and
B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants, includ-
ing a senior adviser to the project coordinator, an agricultural
economist, a training/extension specialist, a senior advisor, a
rural institutions advisor, two senior irrigation engineers and a
project education specialist whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) through (7) in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount in
dollars equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (8) which
is to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent with-
drawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 19 -
expenditures. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, each
such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective Categories (1) through (7),
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) unless   otherwise   agreed  by   the  Association,
when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to Categories (1) through (7) for the
Project, minus the amount of any outstanding
qualified agreement to reimburse made by the
Association and of any outstanding special commit-
ment entered into by the Association pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Catego-
ries (1) through (7) for the Project shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of


﻿- 20 -
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
otherwise agreed by the Association, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Schedule for
Part B of the Project
1.   Selection of Medium Irrigation Schemes for Rehabilitation
The Borrower shall carry out an inventory for all medium
irrigation  schemes by December    31, 1987. Medium     irrigation
schemes shall be selected for rehabilitation under the Project on
the basis of such inventories and by taking into consideration
the following criteria:
(a) motivation of the operators of the respective irriga-
tion schemes;
(b) appropriateness of rehabilitation of the respective
irrigation scheme in the framework of the regional
rehabilitation strategy;
(c) cost of transportation and condition of existing road
network;
(d) existence of supporting infrastructure (e.g. extension
services, availability of agricultural credit); and
(e) the estimated economic rate of return of the investment
for the rehabilitation of the respective irrigation
scheme to exceed 14%.
The Borrower shall submit to the Association for review and
approval, upon its approval by the Coordinating Committee, an
evaluation of each irrigation system, whose rehabilitation is
proposed to be financed under the Credit with a detailed report
on the criteria set forth above.
2.   Preinvestment Studies
Upon selection of an irrigation scheme to be rehabilitated
under the Project, the Borrower shall carry out a base-line
survey to determine the agricultural, economic and sociological
characteristics  and   land  ownership  of  any  such  irrigation
scheme. The Borrower shall transmit to       the Association   for
approval the terms of reference of the baseline surveys for
irrigation systems whose rehabilitation is proposed to be
financed under the Credit.


﻿- 22 -
On the basis of the findings of the baseline survey, the Borrower
shall prepare the preliminary engineering, a five-year scheme
agricultural development plan and a feasibility study including
possible alternatives for rehabilitation and a sensitivity
analysis. The Borrower shall transmit to the Association for
review all documents referred to above relatitg to irrigation
schemes, whose rehabilitation is proposed to be financed under
the Credit, together with the recommendations of the Coordinat-
ing Committee to be taken into account for the preparation of
detailed studies. The Association shall give its comments within
three months after receipt of any such documents.
3.   Detailed Studies and Rehabilitation Works
The Borrower shall prepare, taking into consideration any
comments made by the Coordinating Committee and the Association,
the final engineering design, a revision of the cost estimates,
the bidding documents and a provisional manual for scheme opera-
tion and maintenance. Before initiation of the procurement pro-
cedure, the Borrower shall submit: (i) to the Coordinating
Committee for review all the documents referred to above; and
(ii) all documents relating to irrigation schemes, whose rehabi-
litation is proposed to be financed under the Credit to the
Association for review and approval. In case that the revised
cost estimates exceed the initial cost estimates by more than
15% for any given irrigation scheme and the Borrower decide to
rehabilitate such scheme, the Borrower shall redo the feasibility
study and shall demonstrate that the economic rate of return of
any such irrigation scheme exceeds 14%.
The Borrower shall start rehabilitation works on any medium
irrigation scheme proposed to be financed under the Credit only
after the respective legal entity referred to in Section 6.01 (b)
of this Agreement for any such scheme has approved the rehabili-
tation plan and committed itself to cover full cost of operation
and maintenance thereof upon completion of the works, to make an
advance payment equal to the estimated financial cost of one year
of maintenance and to deposit such funds into a bank account
before completion of the rehabilitation works.
Upon completion of the rehabilitation works, the Borrower
shall prepare a manual for scheme operation and maintenance. The
Borrower shall also carry out the five-year agricultural develop-
ment plans referred to in paragraph (3) above.


﻿- 23 -
4.   MPARA Annual Work Program
By September 30 of each year of execution of the Project,
the Borrower shall prepare and submit to the Association for
approval an annual work program (MYIPARA Annual Work Program) which
shall include all items set forth below and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request:
(a) works to be carried out under Part B of the Project;
(b) activities to be carried out under paragraphs 2 and 3
of this Schedule;
(c) incremental and extraordinary expenditures of MPARA for
the execution of such program;
(d) all items to be financed under the Credit during any
such year; and
(e) the legal instrument establishing the legal entities
involving all water users of any irrigation scheme
proposed to be rehabilitated under the Credit, such
legal   entities  to   have  adequate   authorities  in
conforming with the provisions of Section 6.01 (b) of
this Agreement.
5.   Special Report
By December 31, 1988, the Borrower shall prepare and submit
to the Association a report summarizing the achievements made
under Part B of the Project, evaluating the performance of the
departments and agencies of the Borrower involved and making
recommendations for improvements to be made for the further
execution of the Project.
The Borrower shall discuss the recommendations of such
report with the Association, and shall take into consideration
any comments made by the Association regarding the execution of
the Project.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


