REDIT NUMBER 1589 MAG
D0CU ME
Project Agreement
(Irrigation Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE POUR L'AMENAGEMENT ET LA MISE EN
VALEUR DE LA VALLEE DU BAS-MANGOKY
Dated                             , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1589 HAG
P    CT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         /             12-    1985, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and
SOCIETE POUR L'AMENAGEMENT ET LA MISE EN VALEUR DE LA VALLEE DU
BAS-MANGOKY (SAMANGOKY).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between Democratic Republic of Madagascar (the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twelve million six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 12,600,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that
SAMANGOKY agree to undertake such obligations toward the Associa-
tion as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and SAMANGOKY part of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to SAMANGOKY on the terms and conditions set forth in
said Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS SAMANGOKY, in consideration of the Associatior.'s
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agree-
ment;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, and
in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE I
Execution of Part C of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SAMANGOKY declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the


﻿-2-
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
Part C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineer-
ing and agricultural practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for Part C of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. SAMANGOKY shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part C of the
Project.
Section 2.04. SAMANGOKY shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, SAMANGOKY shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) SAMANGOKY shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of Part C of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit.
(b) SAMANGOKY shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by SAMANGOKY of its obligations
under this Agreement.
Section 2.06. By June 30 of each year of execution of the
Project, SAMANGOKY shall prepare and furnish to the Association
for approval an annual work program (SAMANGOKY Annual Work
Program) for the following year specifying all activities to be
undertaken in carrying out part C of the Project; each SAMANGOKY
Annual Work Program to include a budget, a financing plan, all


﻿-3-
items to be financed under the Credit during the following year,
and to specify the amount of the contribution needed from the
Borrower during the following year.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SAMANGOKY
Section 3.01. SAMANGOKY shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and agricultural practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SAMANGOKY shall at all times operate and
maintain its machinery, equipment and other prope,cy, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and agricultural practices.
Section 3.03. SAMANGOKY shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SAMANGOKY shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) SAMANGOKY shall:
(i) have its accounts and financial statements (ba-
lance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of


﻿its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, SAMANGOKY shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to exa-
mine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.


﻿-5-
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SAMANGOKY thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 20 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
SAMANGOKY of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-6-
For SAMANGOKY:
Boite Postale 1299
Antananarivo
Madagascar
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SAMANGOKY, may be taken or executed by its
Director General or such other person or persons as the Director
General shall designate in writing, and SAMANGOKY shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement ma-y be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
E tern and Southern Africa
SOCIETE POUR L'AMENAGEMENT ET LA MIqE EN
VALEUR DE LA VALLEE DU BAS-MANGOKY
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           (lay of
198
FOR SECRETARY


