Report No. PID7451
Project Name                     Kazakstan-Electricity Transmission (+)
Rehabilitation
Region                           Europe & Central Asia
Sector                           Energy
Project ID                       KZPE65414
Borrower                         Kazakhstan Electricity Grid
Operating Company (KEGOC)
Implementing Agency              KEGOC
162 "zh", Shevchenko str., Almaty, 480008,
Republic of Kazakhstan
Tel:     (3272) 686200
Fax:     (3272) 684308
Environment Category             B
Date This PID Prepared           July 2, 1999
Date Initial PID Prepared        February 18, 1999
Appraisal Date                   May 17, 1999
Projected Board Date             October 26, 1999
Country and Sector Background
1.      There are about 54 generation plants in Kazakhstan with a total
installed capacity of 18,240 MW. The functioning capacity is much less
because of poor maintenance. Capacity includes large coal-fired thermal
plants, 12 hydroelectric plants, and many small combined heat and power
plants.  Nearly 90t of the generation assets were divested by means of asset
sales to local and foreign strategic investors, others under concession
agreements. Many of the private owners are foreign companies. Kazakhstan
has an annual coal production of about 100 million tons, with reserves
estimated to be similar to those of Australia. Power production peaked at
87,380 GWh in 1989 and was 52,000 GWh in 1998. The large decline is due
mainly to the collapse of the Soviet Union and the associated reduction in
industrial production in Kazakhstan. Furthermore, the production of
electricity is affected by the poor condition of power plants due to
inadequate maintenance, lack of spare parts and generally obsolete equipment,
most of which are more than 20 years old. The sector needs large investments
in order to improve the reliability and quality of electricity supply.
2.      The transmission company KEGOC is a joint stock company established on
July 14, 1997, under the Government's sector restructuring program. KEGOC
owns and operates over 23,000 km of high-voltage transmission lines as well
as 73 substations, a National Dispatch Center (NDC) and nine Regional
Dispatch Centers (RDCs). The bulk of the transmission network was built in
the 1970s with equipment manufactured in the Former Soviet Union (FSU).
During 1991-1997, no regular maintenance of the grid was carried out, which
resulted in a reduction of equipment reliability and an increase in operation
and maintenance costs. Major outages due mainly to the failure of substation



equipment caused interruption of the power supply seven times during the
first 10 months of 1998.
3.      The present level of substation automation is very low and does not
permit the remote control of KEGOC's transmission network from the NDC and
RDCs. The existing monitoring system is based on outdated analog equipment
and there is no Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system. The
lack of substation automation and the absence of SCADA system prevent
improvements in the reliability and quality of power supply.
4.      The existing telecommunications system between substations and RDCs is
based on the obsolete analog technology. About 65t of the communications
equipment are older than 10 years and their maintenance is increasingly
expensive and difficult due to the growing number of failures and the lack of
spare parts, which are no longer supported by manufacturers. The dispatch
control in NDC and RDCs is performed manually on the basis of fragmented
information and without the application of SCADA/EMS functions. The existing
level of automation of dispatch control does not permit an efficient dispatch
of generation operating reserves in the system, which is needed to improve
frequency control and load following. The lack of real-time metering of
electric energy and load at the borders of KEGOC's transmission system
reduces the efficiency of wholesale market operations.
5.      The generators sell their power under whatever bilateral contracts they
can arrange with distribution companies and large industrial customers. At
present, there is no functioning spot market or power pool, but as the
electricity system matures and stabilizes, the existing market may evolve
into an organized spot market whose introduction is planned by 2001. The
proposed project would provide support for the creation of a short-term
balancing market (pool).
6.      In 1996, the Government of Kazakhstan (GOK) embarked on a bold program
of reforms aimed at introducing private participation in the power sector and
establishing a competitive power market. By 1997, the electricity generation
plants were separated from the former Kazakhstanenergo and privatized, the
high voltage transmission network operated by KEGOC was formed, and regional
distribution companies were established and took over the functions of
regional electricity supply. In addition, three regional electricity
distribution companies were privatized. In the area of power sector reforms,
Kazakhstan ranks among the most advanced countries in the FSU.
Objectives
7.      The main project objectives are to: (a) improve the reliability and
quality of electricity supply through the refurbishment of transmission
substations and modernization of the dispatch control system; (b) develop
competition through the establishment of a power pool and improved access to
the transmission network; and (c) restructure KEGOC into a financially viable
core grid company through full cost recovery for its services and divesting
non-core activities.
Description
8.      The proposed project would comprise:    (a) refurbishment of transmission
substations, including replacement of high voltage equipment at 26
-2 -



substations (5 at 500 kV and 21 at 220 kV levels), installation of shunt
reactors for compensation of reactive power at 9 substations (4 at 500 kV and
5 at 220 kV levels), replacement of protective relaying and supply and
installation of monitoring and control equipment at 63 substations; (b)
modernization of the dispatch control system, including supply and
installation of SCADA system at 9 RDCs, SCADA and Energy Management System
(EMS) at the National Dispatch Center, reinforcement of the
telecommunications system, and supply and installation of commercial metering
system; (c) institutional development, including installation of a company-
wide Management Information System (MIS) and corporate restructuring; and (d)
technical assistance for procurement and project management and the
establishment of the wholesale spot market (pool).
Financing
9.      The project's total financing requirements (including interest during
construction and other loan charges) are estimated at US$257 million,
including the foreign exchange component of US$210.8 million. The proposed
Bank loan of US$140 million would finance about 66t of the foreign component.
The EBRD loan of US$45 million would finance 21- of foreign costs. KEGOC
would finance about US$72 million equivalent, or 28t of the total financing
required, through internal cash generation.
Implementation
10.     KEGOC, the proposed Borrower, is responsible for the implementation of
the project. The project will be implemented over a five-year period,
FY2000-FY2004. On May 27, 1999, the President of KEGOC established a Project
Management Unit (PMU) under the direction of the First Deputy President to
coordinate all project-related activities under a terms of reference agreed
with the Bank. The PMU will also oversee the implementation of the project
and will be responsible for the technical and administrative functions under
the Project, including the procurement of goods and services.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
11.     The Bank's experience in the energy sector in Kazakhstan and in other
countries shows that in designing projects it is important to: (a) avoid the
broad-brush reform approach and define realistic and achievable reform
objectives targeted on the subsector (transmission network/electricity
wholesale market) where investments would be financed under the loan; (b)
ensuring a simple and transparent project design; (c) adopt realistic
implementation and disbursement schedules and counter unrealistic
expectations of quick results; (d) undertake detailed preparation of
procurement packages; (e) ensure timely availability of counterpart funds;
(f) secure early government commitment and approval; (g) thoroughly explain
to government officials the merits of the project in the context of expected
benefits for the national economy; (h) reach agreement on major policy issues
to be addressed before loan approval; and (i) reach agreement, during project
preparation, with the Regulator on an explicit framework for transmission
pricing to enable the Borrower to recover its investment costs and repay the
loan.
Environmental Aspects
-3-



12.     In accordance with OP/BP/GP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) the project
has been rated Environmental Category B. The reason for this rating is that
the physical component of the project is one of rehabilitation and
restoration, and there will be no construction of new facilities. As
recommended by this rating, an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) acceptable
to the World Bank was sent to the Bank in June 1999. Disposal of all
equipment and materials requires due consideration. Issues of electric field
intensity, noise (primarily corona discharge) and public safety, which are
anticipated during operation, will have to be addressed in both the design
and operation phases. The project is being prepared in compliance with all
environmental requirements of the Bank. There are no special requirements
from the environmental authorities of the Government of Kazakhstan, since the
project consists exclusively of upgrading old malfunctional equipment with
new modern replacements. The Bank was provided with written evidence from
the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources in this respect.
Sustainability
13.     The project is expected to be sustainable provided that KEGOC is able
to maintain financially viability. This implies that adequate mechanism
should be in place to ensure that transmission tariffs are adjusted to allow
KEGOC to (a) cover its costs and earn a reasonable profit; and (b) generate
sufficient revenue to cover its contribution to the project and to service
the loans. In addition, KEGOC has to improve its collection performance and
the GOK should implement a sector restructuring program, including the
streamlining of KEGOC, introduction of a functioning wholesale power pool,
and privatization of ten distribution companies, which are still in state
ownership.
Project Benefits
14.     The benefits associated with the project are: (a) improved reliability
and quality of electricity supply with consequent reduction in the damage
inflicted upon electricity consumers through blackouts and brownouts; (b)
savings in the operation and maintenance costs of the transmission network;
(c) improved economic dispatch of generation plants and associated reduction
in the wholesale cost of electricity; (d) reduction in reserve generation
capacity requirements by sharing reserves through an emergency reserve pool;
and (e) cost benefits for consumers arising from expanded electricity trading
opportunities between the Northern and Southern power networks of the
country.
Project Risks
15.     The risk of project delays is substantial due to: (a) the complexity of
the project which will be implemented at several locations in parallel; and
(b) KEGOC's lack of experience with procurement under International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) and the Bank's procurement procedures. The risk of
project delays would be actively managed through close monitoring of
implementation progress by the PMU (which will be assisted by experienced
international consultants), training in Bank's procurement and disbursement
procedures and the Bank's supervision.
The risk of cost overruns is modest and stems from the following factors: (a)
uncertainties in the scope of substation rehabilitation; and (b) possible
- 4 -



adverse changes in the economy of Kazakhstan, including inflation. The use
of ICB for procurement under all contracts funded by the Bank would minimize
the risk of cost overruns. Also, the use of supply and install contracts for
complex works (such as substation automation and SCADA/EMS) would confine the
risk of cost overruns. Finally, the physical and price contingencies are
designed to allow for uncertainties in the project scope and the rate of
inflation.
Contact Points:
Istvan Dobozi,
Program Team Leader, ECSEG
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 473-2147
Fax No.:        (202) 477-8518
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 9, 1999.
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
- 5 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-6-



