Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19620-KZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$140 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
KAZAKHSTAN ELECTRICITY GRID OPERATING COMPANY
FOR AN ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION REHABILITATION PROJECT
October 1, 1999
Energy Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 1999)
Currency Unit = Kazakh Tenge
1 Tenge = US$0.0076
UJS$1 = 131.9 Tenge
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
KWh   = Kilowatt hour
MWh  = Megawatt hour (= 1,000 kWh)
GWh   = Gigawatt hour (= 1,000,000 kilowatt hours)
TWh   = Terawatt hour ( 1,000,000,000 kilowatt hours)
MW    = Megawatt (1,000,000 watts)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS            -       Country Assistance Strategy
CPP            -       Corporate Performance Plan
EBRD           -       European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIRR           -       Economic Internal Rate of Retum
EMP            -       Environmental Management Plan
EMS            -       Energy Management System
FMIS                   Financial Management Information System
FY             -       Fiscal Year
GDP            -       Gross Domestic Product
GOK            -       Government of Kazakhstan
HV             -       High Voltage
IAS            -       International Accounting Standards
IBRD           -       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB            -       International Competitive Bidding
IDC            -       Interest During Construction
IS             -       International Shopping
KEGOC          -       Kazakhstan Electricity Grid Operating Company
KSA            -       Kazakhstani Accounting Standards
kV             -       kilovolt (1,000 Volts)
kWh            -       kilowatt hour (1,000 Watt hours)
MIS            -       Management Information System
MTR            -       Mid-term Review
N/A            -       Not applicable
NDC            -       National Dispatch Center
NPV            -       Net Present Value
O&M            -       Operations and Maintenance
PCB            -       Polychlorinated Biphenyl
PMR            -       Project Management Report
PMU            -       Project Management Unit
RDC            -       Regional Dispatch System
REK            -       Regional Electricity Distribution Company
SA             -       Special Account
SCADA          -       Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System
SOE            -       Statement of Expenditures
S/S            -       Substation
TA             -       Technical Assistance
USAID          -       United States Agency for International Development
VAT            -       Value Added Tax
Vice President:          Johannes Linn
Country Director:          Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Director:         Hossein Razavi
Team Leader:            Istvan Dobozi



REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objectives ...............................................................                                         2
1. Project development objectives .......................................................                                  2
2. Key performance indicators ......................................................                                       2
B. Strategic Context ..............................................................                                                       2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy goal supported by the project ............ 2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .............................................. 3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ..................... 6
C. Project Description Summary ..............................................................                                             8
1. Project components ..............................................................                                       8
2. Project costs ..............................................................                                            8
3. Financing plan ..............................................................                                           9
4. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .......................... 9
5. Benefits and target population ........................................................... ... 9
6. Institutional and implementation arrangements ........................................... 9
D. Project Rationale ..............................................................                                                       12
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ................................ 12
2. Lessons learned and reflected in the proposed project design ......................                                      12
3. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ..................................... 12
4. Value added of Bank support in this project ............................................... 13
E. Summary Project Analyses ..............................................................                                                13
1. Economic ..............................................................                                                 13
2. Financial ...............................................................                                               14
3. Technical ..............................................................   18
4. Institutional ..............................................................                                             19
5. Environmental assessment ..............................................................                                 21
6. Participatory approach ..............................................................                                   22
F. Sustainability and Risks ...............................................................                                               22
1. Sustainability ......................................................                                                   22
2. Critical risks ......................................................                                                   22
G. Main Loan Conditions ..............................................................                                                    24
1. Effectiveness conditions ..............................................................                                 24
2. Agreements reached during negotiations ................................................... 24



H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                         25
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                        26
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Table A.     Project Cost Summary
Table B.     Detailed Cost Estimate
Annex 4.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.     Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table C.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table D.     Procurement Plan
Table E.     Project Implementation Schedule
Table F.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table G.     Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Annex 5.     Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 6(A).  Actual and Forecast Financial Statements and Assumptions
Annex 6(B).  Assessment of the Borrower's Financial Management Capacity
Annex 7.     Statement of Electricity Sector Policy by the Government of Kazakhstan
Annex 8.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 9.     Documents in Project File
Annex 10.    Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 11.    Country at a Glance
Map          IBRD 30227



REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Turkmenistan Country Unit
Date: October 1, 1999                                Team Leader: Istvan Dobozi
Country Manager/Director: Kiyoshi Kodera             Sector Manager/Director: Hossein Razavi
Project ID: KZ-PE-PO65414                            Sector: Energy
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan
Poverty Targeted Intervention:    [ ] Yes  [x] No
Project Financing Data
[x] Loan      [] Credit       [  Grant      [  Guarantee       [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$140 million
Proposed terms:    [  To be defined        l Multicurrency     [x] Single currency, US$
[  Standard Variable   [  Fixed             [x] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):           5
Years to maturity:             20
Commitment fee:                 0.75%
Front-end fee on Bank loan:     1.00%
r->                        [ocaF
kEGbC                                                     34.3             28.1               62.4
IBRD                                                                       140.0            140.0
EBRD                                                                       56.0               56.0
Total:                                                   34.3             224.1             258.4
Borrower: Kazakhstan Electricity Grid Operating Company (KEGOC)
Guarantor: Republic of Kazakhstan
Responsible agency: KEGOC
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
Annual        2.5         20.0         48.0         42.7        20.5          6.3
Cumulative        2.5         22.5         70.5       113.2        133.7        140.0
Project implementation period: January 2000 - December 2004
Expected effectiveness date: December 31, 1999       Expected closing date: June 30, 2005
Implementing agency: KEGOC
Contact person: Valery M. Pismarev, Chief of Department
Address: 162 "zh", Shevchenko ul., Almaty, 480008, Republic of Kazakhstan
Tel: (7 3272) 682 390         Fax: (7 3272) 682 390          E-mail: Pismarev@kegoc.kz.



Page 2
A: Project Development Objectives
1. Project development objectives
The development objectives of the Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project are to: (i)
improve the reliability and quality of electricity supply through the refurbishment of transmission
substations and modernization of the dispatch control system; (ii) develop competition through the
establishment of a power pool and improved access to the transmission network; and (iii)
restructure the Kazakhstan Electricity Grid Operating Company (KEGOC) into a financially viable
grid company through full cost recovery for its services and divesting non-core businesses.
2. Key performance indicators (the full set of performance and monitoring indicators is in
Annex 1):
The progress towards the development objectives would be monitored according to a set of
qualitative and quantifiable indicators developed during project preparation with the assistance of
the Beneficiary. These include:
*  Staged implementation of a transmission tariff system based on progressive reduction of
the geographic distance factor between generators and consumers of electricity (by
December 31, 2003);
*  Issuance of an electricity Grid Code (by December 31, 2000);
*  Establishment of a Capacity Reserve Pool among power generators (by December 31,
1999);
*  Establishment of electricity spot market [pool] (by October 31, 2002);
*  Restructuring of KEGOC into core transmission and dispatch company (by December 31,
1999);
*  Maintenance of average deviation of system frequency within the following limits: 2000:
500 mHz; 2003: 250 mHz; and 2005: 100 mHz;
*  Maintenance of the average deviation of bus voltage at 220 kV and 500 kV substations
within the following limits: 2000: 10%; 2003: 7%; and 2005: 5%;
*  Reduction of technical losses in transmission (through the introduction of the Energy
Management System) from 5.8% in 1998 to 5% or less in 2004 and thereafter; and
*  Improvement in the stability of the North-South power interconnector and an increase in
the limit for power transfer as follows: 2000: 500MW; 2002: 600MW; and 2005: 700MW.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see also
Annex 1):
The proposed project is consistent with the Government's strategy of modernizing the power sector
and creating an efficient electricity wholesale market as an element in attracting increased private
sector investment to the economy. The project is also supportive of the strategy set out in the most
recent CAS, dated July 31, 1997. At that time, it was envisaged that Kazakhstan would see
increased activity by foreign and local investors, with the Bank moving to niches such as private
sector development, social protection and social service delivery where it had a comparative
advantage. Since then the crises in East Asia and Russia have altered the investment climate
significantly for all emerging markets and especially for countries of the former Soviet Union such
as Kazakhstan. Government has therefore turned to the Bank to help finance the very necessary
rehabilitation of the electricity transmission network. The project is consistent with the selective
strategic priorities of the CAS by:



Page 3
*  Increasing the reliability and service quality in a critical infrastructure, which is not
attractive for private financing;
* Providing support for urgent rehabilitation and medium-term modernization of existing
assets;
Improving the regulatory and pricing regime for the electricity transmission sector;
* Supporting the creation of an orderly and competitive electricity wholesale market; and
* Promoting the restructuring and privatization of the power sector.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
(a) Sector development strategy
In 1996, the Government of Kazakhstan (GOK) embarked on a bold program of reforms aimed at
introducing private participation in the power sector and establishing a competitive power market.
By 1997, the electricity generation plants were separated from the former Kazakhstanenergo (an
integrated monopoly) and privatized, the high voltage transmission network operated by KEGOC
was formed, and regional distribution companies were established and took over the functions of
regional electricity supply. In addition, three regional distribution companies (REKs) were
privatized. In the area of power sector reforms, Kazakhstan ranks among the most advanced
countries in the Former Soviet Union.
The Government intended to implement a single buyer model but was unable to do so because too
many retail customers did not pay for electricity.  Thus the designated single buyer (the
transmission company) could not honor its power purchase agreements with the generation
companies. Out of necessity, the generation companies have created a competitive market for
electricity. Currently, the market operates on the basis of bilateral contracts between a generator
and a large consumer or REK for direct sale of power. Provided that they acquire access to the
KEGOC-operated high voltage network, large electricity consumers can enter the market and shop
around for power. A competitive bulk supply market for electricity is being actively considered.
Tlhe Government intends to create the necessary technical and market infrastructure for a
functioning power pool by 2002. The required investments have been identified by KEGOC.
Definition of the market rules is in progress and would be finalized under the proposed project.
In July 1999, an Electricity Law was passed which promotes competition at the wholesale and
retail levels by ensuring open and unrestricted access to the transmission/distribution networks and
the electricity market, and by prohibiting political interference in the operation of electricity
companies. The Law ensures full cost recovery for the regulated monopolies, including the cost of
new investments.
(b) Power sector structure
In July 1995, the GOK adopted an ambitious sector restructuring and privatization program under
which the electricity industry has undergone substantial changes. The power sector is now
unbundled into separate generation and distribution companies with KEGOC acting as a single
high voltage transmission and dispatch company.
Generation. There are about 54 generation plants in Kazakhstan with a total installed capacity of
18,240 MW. The available capacity is only about 13,480 MW because of poor maintenance. The
installed capacity includes about 8,630 MW at four large thermal power plants, about 2,000 MW at
12 hydroelectric plants, and about 7,610 MW at 38 combined heat and power plants. About 90%
of the generation assets were divested by means of asset sales to local and foreign strategic
investors, some under concession agreements. Many of the private owners are foreign companies
including AES, Tractabel, Samsung, Japan Chrome, Ispat and Independent Power Company. For
an interim period, KEGOC was entrusted with the management of a 2,000 MW coal-fired power
plant (Ekibastuz GRES II) and a hydro power company (Shardara GES).



Page 4
Transmission. The high voltage transmission system of Kazakhstan has three voltage levels: 1,150
kV (3 substations and 1,423 km of transmission lines), 500 kV (15 substations and 5,435 km of
transmission lines) and 220 kV (172 substations and 19,000 km of transmission lines). The state
owned KEGOC is a joint stock company established on July 14, 1997, under the Government's
sector restructuring program. KEGOC owns and operates all transmission assets at 1,150 kV and
500 kV voltage levels, as well as 15,134 km of 220 kV lines and 48 substations at the 220 kV level.
KEGOC is also responsible for dispatch control. According to its Charter, KEGOC has to ensure
(i) the stability and reliability of the high voltage grid system of Kazakhstan; and (ii) equal access
to the wholesale market for both electricity producers and consumers. KEGOC also operates
international connections, principally with Russia, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan. The current central
dispatch arrangements are best characterized as self-dispatch by generators against contracts both
with REKs and with large consumers directly connected to the transmission system.
KEGOC's transmission system consists of three power grids:
*  Northern grid (where about 70% of electricity is generated and consumed) connected to the
Russian power system;
*  Southern grid connected to the Central Asian power system (Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan)
and Northern grid via a single-ci:rcuit 500 kV tie line; and
*  Western grid comprising two subsystems that are unconnected with the other systems and
import power from Russia.
The proposed project would provide support for improving the stability of the interconnection
between the Northern and Southern power grids.
Distribution. There are eighteen regional distribution companies (REKs). Privatization of these
companies started in 1996 with the sale of Almatyenergo to Almaty Power Company, a subsidiary
of Tractabel S.A. of Belgium. Two additional distribution companies were privatized. Fifteen
companies remain in state ownership. The Government transferred the management of ten of these
companies to KEGOC for an interim period until they are privatized. The Government plans to
privatize all distribution companies in 1999-2000.
Electricity market. The generation companies sell their power under whatever bilateral contracts
they can arrange with distribution companies and large industrial customers. Industrial users with
loads as low as 5 MW are allowed to participate in the market if they can obtain access through the
transmission/distribution grid. It appears that many customers are able to take advantage of this
policy. The bilateral contracts are short tenn and change based on market conditions. The
generation companies vigorously compete to supply those purchasers who are credit-worthy and
have the cash to pay, and there is no requirement that they supply those who do not pay. When a
generation company finds a credit-worthy buyer, the company often has to accept prices much
lower than the ceiling price specified in the original power purchase agreement. In other cases, the
new private owners could not find adequate credit-worthy buyers, reducing generation levels
accordingly and delaying new investment. (In some cases, large industrial and mining companies
purchased power plants to serve their own needs, and thus these plants have a captive market.)
In order for this market to function, KEGOC--as system manager--enforces these contracts in most
cases by not allowing purchasers to take more power off the transmission system than they have
contracted. KEGOC is seen as generally effective in this role by forcibly disconnecting supply
points for buyers who are taking more than they have contracted for and refuse to reduce
voluntarily their demand. The system of bilateral contracts has been generally effective in
resolving non-payment by large final consumers. Under this system, the remaining state-owned
distribution companies with poor records in collecting from final consumers have not been able to



Page 5
contract for enough power to meet their demand. The weakness of the bilateral contract market is
that it does not result in least-cost dispatch of the power plants. Under these bilateral contracts, a
generation company operates its own plant to supply its contract customer even if another
generation company has lower variable costs and is not operating.
At present, there is no functioning short-term market, but as the electricity system matures, the
existing market is expected to evolve into an organized short-term market (spot market or
balancing pool) whose introduction is planned by the Government by 2002. The proposed project
would provide support for the creation of a capacity reserve pool in the first stage and a balancing
market (pool) in the second stage.
Regulation. The power sector is regulated by the Agency for Natural Monopolies and Protection
of Competition (the Regulator) reporting directly to the Prime Minister. The transmission tariffs
are approved by the Regulator on a justifiable cost-plus basis. The justified costs are defined
broadly in a resolution, dated August 19, 1998, issued by the Regulator for all natural monopolies.
KEGOC can request a tariff increase for each quarter, but in practice the tariff changes less
frequently. The Regulator sets actual tariff increases rather than setting a formula that provides
automatically for tariff increase, so KEGOC must request tariff increase even in response to
objectively measurable increases in costs that are beyond its control. Regarding other tariffs,
although the regulatory agency sets ceilings for the prices to be used in bilateral sales contracts, the
negotiated or market prices tend to be below the ceilings and determined through competition. For
example, the AES Silkroad generation company sells power for US cent 1.1 per kWh compared to
US cent 2.8 per kWh in the original power purchase agreement. The regulated retail tariffs for
electricity are below the cost of service and cross subsidies are substantial.
(c) Transmission network
KEGOC owns and operates about 22,000 km of high-voltage transmission lines, 66 substations, a
National Dispatch Center (NDC) and nine Regional Dispatch Centers (RDCs). The bulk of the
transmission network was built in the 1970s with equipment manufactured in the Former Soviet
Union. During 1991-1997, no regular maintenance of the grid was carried out, which resulted in a
reduction of equipment reliability and an increase in operation and maintenance costs. Major
network outages due mainly to the failure of substation equipment caused large-scale interruptions
in service eight times in 1998 (the number of other significant transmission failures was 264).
The present level of substation automation is very low and does not permit the remote control of
KEGOC's transmission network from the NDC and RDCs. The existing monitoring system is
based on outdated analog equipment, and there is no Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
(SCADA) system. The lack of substation automation and the absence of SCADA system prevent
improvements in the reliability and quality of power supply.
The existing telecommunications system between substations and RDCs is based on the obsolete
analog technology. About 65% of the communications equipment is older than 10 years and their
maintenance is increasingly expensive and difficult due to the growing number of failures and lack
of spare parts, which are no longer supported by manufacturers.
The dispatch control in NDC and RDCs is performed manually on the basis of fragmented
information and without the application of SCADA/EMS (Energy Management System) functions.
The existing level of automation of dispatch control does not permit an efficient dispatch of
generation operating reserves in the system, which is needed to improve the quality of frequency
control and load following. Further, the lack of real-time metering of electric energy and load at
the borders of KEGOC's transmission system reduces the efficiency of wholesale power market
operations. To solve this problem, KEGOC would need to install meters connected to the dispatch
centers.



Page 6
(d) Main shortcomings of electricity transmission/dispatch and trading system
Transmission sector regulation. There is currently no Grid Code to set out clear rules governing
access to the transmission network and the services of KEGOC. In addition, the structure of the
transmission tariff has major deficiencies. The tariff comprises two parts: the first part is levied on
the volume of energy (kWh) transmitted and the second part on the same volume multiplied by the
distance between buyers and their suppliers. The tariff does not take into account the fact that most
of the cost of operating and maintaining an existing transmission network are independent both of
the volume of energy transported and the distance this energy travels.  The distance-based
component is particularly discouraging to transit transactions over long distances (thereby reducing
the scope for competition on the wholesale market) and acts as a disincentive for generators and
consumers to use KEGOC's transmission system. Finally, the current tariff does not address
adequately the costs associated with the provision of ancillary network support services (including
frequency and voltage control).
Power trading arrangements. Currently, there are no appropriate trading arrangements (e.g., spot
market) to support the development of the competitive market based on bilateral contracts, which
came about out of necessity for the generation companies to enforce payments for power. A major
deficiency of the bilateral contracts is the lack of arrangements to manage the short-term
imbalances arising when actual generation and/or actual consumption differs from the contracted
volumes. This frequently leads to the curtailment of demand even when sufficient generation
capacity exists. KEGOC relies mainly on load shedding to ensure system control. These and other
weaknesses of the existing bilateral contract market lead to uneconomic dispatch of power plants.
The transmission system requires the provision of ancillary network support services (spinning
reserves for frequency control and load following, hot and cold reserves, reactive power for voltage
control and black start capability) to ensure that the power is delivered to the customers at a stable
frequency and voltage. Functioning arrangements for the purchase of these services by KEGOC
are largely missing, resulting in inadequate quality of electricity supply.
KEGOC's interim management control of two generation plants (Ekibastuz GRES II and Shardara
GES) and ten REKs preserves an element of vertical integration in the electricity sector with a
potential of anti-competitive exercise of market power. KEGOC is viewed by some private entities
as not a disinterested party in the powenr market, including allowing access to its network. To
address these concerns about conflict of interest, the GOK should remove from KEGOC all non-
core businesses such as generation, distribution and trading of electricity.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
(a) Access to transmission network
Issuance of Electricity Grid Code. The Grid Code should establish a set of rules governing
access to the transmission netwo:rk and the services the grid operator (KEGOC) is obliged
to provide. The Code should also specify the technical requirements to be met by
generators, distributors and large consumers connected to the transmission network, the
capacity to be made available by the grid operator for these users, the payment for
reserving and using transmission capacity, and the terms for expanding network capacity
when economically justified. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the GOK
to issue, by December 31, 2000, an electricity Grid Code to establish the rules governing
access to the transmission network and the services the grid operator is obliged to provide.



Page 7
(b) Transmission pricing
* Adoption of a new transmission pricing, which is largely independent of the geographic
distance between the sellers and buyers of electricity; and
*  Establishment of a transmission tariff adjustment procedure to ensure that the tariff is
adequate to cover justifiable costs (including ancillary services and the cost of the proposed
project) and a reasonable profit for KEGOC.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with the GOK to (i) Approve, by September 30, 2000,
a transmission tariff methodology, acceptable to the Bank, which (i) gradually reduces the weight
of the geographic distance factor between sellers and buyers in the tariff structure; and (ii) ensures
that the transmission tariff is adequate to cover all justifiable costs, including the cost of ancillary
services (frequency and voltage control). The transmission tariff should be adjusted quarterly to a
level enabling KEGOC to fully (i) recover its costs (including the cost of ancillary services); and
(ii) meet its counterpart funding and debt service requirements under the Project.
The phased implementation of the methodology should be approved by the Agency of Natural
Monopolies and Protection of Competition and completed by December 31, 2003,
(c) Development of competition in electricity market
a Establishment of an electricity capacity reserve pool to enable (i) the generators to trade
power among themselves to provide a more reliable supply to their customers; and (ii)
KEGOC to purchase some ancillary services from the generators;
* Establishment of an organized electricity spot market (or short-term. balancing pool) that
would (i) collect bids from generators and consumers who are willing to increase/decrease
their generation/offtake; (ii) provide, on the basis of these bids, the NDC with the least cost
generation schedule to balance supply and demand; and (iii) settle the resulting differences
in payments compared to the bilateral contracts;
* Establishment of commercial mechanisms for the provision of ancillary network support
services by KEGOC for frequency and voltage regulation;
e Expansion of trading opportunities in electricity by improving the stability of
interconnection between the Northern and Southern grids; and
* Provision of the necessary technical infrastructure for the capacity reserve pool and the
spot market.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with the GOK to carry out a staged development of a
competitive electricity market as follows: (i) by December 31, 1999, establish a Reserve Capacity
Pool to enable the generators to trade power among themselves, and (ii) by October 31, 2002,
establish and thereafter maintain an Electricity Spot Market, including and Independent System
and Market Operator to administer the spot market in accordance with established and transparent
market operation rules.
(d) Sector restructuring
* Restructuring of KEGOC into a core transmission/dispatch company by fully separating all
non-core businesses such as generation, distribution and trading.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with the GOK to restructure, by December 31, 1999,
KEGOC into a core transmission and dispatch company by fully separating all non-core activities,
including the termination ofKEGOC's management control in ten regional electricity distribution
companies and the power plants Ekibastuz GRES II and Shardara GES.



Page 8
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (for detailed description, see Annex 2):
The proposed project will comprise:
*  Refurbishment of transmission  substations, including replacement of high voltage
equipment at 26 substations (5 at 500 kV and 21 at 220 kV voltage levels), installation of
shunt reactors for compensation of reactive power at 9 substations (4 at 500 kV and 5 at
220 kV voltage levels), replacement of protective relaying and supply and installation of
monitoring and control equipment at 63 substations;
*  Modernization of the dispatch control system, including supply and installation of SCADA
system at 9 Regional Dispatch Centers, SCADA and EMS at the National Dispatch Center,
reinforcement of telecommunications system, and supply and installation of commercial
metering system;
*  Institutional development, including  installation  of a company-wide  Management
Information System and corporate restructuring; and
*  Technical assistance for procurement and project management, and the establishment of an
electricity spot market.
2. Project costs (for detailed project costs, see Annex 3, Table B):
World Bank
Cost                          Financing
Project Component                    Category    (US$M)        % of Total              % of
(US$M)    Loan
A. Substation Refurbishment                       157.9        61.1         99.9       71.4
*  Modernization of Substations      Physical &    94.6        36.6         59.3       42.4
*  Shunt Reactors                    Services     10.8        4.2           -          -
*  Substation Automation                          52.5         20.3         40.6       29.0
B. Dispatch Control                               58.7         22.7         29.2       20.9
*  SCADA/EMS                         P'hysical &    33.0       12.8         28.7       20.5
*  Telecommunications Equipment      Services     19.3         7.5          -          -
*  Metering System                                5.9          2.3          -          -
*  Electricity Trade System                       0.5         0.2           0.5        0.4
C. Institutional Development                      5.8          2.2          4.7        3.4
*  Management Infornation System     Physical &
*  Corporate Restructuring           Services
D. Technical Assistance                           5.8          2.2          4.8        3.4
*  Procurement, Project Management,   Services
Development of Electricity Market,
and Training
TOTAL PROJECT COST";z                             228.3        88.4         138.6      99.0
Interest During Construction                      26.9         10.4         -          -
Commitment Fee                                     1.2         0.5          -          -
Front-end Fee                                     2.0          7.7          1.4        1.0
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                          258.4       100%          140.0      100
Note 1: Estimated costs include contingencies. The average physical contingency is 11% and the average
price contingency is 8%.
Note 2: Contracts financed by International Financial Institutions are assumed to be exempted from taxes and
duties and they are not included in the cost estimates.



Page 9
3. Financing plan:
The project's total financing requirements (including interest during construction and other loan
charges) are estimated at US$258.4 million equivalent, including the foreign exchange component
of US$224.1 million. The proposed Bank loan of US$140 million would finance 62% of the
foreign component. The EBRD loan of US$56 million would finance 25% of foreign costs.
KEGOC would finance US$62.4 million equivalent, or 24% of the total financing required,
through internal cash generation.
4. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
.  Transmission  sector restructuring  by  separating  non-core businesses from  the
transmission/dispatch entity;
* Improved sector regulation through the adoption of a modern electricity Grid Code and
reforming the existing flawed tariff structure;
*  Improved electricity trading arrangements through the establishment of a capacity reserve
pool and an organized electricity spot market;
*  Establishment of commercial framework for the provision of ancillary system support
services by KEGOC (frequency and voltage control); and
*  Institutional, financial and management strengthening of KEGOC.
5. Benefits and target population:
* Improved reliability and quality of electricity supply with consequent reduction in the
damage inflicted upon electricity consumers by blackouts and brownouts;
* Savings in the operation and maintenance costs of the transmission network;
* Reduction in reserve generation capacity requirements by sharing reserves through the
electricity Capacity Reserve Pool;
* Improved economic dispatch of generation plants and consequent downward pressure on
the wholesale cost of electricity; and
* Cost benefits for consumers arising from expanded electricity trading opportunities
between the Northern and Southern networks.
6. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
KEGOC is responsible for the implementation of the proposed project. The project will be
implemented over a five-year period, FY2000-FY2004. On May 27, 1999, the President of
KEGOC established a Project Management Unit (PMU) under the direction of the First Vice-
President to coordinate all project-related activities under a terms of reference agreed with the
Bank. The PMU will also oversee the implementation of the project and will be responsible for the
technical and administrative functions under the project, including the procurement of goods and
services. Furthermore, the PMU will ensure that all the relevant data needed to carry out the
updates of the Corporate Performance Plan (CPP) will be provided in a timely manner.
As a condition of loan effectiveness, KEGOC has to select an international procurement and
project management consulting firm under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. As part of
the agreed Action Plan (Annex 6[b]) to strengthen the financial management of the project,
KEGOC needs to establish, by March 31, 2000, a project information and accounting system,
which includes accounting flows, flow of information/documents, flow of money and internal
control. During project implementation, KEGOC will receive training in the Bank's procurement
and disbursement procedures.



Page 10
(a) Procurement
The procurement of goods and services of the Bank-financed components will be done in
accordance with the Bank procurement guidelines. The project components not financed by the
Bank would be procured in accordance with national regulations or the co-financing institution's
procurement regulations. The detailed procurement arrangements are in Annex 4. A procurement
plan describing the packages and the schedule for the main procurement actions is in Table D of
Annex 4. All other procurement information, including consultant selection arrangements and
thresholds for procurement methods and prior review are also in Annex 4.
Procurement Capacity Assessment of KEGOC was undertaken by the Bank in April 1999.
Findings of the assessment were discussed with KEGOC and agreement was reached on an Action
Plan to increase the company's procurement capacity. The assessment report and the Action Plan
are available in the Project File (and also as part of the Project Implementation Plan).
According to the assessment, KEGOC has a good capacity to conduct procurement to cover its
existing needs. Furthermore, according to the opinion of private firms, its reputation regarding
conducting of tenders in a fair manner is much better than the average level in Kazakhstan.
Procurement staff is dedicated to its work, documents and records are kept in a good order and can
be easily audited. However, to satisfy the requirements for the Bank-financed procurement under
the project, current procurement capacity should be significantly enhanced. The main areas of
concern are lack of experience in Bank procurement and the procurement/contract management
system.
To address these problems an Action Plan was prepared and agreed with KEGOC, which includes
the following main provisions:
*  KEGOC would have a fully operational PMU with clear authorizations and responsibilities
by November 1, 1999;
•  Technical consultants should be engaged shortly to assist in procurement during the initial
phase of project preparation;
*  The preparation of functional specifications and draft bidding documents for the first year
of project implementation should start by loan negotiations;
*  Procurement and project management consulting firmn should be selected by loan
effectiveness;
*  Procurement staff should take training in the Bank's procurement, including the studying of
Standard Bidding Documents which will be used under the project. This training should,
as a minimum, comprise of a procurement session at the Project Launch Workshop and on-
the-job training by experienced consultants; and
*  A procurement monitoring/contract management system should be installed in KEGOC.
(b) Disbursement
Details on the allocation of loan proceeds and the estimated disbursement schedule are in Tables F
and G of Annex 4. The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed over five years (FY2000-FY2004)
on the following basis:
* For the substation refurbishment, dispatch control, and institutional development
components (MIS), 95% of the contract amount for the supply and installation contracts;
and 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost), and 85%
of local expenditures for other items procured locally with respect to contracts for goods
only; and



Page 1 1
* For the technical assistance component, 100% of expenditures for the consulting services.
Disbursements under the project would be made using traditional Bank disbursement procedures.
(c) Project monitoring and Bank supervision:
Project implementation will be monitored by KEGOC, the Ministry of Energy, Trade and Industry
and the Ministry of Finance. The following documents will be prepared by KEGOC to facilitate
project monitoring:
*  Project Management Report, which should (i) set forth actual sources and applications of
funds for the project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by the report, and
projected sources and applications of funds for the project for the three-month period
following the period covered by the report, showing separately expenditures financed out
of the proceeds of the loan during the period covered by the report and expenditures
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the loan during the three-month period
following the period covered by the report; (ii) contain update of the Project
Implementation Plan, including the project cost, procurement plan, disbursement schedule,
implementation schedule indicating the progress in project implementation and explaining
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and (iii) set
forth the status of procurement under the project and expenditures under contracts financed
out of the proceeds of the loan.
*  Draft Corporate Performance Plan (CPP) prepared by October 31 each year and final CPP
by December 31 of each year; which should include (i) transmission system modemization
targets, including the components of the capital expenditures program to be carried out
during the concerned fiscal year and the investments under these components to be
financed from the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the financial targets for KEGOC, including a
financial projection showing whether KEGOC would comply with the financial
performance criteria; and (iii) the level of services, borrowing needs and tariff levels and
structures. KEGOC should obtain the GOK's approval of the CPP and of the actions
required and furnish to the Bank the final version of the CPP prior to the start of the fiscal
year covered by it.
-  Audit report of company and project financial statements, prepared by independent
auditors by June 30 of each year.
* Mid-term Report prepared by KEGOC and furnished to the Bank, by June 30, 2002, which
should integrate the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities on the progress
achieved in carrying out the project during the period preceding the date of the report. The
report would also set out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient
implementation of the project and the achievement of its objectives during the period
following the review. Based on this report, a Mid-term Review would be carried out with
the Bank by September 30, 2002 and, thereafter, KEGOC should take all measures
required to ensure the efficient completion of the project and the achievement of its
objectives based on the conclusions and recommendations of the report and the Bank's
views on the matter.
The Bank's monitoring of the project will include: (i) close monitoring of power sector
restructuring and the establishment of the electricity wholesale market (pool); (ii) regular exchange
of views with KEGOC and the GOK officials; and (iii) Bank supervision missions. Given that
KEGOC is a first time borrower, the project will require intensive supervision by Bank staff,
particularly in the first two years of project implementation. Thus, it is expected that during this
period, not less than 30 staff weeks will be spent on supervision. The intensity of supervision is
expected to decrease by the third year and it is estimated that about 24 staff weeks would be spent
on the project beginning with the third year. There will be regular supervision missions (twice a



Page 12
year, with a lag between two subsequent supervisions of no more than six months) composed of the
project team leader, power engineer, procurement specialist, financial analyst, field project
coordinator and the financial management officer who is in the field.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered:
There is no technical alternative to the rehabilitation of high voltage transmission substations
because the further deterioration of substation equipment would increasingly make the transmission
system unreliable to deliver electricity from the major generating plants to distributors and
qualified consumers. The automation of dispatch control and commercial metering are also
mandatory requirements for the development of the competitive electricity pool and improved
operation of the electricity transmission system.
Up-front privatization of the transmission company and performance-based management contract
were explored by the Govemment through separate negotiations with two major intemational
investors in 1997. The negotiations did not result in an agreement acceptable to both parties. The
proposed project will provide a less risky environment for private investors, while permitting the
privatization of remaining state-owned electricity companies on terms more favorable for
Kazakhstan than without the project.
2. Lessons learned and reflected in the proposed project design:
-  Avoid the broad-brush reform  approach and define realistic and achievable reform
objectives targeted to the subsector (transmission network/wholesale electricity market)
where investments would be financed under the loan.
- Ensure simple and transparent project design.
- Adopt realistic implementation and disbursement schedules and counter unrealistic
expectations of quick results.
- Prepare detailed procurement packages.
* Ensure the timely availability of counterpart funds.
e  Secure early govemment approval of the project.
* Explain thoroughly to GOK officials the merits of the proposed project in the context of
expected benefits for the national economy.
* Reach agreement on major policy issues to be addressed under the project before loan
approval.
* Reach agreement with the sector Regulator on an explicit framework for transmission
pricing, which enables the Borrower to recover its costs and repay the loan.
3. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
* Kazakhstan has been a leader in electricity sector reforms among the Former Soviet Union
countries. The GOK recognizes that there is an unfinished reform agenda in the
transmission sector, the regulatory framework and the development of a competitive
electricity market. In June 1998, the First Deputy Prime Minister invited a Bank mission
to provide advice to the GOK on completing reforms in the electricity sector. The initial
idea for the proposed project grew out of the policy discussions conducted during the
mission.
* The proposed project is consistent with the Government's strategy of modernizing the
power sector and creating an efficient electricity spot market (pool) as promulgated in
recent GOK documents (see Presidential Decree "On Electric Power" [1995] and GOK
Resolution "Program for Privatization and Restructuring in the Electricity Sector" [1996]).
*  Govemment and Borrower commitment and ownership are further demonstrated by: (i) the
inclusion of the project in the 1999 Public Investment Program with a sovereign guarantee



Page 13
commitment of US$200 million (accounting for 40% of the country total for the year); (ii)
the advanced preparation of key project components; and (iii) the establishment of a PMU.
4. Value added of Bank support in this project:
*  The proposed project is a unique opportunity for the Bank to support the GOK's ambitious
sector restructuring program, the development of competitive electricity markets and the
completion of distribution sector privatization. The GOK requested support from the
Bank, recognizing the Bank's unique experience with successful sector restructuring and
competitive power market development in other parts of the world.
*  The project will consolidate and strengthen a variety of donor activities already in place,
including, most notably, the substantial donor support for the creation of a competitive
wholesale market in electricity.
*  The project has strong public good characteristics and economy-wide development
spillover effects.
*  The Bank can play a catalytic role in ensuring overall consistency between policy, legal
and regulatory regimes, thereby improving the conditions for existing private operators in
the generation sector and creating stronger incentives for foreign and domestic investor
participation in distribution privatization.
* The recent East Asian and Russian financial crises have adversely affected financial
markets sentiments vis-A-vis emerging markets, including Kazakhstan. As a result,
KEGOC has been unable to mobilize sizable commercial financing at affordable terms,
despite aggressive efforts. The Bank's support is thus consistent with its role of last resort
financier.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments and assumptions are in Annex 5)
1. Economic:
Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$145.7 million @ 10%; EIRR=24.4%
The primary quantifiable benefits of the project are savings in operations and maintenance costs
(including capital replacement) as a result of upgrading substation equipment and
telecommunications networks; savings in reserve capacity requirements through the establishment
of a capacity reserve pooling (sharing) system; reductions in the average cost of wholesale power
through more efficient, market-based dispatch of plants under the wholesale spot market;
reductions in customer losses due to outages; reduced transmission losses; and savings accruing
from more efficient management of inventories and plant maintenance schedules. The present
value of total benefits is US$291.2 million, as compared with present value economic costs of
US$145.5 million, yielding a Net Present Value of US$145.7 million. The project has a relatively
robust Economic Intemal Rate of Retum (EIRR) of 24.4%. The switching value analysis indicates
that the project can sustain an increase of 100% in total capital costs or a reduction of 50% in total
benefits.
Apart from the benefits noted above, there are other potentially significant benefits that are more
difficult to measure and as such have not been quantified at this time. These include: (i) savings in
customer costs arising from improved power quality (longer equipment life, less need for
mitigation measures); (ii) potential for loss reduction through better physical accounting (metering,
SCADA/EMS); (iii) savings in network operating and in expansion/replacement costs through
improved system information and planning tools; and (iv) environmental benefits associated with
increased use of more fuel-efficient electricity generating plants.



Page 14
2. Financial (see Annex 6(a)):
(a) Past financial performance of KEIGOC
Financial Performance  in  1998-1999.                                     1998    1999
The year 1998 was the first full year of    Electricity Transmission (bln kWh)   22.7    22.5
operation for KEGOC. It is therefore not   Transmission Tariff (Tiyin/kWh)  35.1    38.7
possible to do historical analysis. In 1998,   Total Revenues (Tenge Bln)  10.6    11.2
KEGOC incurred a loss of about Tenge 2.1    Operating Expenses (Tenge Bln)  12.7    12.5
billion (US$25 million) due to the following    Net Income (Tenge Bln)     -2.1    -1.5
main factors: (i) the electricity transmitted    Payment Collections (0%)  75       78
was lower than projected due to a sharp    Debt-service Coverage Ratio     13.2    1.8
decline in the production of large consumners    Current Ratio             2.6     3.8
of electricity (mining and metallurgy) in the   Intemal Cash Generation (%)  241   158
second half of 1998; (ii) under various
resolutions issued by the Agency for Natural
Monopolies and Protection of Competition
and the Ministry of Energy, Industry and Trade at end-1998, KEGOC was mandated to provide
tariff discounts to various enterprises adversely affected by the economic downturn; and (iii) the
payment collection problem which forced KEGOC to incur short-term debts to meet its working
capital requirements. Despite continued contraction in its transmission services, KEGOC managed
to reduce the financial losses considerably in the first half of 1999 due to improved collection
performance (see below). During this period, the financial loss totaled Tenge 720.5 million (about
US$5.5 million).
Payment Collections.  KEGOC's main consumers are the regional electricity distribution
companies (REKs) and large industrial zompanies which together account for 75% of KEGOC's
transmission. The industrial consumers in the metallurgical sector that used to pay their bills on
time and in cash have recently experienced financial difficulties due to economic slowdown. As a
result, KEGOC has faced difficulty collecting from these customers. The REKs are in a weak
financial situation and have growing payment arrears to KEGOC. About half of KEGOC's
collections is in cash and about a quarter is settled through offsets among companies and barters.
In 1998, the collection ratio was 75% and the accounts receivable were 218 days of sales. With
this collection performance, KEGOC, under Kazakhstani accounting standards, had to make
provisions for doubtful debts equivalent: to 15% of its gross revenues and, as a result, the income
statement shows a much higher loss.
During the first quarter of 1999, collections decreased from 75% at end-1998 to 64%. KEGOC's
new management, which took over at the end of the first quarter of 1999, has embarked on an
aggressive program for improving collections. This includes, among other things, cutting off
supply to non-paying customers. In addition, KEGOC has instituted an incentive discount program
whereby customers are encouraged to pay in advance and to transport additional power at reduced
tariffs. These efforts have been effective so far and since April 1999 the collection rate has been
over 100% most of the time. Total collection in the first half of 1999 was 86%, a significant
improvement over the average performance in 1998. KEGOC intends to maintain its collection-
boosting efforts to avoid making provisions for uncollectible debts in the future. Under the tariff
discount program, part of the funds set aside for provisions would be passed on to consumers.
Transmission tariffs. At KEGOC's inception on September 1, 1997, the average tariff for
electricity transmission was set at 41.9 tiyin/kWh (US cent 0.52/kWh). In 1998, the effective tariff
decreased to about 35.1 tiyin/kWh (US cent 0.44/kWh) owing to the discounts provided to selected
industrial customers. In the first half of 1999, the average effective tariff stood at 37.2 tiyin/kWh
(US cent 0.31/kWh). These tariff levels were not adequate to cover operating and maintenance
costs, investment requirements and a reasonable retum.  Despite the deterioration in the



Page 15
macroeconomic situation, no tariff adjustment was approved by the sector Regulator arguing that
KEGOC had considerable scope for further cost reductions. In fact, KEGOC had to make a strong
case to avoid tariff reductions.
Tariff discounts. In August 1998, the GOK issued a series of resolutions which mandated KEGOC
to provide discounts to enterprises affected by the Russia financial crisis. These discounts were
aimed in general at reducing their cost of operation while at the same time stimulating production
for some of the enterprises. The discounts have adversely affected the financial performance of
KEGOC, resulting in a decrease in tariff of about 10% in 1998. The impact of discounts on the
tariff was less severe in the first half of 1999 with the actual tariff being 5% less than planned by
the company. In order to protect the financial viability of the Borrower and the project against
prospective mandated tariff discounts, it was agreed during negotiations thatKEGOC should not
provide discounted services unless these discounts are based on commercial considerations.
Present financial position. KEGOC's financial position is summarized below. The strength of
KEGOC's financial position lies in the lack of long-term debt. The World Bank and EBRD loans
will be the first long-term obligations. In general, the company is fairly solvent, with a current
ratio of over 2. However, the timing of collections did not match that of expenses and in 1998 the
company had to borrow funds on a short-term basis to finance its working capital requirements.
Also, part of a bridge loan (US$10 million) which was raised at the beginning of 1998 to finance
capital expenditures, has repeatedly been refinanced by KEGOC.
KEGOC's Balance Sheet
(in Tenge billion as of December 31, 1998)
Assets                 % of Total    Equity & Liabilities   1         % of Total
Assets                                       Liabilities
Equity                     72.9        97
Fixed Assets (Net)   68.7       91      Long-term Liabilities        0.0        0
Current Assets       6.9         9      Current Liabilities         2.7         3
Total Assets        75.5       100      Total Equity & Liabilities    75.5     100
(b) Outlook for 2000-2005
Given K-EGOC's recent establishment, it is difficult to make reliable projections on the basis of one
full year of operation. Furthermore, 1998 was a particularly difficult year with several industries
heavily hit by the slump in export demand and the Russian financial crisis. With the anticipated
recovery of GDP and industrial production in 20001, there is expectation that the demand for
electricity and thus the volume of electricity to be transmitted by KEGOC will move in tandem
with the improvement in the economy. As a conservative estimate, the increase in the electricity
transmitted is projected to be about 3% per year over the period 2000-2005. A summary of the
financial projection is shown below.
'The IMF and the World Bank forecast a 3% rise in real GDP in 2000.



Page 16
Projected Operating Results for KEGOC, 2000-2005
2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005
Electricity Transmission (bln kWh)   23.2   24.2   25.3   26.6   27.9   28.9
Transmission Tariff (tiyin/kWh)  42.5   45.6   49.0   52.7   56.4   60.4
Total Revenues (Tenge Bln)      12.3   13.6   15.1   16.7   18.5   20.3
Operating Expenses (Tenge Bln)  14.9   15.3 1 15.7   16.4   17.1   17.8
Net Income (Tenge Bln)          -2.7   -1.8   -0.7   0.29   0.52   0.33
Payment Collections (%)          90     93     95     95      95     95
Debt-service Coverage Ratio     16.7   6.4    4.9    7.2   10.4   3.3
Intemal Cash Generation (%)      62     56     72    131    417    n.a.
Current Ratio                   6.7    7.0    6.7    8.4    7.2   14.5
KEGOC may be able to start generating profit in 2003 provided that (i) the company continues
with its recently adopted cost reducing and collection boosting measures; and (ii) the transmission
tariff is increased by about 6% per year. The company's financial prospects are closely linked to
the collection performance of REKs. Should the REKs be privatized in 1999 and 2000 as planned,
payment collections are to improve considerably. Therefore, only a nominal amount is forecast
from 2001 onward to be provisioned f:'r uncollectible receivables. Bad debt write-offs and the
lower level of tariffs are major contributors to KEGOC's financial loss. The transmission tariff
over the project implementation period. is expected to increase from 38.7 tiyin/kWh in 1999 to
60.4 tiyin/kWh in 2005. However, in real (US$) terms, the tariff is expected to hold steady. The
projected tariffs are presented below:
Tariff          1999    2000    .2001       2002      2003       2004      2005
Tiyin/kWh       38.7     42.5     45.6      49.0      52.7       56.4      60.4
US cent/kWh    0.34      0.29     0.30      0.31      0.32       0.34      0.36
Currently, only 8% of KEGOC's expens,s are exposed to movements in the exchange rate as the
company virtually has no obligations iin hard currency. Once the company starts servicing the
debts in hard currency in 2000, KEGOC will increasingly be exposed to the exchange rate
movements. In 2000, debt service will represent only 1% of the tariff, but it will increase to 28%
by 2005. Consequently, timely tariff adjustments will be necessary to mitigate the erosion of the
tariff level in real (US$) terms.
KEGOC is not expected to experience liquidity problems during the forecast period. Debt service
coverage is satisfactory at 7, well above the covenanted level of 1.5 times. Currently, depreciation
makes up about half of KEGOC's costs. Repairs and maintenance costs will gradually decrease as
a result of the modernization program to be implemented under the project. Furtherrnore, in order
to shield the project from working capital financing pressures, during negotiations agreement was
reached with KEGOC to open by January 31, 2000, and, until completion of the project, maintain
an account in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank, wherein it will deposit on the first
business day of each month sufficient funds from its own resources to cover at least the projected
three months of local cost for the project.
Financial performance criteria. In order to monitor KEGOC's performance and to ensure that it
remains financially viable, a set of financial perfornance criteria were agreed upon at negotiations:
* Self-financing. This is a key criterion, which indicates the financial viability of a utility
having a sizable capital expenditures (CAPEX) program. During negotiations, agreement
was reached with KEGOC to generate funds from internal sources equivalent to not less
than 25% for the fiscal year 2000 and in each succeeding fiscal year of the average
CAPEX incurred, for that year, the previous year and the next following year.



Page 17
*  Debt service coverage. This criterion reflects the creditworthiness of the utility. There is
a need to carefully monitor the creditworthiness of KEGOC as it undertakes a sizable
CAPEX program, about three-quarters of which is to be funded through borrowing.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with KEGOC to ensure that for each fiscal
year the estimated net revenues will be at least 1.5 times the estimated maximum debt-
service requirements on all its debts, including the debt to be incurred.
*  Short-term liquidity. This financial target is designed that KEGOC will have enough
liquidity to meet all current obligations (which include current portion of long-term debt)
from current assets (which include cash and accounts receivable). During negotiations,
agreement was reached with KEGOC to maintain beginning with the fiscal year 2000, a
ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 1. 4.
Monitoring of corporate financial performance. An adequate mechanism will need to be set up to
enable the monitoring of the achievement of financial targets. Under the project, KEGOC is
required to prepare annually a Corporate Performance Plan (CPP) to be agreed with the
Government. KEGOC and the GOK would have joint responsibility for implementing the agreed
measures. The CPP would, among other things, set out KEGOC's performance targets for the year
(i.e., the quantity of electricity projected to be transmitted, financial targets) consistent with the
covenanted financial performance criteria; KEGOC's planned CAPEX, including those
components to be financed by the World Bank and EBRD loans; borrowing; and the level of
transmission tariff. The CPP would be underpinned by medium-term financial projections and
would include qualitative targets and strategies for achieving the targeted results. During
negotiations, agreement was reached with KEGOC to (a) prepare, in consultation with the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank, by October 31 of each year, commencing in 2000, a draft five-year CPP
for the ensuing years, which will, consistent with KEGOC's obligations under the Loan Agreement,
include (i) transmission system modernization targets for KEGOC, including the components of the
CA PEXprogram to be carried out during the concerned fiscal year and the investments under the
components to be financed from the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the financial targets for KEGOC;
and (iii) KEGOC's levels of services, borrowing needs, financing plan and tariff levels and
structures; (b) obtain the GOK's approval of the CPP and of the actions required thereunder, and
furnish to the Bank the final version of the CPP prior to the start of the next fiscal year covered by
it; and (c) at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with respect to progress in
carrying out the CPP.
(c) Financial management
In May 1999, Bank staff performed a review of KEGOC's financial management capacity. The
review was based on the Bank's guidelines for "Review of Financial Management System" and
focused on the company's accounting system, internal control, planning, budgeting, financial
reporting systems and auditing. According to the review, current financial management practices
of KEGOC are adequate with respect to internal controls and basic accounting system, but further
strengthening is needed. Internal controls and procedures appear to be adequate to safeguard the
assets of the company. The financial information systems are capable of reporting the financial
condition and performance of the company in accordance with local requirements. The accounting
system is able to produce financial reports that show budgeted and actual expenditures for a quarter
and for the year to date. Details of the assessment of the financial management system are in
Annex 6(b).
Based on the above assessment, the Bank's Financial Management Specialist concluded that the
project satisfied that Bank's minimum financial management requirements, but the PMU needed
continued support in the area of financial management. An Action Plan for strengthening the
financial management capacity in the PMU was prepared in consultation with KEGOC (see Annex
6 [b]). During negotiations, agreement was reached with KEGOC to carry ouit the time-bound
Action Plan for the strengthening of its financial management system for the project in order to



Page 18
enable KEGOC, by June 30, 2000, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR),
acceptable to the Bank, which (i) sets for-th actual sources and applications offunds for the project;
(zi) shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Bank loan, (iii) updates the
project cost, procurement plan, disbursement schedule and implementation schedule; (iv) explains
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and (v) sets forth the
status of procurement under the project and expenditures under contracts financed out of the
proceeds of the loan. The format for submitting the PMRs was discussed with KEGOC during
negotiations and a copy was attached to the Project Implementation Plan (which is available in the
Project File).
A Special Account (SA) will be established and maintained in a commercial bank whose branch
network is sufficiently strong to facilitate payments locally and internationally (for more details,
see Annex 4 [c]). The SA will be separate from the Project Account to be set up by KEGOC to
finance the next three months of local project costs.
Auditing arrangements. KEGOC will have its financial statements and the Project Financial
Statements audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. The audit report of
KEGOC's financial statements, the Special Account and Statement of Expenditures (SOE), audited
by an internationally reputed firm would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of
each fiscal year. The audit report of the financial statements would contain a separate opinion of
compliance by KEGOC with all financial covenants of the Bank loan. The audit report of the
project financial statements would also contain a separate statement on the SOEs, when utilized,
and the operation of the SA. The auditors should also provide an opinion on the adequacy of the
project's financial management system. The auditor would be appointed no later than six months
after the start of the fiscal year, beginning with 2000, for each year of project implementation. The
first audit report is due to the Bank by June 30, 2001.
3. Technical:
The main part of the KEGOC's transmission network was built in the 1970s with the equipment
manufactured in the Former Soviet Union. The equipment older than 20 years includes about 40%
of circuit breakers, about 51% of disconnect switches, about 28% of current transformers, about
42% of voltage transformers, and about 80% of protective relaying. This equipment is technically
outdated, it is experiencing an increasing number of forced outages and it can not be effectively
automated.  The reduction of equipment reliability and the increase of its operation and
maintenance cost are accelerated by delays in regular maintenance due to lack of funding. In 1997,
the cost of deferred maintenance amounted to about US$50 million. The substation refurbishment
under this Project will include the replacement of 43% of circuit breakers, 41% of disconnect
switches, 59% of current transformers, 41% of voltage transformers and about 95% of protective
relaying.
The present level of substation automation is very low and does not permit a remote control of
KEGOC transmission network from regional and central dispatch centers. The existing monitoring
system is based on the outdated analog equipment with a very low level of accuracy of
measurements and slow telecommunication system with an average speed of about 100bps. The
average sampling time in remote control centers ranges from 15 to 40 seconds, which is more than
10 times slower in comparison to modem SCADA systems based on the communication systems
with average speed of 1200 bps or higher. The lack of substation automation and absence of
SCADA systems are main technical impediments for the improvement of reliability and quality of
power supply in the power system of Kazakhstan. The automation of substations under the
proposed project will enable the remote monitoring and control of about 90% of KEGOC
substations.



Page 19
The existing telecommunications system between substations and RDC is based on the obsolete
analog technology which cannot meet requirements of modem power systems. About 65% of the
communications equipment is older than 10 years and its maintenance is becoming increasingly
expensive and difficult due to the increasing number of failures and lack of spare parts for
equipment which is not supported by manufacturers anymore. Communications between RDC and
NDC are based on the commercial communications links provided by Kazakhtelekom and satellite
operators. The total cost of telecommunication services provided by others to KEGOC is estimated
at about US$1.8 million in 1998. This includes the cost of leasing communications channels from
Kazakhtelecom, which is about 62% of the total cost. The telecommunications component of the
project deals with the reinforcement of KEGOC communications system, including satellite
communications, microwave links, power line carrier system, telephone system, mobile
communications, local area networks and network control system.
The dispatch control in NDC and RDCs is performed manually on the basis of fragmented
information and without application of SCADAVEMS functions. The existing level of automation
of dispatch control does not permit an efficient dispatch of generation operating reserve in the
system which is needed to improve frequency control and load following in the power system.
Before the beginning of parallel operation with the power system of Central Asia in November
1998, frequency in the power system of Kazakhstan was below 50 Hz more than 90% of the time in
1997 and 1998, falling as low as 48 Hz in 1997. The quality of voltage control is at the low level
mainly due to the excessive generation of reactive power by the lightly loaded transmission lines,
but also because of the lack of capability to manage MVAr/voltage support in the system. The
SCADAJEMS component of the project (which includes the installation of SCADA systems at 9
RDCs and SCADA/EMS at the NDC) is key for the improvement of power system operation,
reliability and quality of power supply. Also, the installation of shunt reactors in 9 substations
(under the first component of the project) will improve the voltage condition and stability of the
power grid. During negotiations, agreement was reached with KEGOC on the schedule for
installing shunt reactors for the compensation of the reactive power.
The operation of power market in Kazakhstan is distorted with the lack of real-time metering of
electric energy and load at the borders of KEGOC transmission system. To cope with the problem,
the project includes the installation of about 2,400 meters (in addition to 643 meters that have been
installed in 1998) that would be connected via the reinforced telecommunication system to dispatch
centers. Improvements in the telecommunications system is also critical for the development of
Electricity Trade System and the corporate-wide Management Information System (MIS). The
electricity trade system to be introduced under the project would enable the on-line dealing with
commercial aspects of the network congestion, as well as development of spot and derivative
markets for electric energy. The MIS component would provide KEGOC management with timely
information needed to better use internal reserves in terms of human, financial and physical
resources.
4. Institutional:
Introduction. KEGOC is a wholly state-owned enterprise under the Ministry of Energy, Industry
and Trade. KEGOC was established in accordance with Kazakhstani law on July 14, 1997, under
GOK decree 1188 dated September 26, 1996, as an open joint-stock company. It replaced the
erstwhile Kazakhstanenergo, a vertically integrated entity that provided electricity generation,
transmission and distribution services. The company's capital stock is owned by the state. Under
GOK decree dated May 27, 1999, the title of ownership and management of the state share package
held in KEGOC was transferred from the Department of State Property and Privatization (Ministry
of Finance) to the Ministry of Energy, Industry and Trade.
Organization and mnanagement. KEGOC's main business activity is the transmission of
electricity. In addition, KEGOC is responsible for managing the assets of the state-owned



Page 20
electricity generation companies, Ekibastuz GRES II and Sardara GES, as well as ten regional
electricity distributors (REKs) pending their privatization, KEGOC does not receive any fee for
managing these companies, nor are their financial statements consolidated.  KEGOC's
responsibilities entail appointing the president and the vice-president of the REKs and having
representatives on the supervisory boards.
Under Kazakhstani law, a company is required to have a Supervisory Board, a Management Board
and a Revision Committee. The Supervisory Board includes the Deputy Minister of Finance, the
Minister and Deputy Minister of Energy, Trade and Industry and the Head of Pricing Department
of the Agency for Natural Monopolies and Protection of Competition. The Supervisory Board is
responsible for formulating the long-term corporate goals. Its members are appointed by the
government. The Management Board is made up of the President and three Vice-Presidents who
are responsible for the day-to-day operations. The Revision Committee comprises representatives
of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Energy, Industry and Trade and oversees KEGOC's
financial and operational activities. These members can attend the Management Board meetings,
but they are not allowed to vote.
Personnel management. The President of KEGOC is employed by the Ministry of Energy, Trade
and Industry. Although the company has signed an agreement with a trade union, its employees
are not attached to any trade union. In M\ay 1999, the company had about 4,400 employees. The
new management (installed in February 1999) dismissed over 800 employees as part of a cost-
cutting drive. Notwithstanding the 20% staff reduction, the Agency for Natural Monopolies and
Protection of Competition continues to considers KEGOC overstaffed.
Operations and maintenance. KEGOC manages and operates the transmission network which
includes the grid, the central dispatch located in Almaty and nine Regional Dispatch Centers.
Maintenance of the system is the responsibility of the Maintenance Department reporting to the
First Vice-President, Operations. The IDepartment carries out routine inspections and the overhaul
of assets. Decisions for undertaking the maintenance and repair works on assets are made on the
basis of technical diagnostics as well as assessments by the State Energy Supervision
(Gosenergonadzor). The Department is also responsible for mobilizing resources to carry out
maintenance and hiring of sub-contractors.
Billing and payments collection. KEGOC bills its customers immediately upon delivery of
services. As a transmission utility, KEGOC plays a critical role in the power sector and suffers
from the systemic inter-enterprise arrears problems prevailing in Kazakhstan. KEGOC's main
consumers are large industrial enterprises and the REKs. About 50% of sales are settled in cash
and tax liabilities offsets. About 25% of sales are settled through barter transactions involving
materials and commodities and factoring. Also, the company provides discounts to encourage
prompt cash payments. About 25% of sales are not collected for which the company makes
provisions.
Financial management. The financial management function in KEGOC is directed by the Vice-
President, Administration.  KEGOC is required by Kazakhstani legislation to maintain its
accounting records and draw up financial statements in accordance with the Kazakhstani
Accounting Standards (KAS), which became effective on January 1, 1998. These legislative
requirements are substantially consistent with the International Accounting Standards (IAS). The
IAS financial statements differ from the statutory financial statements in that they contain certain
adjustments, not recorded in the company's books, which are necessary to reflect the true financial
position and operational results. The principal adjustments relate to the provision for bad debts,
valuation of inventory, timing of expense recognition, depreciation rates of fixed assets and
deferred tax provision.



Page 21
Auditing. KEGOC has established an Internal Audit Unit whose staffing is in progress. The Unit
reports to the Vice-President, Finance. The internal audit focuses on the use of funds and monitors
payment irregularities with only routine checking of compliance with accounting principles and
policies. Also, the internal audit does not concern itself with financial performance aspects of the
company.
KEGOC is audited by independent auditors of international repute. The auditor, Arthur Andersen
Almaty, issued an unqualified opinion on KEGOC's consolidated financial statements for the
periods ending December 31, 1998 and December 31, 1997, respectively, in accordance with IAS.
Arthur Andersen is expected to be appointed as auditors for years ending 1999 and 2000. An
independent consulting company, Coopers and Lybrand, was engaged to perform a fair market
value appraisal of property, plant and equipment as of December 31, 1997.
5. Environmental assessment:      Environmental Category      [ ] A   [x] B   []C
In accordance with OP/BP/GP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) the project has been rated
Environmental Category B. The reason for this rating is that the physical component of this project
is one of rehabilitation and restoration, and there will be no construction of new facilities. The
main environmental issues are: disposal of equipment and materials; electric field intensity; noise
(primarily corona discharge) and public safety. These issues will have to be addressed in both the
design and operation phases of the project.
Although PCBs (polychlorinated biphenyls) are not outlawed in Kazakhstan, they are not used in
the basic substation equipment of KEGOC's transformers, reactors and reactive capacity
compensation batteries. PCBs are contained only in a limited number of auxiliary capacitors
(banks of capacitors in the ice melting units for high voltage lines in the control circuits). The
proposed project will not include removal/replacement or any other type of action with any
equipment containing PCBs. When this equipment is to be replaced in the future, replacement
equipment will not contain PCBs and specifications forbidding its use will be incorporated in all
pertinent bidding documents. If circuits not related to the proposed project will involve removal of
PCB-containing capacitors, these capacitors will not be transferred to other substations. These
capacitors, as well as any other capacitors that are removed from service because of technical
failure, will be sent to the manufacturing plant located in Ust-Kamenogorsk, East Kazakhstan
Oblast of the Republic of Kazakhstan. KEGOC provided official written assurances to the Bank in
this respect.
As recommended by the project's environmental rating, an Environmental Management Plan
(EMP) was received by the Bank in June 1999. During negotiations, the EMP was reviewed and
agreed upon. Implementation of the EMP will be monitored as part of normal project reporting or
when specifically requested by the Bank.
The project is being prepared in compliance with all environmental requirements of the Bank.
There are no special requirements from the environmental authorities of GOK, since this project
consists exclusively of upgrading old malfunctional equipment with new modern replacements.
The Bank was provided with written evidence from the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources
in this respect.



Page 22
6. Participatory approach:
The primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: Business enterprises and the population
would benefit from (i) improved quality of electricity services; and (ii) cost reductions resulting
from the more economic dispatch of power plants under the electricity pool to be established.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project is expected to be sustainable provided that:
*  KEGOC is able to remain financially viable. This implies that adequate mechanisms
should be in place to ensure that transmission tariffs are adjusted to allow KEGOC to (i)
cover its costs and earn a reasonable profit; and (ii) generate sufficient revenue to cover its
contribution to the project and to meet debt-service requirements. In addition, KEGOC has
to improve its collection performance in line with the levels included in the financial
analysis; and
*  the GOK carries out the power sector restructuring program, including the streamlining of
KEGOC (by divesting non-core activities), introduction of a wholesale electricity spot
market, and privatization of all state-owned regional electricity distribution companies.
2. Critical risks:
The risk of project delays is substantial due to: (i) the complexity of the project which will be
implemented at several locations in parallel; and (ii) KEGOC's lack of experience with the
procurement under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and the Bank's procurement
procedures. The risk of project delays would be actively managed through close monitoring of
implementation progress by the PMIU (which will be assisted by experienced intemational
consultants), training in Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures and the Bank's
supervision.
The risk of cost overruns is modest anid stems from the following factors: (i) uncertainties in the
scope of substation rehabilitation; and (ii) possible adverse changes in the economy of Kazakhstan
and a rise in inflation. The use of ICB for procurement under all contracts funded by the Bank
would minimize the risk of cost overruns. Also, the use of supply and install contracts for complex
works (such as substation automation and SCADA/EMS) would confine the risk of cost overruns.
Finally, the physical and price contingencies are designed to allow for uncertainties in the project
scope and the inflation rate.
The broader electricity sector issues may impact on the project's sustainability. Retail level non-
payment for electricity and the use of barters have a knock-on effect upstream, including
transmission. The non-payment and barter problems are, however, systemic in the transition
economy of Kazakhstan and a much broader approach than available under the project would be
needed to be fully effective in addressing them. The continuation of privatization of electricity
distribution is a sector-wide priority in order to improve collections, increase cash payments,
mobilize financing for investment and introduce commercial management in a competitive
electricity sector. In line with the recommendation of the Project Concept Document meeting, no
covenant was specified for distribution privatization. Kazakhstan has the best track record in the
Former Soviet Union in energy sector privatization and discussions with the authorities convinced
the Bank of the GOK's commitment to complete the process by privatizing all state-owned
distributors in 1999-2000. Nevertheless, the project would be protected against the risk of potential
backtracking through a Statement of Electricity Sector Policy (Statement) under which the GOK
presented a vision of the sector structure it wished to pursue and committed itself to achieve



Page 23
various reforms in the electricity sector, including the privatization of all distribution companies
and the creation of a stronger regulatory regime. The Statement was agreed upon with the GOK
during negotiations (Annex 7).
Risk                                          Risk Rating   Risk Minimization Measure
GOK's failure in adjusting transmission tariff to  S        GOK will be required to adjust
cover costs, reasonable return and project-related         transmission tariff quarterly to a
incremental revenue needs.                                 level enabling KEGOC to fully
recover its costs and to meet its
counterpart funding and debt
service requirements under the
project.
Lower than predicted improvement in KEGOC's    S            GOK to (i) enable KEGOC to
collection performance resulting in reduced ability        implement measures aimed at
to mobilize counterpart funding and service the             improving payment collection,
loans.                                                      including vigorously cutting off
services to non-payers; (ii)
separate the ten electricity
distributors from KEGOC's
management control; and (iii)
privatize all state-owned
electricity distributors in 1999-
2000.
Delay in project implementation due to KEGOC's   S          KEGOC to (i) maintain an
lack of experience with (i) implementing large              adequately staffed and well-
projects; and (ii) procurement under International          structured PMU; (ii) put in place
Competitive Bidding.                                        a procurement monitoring and
contract management system;
(iii) hire international
consultants with proven project
management and procurement
skills; and (iv) take training in
Bank procurement and
disbursement and on-the-job
training by experienced
consultants. The Bank to
provide strong project
supervision.
Overall Risk Rating                           S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 24
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
(a) Select a procurement and project management consulting firm under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank.
2. Agreements Reached during Negotiations:
Transmission sector reform
(b) Issue, by December 31, 2000, an electricity Grid Code, acceptable to the Bank, which shall
establish the rules goveming access to the transmission and distribution network and the services to
be provided by the grid operator; and
(c) Approve, by September 30, 2000, a transmission tariff methodology, acceptable to the Bank,
which (i) gradually reduces the weight of the geographic distance factor between sellers and buyers
in the tariff structure; and (ii) ensures that the transmission tariff is adequate to cover all justifiable
costs, including the cost of ancillary services (frequency and voltage control). The transmission
tariff should be adjusted quarterly to a level enabling KEGOC to fully (i) recover its costs
(including the cost of ancillary services); and (ii) meet its counterpart funding and debt service
requirements under the Project.
Electricity market development
(d) Carry out a staged development of a competitive electricity market as follows:
*  by December 31, 1999, establish a Reserve Capacity Pool to enable the generators to trade
power among themselves; and
*  by October 31, 2002, establish and thereafter maintain an Electricity Spot Market,
including and Independent System and Market Operator to administer the spot market in
accordance with established and transparent market operation rules.
(e) Restructure, by December 31, 1999, KEGOC into a transmission and dispatch company by
fully separating all its non-core activities such as generation, distribution and trading of electricity
and capacity, and terminating its existing interim management control in ten regional electricity
distribution companies and two power plants (Ekibastuz GRES II and Shardara GES).
Project management
(f) Maintain, until completion of the project, an adequately staffed Project Management Unit to
assist in carrying out and managing the project; and
(g) Carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of the financial
management for the project in order to enable KEGOC, not later than June 30, 2000, or such date
as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports acceptable to the Bank.
Counterpart funding
(h) Open, by January 31, 2000, and thereafter maintain a Project Account in a bank, acceptable to
the Bank, wherein the Borrower shall deposit on the first business day of each month sufficient
funds from its own resources to cover at least the projected three months of local costs for the
project.



Page 25
Financial performance
(i) Maintain a self-financing ratio of not less than 25% for each fiscal;
() Maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.4 for each fiscal year;
(k) Maintain a debt service ratio of not less than 1.5 for each fiscal year; and
(1) KEGOC shall not provide discounted services unless these discounts are based on commercial
considerations.
Financial reporting, monitoring and auditing
(m) Submit to the Bank the audit reports of KEGOC's financial statements, the Special Account
and SOE, audited by an internationally reputed firm, for each fiscal year not later than six months
after the close of such year;
(n) Prepare, in consultation with the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, by October 31 of each year
commencing in 2000, a draft five-year Corporate Performance Plan (CPP) for the ensuing years,
and obtain GOK's approval of the CPP and of the actions required. If the projection shows that
KEGOC would not meet the financial performance criteria for the fiscal years covered by the
review, KEGOC should take all necessary measures in order to meet these requirements; and
(o) Prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or about
June 30, 2002, a Mid-term Project Report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation
activities, on the progress achieved in carrying out the project during the period preceding the date
of the report. The report would also set out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient
implementation of the project and the achievement of its objectives during the period following the
review. Based on this report, a Mid-term Review would be carried out with the Bank by
September 30, 2002, or a later date agreed with the Bank and, thereafter, KEGOC should take all
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of its
objectives based on the conclusions and recommendations of report and the Bank's views on the
matter.
Environment
(p) Implement the Environmental Management Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, and to
provide the Bank with summary status of implementation (including results from environmental
monitoring) as part of normal project reporting or when specifically requested by the Bank.
Technical
(q) Install shunt reactors for the compensation of the reactive power in accordance with a schedule
agreed upon during negotiations.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[x] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation. [ ] Not applicable
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.



Page 26
[ The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] The following exceptions to Bank jpolicies are commended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Team Leader:        Istvan Dobozi
Sector Director:    Hossein Raza
Country Director:    *yoshi Kodera



Page 27
Annex 1
KAZAKHSTAN: Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary                         Key Performance indicators              Monitoring and Evaluation          Critical Assumptions
A. Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                                            (Goal to Bank Mission)
I .   Support transition to market economy   1.1  Implementation of new transmission tariff system   I I  GOK decrees and  ]I  GOK continuing with reforms; in
through the development of               (by December 31, 2003).                           sector policy               power sector (risk level: low)
competitive electricity market.    1.2  Issuance of Electricity Grid Code (by December     pronouncements.        1.2  KEGOC becomes a core grid
2.   Support sustainable economic             31, 2000).                                   1.2  KEGOC operation and         company and non-core activities
development by alleviating power   1.3  Establishment of Capacity Reserve Pool (by         planning policies.          are separated (risk level: modest).
system bottlenecks.                     December 31, 1999).                           2.   Sector studies and     2.   The electricity demand bottoms-
3.   Catalyze private investments through   1.4  Establishment of spot market (by October 31,   KEGOC annual                out and starts growing (risk level:
rehabilitation and modemization of       2002).                                            reports.                    modest).
power infrastructure.               1.5  Establishment of Independent Market Operator    3.   Quarterly project   3.   KEGOC remains committed tu
for spot market (October 31, 2001).               progress reports            the project (risk level: low).
2.  Improve the stability of North-South tie-line and  prepared by PMU.
increase the limit for power transfer in MW:
2000  2003  2005
500   600   700
3.  Replacement of equipment and automation of
dispatch control in accordance with project
implementation schedule.
B. Project Development Objective:                                                                                      (Objective to Goal)
I .  Improve reliability and quality of  1.1  50% of bid packages awarded by June 2001.     1.1  Quarterly progress    I .   Project implemented in
electricity supply through          1.2  100% of bid packages awarded by June 2002.        reports by PMU.             accordance with the industry
refurbishment of transmission       1.3  40% of contracts completed by September 2002    1.2  Bank supervision         practices (risk level: modest).
substations and modemization of     1.4  80% of contracts completed September 2003.        missions.              2.1  Iincreased competition in power
dispatch control.                  2.   Same as 1. I to 1.5 in section A above.       2.   Consultation with           sector (risk level: modest).
2.  Develop a competitive electricity    3.1  Agreement between KEGOC and Regulator on          KEGOC and users of    2.2  Enlarged private sector
market and improve conditions for        tariff adjustment mechanism ensuring full cost    transmission system.        investment in the power sector
open access to transmission network.    recovery.                                     3.1  Annual Corporate            (risk level: low)
3.  Restructure KEGOC into financially    3.2  KEGOC annually achieving following               Performance Plan.
viable core grid company through        financial performance targets:                3.2  Annual audit report
cost recovery for its transmission and   *    Self-financing ratio: 25%                    prepared by external
dispatch services and divesting non-    .    Debt-service cover ratio: 1.5 times           auditor.
core activities.                   *    Current ratio: 1.4
C. Outputs:                                                                                                            (Outputs to Objective)
I .  Improved reliability and quality of  1.1  Average deviation of system frequency (in mHz)   I .  Bank supervision and    1.1  Reliability of power distribution
power supply.                            maintained within following limit:                other documentation          at 1 10 kV and lower voltage
2.   Well-functioning electricity market               2000  2003  2005                         provided by KEGOC            levels maintained at present level
and Independent Market Operator.                   500   250    100                        users of the power grid.    (r isk level: modest).
3.   Streamlined, financially viable grid    1.2  Average deviation of bus voltage at 220 kV and    2.   Site inspection and  1.2  Generation capacity available for
company.                                 500 kV substations maintained within following    commissioning               pr-oduction maintained at present
limit:                                            documentation.              level (risk level: low).
2000  2003  2005                   3.   Audit reports for       2.   No negative impact on projec:
10%      7%      5%                      KEGOC.                       implementation and timetable
2.1  Spot market in operation.                                                     from changes in GOK and/or
2.2  Load dispatch system fully modemized.                                          KEGOC's management (risk
3.1  KEGOC becoming a well-functioning grid                                        level: modest).
company focusing on core activity.                                       3.1  GOK adjusts transmission tariff
3.2  Reduction of technical losses in transmission                                 to cover costs, reasonable return,
from 5.8% in 1998, to 5% or less in 2004 and                                  and project-related incrementasl
thereafter,                                                                   r-evenue needs (risk level:
substantial).
3.2 Collection rate improvement
helps generate counterpart funids
and funds for loan service (risk
level: mnoderate)



Page 28
D. Project Components/Sub-components:   Project Imputs:                                    Project Reports             (Components to Outputs)
1.   Refurbishment of transmission      1.   Substation Refurbishment: US$157.9 million;    Project progress reports and    I.  Inistallation of substation
substations.                                                                          disbursement reports.            equipment is performed by
*    Modernization of high voltage                                                                                     KEGOC in timely manner (risk
equipment at 30 substations;                                                                                      level: substantial).
*    Replacement of protective
relaying and automation at 63
substations; and
*    Installation of shunt reactors at
9 substations.
2.  Modernization of Dispatch Control   2.   Dispatch Control: US$58.7 million;                                        4.1  Implementation of SCADA/EMS
*    Supply and installation of                                                                                        and substation automation
SCADA system at 9 Regional                                                                                        contracts is well coordinated by
Dispatch Centers and                                                                                              PMU (risk level: substantial).
SCADA/EMS at National                                                                                        4.2  Installation of electricity meters
Dispatch Center;                                                                                                  by KEGOC is completed in
*    Reinforcement of                                                                                                   timely manner (risk level:
telecommunications system;                                                                                        modest).
*    Installation of electricity trade
system; and
*    Installation of commercial
metering system.                                                                                             5.   Sustained GOK commitment to
3,  Institutional Development.          3.  Institutional Development: US$5.8 million;                                      restructure KEGOC (risk level:
*    Installation of a company-wide
Management Information
System (MIS); and
*    Internal corporate restructuring                                                                             6.   KEGOC and consultants work
of KEGOC.                     4    Technical Assistance: US$5.8 million.                                          together to expedite procurement
4.   Technical Assistance                 .and project implementation (risk
*    TA for procurement and project                                                                                    level: low).
management;
*    TA for design and procurement
of SCADA/EMS, electricity
trade system, protective
relaying and substation
automation;
*    TA for design and procurement
of MIS; and
*    TA for development of Grid
Code.



Page 29
Annex 2
KAZAKHISTAN: Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project
Detailed Project Description
Background
The high voltage transmission system of Kazakhstan has three voltage levels: 220 kV, 500 kV and
1150 kV. The total length of these lines is 19,000 km, 5,435 km and 1,423 km, respectively. The
transmission system includes 172 substations at the 220 kV level, 15 substations at the 500 kV
level and 3 substations at the 1,150 kV level. In 1998, the total electric energy supplied to the
transmission system was about 33 billion kWh, which is about 60% of the total electricity
consumption of Kazakhstan.
KEGOC owns and operates all transmission assets at 1,150 kV and 500 kV voltage levels as well
as 15,134 km of 220 kV lines and 48 substations at the 220 kV level. In 1998, the total transit of
electric energy in the KEGOC system was 22.7 billion kWh, which is about 70% of the total
energy transmitted at 220 kV and higher voltage levels. The supply of electricity via the high
voltage transmission system is increasingly costly and less reliable due to the deterioration of
transmission equipment, which are technically outdated, causing a growing number of forced
outages.
In addition to the operation and maintenance of the power transmission system, KEGOC is
responsible for the dispatch control of the integrated electric power system of Kazakhstan and it's
interconnections with the neighboring systems. The dispatch control is performed through a
hierarchical control system, which consists of the National Dispatch Center (NDC) and nine
Regional Dispatch Centers (RDC). Kazakhstan's electric power system consists of three power
grids: Northern, Southern and Western. Demand and production of electricity, peak load and
generation capacity in each grid are shown in the table below. Historically, the three grids were
developed from regional power systems and were operated independently from each other until the
Northern and Southern grids were interconnected via a single circuit 500 kV line in 1986. Until
recently, however, the tie line was not effectively used mainly due to stability limitations2. Since
November 1998, the Northern and Southern grids operate in parallel with the power system of
Central Asia, and the stability limit on the North-South tie line is estimated at about 500 MW.
The proposed project is concerned with the rehabilitation of KEGOC's transmission system and
improvement of power system dispatch. It has four components: (i) refurbishment of transmission
substations; (ii) upgrade of dispatch control; (iii) institutional strengthening of KEGOC; and (iv)
technical assistance for project management, procurement and training.
Project Component 1: Refurbishment of Substations (US$157.9 million)
Refurbishment of transmission substations includes the modernization of high voltage equipment,
replacement of protective relaying, substation automation and installation of shunt reactors for
compensation of reactive power. The project sites are shown in the Map IBRD 30227 and the
scope of substation refurbishment is summarized in Table A below.
2      When the tie line was built, the Northern power grid operated synchronously with the Russian
power system and Southern grid was synchronized with the interconnected power system of Central Asia.
The tie line apparently was too weak to connect two large power systems, which at that time had a much
higher peak load than in recent years.



Page 30
Table A: Scope of Substation Refurbishment
1,150 kV          500 kV            220 kV
Scope of Refurbishment           Number  % of    Number  % of    Number  % of
of S/S   Total    of S/S   Total    of S/S    Total
Modernization of HV Equipment    -        0        5        33       21       44
Replacement of Protective Relaying  3     100      15       100      45       94
Substation Automation            3        100      15       100      45       94
Installation of Shunt Reactors   -        0        4        27       5        10
Note: S/S = substations
Modernization of high voltage equipment is focused on the replacement of substation equipment
that cannot be automated and has been in operation for more than 20 years. The modemization
program includes the replacement of 783 circuit breakers, 1,891 disconnect switches, 446 voltage
transformers, 1,492 current transformers, 740 surge arresters, 1,200 supporting insulators and 13
station batteries. An overview of the substation equipment included in the project is given in Table
B.
Table B: Replacement of Substation Equipment
Total       % Older    Replaced in  % of Total 1
Type of Equipment            Installed    Than 20     Project      Installed
Years
500 kV Circuit Breakers      94           18          28           30
220 kV Circuit Breakers      374          28           137         37
110 kV Circuit Breakers      595          51          313          53
35 kV Circuit Breakers       205          39          69           34
10 kV Circuit Breakers                                236
500 kV Disconnect Switches    266         24          76           29
220 kV Disconnect Switches    1,416       36          420          30
110 kV Disconnect Switches    2.338       63          1,168        50
35 kV Disconnect Switches    574          54          224          39
Voltage Transformers 500 kV    166        18           39          23
Voltage Transformers 220 kV    478        40           173         36
Voltage Transformers 110 kV    360        56           183         51
Voltage Transformers 35 kV   79           37          51           65
Current Transformers 500 kV    231        25           66          29
Current Transformers 220 kV    990        18           354         36
Current Transformers 110 kV    1,133      41           898         79
Current Transformers 35 kV   1S3          10           174         90
Surge Arresters 500 kV       180          Replacement 42           23
Surge Arresters 220 kV       598          of spark gap  210        35
Surge Arresters 110 kV       583          Arresters    329         56
Surge Arresters 35 kV        281                       159         57
Support Insulators 110 kV    52,932       51           1,200       2
Station Batteries            102          37           13          13



Page 31
Replacement of protective relaying will involve practically all transmission substations owned by
KEGOC. The new protective relaying, based on state-of-the-art microprocessor technology, would
improve the safety and reliability of the entire transmission system. Replacement of protective
relaying will be implemented in close coordination with the substation automation, which includes
the installation of Remote Terminal Units (RTUs) for monitoring and control of substation
equipment. RTUs will be used by SCADA system for the centralized monitoring and control of the
KEGOC transmission system.
Installation of shunt reactors will improve the stability of the power grid and will regulate voltage
conditions in the transmission system. The compensation of reactive power by 500 kV shunt
reactors at substations Zhambil, Dzhetigara, Esil and Yuk GRES is necessary to enable the stable
operation of the North-South interconnector.  The installation of shunt reactors at 220 kV
substations Kzyl-Ordinskaya, Shu, Pravoberezhnaya, Leninskaya and Balhashskaya will improve
the voltage quality and reliability of power delivery in the transmission system. The installation of
the shunt reactors will be financed from the EBRD loan.
Project Component 2: Upgrade of Dispatch Control (US$58.7 million)
The upgrade of dispatch control includes (i) the design, supply and installation of Supervisory
Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system at 9 Regional Dispatch Centers and SCADA/EMS
(Energy Management System) at the National Dispatch Center; (ii) reinforcement of
telecommunication system at substations, RDCs and NDC; (iv) supply and installation of an
Electricity Trade System at the NDC; and (v) supply of commercial meters and integration of the
electricity metering system at substations, RDCs and the NDC.
The new SCADA/EMS system will (i) enable KEGOC to improve the reliability of transmission
system; (ii) provide the technical basis for the establishment and efficient operation of the Capacity
Reserve Pool and the spot market as well as the commercialization of ancillary services; (iii)
enhance the quality of power supply through improving voltage and frequency conditions in the
power grid; (iv) reduce the cost of operation and maintenance of the transmission system; and (v)
support the expansion of electricity trade with the neighboring power systems. The SCADA/EMS
system will encompass: the NDC, nine RDCs and 63 transmission substations. An overview of the
minimum size of the SCADA system (which corresponds to the existing level of system
monitoring at the RDCs and NDC) is in Table C.
In addition to integrated SCADA functions, EMS at the NDC will include power system
applications for generation control, network control, operation planning, dispatcher training and
electricity market operations. The generation control applications will include load frequency
control, reserve monitoring and production cost monitoring. The network control applications will
include state estimator, dispatcher load flow, optimal power flow and voltage/MVAr scheduling.
The operation planning applications will include outage scheduler, short-term load forecast, hydro-
thermal coordination and operator training simulator.



Page 32
Table C: O)verview of SCADA System
Number of          Number of 1/0        Number of I/O
Substations       Points Received at   Points Sent to NDC
Dispatch Center                                   RDCs
KEGOC   Non-         Statuses   Measure  Statuses   Measure
KEGOC                -ments               -ments
RDC Tsentralniy       12        13         328       362        81         96
RDC Vostochniy        5         10         389       301        108        85
RDC Aktyubinskiy      5         3          118        134       22         22
RDC Kustanayskiy      8         5          316       297        81         111
RDC Yuzhniy           10        9          308       327        68         87
RDC Sevemiy and       7         1          67        80         67         80
Pavlodarenergo        1         7          206       297        75         75
RDC Zapadniy          3         3          85         115       14         26
RDC Akmnolinskiy      10        -          183       314        79         121
RDC Almatinskiy       6         -          27        28         27         28
NDC                   67        51                             1622        731
Note: I/O = Input-output
Reinforcement of the telecommunications system will include the supply and installation of
equipment for the following communications and support systems: power line carrier, digital
microwave, satellite communications, network control, mobile communications, local area
networks, telephone/PBX  and  UPS  (uninterrupted  power supply).   Reinforcement of
telecommunications system will increase the capacity of communication lines between substations
and the RDCs from 0.1 kbps to 64 kbps, and between the RDCs and NDC from 64 kbps to 128
kbps.
In order to support the development of a competitive electricity market (pool), KEGOC will
purchase and install 440 electricity meters for the 220 kV and 500 kV substations. This component
will also include the supply of 435 meters for market participants, 730 meters for consumers
connected to KEGOC substations at lower voltage and 761 meters for KEGOC's wholesale
customers who are connected through the Regional Distribution Companies (REKs). The metering
system will collect and archive hourly readings of kWh measurements at the RDCs. The key data
will also be forwarded to a central database located at the NDC.
Development of the wholesale electricity market also requires the introduction of an electricity
trading system which will be installed at the NDC for bidding, market clearing, invoicing,
settlement and communication between market participants. The system will use the World Wide
Web (WWW) to open the access to electricity trade for all market participants in real time. From
the technical point of view, traders will only need to have access to the WWW and computers with
the appropriate software package.
Project Component 3: Institutional Development (US$5.8 million)
The institutional development component includes the design, supply and installation of a
computer-based Management Information System (MIS). The MIS system will be configured as
an Enterprise-wide Resource Planning (ERP) network and implemented in line with the re-
engineering of the business process in KEGOC. Initially, the system will include at least a
Financial and Accounting module and a Payroll Processing and Personnel Management module.
The additional modules may include Sales System, Materials Management System, Project
Management System, and Maintenance Management System. The final scope of the MIS



Page 33
component will be defined by the consultant to be hired by KEGOC to prepare bidding documents
for the MIS.
In order to maximize the benefits from the MIS, KEGOC's existing internal organization and
management system needs considerable streamlining. Therefore, this component includes support
for the articulation and adoption of a new vision for KEGOC's corporate structure. The ongoing
relocation of company headquarters from Almaty to Astana and the envisaged separation of
generation and distribution businesses from KEGOC, adds urgency to this task.
Project Component 4: Technical Assistance (US$5.8 million)
Technical assistance (TA) for procurement and project management will be carried out by qualified
international consultants in two stages. Stage 1 will include review of project design and assistance
to the PMU in preparing technical specifications and bidding documents and evaluating bids for the
procurement of high voltage substation equipment. Stage 2 will include implementation assistance
to the PMU in project management, scheduling, supervision and coordination of all project
components, contract administration and project reporting in accordance with Bank requirements.
TA for the design and procurement of SCADA/EMS system, electricity trade system and
substation automation will be carried out by a qualified international consulting firm. The
consulting services will include the review of conceptual design and development of functional
specifications of an integrated hierarchical SCADA/EMS system (including automation of
substations), assistance to the PMU in preparing bidding documents and evaluating bids for
SCADA/EMS, electricity trade system and substation automation.
TA for the design and procurement of MIS will be performed by a qualified international
consulting firm. The consulting services will include the review ofKEGOC' s business process and
assistance to the PMU in preparing bidding documents and evaluating bids for the MIS.
TA for the development of an electricity Grid Code is in progress under USAID funding and is
expected to be completed by early 2000. Additional consulting services for the establishment of
wholesale spot market would be provided by international consultants on an as-needed basis.
The training component of TA will be provided by international consultants in the area of
transmission system planning and independent operation of the electricity pool. The training will
be organized in the form of seminars and workshops carried out by internationally recognized
experts.



Page 34
Annex 3
KAZAKHSTAN: Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project
Estimated Project Costs
Table A: Project Cost Summary
Project Cost                   Bank Financed
Project Component                Local       Foreign       Total        Million     % of Bank
(million US$)                 US$        Financing
A. Substation Refurbishment                  21.4         111.2        132.6         84.3         59.6
1. Modernization of Substations              11.5         68.7          80.2         50.1         35.8
2. Substation Automation                      9.9          33.3         43.2         33.3         23.8
3. Shunt Reactors                             0.0          9.2          9.2          0.0           0.0
B. Dispatch Control and Metering              6.7          42.5         49.2         23.7         16.9
1. SCADA/EMS                                  3.6         23.3          26.9         23.3         16.6
2. Telecommunications                         2.1          14.8         16.9          0.0          0.0
3. System Metering                            1.0          4.0          5.0          0.0           0.0
4. Electricity Trade System                   0.0          0.4          0.4           0.4          0.3
C. Institutional Development                  0.9          4.0          4.9          4.0           2.9
1. Management Information System              0.9          4.0          4.9          4.0           2.9
D. Technical Assistance                       0.0          5.0          5.0          4.0           2.9
Total Base Cost                              29.0         162.7        191.7         115.1        82.2
Physical Contingencies                        3.1          18.1         21.2         14.1         10.1
Price Contingencies                           2.1          13.2         15.3          9.4          6.7
Total Project Cost                           34.3         194.0        228.3         138.6        99.0
Front-end Fee                                 0.0          2.0          2.0           1.4          1.0
Commitment Fee                                0.0          1.2          0.9          0.0           0.0
Interest During Construction                  0.0          26.9         24.9          0.0          0.0
Total Financing Required                     34.3         224.1        258.4         140.0        100.0



Annex 3
Detailed Cost Estimate (million US$)
2000                   2001                   2002                   2003                   2004                  TOTAL
Project Component                    Local Foreign   Total  Local Foreign   Total  Local Foreign   Total  Local Foreign   Total  Local Foreign   Total  Local Foreign   Total
I   Modernization of Substations           0.09    0.70    0.79    3.09   20.60   23.69    4.09   27.50   31.59    2.09   13.70   15.79    0.91    6.20    7.11    10.3   68.7   79.0
VAT                                   0.01            0.01    0.36           0.36    0.48           0.48    0.25           0.25    0.11            0.11     1.2    0.0    1.2
Physical Contingencies@ 10%           0.01    0.07    0.08    0.31    2.06    2.37    0.41    2.75    3.16    0.21    1.37    1.58    0.09    0.62    0.71  1.0    6.9    7.9
Price Contingencies                   0.00    0.02    0.02    0.17    1.11    1.27    0.33    2.23    2.56    0.23    1.48    1.71    0.12    0.84    0.97  0.8    5.7    6.5
Subtotal                              0.11    0.79    0.90    3.92   23.77   27.69    5.31   32.48   37.79    2.78   16.55   19.33    1.24    7.66    8.90    13.4   81.2   94.6
2   Shunt Reactors                         0.00    0.45    0.45    0.00    2.73    2.73    0.00    3.64    3.64    0.00    1.82    1.82    0.00    0.55    0.55  0.0    9.2    9.2
VAT                                   0.00            0.00    0.00           0.00    0.00           0.00    0.00           0.00    0.00            0.00    0.0    0.0    0.0
Physical Contingencies @ 10%          0.00    0.05    0.05    0.00    0.27    0.27    0.00    0.36    0.36    0.00    0.18    0.18    0.00    0.06    0.06  0,0    0.9    0.9
Price Contingencies                   0.00    0.01    0.01    0.00    0.15    0.15    0.00    0.30    0.30    0.00    0.20    0.20    0.00    0.07    0.07  0.0    0.7    0.7
Subtotal                              0.00    0.51    0.51    0.00    3.15    3.15    0.00    4.30    4.30    0.00    2.20    2.20    0.00    0.68    0.68  0.0   10.8   10.8
3   Substation Automation                  0.09    0.30    0.39    2.64   10.00   12.64    3.55   13.30   16.85    1.73    6.70    8.43    0.82    3.00    3.82  8.8   33.3   42.1
VAT                                   0.01            0.01    0.32           0.32    0.44           0.44    0.22           0.22    0.11            0.11     1.1    0.0    1.1
Physical Contingencies @ 15%          0.01    0.05    0.06    0.40    1.00    1.40    0.53    2.00    2.53    0.26    1.01    1.26    0.12    0.45    0.57  1.3    4.5    5.8
Price Contingencies                   0.00    0.01    0.01    0.14    0,54    0.68    0.29    1.08    1.37    0.19    0.72    0.91    0.11    0.41    0.52  0.7    2.8    3.5
Subtotal                              0.12    0.35    0.47    3.50   11.54   15.03    4.81   16.37   21.18    2.39    8.43   10.82    1.16    3.86    5.02    12.0   40.6   52.5
4   SCADA& EMS                             0.00    0.20    0.20    1.00    7.10    8.10    1.27    9.20   10.47    0.64    4.70    5.34    0.27    2.10    2.37  3.2   23.3   26.5
VAT                                   0.00            0.00    0.12           0.12    0.16           0.16    0.08           0.08    0.03            0.03    0.4    0.0    0.4
Physical Contingencies @15%           0.00    0.03    0.03    0.15    1.07    1.22    0.19    1.38    1.57    0.10    0.71    0.80    0.04    0.32    0.36  0.5    3.5    4.0
Price Contingencies                   0.00    0.01    0.01    0.05    0.38    0.43    0.10    0.75    0.85    0.07    0.51    0.58    0.04    0.29    0.32  0.3    1.9    2.2
Subtotal                              0.00    0.24    0.24    1.32    8.55    9.87    1.72   11.33   13.05    0.89    5.91    6.80    0.38    2.70    3.08  4.3   28.7   33.0
5   Telecommunications                     0.18    1.40    1.58    0.55    4.40    4.95    0.73    5.90    6.63    0.36    3.00    3.36    0.09    0.10    0.19  1.9   14.8   16.7
VAT                                   0.02            0.02    0.06           0.06    0.08           0.08    0.04           0.04    0.01            0.01    0.2    0.0    0.2
PhysicalContingencies@7%              0.01    0.10    0.11    0.04    0.31    0.35    0.05   0.41    0.46    0.03    0.21    0.24    0.01    0.01    0.01  0.1    1.0    1.2    to
Price Contingencies                   0.00    0.04    0.04    0.03    0.24    0.27    0.06    0.48    0.54    0.04    0.32    0.36    0.01    0.01    0.03  0.1    1.1    1.2
Subtotal                              0.22    1.53    1.75    0.68    4.94    5.62    0.92    6.79    7.72    0.47    3.53    4.00    0.12    0.12    0.24  2.4   16.9   19.3
6   Commercial Metering                    0.09    0.40    0.49    0.27    1.20    1.47    0.36    1.60    1.96    0.18    0.80    0.98    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.9    4.0    4.9
VAT                                   0.01            0.01    0.03           0.03    0.04           0.04    0.02           0.02    0.00            0.00    0.1    0.0    0.1
Physical Contingencies @10%           0.01    0.04    0.05    0.03    0.12    0.15    0.04    0.16    0.20    0.02    0.08    0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.1    0.4    0.5
Price Contingencies                   0.00    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.06    0.08    0.03    0.13    0.16    0.02    0.09    0.11    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.1    0.3    0.4
Subtotal                              0.11    0.45    0.56    0.34    1.38    1.73    0.47    1.89    2.36    0.24    0.97    1.21    0.00    0.00    0.00  1.2    4.7    5.9
7   Transmission Trade System              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.40    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.0    0.4    0.4
VAT                                   0.00            0.00    0.00           0.00    0.00           0.00    0.00           0.00    0.00            0.00    0.0    0.0    0.0
Physical Contingencies p 5%           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0,00    0.02    0.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.0    0.0    0.0
Pnce Contingencies                    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.0    0.0    0.0
Subtotal                              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.45    0.45    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.0    0.5    0.5
8   Management Information System          0.00    0.10    0.10    0.18    1.10    1.28    0.36    1.50    1.86    0.18    0.80    0.98    0.09    0.50    0.59  0.8    4.0    4.8
VAT                                   0.00            0.00    0.02           0.02    0.04           0.04    0.02           0.02    0.01            0.01    0.1    0.0    0.1
Physical Contingencies @10%           0.00    0.01    0.01    0.02    0.11    0.13    0.04    0.15    0.19    0.02    0.08    0.10    0.01    0.05    0.06  0.1    0.4    0.5
Price Contingencies                   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.06    0.07    0.03    0.12    0.15    0.02    0.09    0,11    0.01    0.07    0.08  0.1    0.3    0.4
Subtotal                              0.00    0.11    0.11    0.23    1.27    1.50    0.47    1.77    2.24    0.24    0.97    1.21    0.12    0.62    0.74  1.1    4.7    5.8
9   Technical Assistance                   0.00    1.50    1.50    0.00    1.00    1.00    0.00    1.00    1.00    0.00    1.00    1.00    0.00    0.50    0.50    0o0  5.0    5.0
Physical Contingencies @10%           0.00    0.15    0.15    0.00    0.10    0.10    0.00    0.10    0.10    0.00    0.10    0.10    0.00    0.05    0.05  0.0    0.5    0.5
Pnce Contingencies                    0.00    0.04    0.04    0.00    0.05    0.05    0.00    0.08    0.08    0.00    0.11    0.11    0.00    0.07    0.07  0.0    0.3    0.3
Subtotal                              0.00    1.69    1.69    0.00    1.15    1.15    0.00    1.18    1.18    0.00    1.21    1.21    0.00    0.62    0.62  0.0    5.8    5.8
All Project Components                 0.5      5.1    5.5    7.7   48.1   55.9   10.4   64.0   74.4    5.2   32.5   37.7    2.2   13.0   15.1   25.9  162.7  188.6
VAT                                    0.1             0.1    0.9             0.9    1.2             1.2    0.6             0.6    0.3              0.3    3.1    0.0    3.1
Total Base Costs                       0.5      5.1    5.6    8.6   48.1   56.    11.6   64.0   75.6    5.8   32.5   38.3    2.5   13.0   15.4   29.0  162.7  191.7
Physical Contingencies                 0.0     0.5    0.5    0.9    5.0    6.         1.3    7.3    8.6    0.6    3.7    4.4    0.3    1.5    1.8    3.1   18.1   21.3
Price Contingencies                    0.0     0.1    0.1    0.4    2.6    3.0    0.8    5.2    6.0    0.6    3.5    4.1    0.3    1.8    2.1    2.1   13.2   15.3
Total Project Costs                    0.6      5.7    6.2   10.0   55.8   65.7   13.7   76.6   90.3    7.0   39.8   46.8    3.0   16.3   19.3   34.3  194.0  228.3
Front-end Fee              0.0    1.8    1.8
Commitment Fee             0.0    1.0    1.0
IDC                        0.0   26.4   28.4
ITotal Financing Required 1   34.3  223.2  2575



Page 36
Annex 4
KAZAKHSTAN: Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project
Procurement anrd Disbursement Arrangements
(a) Procurement
All Bank-financed procurement will be in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for "Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 as revised in January and August 1996,
September 1997, and January 1999)". Procurement of consultancy services under the technical
assistance component would follow the Bank's Guidelines for "Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997 as revised in September 1997 and January
1999)". Table A provides the details of the procurement arrangements for main expenditure
categories, including goods, works and services. A procurement plan detailing the packaging and
estiriiated schedule of the main procurerrent actions is in Table D of this Annex. Table E shows
the detailed implementation schedule.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category             IC']B         Other          NBF        Total Cost
1. Works
1.1 Site Preparation                                          5.82           5.8
1.1 Installation                                             26.02          26.0
2. Goods and S&I
2.1 Goods (equipment)            85.1           2.0          47.2           134.3
(85.1)        (1.5)'                      (86.6)
2.2 S&I and IT Systems           49.7                         6.7V          56.4
(47.2)                  _                  (47.2)
3. Consulting Services                                  i
3.1 Technical Assistance                        4.8           1.0'           5.8
(4.8)                       (48)
4. Miscellaneous                                                       l
4.1 Front-end Fee                               1.4           0.6            2.0
(1.4)                       (1.4)
4.2 Commitment Fee                                             1.2           1.2
4.3 IDC                                                       26.9          26.9
TOTAL                            134.8          8.2           115.4         258.4
(132 3)   L    (7.7)                       (140.0)
ICB = International Competitive Bidding.
NBF = Non Bank-Financed.
S&I = Supply and Installation.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank.
All figures include physical and price contingencies.
Note 1: International Shopping (IS) is subject to the limit of US$1.5 million in aggregate.
Note 2: Local costs financed by KEGOC.
Note 3: Procurement financed by EBRD
The General Procurement Notice for the project was published in the UN Development Business,
issue No. 515 of July 31, 1999. All procurement under the project will be conducted by KEGOC.
In April 1999, a Bank mission performed Procurement Capacity Assessment of KEGOC. The
main findings were discussed and an Action Plan was agreed with KEGOC. The company was
rated high-risk from a procurement standpoint. Therefore, the PMU's procurement capacity needs



Page 37
strengthening to ensure satisfactory project implementation. To achieve this goal, the following
key actions should be taken:
* KEGOC, as a first-time borrower from the Bank, needs training in procurement under IBRD
loans. This training will be provided as a part of the Project Launch Workshop, which should
be conducted by February 2000.
* KEGOC should select technical consultants for preparation of bidding documents for the initial
period of project implementation in October 1999.
* KEGOC should select a procurement and project management consulting firm under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank by January 2000; and
* KEGOC should establish a fully operational and adequately staffed PMU in October 1999.
Except for the provision of US$1.5 million for international shopping, KEGOC would use the
following standard bidding documents: (i) in case of the procurement of main substation equipment
and protective relaying, the latest version of the "Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement of
Goods"; (ii) in case of the supply and installation of automated equipment at substations and
dispatch centers, the latest version of the "Standard Bidding Documents for the Supply and
Installation of Plant and Equipment"; and (iii) in the case of MIS, the latest version of the
"Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement of Information Systems (Equipment, Software and
Services)". In case of procurement of substation monitoring and control systems, SCADA/EMS
and MIS equipment, KEGOC would follow the two-stage bidding procedure as stipulated in the
Standard Bidding Documents. Prior to bidding for supply and installation of substation automation
and SCADA/EMS systems, KEGOC will carry out prequalification of vendors by using the Bank's
standard prequalification documents.
Table B provides the details of the procurement of consulting services (costing about US$5.8
million) under the TA component. An international engineering firm will be hired (following the
QCBS method) to assist in procurement and project management throughout project
implementation. The QCBS method will be used to select and hire experienced technical
consultants to provide the following services: (i) design and procurement of SCADA/EMS system;
(ii) design and procurement of the MIS; and (iii) preparation of an electricity Grid Code and
development of the electricity spot market. An international consulting firm will be hired
(following the SFB method) to provide training in transmission system planning and design and
operation of the spot market.
The thresholds for procurement and the Bank's prior review are in Table C. All bidding packages
for the procurement of goods, supply and installation of automated equipment and MIS estimated
to cost US$100,000 or more would be procured using ICB procedures and will be subject to the
Bank's prior review. Other contracts following the Bank's International Shopping (IS) procedure
for supply of materials and goods would be subject to the Bank's ex-post review after contract
award except for the first two contracts which will be submitted for prior review by the Bank. The
IS procedure will be followed for procurement of small value items, such as auxiliary equipment,
instruments and testing equipment that may be required for the transmission substations and
dispatch centers. Intemational Shopping would involve obtaining at least three price offers from at
least two eligible source countries and would be limited to US$100,000 per contract or US$1.5
million in aggregate. Following findings of the Procurement Capacity Assessment, ex-post review
will be made for one out of five contracts, which are not subject for prior review.
Procurement of consulting services will be subject to the Bank's prior review for contracts of
US$50,000 or more for firms. In addition, terms of reference for all consulting contracts will be
also subject to the Bank's prior review.
Tables E and F provide information on procurement training, development and staffing
arrangements for the project.



Page 38
Table B: Consultant Selection Arrangements
'in US$ million)
Selection Method
Category               QCBS   QBS    SFB    LCS    CQ  1 Other   NBF   Total Cost
1.1 Procurement of      2.5                                              0.5        3.0
Goods and Project      (2.5)                                                       (2.5)
Management
1.2 Design and          1.2                                                         1.2
Procurement of          (1.2)                                                      (1.2)
SCADA/EMS and
System Automation
1.3 Design and          0.4                                              0.3        0.7
Procurement of MIS      (0.4)                                                      (0.4)
1.4 Development of      0.5                                                         0.5
Grid Code and Spot      (0.5)                                                      (0.5)
Market
1.5 Training                            0.2                              0.2        0.4
.(0.2)                                      (0.2)
Total Cost   4.6             0.2                              1.05.8
(4.6)          (0.2)  _                                    (4.8)
QCBS = Quality and Cost Based Selection.
QBS  Quality Based Selection.
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget.
LCS  Least Cost Selection.
CQ = Selection based on consultant's qualifications.
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of the Bank's Selection and Employment of
Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
NBF = Not Bank-Financed, including EBRD financing and grants.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank.
All figures include physical and price contingencies.
Table C: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Procurement of Equipment and Systems
Procurement    ICB        NCB          IS         NS        Minor      Other    % of Loan
Method                                                      Works    Methods   Subject to
Prior Review
Procurement  >$ 100,000    N/A    <$100,000      N/A         N/A        N/A
Threshold                           up to an
aggregate
of $1.5 M
Prior Review  >$ 100,000    N/A     First two    None        N/A        N/A         99%
Threshold                           contracts
Procurement of Services
Procurement
Method for     QCBS        QBS       Fixed       LCS        Qualifi-    Single   Individuals
Consultants                          Budget                 cations    Sources
Procurement  >100,000      N/A      <100,000     N/A         N/A        N/A         N/A
Method                              Training
Thresholds
Prior Review   >$50,000    N/A      >50,000      N/A         N/A        N/A         N/A
Threshold     for firms           _



Page 39
Annex 4
Table D. Procurement Plan
Package     Description of Package    Number    Type of   Lending Agency  Estimated Cost                                      Procurement Schedule
No                                  of slices Procurement      and         (million US$)
(Lots)                Procurement
Method
Prequalification   Preparation of          Bid            Contract       Contract
1. Invitation    Bid Documents       1. Invitation       Signing       Completion
2. Opening                           2. Opening
3. Evaluation Report                 3. Evaluation Report
High Voltage Equipment'                                                                                      2/28/00           1. 3/15/00        11/10/00        5/31/04
2. 6/1/00
3. 9/1/00
1    Circuit Breakers                 5         G           WB/ICB            35.5                                                                                     5/31/04
2    Disconnect Switches              4         G           WB/ICB            18.5                                                                                     5/31/04
3    Voltage Transformers             4         G          EBRD/OT             5.2          .                                                                          5/31/04
4    Current Transformers             4         G          EBRD/OT            16.7                                                                                     5/31/04
5    Surge Arresters                  4         G           WB/ICB             4.5                                                                                     5/31/04
6    Insulators                       I         G           WB/ICB             0.2                                                                                     5/31/04
7    Storage Batteries                1         G           WB/ICB             0.6                                                                                     5/31/04
8    Shunt Reactors                   1         G          EBRD/OT            10.8                 ..                                                                  5/31/04
Substation Automation
9    Protective Relaying              1         G           WB/ICB            38.2                                 2/28/00           1. 3/31/00        9/30/00         7/30/04
2. 4/30/00
3. 6/30/00
10    Monitoring and Control System   1         S&l         WB/ICB             13.2            1. 1/28/00          3/31/00      1.5/15/00 - 10/30/00   11/30/00        10/31/04
2. 3/15/00                       2.7/1/00 - 12/15/00
3. 4/30/00                       3. 9/30/00 - 2/15/01
SCADA/EMS                                 S&l          WB/ICB            28.7             1. 1/20/00          3/31/00       1. 5/1/00 - 10/15/00  4/15/01         5/3/04
2. 3/10/00                       2. 7/1/00 - 12/1/00
3. 4/20/00                       3. 10/1/00-2/15/01
12    Electricity Trading System      i          IT         WB/ICB             0.5                                 2/15/01           1. 2/28/01        7/13/01         1/28/02
2. 4/15/01
3. 6/15/01
13    Telecommunications'             18       G/S&I        EBRD/OT            16.9                               10/30/99 -    1. 10/26/99 - 12/24/99    4/19/00 -    8/25/00 - 7/2/02
12/15/99     2. 11/30/99-3/27/00    6/16/00
3.2/28/00 - 5/19/00
14    Commercial Metering             I         S&l         EBRD/OT            4.7                                 11/30/99         1. 02/02/00         9/1/00         7/30/03
2. 4/15/00
3. 6/15/00
15    MIS                             I          IT         WB/ICB             4.8                                 4/15/00      1. 5/19/00 - 12/15/00   1/17/01         3/8/02
2. 7/15/00 - 2/15/01
3. 11/22/00 - 5/1/01
Consulting Services
16    Procurement and Project         I         CS         WB/QCBS             2.5             1. 8/16/99           9/1/99           1. 10/1/99        2/15/00          9/1/04
Management Consultants                                                                   2. 9/16/99                           2. 11/15/99
3. 9/30/99                           3.1/15/99
EBRD             0.5
17    Design and Procurement of  1        CS         WB/QCBS             1.2              1. 8/15/99          9/1/99           I 10/1/99          2/15/00        6/30/04
SCADA/EMS                                                                                2. 9/15/99                           2. 11/15/99
.... L  _______  ___________  ______________  _____________  3.9/30/99                          3.  1/15/99    _______3_93_115 9



Page 40
18    Design and Procurement of        1          CS         WB/QCBS              0.4              1.3/15/00           4/15/00           1.5/30/00           10/5/00         9/1/01
MIS                                                                                         2.4/15/00                              2.6/30/00
3. 5/15/00                            3.9/15/00
EBRD              0.3
19    Development of Grid Code         1          CS         WB/QCBS              0.5              1.10/1/99            11/1/99          1.11/30/99         3/15/00          3/15/01
2.11/1/99                             2. 1/15/00
3.11/15/99                             3. 2/15/00
20    Training                          2         CS          WB/SFB              0.2              1.2/15/00            3/15/00          1. 5/15/00          8/15/00         6/15/00
2. 3/15/00                            2.6/15/00
3. 4/15/00                            3. 7/15/00
_____  ___________________  _____                 ~~~~~EBRD         0.2
TO TAL                                                                             194.0        _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _  _ _  _ _ _
Note 1: Procurement packages I to 5 are divided in slices with respect to the voltage level of procured equipment (see Table 13 in Annex 2). The procurement schedule for all high voltage equlipment is the same.
Note 2: Telecommunications component consists of 8 procurement packages which are divided in 18 slices.
Annex 4
Table E. Training Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date of Project Launch    Estimated date of publication of     Indicate if there is procurement     Domestic Preference for Goods         Domestic Preference for Works
Workshop:                           General Procurement Notice:          subject to mandatory SPN in
Development Business                 YES                                  N/A
01/28/00                            07/31/99
YES
Retroactive financing:                NO                                 Advance procurement:                                   NO
Procurement Monitoring System: currently does not exist. It is planned that a simple system should be in place by loan effectiveness.
Co-financing: part of the project will be financed by EBRD, however, it will be separate contracts with different procurement arrangements in accordance with EBRD Guidelines.
Annex 4
Table F. Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the project:
Leonid Vanian (ECSEG)   Ext: 84796
Role of the Field Office in procurement: Liaison with the Borrower, providing to the Borrower necessary information, including standard Bank's documents, participation in supervision missions.



Page 41
Table E: Project lImplemsentation Schedule
2000                         2001             12002                                     2003                          2004
Description                  lQtrlI   Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr4 Qtrl  Qtr2   Qtr3lQtr4  lQtrl lQtr2 Qtr3   Q t4    tr   JQtr2 JQtr3 JQtr4  lQtr   Qtr2 ]Qtr3   Qtr4
I Modernization of High Voltage Equipment
Procurement
Mnfcuig and Delivery
Installation and Commissioning
2 Protection Equipment
-  Procurement       - 
Mauatrng and Delivery
Intlainad7Commissio~ning
3 Substation Monitoring and Control System
ManuactringandDeliver-y
Installation and Commissioning                            _____________________
4 Shunt Reactors_________
Prcrmnt
Mnfcuig and Delivery
Installation and Comnmissioning      ______
5 Cmmnercial Mtering                                                                                                                                                                       ___
Procurement
Manufacturing and Supply
Installation and Commissioning       ___
6 Telecointinunications
Procurement
_____   anufactturig and Delivery
installation and Commissioning
7 Man-agement Information System
Procurement
Maniufacturi ng_and Supply
Installation
T estinig and Commissioning
8 Electricity Trading System
Mnfcuing and Supply   ____ ___ __
9 SCADA/EMS
Proc-uremen
RDC SCADA___Sys__ I__ _2
Manufacturing and Supply
Intlainand Commnissioning _    ___
-RDC SCADA Sys 1 &2 4_
Maniufacturing ancd Supply
Instalatio andommisIonng      _______
RDC SCADA Sys3&4
Manufacturing and Supply
Isalatio  adCommissioning
RDC SCADA Sys 75 & 69____                                          _______________ ____
Manufacturing and Supply
ES  Installation and Commissioning       ___   __
____Manufacturing and Supply
____Installation and Commissioning       __________                   ___



Page 42
(b) Disbursement
Table F shows the allocation of loan proceeds by category and disbursement percentages in each
category. The estimated disbursement schedule for the Bank Loan is given in Table G. Initially,
disbursements under the project will be made using traditional Bank disbursement methods and
may be converted to PMR-based disbursements at a date to be agreed between KEGOC and the
Bank. The Loan Closing date would be June 30, 2005, i.e., six months after the estimated
completion of the project.
Table F: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category           Amount                 Financing Percentage
In US$ million
1. Goods                         70.0       100% of foreign expenditures;
100% of local expenditures ex factory for
locally manufactured items; and
85% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally.
2. Supply and Installation and   40.0        95% of expenditures
IT Systems
3. Consulting Services            4.0        100%
4. Fee                            1.4
5. Unallocated                   24.6
Total                            140.0
Table G: Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Bank FY       Semester            US$ million         Project Profile
Annually     Cumulative       (%)
2000           I            0.0            0.0          0.0%
II           2.5           2.5          0.8%
2001           I            2.5            5.0          1.8%
II           17.5          22.5         16.1%
2002                   -    20.3          42.8         30.6%
II          27.7           70.5         50.3%
2003                   -    27.7          98.2         70.1%
II           15.0         113.2         80.9%
2004           1            13.5          126.7        90.5%
II           7.0          133.7         95.5%
2005           I            6.3           140.0        100.0%
II           0.0            -
(c) Special Account
In order to facilitate disbursement of the Bank loan, KEGOC should agree to open and maintain a
Special Account (SA) in a major commercial bank in Kazakhstan on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. The authorized allocation deposit in the SA would be US$10 million,
representing the estimated average expenclitures for a quarter for the items financed by the Bank.
At the start of the project, the SA deposit will be limited to US$5 million and the remaining portion
of the authorized allocation could be requested by KEGOC only after the cumulative disbursement
reach a level of US$15 million. The applications for the replenishment of SA would be submitted
by KEGOC monthly or when 25% of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs earlier.



Page 43
Disbursement for contracts against goods, supply and installation and IT systems valued at
US$100,000 or less, will be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOE). The SOE
procedure will also be used for consulting services contracts for firms valued at US$50,000 or less.
The Bank will replenish the SA on the basis of the monthly statements of actual expenses.
Supporting documentation will be retained by KEGOC and be made available for review by Bank
supervision missions and by external auditors. All withdrawal applications will be fully
documented. The SA and project accounts would be audited and the audit certificate would be
furnished within six months of the end of the fiscal year. The audit report would include a
statement verifying that the amounts disbursed against SOEs have been used for the purpose they
were intended.



Page 44
Annex 5
KAZAKSTAN: Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project
Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
(a) Summary of benefits and costs
The primary quantifiable economic benefits of the project include: (i) reductions in operating and
maintenance costs (including capital replacement) for substations and telecommunications services
as a result of replacement of outdated equipment; (ii) reduced losses to consumers through
reductions in forced outages; (iii) savings in inventory costs and maintenance expenditures as a
result of improved management information and controls; (iv) reductions in transmission losses;
(v) savings in the costs of maintaining reserve capacity through the implementation of a Capacity
Reserve Pool; and (vi) reductions in the average cost of electricity supply through more economic
dispatch of generating plants under the electricity spot market (balancing pool) and through
increased power trade opportunities.
Economic Analysis
(in US$ million, NPV at 10%)
Present Value of Flows
Benefits:                             291.2
O&M cost savings                      108.4
Improved reliability                   8.4
Reduced transmission
losses                              2.8
Improved scheduling &
inventory management                 1.5
Reduced reserve capacity              108.1
requirement
Savings from economic                 62.0
dispatch
Costs:
Investments                          145.5
Net Cash Flow: @1 . 0%                145.7
IRR: percent                          24.4
Note: KEGOC will be paid a regulated tariff based on their net costs of operations, including borrowing costs and a
return on capital. Hence, the financial rate of return to KEGOC associated with the project will be equivalent to the
weighted average cost of capital.
A detailed table for the economic analysis is in the Attachment to this Annex.



Page 45
(b) Main assumptions
Investment cost stream
The flow of capital investments was taken from the base cost estimate for the project, excluding
taxes, duties and contingencies. Timing was based on the implementation schedule shown in Table
E of Annex 4.
Benefits stream
O&M savings. Savings in the ongoing operating and maintenance costs of substations will accrue
primarily through reductions in labor and materials as well as savings in own-consumption of
electricity. In addition, it was assumed that in the absence of the project, KEGOC would have to
undertake major substation repairs/replacement on an ad hoc and/or emergency basis. These
expenditures were assumed to be spread over 15 years, and to be of the same magnitude as the cost
of the rehabilitation program, plus a 10% premium due to the inability to schedule the work in an
organized manner. A reduction in the cost of leased telephone lines is the main source of ongoing
O&M savings from replacement of the telecommunications system. Other O&M savings (e.g.,
labor, materials) will be relatively small because KEGOC will still be required to maintain the old
telecommunications system in order to serve substations that are not part of the KEGOC system.
At the same time, the project will allow KEGOC to avoid replacement of some of the older
telecommunications equipment which has passed its useful economic life.
Improved reliability. In the past, approximately 60% of the transmission outages (equivalent to
approximately 7,600 kWh/year) have been attributable to breakdowns in substation equipment. At
a minimum, this represents an annual loss of US$185,000 when valued at the weighted average
tariff of US cent 2.4 per kWh. In practice, however, a large percentage of customers--industrial,
commercial and residential--have chosen to install backup generators. Based on local prices and a
25% utilization rate, the cost associated with small diesel generators is approximately US$0.16 per
kWh, while the cost of petrol generators is in the order of US$0.26 per kWh. Assuming that 75%
of customers use autogeneration in response to outages (with two-thirds of these using diesel), the
weighted average willingness to pay would be US$0.15 per kWh and the annual benefit from
reduced substation failures would be US$1,137,000.
Inventory management and maintenance scheduling. Introduction of a proper management
information system is expected to yield numerous benefits in terms of better management and
control of operations. Two areas where quantifiable benefits are most likely to be realized are in
reduction in inventories and hence in the associated carrying costs, and savings in O&M costs as a
result of better scheduling of maintenance. Inventory savings are estimated at 1.5% of total
inventory value and carrying costs were estimated at 12% of value. Benefits of better scheduling
are estimated at 2% of annual O&M costs. Together, these savings represent an annual benefit of
US$198,000 at current levels of operation.
Reduced transmission losses. At present, transmission losses in the high voltage system are in the
order of 6%. At least a part of these losses arise from poor voltage control, which will be
addressed through the introduction of a SCADA/EMS system and through the installation of shunt
reactors. Estimates of loss reduction range from 1% to 5% of existing losses. The economic
analysis assumed the lower figure. Based on forecasts of total annual kWh transmitted through the
network, and an average cost of generation of US$0.02 per kWh, savings from loss reduction once
the project is fully implemented would be approximately US$395,000 per year.
Reductions in reserve capacity requirements. At present, the level of system information and
communications is inadequate to support a full-fledged central pool of reserve capacity. KEGOC
responds to major losses in capacity on an ad hoc basis, but often with substantial delays. As a



Page 46
result, major customers must make their own arrangements for reserve capacity. Consultant studies
have estimated that, based on the extent of direct contracting, the required capacity reserves of
these customers are in the order of 2,000 MW. If reserves could be pooled, it is estimated that a
maximum of 1,100 MW of reserves would be sufficient (400 MW of spinning reserves, 300 MW
of hot reserves and 400 MW of cold Teserves). The annual carrying cost of capacity reserves is
estimated at US$18/kW/year (based on the prices charged by the Central Asian grid for balancing
capacity). Hence, the annual saving in the cost of maintaining capacity reserves would be (2,000 -
1,100 =) 900 MW @ US$18,000/MW = US$16.2 million. Because the substation rehabilitation
and telecommunications systems must: be substantively completed before the Capacity Reserve
Pool can be fully operational, these benefits are assumed to begin in year 4 of the project, although
some benefits could be realized in the earlier years.
Fuel savings through improved economic dispatch. In the absence of an organized spot market, the
generation plants within the country are currently dispatched either based on bilateral contracts
which have been negotiated with customers or based on current availability and/or ownership. As
a result, plants with relatively high marginal costs of production may be dispatched even though
lower cost plants could be brought on line. A review of the 1998 utilization of the plants in the
system showed little correlation between the fuel efficiency of the plant and its level of utilization.
Of the 30 large thermal power stations in the country, the top five in terms of dispatch ranked from
sixth through twenty-first in terms of fuel efficiency. The estimated fuel savings associated with a
strict least cost dispatch regime in that year3 would have exceeded 8% of total fuel consumption or
approximately 1 million equivalent tons. Assuming a value of US$45 per equivalent ton, the fuel
cost saving associated with economic dispatch would have been in the order of US$45 million.
The project envisions the gradual development of a spot market (or balancing pool), which will
help to improve the economic dispatch of generators, resulting in lower overall fuel costs and
hence in lower prices to consumers. While bilateral contracts are expected to persist for some time
(since they also assist in resolving the nonpayment problems), there will be some early benefits
from the establishment of a power pool. Over time, it is expected that an increasing share of total
generation will be dispatched based on rnarginal cost of supply. In order to estimate the benefits
for purposes of this project, it was assumed that the portion of potential fuel benefits which were
actually realized would increase from 5(a) in 2003 to 25% in 2007, and remain constant thereafter.
These benefits are undoubtedly conservative since they do not take into account expected growth in
electricity demand or full-scale developm:zent of a power market pool.
(c) Sensitivity analysis/switching values of critical variables
The EIRR of the project is a relatively robust 24.4%, as compared with the assumed economic
opportunity cost of capital of 10%. The switching values of the major inputs (i.e., the deviation
from the base case which would yield an EIRR of 10%) are summarized below:
Input                         Switching Value
Total Investment Costs                          + 100%
Total Benefits                                   - 50%
Savings in O&M Costs                            - 234%
Reserve Capacity Requirements                   - 134%
Benefits of Economic Dispatch                   - 134%
3      Hydro plants were assumed to be largely reserved for peaking and dispatch was limited to 40% of
their capacity. The combined heat and power plants were assumed to achieve rated fuel efficiency only
during the heating season and dispatch was therefore limnited to 50% of their capacity.



Page 47
The table demonstrates that no one benefit is critical to achieving a threshold ETRR on the project.
Any one of the major benefits could be eliminated and the project would still yield in excess of
10%. A sensitivity analysis was also carried out to quantify the impact of alternative cost and
benefit assumptions on the EIRR. The results are summarized below:
Change                     EIRR
Total Investment Costs                        + 25 %                     18.6 %
Total Benefits                                -25%                       17.2 %
O&M Savings                                   -50 %                      19.3 %
Value of Reserve Capacity                     - 50 %                     18.4 %
Savings through Economic Dispatch             - 50%                      22.0 %



Page 48
Annex 5
KAZAK1HSTAN: Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project                                   Attachment
Detailed Economic Analysis (Base Case)
(in US Thousand)
Project Costs                                              Project Benefits
Substation   Dispatch   Institutional   Technical    O&M                MIS    Transmission  Capacity   Wholesale    Net Cash
Year   Rehabilitation*  Systems**  Development  Assistance   Savings  Reliability  Benefits  Losses       Pool       Market        Flow
2000            1,700      2,300           500       1,500     3,738        11         18             4          -            -      (2,228)
2001           40,000     14,700         1,600       1,000    10,235       353         77           104                       -     (46,531)
2002           53,300     19,700         1,900       1,000    15,598       808        147           243          -            -     (59,104)
2003           26,600      9,800         1,100       1,000    14,575      1,035       187           327     16,200        2,285      (3,892)
2004           11,700      2,600           300        500    12,850       1,137       198           376     16,200        4,569       20,230
2005                -          -             -           -    11,629      1,137       198           395     16,200        6,854       36,413
2006                                                     -    14,166      1,137       198           395     16,200        9,138      415234
2007                                                         16,7032     1,137       198           395     16,200       11,423      46,055
2008                                                          19,238      1,137       198           395     16,200       11,423      48,591
2009                                                          21,775      1,137       198           395     16,200       11,423       51,128
2010                                                          12,644      1,137       198           395     16,200       11,423      41,997
2011                                                          12,644      1,137       198           395     16,200       11,423      41,997
2012                                                          12,644      1,137       198           395     16,200       11,423      41,997
2013                                                          12,644      1,137       198           395     16,200       11,423      41,997
2014                                                          12,644      1,137       198           395     16,200       11,423       41,997
2015                                                           6,557      1,137       198           395     16,200       11,423       35,910
2016                                                           6,557      1,137       198           395     16,200       11,423       35,910
2017                                                           6,557      1,137       198           395     16,200       11,423       35,910
2018                                                           6,557      1,137       198           395     16,200       11,423      35,910
2019                                                           6,557      1,137       198           395     16,200       11,423       35,910
2020                                                           6,557      1,137       198           395     16,200       11,423       35,910
2021                                                           6,557      1,137       198           395     16,200       11,423       35,910
2022                                                           6,557      1,137       198           395     16,200       11,423       35,910
2023                                                           6,557      1,137       198           395     16,200       11,423       35,910
2024                                                           6,557      1,137       198           395     16,200       11,423       35,910
2025                                                           6,557      1,137       198           395     16,200       11,423       35,910
* Includes substation rehabilitation, shunt reactors, substation automation.                                       |EIRR               24.4%I
** Includes telecommunications system, SCADA/EMS, metering and the electricity trade system.                       INPV @ 10%        $145,7491



Page 49
Annex 6(A)
KAZAKHSTAN: Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project
Assumptions for Financial Projections
General
The general inflation rates for local inflation is assumed as follows (in %):
1 1999    2000 ( 2001    2002  j 2003    2004    2005
Local Inflation              7.3     11.5     8.0      7.0     6.0      6.0      6.0
The interest rate for IBRD loan is assumed to be 5.5%, with a commitment charge of 0.25% and front-
end fee of 1% of the loan amount. The loan is repayable in 20 years including a 5-year grace period.
For the EBRD loan, the interest rate is assumed at 6%, the commitment charge at 0.5% and the front-
end fee at I% of the loan amount.
Income Statement
Revenues
Electricity transmitted is assumed to grow at about 3% per year during the period 2000-2005.
The transmission tariff is assumed to be adjusted to enable KEGOC to meet the minimum financial
performance criteria.
1 999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005
Projected Electricity Transmission  20.2   23.2   24.2   25.3   26.6   27.9   28.9
Tariff (Tiyin/iWh)                 38.7   42.5   45.6   49.0   52.7   56.4   60.4
Tariff (US cent/kWh equivalent)    0.34    0.29    0.30    0.31    0.32    0.34   0.36
Provision (% of revenues)           15      10      5       5       5      5       5
Expenses
Salary increases and staff size assumed for the period 2000-2005 are as follows:
1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
Average Salary       25,000  25,000  26,000  26,000  27,000   27,000   28,000
(Tenge)
Staff Size           4,431   4,431    4,426   4,391   4,357    4,288    4,188
Depreciation is assumed to represent about 4.8% of gross fixed assets.
Cash operating expenses are projected to decrease by about 10% over the period as a result of the
implementation of the project and cost-cutting measures.
Interest during construction is capitalized into the asset base.
Balance Sheet
Inventories account for 0.8% of gross fixed assets.
Accounts Receivable are assumed to fall gradually from 123 days in 1999 to 70 days in 2005.



Page 50
The cost of fixed assets includes estimated total project costs and capitalized interest during
construction. Revaluation of fixed assets is only assumed for 1999.
Short-term liabilities are to decrease by 30% in 1999 as a result of cost-cutting measures, but is
expected to increase on average by 13% each year to finance short-term working capital requirements
in the course of project implementation.
Accounts Payable are assumed to represent two months of repairs and maintenance and operating
expenses.
Salaries payable to employees represent one month of compensation.
Payables to the state budget are assumed to represent taxes due for one quarter.
Advances and other liabilities are assumed to increase in line with inflation.



Page 51
i                                     Annex 6(A)
KAZAKHSTAN
Proposed Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project
Actual & Forecast Income Statement
(in Tenge Billion)
1998_  lqq9  2000  2001  2002  20031  2004  2005
Electricity Transmitted (GWh)      22.7  22.5Y  23.2  24.2|  25.31 26.61 27.9  28.9
Transmission Tariff (tenge/kWh)    35.1   38.7[  42.5  45.6  49.0  52.7  56.4  60.4
Revenues (million Tenge) from        7.9    8.7>   9.9  11.0   12.4  14.0  15.7  17.5
Electricity Transport., 
Other Revenues                       2.6    2.5    2.5[   2.67   2.6J  2.7   2.8   2.8
Total Revenues                    10lo.6    11.2  12.3   13.6  15.1  16.7  18.5  20.3
Cost of Goods Sold                                           1
Salaries & Wages    1.2    1.0     1.1        1.        .I   1.1   1.1
Depreciation    5.0    4.8   6.5    6.8   7.21  7.8   8.5   9.1
Repair    0.2    0.6    0.7   0.8    0.7   0.7         0.61
Operating & Maintenance    0.6    0.9   1.11   i.ii   1. I    1.1   1.0 1.   .
Expenses                                   i             1      1
Purchased Power    1.9    1.8|   2.4.   2.4   2.5   2.61  2.6   2.7
Other Expenses    0.3    0.3!   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.21   0.2:   0.2
TotaldE                              9.21   9.3j  12.1  12.6|  13.01  13.51  14.l1  14.7
I   _     _    _  __               _  _        I_  I_     i_   _          I             I__ _ _
Administrative Expenses1               1       1      1      1      
Salaries & wages    0.6!   0.3   0.31   0.31   0.31   0.3   0.3T   0.3
Provisions for Uncollectible Debts    1.5    1.7   0.6    os1   0.41   0.4   0.5   0.5
Taxes    0.71   0.7    1.4   1151   1.61   1.8   2.01   2.1
Other Administrative Expenses    0.7    0.41   0.5   0             0.3   0.3   0.3
Total                                3.5   3.21   2.81   2.71   2.7   2.9   3.0   3.2
EarningsbeforeInterest&Taxes        -2.1   -1.3   -2.61  -1.7  -0.6   0.3j   1.3   2.4
Financial & Other Charges        _       _      _        I    j _          j
Interest1  0.061  0.02   0.00   0.00.  0.001  0.001  0.45   1.39
Other Charges   0.00o  0.23   0.15   0.14   0.12   0.05i  0.05i  0.00
Non-operating Expenses (income)  -0.01  -0.01  -0.01  -0.02  -0.02  - -0.j -0.02  -0.03
Total                              0.051  0.24   0.14   0.12   0.10|  0.021  0.481  1.36
FIncome Tax                         0.00   0.00   o.o0   0.00o  o.oo   0.02j  0.07   0.12
|Net Income                      |2.19I -1.53  -2.701 -1.801 -0.74   0.29i  0.79  o0.91
Dividends                           0.00   0.001  0.00,  0.001 0.00i  0.14   0.39   0.45
Adjustments                        -0.15   0      0.00o  0.001  0.00   0.00o  0.00   0.00
Transfer to Retained Eamings       -2.03  -1.51  -2.70j -1.801 -0.741  0.141  0.39   0.45



Page 52
Annex 6(A)
KAZAKHSTAN
Proposed Electriciity Transmission Rehabilitation Project
Actual & Forecast Balance Sheet
(in Tenge Billion)
______________________________ 1 1998     1999   20001   20011    2002  2003  2004_     2005
Assets
Fixed Assets
Gross FixedAssets_  72.2  130.6| 137.0  143.6  153.8( 167.9  181.5  194.6
Accumulated Depreciation    6.5   17.2  24.5   32.3  40.5  49.2  58.8  69.8
Net Fixed Assets   65.7  113.3; 112.5  111.3  113.3  118.7  122.7  124.9
Work-in-Progress    2.9    3.8   2.9   12.1  21.6  20.1  14.7   7.9
Total FixedAssets                _ 68.6  117.1  115.4| 123.4  134.9  138.8  137.4  132.7
Other Long-termn Assets              0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0_   0.0    0.0   0.01   0.0
Total Long-term Assets             68.7  117.2  115.4  123.4! 134.91 138.81 137.4  132.7
Current Assets
Cash    0.3    3.4'   8.6  12.61  18.3F  21.1  29.0  34.9
Inventories _  0.9    1.1    1.1    1.1   1.2   1.31   1.5   1.3
Accounts Receivable    5.5    3.5    2.7    2.2   2.4   2.71   3.1   3.4
i _           Other Current Assets   0.1    0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1 |  0.2
Total Current Assets                 6.9   8.0  12.5  16.0  22.1i  25.31  33.7  39.7
|TotalAssets                        75.5  125.2  128.0  139.4  157.01 164.1  171.1  172.5
Eqnit Equity & Liabilities         _                                      1
|Equity                                                             j      I     I
Subscribed Capital   74.91  74.9  134.5  139.4j 143.21 146.11 149.01 153.4
Revaluation Surplusl   °-°   51.9[   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.01   0.0
Reserve Capital|     |          0.0   0.0    .0   0.01  0.0|         0.0
Retained Earnings|  -2.0j  -3.5j  -9.21 -11.4  - 12.4| -12.5  -12.41 -12.3
Total Equity Capital                72.9  123.31 125.3  128.0| 130.8  133.5  136.6  141.1
|Liabilities                            I      I      i            
Long-Term Debt4   o.0    .o    0.8   9.2  23.01               29.9  28.7
Total Long-terrn Debt           I   0.0    0.0   0.81   9.2  23.0  27.6  29.9  28.7
Current Liabilitites    L            0     0      0  _                           |      |
|            Short-termLiabilities    0.41   0.4   0.5    1.1|   1.5   1.21   1.1   1.1
CurrentPortionofLTD      o 0.0     0.0        0.01   0.51   0.51   2.0   0.0
Accounts Payable - Suppliers    0.51   0.41   0.3|   0.31   0.31   0.3i   0.3   0.3
Accounts Payable - Taxes, etc    0.7    0.4    0.4    0.4   0.4   0.41  0.5   0.5i
Salaries Payable    0.2   0.3    0.1:   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1
DividendsPayable    0.1I   0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0)  0.0
Promissory Notesl   0.5    0.2   0.21   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Other Current Liabilititesj   0.3    0.4   0.41   0.4   0.5   0.5   0.6   0.7
jTotal Current Liabilities           2.7    2.11   1.9   2.3    3.3   3.0   4.7   2.7
Total Equity & Liabilities      i75.5  125.4  128.0i 139.5i 157.1  164.2  171.2  172.5
Current Ratio                        2.6    3.81   6.7,   7.0   6.7   8.4   7.2  14.5



Page 53
Annex 6(A)
KAZAKHSTAN
Proposed Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project
Actual & Forecast Fundflow
(in Tenge Billion)
1 1998{  1999) 2000  2001  2002   20035 20041 2005
Sources of Funds                 _             ____I
Internal Sources of Funds
Earnings before Interest & Taxes   -2.1   -1.3  -2.6   -1.7  -0.6   0.3   1.3   2.4
Depreciationl   5.0    4.8    6.5   6.8    7.2   7.8   8.5   9.1
Non Operating Income    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Provision for Uncollectible Debts    1.5    1.7   0.6   0.5   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.5
Total Internal Sources of Funds      4.3    5.2   4.6    5.6   7.0   8.6  10.3  12.0
Extemal Sources of Funds
Capital Contributions   -1.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Proposed World Bank Loan    0.0    0.0    0.4   6.2   8.8   4.6   2.2   0.0
Proposed EBRD Loan    0.0   0.01   0.6    1.8   4.6   0.0   0.0   0.0
Other Loans    0      0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
tTotal Extemal Sources of Funds     -1.0   0.0    1.0   8.0  13.4   4.6   2.2   0.0
Total Sources of Funds               3.4    5.2   5.5  13.7  20.4  13.2              2.0
Uses of Funds
Investments
Proposed Project    0.0    0.0   0.9   10.1  14.4   7.6   3.2   0.0
Interest During Construction    0.0    0.0    0.0°   0.3   0.9    1.4   1.2   0.3
Other Investrnents                           0.0   0.0               0.0
Total Capital Investments            5.7    1.8   0.91  10.4  15.3   9.0   4.4   0.3
Debt Service|                          |                   
Debt Service             Interest|  0.1    0.2    0.1   0.1   0.1   o.ol   o.s   1.4
Repayment    0.3    0.01 0 .0    0 .0   0.0   0.5   0.5   2.1
Total Debt Service                   03      2                   0.1 0.5    1.0   3.4
Taxes                                                 0.0   0.0        0.0   0.1   0.1
Dividends                            0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1    0.4   0.5
Working Capital            -Ca s-h  -0.6    3.1   5.1    4.1   5.8   2.8   7.9   5.5
OtherthanCash   -2.1    0.0  -0.6  -0.91  -0.7   0.7  -1.2   2.1
Total WorkingCapital            |-2.6    3.1,   4.4    32r   5.1   3.5   6.7   7.6
|Other Long-term Assets              0.0    0.0   0.0j   0.0  o0.    0.0j   0.0   0.0
Total Uses ofFunds                   3.4    5.2    5.5  13.7  20.5  13.21  12.5   11.9
(Internal Cash Generation       j241%| 158%|  62%?  56%{  72%  131%| 417%| n.a.
1Debt-service Coverage Ratio        13.2|   1.8|  16.7j   6.41   4.91   7.2 1l0.7|   3.5



Page 54
Annex 6(B)
KAZAKHSTAN: Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project
Assessment of Borrower's Financial Management Capacity
General
A review of KEGOC's financial management system was performed during the appraisal mission to
(i) assess the presence of the necessary elements for sound financial management system such as
intemal controls, company accounting, staffing and audit arrangements; and (ii) prepare a time-bound
action plan for building financial management capacity in the Project Management Unit.
Internal accountingpolicies
KEGOC was established as a joint-stock company on September 1, 1997. The company has
developed internal procedures in respect of transactions recording; cash holdings; accounts receivable
accounting and payment of advances to employees. Internal procedures for other accounts are under
development.
Internal control
Internal controls and procedures are adequate to safeguard the assets of the company. The financial
information systems are capable of reporting the financial condition and performance of the company
in accordance with local requirements and of reporting project transactions and performance in
accordance with Bank requirements. An Internal Audit Department (IAD) reporting to the Vice-
President, Finance, was established at the end of 1998.  During appraisal, the project team
recommended that the IAD report directly to the company President to preserve its independence and
foster transparency.  Another key area for improvement is the flow of infornation between
headquarters and the regional dispatch centers (at present, this is largely done manually).
Accounting system
There are several departments dealing with accounting data: (i) Financial Department; (ii) Commercial
Department; (iii) Economic Department; and (iv) Information Technology Department.
The Financial Department consists of tvo divisions: (i) General Accounting Division (GAD); and (ii)
Auxiliary Accounting Division (AAD). The GAD prepares summary financial statements for the
company including data from the regional divisions. The ADD is oriented to serve the needs of the
head office. There are about 25 employees in the Financial Department.
There are about 25 employees in the Economic Department, some of whom are responsible for the
preparation of the company's budget and tariff calculations.
The Commercial Department is responsible for signing contacts with customers, issuing invoices and
collecting receivables.
At present, there is some duplication of functions among the departments with some of them unable to
clearly identify their own responsibilities.  These weaknesses can be addressed through the
establishment of an integrated information system as envisaged under the project. The new system
will require the definition and separation of responsibilities among the various departments.
KEGOC's accounting systems are capable of maintaining separate records or activities to be
performed under the project.



Page 55
Staff qualification
Officers in the accounting and finance fields are generally well educated and experienced. However,
the top financial managers are not adequately familiar with the principles of international accounting,
finance and costing. There are no written minimum qualifications, either in terms of educational
attainment or professional experience, for the financial positions. There are no established promotion
criteria in the company.
In recent months, KEGOC reduced its staff by about 20%. Management in the Accounting and
Finance Departments was replaced. The new management has moved quickly to tackle the most
urgent issues: payment collections and Y2K-related problems. However, it may take some time for
the new management to have a full grasp of all the issues facing the company.
Computerizedfinancial system
KEGOC has significant hardware resources, but the departments use various software packages (e.g.,
Excel, Karat, Access, FoxPro) which are not compatible and do not satisfy to need of the users. There
are servers which allow communications via electronic mail within departments. The regional offices
process data in Excel and transfer them to the head office on diskettes in the absence of integrated
company-wide communications network.
The accounting and financial management systems are not Y2K compliant. The software is outdated
and uses old programs for which no vendors are available to rectify. Hence, the company needs
urgently (by December 1, 1999) to procure the necessary software to avoid the collapse of the billing
system and related accounting transactions.
Audit compliance
For the periods ending December 31, 1997, June 31, 1998, and December 31, 1998, KEGOC's
financial statements were audited by Arthur Andersen, Almaty. The auditor issued an unqualified
opinion on the financial statements as of December 31, 1997, and June 30, 1998 with respect to
International Accounting Standards and a qualified opinion on the accounts with respect to
Kazakhstani Accounting Standards. Coopers and Lybrand performed a fair market value appraisal of
property, plant and equipment as of December 31, 1997.
Financial management risks
In recent years, Kazakhstan has undergone substantial political, economic and social change. As a
result, operations carried out in Kazakhstan involve significant risks. Such risks also apply to the
business environment within which KEGOC's operations are carried out. Uncertainties regarding the
legal, tax or regulatory environment, including the potential for adverse changes, in any of these
factors could significantly affect KEGOC's ability to operate effectively.



Page 56
Annex 6(B)
Action Plan for B3uilding Financial Management Capacity
in Project Management Unit
Actions                   Completion       Responsibility      Comments
Date
Putting in place a fully operational and well-  10/31/99  KEGOC            A procurement, a
structured PMU and the appointment of key               management         financial specialist
staff with relevant education and experience                               and an accountant
for the project (director, procurement                                     were recruited.
specialist and accountant).
Setting up and documenting a project      03/31/2000    PMU financial      Ongoing
information system and accounting system,                specialist
which will include:
a) accounting flows and control
b) flow of information/documents
c) flow of money
d) internal control
Visit by World Bank Financial Specialist to  04/10/2000    World Bank staff
confirm adequacy of project financial
management arrangements.
Appointment of external auditor under terms  12/31/99    KEGOC             Arthur Andersen
of reference acceptable to the Bank                      management        expected to be
appointed as
auditors for years
ending 1999 and
2000.
Submission of auditor's opinion on project  06/30/2000    KEGOC
financial statements.                                    management
Submission of Project Management Report to    06/30/2000    PMU
the Bank.
Submission of audited financial statements  06/30/01     KEGOC
for the project six months after the end of the          management
financial year.



Page 57
Annex 7
KAZAKE[STAN: Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project
Statement of Electricity Sector Policy by the Government of Kazakhstan
Background
The Government of Kazakhstan recognizes that reliable and high quality supply of electricity is
essential to sustainable economic growth. Since 1996, the Government has embarked on an ambitious
restructuring and privatization program as a result of which the structure of the electricity industry has
been substantial changed. The sector has been unbundled with the creation of separate generation,
transmission and distribution companies. The bulk of the generation assets have been privatized,
mostly to strategic investors. As a result, a competitive wholesale market emerged in which the
generators now vigorously compete for customers. To improve the quality and reliability of electricity
supply, an Electricity Capacity Reserve Pool has been established and preparations are under way to
create an organized spot market for electricity. The process of privatizing electricity distribution has
started. The newly adopted Electricity Law promotes competition at the wholesale and retail levels by
ensuring open and unrestricted access to the transmission and distribution networks, and the electricity
market, and by prohibiting political interference in the operation of electricity companies. The Law
ensures full cost recovery for the regulated monopolies, including the cost associated with new
investments.
The Government is aware, however, that the reform agenda is not completed and substantial scope
remains for improvement in the electricity industry. The quality and reliability of electricity supply
are below industry best practice standards. The sector suffers from years of under-investment and
insufficient maintenance of equipment. The financial position of many electricity companies is weak
due to inadequate payment discipline, widespread use of barters and low regulated retail tariffs. There
is a need to adopt a more efficient methodology for the regulation of transmission tariffs. The
commercial and organizational framework for the electricity spot market has yet to be established.
Finally, the privatization process needs to be advanced.
The Government is committed to address these challenges by advancing market reforms in the
electricity sector. This Statement lays out the objectives, broad content and a timetable of the
Government reform program in the electricity sector.
Overall Reform Objectives
The key reform objective is to provide reliable electricity supply throughout Kazakhstan at minimum
cost. This will be achieved by promoting competition and deregulation, active participation of the
private sector and taking environmental concerns into account. In doing so, the Government is
committed to improving the management, efficiency and financial performance of the electricity sector
while increasing the quality of services to consumers.
Sector Policy
The Government will further proceed with separating policy making, regulatory and
ownership/operational functions in the electricity sector. The Ministry of Energy, Industry and Trade
will be responsible for strategic planning and the formulation and coordination of electricity policy.
This function primarily entails the preparation of policy guidelines to be issued by the President and
the Cabinet of Ministers; establishment of the commercial/institutional framework for the competitive
electricity market; evaluation of national energy security; fonnulation of service quality, reliability,
safety and environmental standards; definition of a policy on electricity imports and exports;
promotion of energy conservation; and development of non-conventional sources of electricity
generation.



Page 58
Sector Regulation
The Government is committed to create prudent regulatory regime in the electricity sector aimed at
lowering the regulatory risks and promoting necessary capital investments, ensuring non-
discriminatory access to transmission/distribution networks and markets, and allowing the market
participants to obtain reasonable profits. This entails clear and transparent legal and regulatory
frameworks, as well as stable and independent institutional arrangements for both public and private
sector participants. Electricity consumers should be given unrestricted access to buy electricity from
any producer, while paying for the use of the transmission and distribution systems owned by third
parties. The Regulator will not intervene in those segments of the electricity market where there is
effective competition.
The Government will take the following steps to strengthen the regulatory regime:
*  Increase the autonomy of the Agency for Natural Monopolies and Protection of Competition
(Regulator);
*  Adopt a standard accounting and reporting procedure for natural monopolists seeking tariff
adjustments, including, among other things, necessary legislative documents or acts on:
depreciation allowances; the rate of return on assets; the realistic size of technical losses while
providing for efficiency improvements; and the inclusion of the cost of investments in tariff
adjustment applications;
•  Issue standard guidelines for the approval and verification of the investment plans of
transmission and distribution companies;
*  Grant regulatory permits and concessions and impose sanctions for non-compliance with the
established regulations; and
*  Adopt a mechanism for the resolution of disputes between industry participants.
Regarding the electricity transmission and distribution sector, the Government will undertake the
following regulatory actions:
* Adopt, by December 31, 2000, a modem Grid Code, which sets out the rules governing access
to the transmission and distribution networks and the services of the grid operators (KEGOC
and REKs);
*  Complete, by December 31, 2003, the phased introduction of an efficient transmission tariff
methodology, which (i) substantially reduces the weight of the geographic distance factor in
the tariff; and (ii) ensures thatl the transmission tariff is adequate to cover justifiable costs,
including the cost of ancillary services (frequency and voltage control); and
*  Restructure, by December 31, 1999, KEGOC into a Grid Company by terminating KEGOC's
existing interim management control of REKs and the power plants Ekibastuz GRES II and
Shardara GES.
Wholesale Electricity Market
The Government is firmly committed to the establishment of an organized spot market to create
incentives for lowering the costs of generating electricity and managing short-term imbalances arising
when actual generation and/or actual consumption differs from  the contracted volumes.  The



Page 59
Government intends to create the necessary technical and institutional infrastructure--including the
establishment of an Independent Market Operator--for a functioning spot market. The World Bank,
the EBRD, and other multilateral financial institutions and donor agencies have agreed to support the
government reform objectives to create the spot market by financing necessary critical equipment and
providing technical expertise. On its side, the Government commits itself to a staged implementation
of the competitive electricity market by the year 2002.
Financial Performance
Restoring the financial viability of the electricity sector will be achieved through (i) enforcement of
payment discipline in the sector by terminating supplies to non-paying customers as stipulated by the
Electricity Law; (ii) privatization of the state-owned distribution companies; and (iii) adjustment of
regulated retail tariffs to achieve cost recovery and reasonable profits for the REKs.
Distribution Privatization
Private ownership of REKs is expected to substantially enhance payments discipline, greatly improve
commercial management and the quality of service and stimulate investment in the sector. Therefore,
the Government is committed to complete the privatization agenda by selling off, by December 31,
2001, all remaining state-owned distribution companies. The privatization ofREKs will be carried out
through open and transparent international tender to strategic investors in the form of outright sale or
management contract.
Conclasion
The above outlines the Government's broad reform agenda it is committed to pursue with support and
technical expertise of the World Bank, the EBRD, and other multilateral financing institutions, and
donor agencies.



Page 60
Annex 8
KAZAKHSTAN: Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
(at PCD stage)
300                 183.7
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(at appraisal stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (preparation)                11/26/1998           11/26/1998
Appraisal mission departure                     05/17/1999           05/17/1999
Negotiations                                    09/13/1999           09/13/1999
Planned date of effectiveness                   12/31/1999            _/_/19_
Prepared by: World Bank and KEGOC
Preparation assistance: USAID
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Istvan Dobozi                      Program and Task Team Leader
Dejan Ostojic                            Power Engineer
Margaret Wilson                        Economist (Consultant)
Yolaine Joseph                           Financial Analyst
Bernard Baratz                        Environmental Specialist
Leonid Vanian                          Procurement Specialist
Tariq Hassan                              Senior Counsel
Oxana Berkounova                            Junior Counsel
Hannah Koilpillai                        Disbursement Officer
Andrina Ambrose-Gardiner                Financial Management Specialist
Roberto Tarallo                    Financial Management Specialist
Alma Zhandauletova                    Financial Management Officer
Ruslan Mamishev                           Operations Officer
Yukari Tsuchiya                            Team Assistant



Page 61
Annex 9
KAZAKHSTAN: Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Procurement Capacity Assessment (full report)
2. Environrnental Management Plan (full report)
3. Project Economic Analysis (full report)
4. Financial Management Assessment (full report)
C. Other
1. Draft Project Report. Prepared by Hagler Bailly Services, Inc., May 1999.
2. Project Business Plan. Prepared by KEGOC, November 1998.
3. Evaluation of Ancillary Services. Prepared by Hagler Bailly Services, Inc., May 1999.
4. Transmission Tariff Methodology: Outline. Prepared by Hagler Bailly Services, May 1999.
5. KEGOC: Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 1997, June 30, 1998 and
December 31, 1998. Audit Reports Prepared Arthur Andersen.
6. The Power Market of Kazakhstan. A Report for AES. Prepared by NERA, July 1998.
7. Suggested Changes in Transmission Tariff Methodology, Prepared Hagler Bailly Consulting, Inc.,
November 18, 1998.
8. Law "On Natural Monopolies" (adopted July 1998).
9. Temporary Regulations on the Wholesale Electric Capacity and Electricity Market of the Republic
of Kazakhstan (adopted on July 2, 1998).
10. Charter of "Electric Capacity Reserve Pool" (adopted May 15, 1999; in Russian).
11. Energetics in Kazakhstan. Assets and Economy. Prepared by K. Dukenbayev, 1998.
12. Law "On the Electric Power Industry" (adopted July 1999).
*Including electronic files.



Page 62
Annex 10
KAZAKHSTAN: Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
Difference between
expected
Ouginal Amount in US$ Millions            and actual
disbursements8
Project ID       |        Borrower                    Purpose                              IBRD         IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.      Org   Frm Revd
Number of Closed Projects: 4
KZ-PE-46499         1999  GOVT. OF KAZAKSTAN          HEALTH RESTRUCTURING                 42.50        0.00        0.00      42.50      0.00      0.00
KZ-PE-8499          1999  REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN      ROAD TRANSP. RESTRUC                 100.00       0.00        0.00     100.00      0.00      0.00
KZ-PE.34093         1998  REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN       PUBLIC SEC. RES.MGT.                230.00        0.00        0.00      75.00     75.00      0.00
KZ-PE-50780         1998  GOVT. OF KAZAKSTAN          PENSION REF. SAL                    300.00        0.00        0.00     200.00    100.00      0.00
KZ-PE-8503        . 1998  REPUB. OF KAZAKSTAN         AG POST PRIV. ASST.                   15.00       0.00        0.00      14.69     -0.22      0.00
KZ-PE-37960         1997  REP OF KAZAKSTAN            TREASURY MODERNIZATI                 15.80        0.00        0.00      13.37     11.80      1.34
KZ-PE-45303         1997  GOVT. OF KAZAKSTAN          PILOT WATER SUPPLY                    7.00        0.00        0.00       6.62      5.13      0.00
KZ-PE-46044         1997  REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN       REAL ESTATE REG PLT.                 10.00        0.00        0.00       7.20      6.70      0.00
KZ-PE-8507          1997  REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN      UZEN OIL FIELD REHAB                 109.00       0.00        0.00     100.41     26A2       0.00
KZ-PE-8510          1996  REPUB. OF KAZAKHSTAN        IRRIG. & DRAINAGE                    80.00        0.00        0.00      67.25      5.86      0.00
KZ-PE-8506          1995  GOVT. OF KAZAKHSTAN         SOCIAL PROTECTION                    41.10        0.00        0.00      21.90      0.30      0.00
K7-PE-6508          1995  GOVT OF KAZAKHSTAN          FINANCE & ENT. DEVEL                 62.00        0.00        0.00      55.63     55.63      0.03
KZ-PE-8501          1994  REP. OF KAZKHSTAN           PETROLEUM TA                          15.70       0.00        0.00       4.36      4.35      0.00
Tota: |1,028.10         0.00       0.00      708.93    290.97     1 .37
Active        Closed
Projects       Projects         Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):        352.34          578.96         931.30
of which has been repaid:          1.58           0.00           1.58
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:    1,064.51            578.96        1,643.47
Amount sold:          0.00           0.00            0.00
of which repaid:        0.00            0.00           0.00
Total Undisbursed:       708.93            0.00         708.93
a Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



Page 63
Annex 11
KAZAKHSTAN: Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project
Country at a Glance
Europe &    Lower-                                      9/28/98
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Central  middle-
Kazakhstan      Asia  income        Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                      16.3       476     2,285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US5)                  1,340     2,320      1,230
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                     21.9      1,106    2,818
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                        -0.6       0.2       1.2     Gr
Labor force (%)                                       -0.1       0.5      1.3      GNP                             Gross
per         -                  primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                              capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)               60        67        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       65        69        69    !
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               24        25        36
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              1         .. 1.                     Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  ..                 84
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   ..                  19
Grossprimaryenrollment (%of'school-agepopulation)      90        92       111           -Kazakhstan
Male                                                 ..         ..      116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               ..        ..       113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986       1996      1997
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                                     ..       21.0
Gross domestic investment/GDP                          ..       23.3                              Trade
Exports of goods and services/GOP                       ..      31.0
Gross domestic savings/GDP                              ,       20.0
Gross national savings/GDP                              ..      21.8
Current account balance/GDP                             ..      -3.6        ..      omt
Interest payments/GDP                         ,,t..              0.5        .      Savgic                -     investment
Total debt/GDP                                          ..      14.8               Savings
Total debt serAcelexports                                *       4 6       6 5
Present value of debt/GDP                                       12.9
Present value of debt/exports                                   38.8
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                          -8.1     0,5         ., .- ,Kazakhstan
GNP per capita    .                   .      -7.8      1.5       2.2        ..              Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services         .              12.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                  1976    1986       1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
Agnculture                                     ..       .       1 12.9      ..
Industry                                                        30.4
Manufacturing                                 .        ..      6.4               10                                 57
Services                                                        56.8               20
Private consumption                            ..      ..      67.8        ..   -20
General government consumption                ..       ..       12.3        .,                                -GDI    _GDP
Imports of goods and services                 ..       ..       34.4 .A.,
1976-86  1987-97      1996      199T     Growth rates Of exports and imports I%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    .        ..       1.0        ..    20.
Industry                                       .        ..      -1.2        ..    10, 
Manufacturing                                .. ..             0.0
Services                                               ..       -3.6        ..        o_____.____
Private consumption                             .          ..    1.79                                      95   96   97
General government consumpton                  ..      ..       10.3
Gross domestic investment                      .        ..      -3.8        .     20
Imports of goods and services                  .                11.9       ..                 -Exports   -Irnmports
Gross national product                         ..    -7.8        0.9       1.3
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 64
Kazakhstan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986        1996      1997     inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                           | r
(% change)                                                                                2,000 -
Consumer prices                                     ..                28.8         ..    1,000
Implicit GDP deflator                               ..                38.9         ..    1000
Govemment finance                                                                           Soo00  
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                          o t___0
Current revenue                                     ..       ..       13.2          .               92    93    94    95    96   97
Current budget balance                                                                                -  GDP deflator  -e--CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                             ..       ..       -3.2
TRADE
(US$ milions)1976                                          1986       1996      1997      | Export and imrport levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                 ..       ..      5,480          ..    6,000
Oil and gas                                       ..        ..     1,022                 5,000
Other metals                                      ..        ..       969         4.000,
Manufactures                                      ..        ..       430 
Total imports (cif)                                 ..       ..      5,166          .     3.000
Food                                                                    .         .      2,000
Fuel and energy                                   ..        ..     2,324          ..    1,000
Capital goods                                     ..        .           .         .                                      -
91   92   93   94  9s   96   97
Export price index (1995=100)                       ..       ..         98
Import price index (1995=100)                       ..       ..        105          ..                   Exports      X Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                     .         94
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$millions)1976                                         1986        1996      1997      i Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and servces                        .         ..     6,966      7,611      0
Imports of goods and services                       .         ..     7,546      8,797'9
Resource balance                                    .         ..      -580       -668
Net income                                          .         ..      -220       -315                      i
Net current transfers                               ..       ..         50        75
Current account balance                             ..       ..       -750       -909
Financing items (net)                              ..        ..        773      1,388     -s
Changes in net reserves                             ..       ..        -23       -480     -7
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)              ..       ..          0          0
Conversion rate (DEC, loca//US$)                    ..       ..       67.3       75.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986        1996      1997
(US$ milfions)                                                                             Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ million
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                ..       ..      3,122      4,278
IBRD                                             ..        ..        490       648                     G: 349     A: 848
IDA                                               ..        ..         0         0
Total debt service                                  ..       ..        322       499
IBRD                                             ..        ..         24        34
IDA                                               ..       ..          0         0                                         C: 511
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                   .                    4        28
Official creditors                               ..        ..        332       434         F: 1,805                       D:177
Private creditors                                ..        ..       305        786
Foreign direct investment                         ..       ..      1,137     1,321
Portfolio equity                                                       0         0                                     . 0l
World Bank program
Commitments                                                          385       247      A - IBRD                        E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                    ..        ..       225        202      B - IDA    D- Other multilateral    F - Private
Principal repayments                             ..        ..          0         0      c - IMF                         G - Short-terml
Net flows                                         ..       ..        225       202
Interest payments                                ..        ..         24        34
Net transfers                                    ..        ..       201        167
Development Economics                                                                                                          9/28/98



MAP SECTION






IBRD 30227
KAZAKHSTAN                                              60'                                                    70o                                                    30'                                                        902
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION                                                     RUSSIAN FEDERATION
REHABILITATION PROJECT
1150 E 5001V 225,V                     [>] NATIONAL DISPATCH CENTER
- -    EX ST 0G TRANSEM SSION LINES                                                                                            PTOAL                                                                                                                  0
0_        0  EXSTNGRANSM SSTAT 0ON    L     El] REGIONAL ISPATCH CENTERS                              \                                  RA J
SE'g   o  PROJECT SUBSTAT ONS     6j  THYERMAL POWER PLANTS                c"'    \       O
0    0  ESOJECT SJRSTAT 090    ~HYDRO POWER PLAINTS
---  IN[ERNIATIONAL BOUNDARIES
?                            AKTYUBINSK ;¢AC                                      Xo'9Wo'      r,~~~~~~~~SO  CTA                                                        RMAADA    U A                  CUBIS 
50,                          R+ KY                                                                                                                                        EK VSTCHAAS TUZ
.;  -   STEENASA  -  -  >~~ETEGNrN  ~   '~'     -w        's,,                                                                                                           MONGOLIA
'                      \\                                -            ' Pt                         /--/,URAISKA 220
K,                                  ATEUBrNSK                                                                                                                                                                               F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EM RK
Li ~           ~           ~           >  AFS  L                                                                                     SUH '| 
ESL SARI\, SX,   -                                          \\      //                                                      KAZAKH-TAN                              ,                ;L                     C H IRNAA
AKTAC7;  /                 |                   s           \+                   "   +          HRD  VOSTOCHAYA                                                       E      i1aTCHG
~~El ATYRAO ~        / 
; ! j -- ~~~~~~~~~~~~--K,\4A-A 
\  /  j>% \ f \ ~                                                                          O~S    r ,,         7Ep~dpppI,a,'P DsEp  f h  I  n
'I~ ~ ~ ~~HN
\  /  -  t  -t  \2  0 U  Z B E  K I  5  T A N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N<iK S;+<> / / y O 100 200 300 400KllTOOo OS                                                                           300 m 00eKIppp,pm
1h-- . q j -kC ~~TURKMENISTAN                                             ,                                                                                                                         IF- I                              /  0 0hil
\<L>=: :_/                                     ~~~60'                 K                                              /    .,             _>-                                                                  8                      CTBR  



