Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4526 KZ
Loan Agreement
(Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
KAZAKHSTAN ELECTRICITY GRID OPERATING COMPANY
Dated December 21, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4526 KZ
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 21, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and KAZAKHSTAN ELECTRICITY GRID 
OPERATING COMPANY (the Borrower or KEGOC).
WHEREAS (A) The Republic of Kazakhstan (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), have requested the Bank 
to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the 
Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article II of 
this Agreement (the Loan) and to undertake such other obligations as set forth 
in the Guarantee Agreement;
(C)
the Bank has received from the Guarantor a Statement of Electricity 
Sector Policy, dated September 16, 1999, describing a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to achieve reforms in the electricity sector in 
Kazakhstan (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Guarantor’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof;
Page  2
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from European Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) a loan in an amount of forty five million 
Dollars ($45,000,000) (the EBRD Loan) to assist in financing part of the Project 
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and EBRD (the EBRD Loan Agreement); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as 
amended through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have 
the following meanings:
(a)
“CPP” means the Borrower’s corporate performance plan referred to 
in paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)
“KEGOC” means Kazakhstan Electricity Grid Operating Company, a 
legal entity established and existing under the laws of the Guarantor, and 
includes its successors and permitted assignees.
(c)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit established within the 
Borrower pursuant to its Resolution dated May 27, 1999, for managing activities 
under the Project.
(d)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project Implementation Plan 
referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as said plan may be 
amended from time to time with the concurrence of the Bank.
(e)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement.
(f)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
of this Agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
one hundred forty million Dollars ($140,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Page  3
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to 
in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain 
in Dollars  a special deposit account in a bank, acceptable to the Bank, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in the amount of 
one million four hundred thousand Dollars ($1,400,000). On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at 
the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount 
of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each 
Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the 
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after 
the initial period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the 
London inter-bank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, 
in the case of the initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the 
first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined 
by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or 
plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, 
below (or above) the London inter-bank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of 
the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of LIBOR Base 
Page  4
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of LIBOR Base 
Rate and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the 
determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the 
Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan 
other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) 
months’ notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor of the new basis. The new basis 
shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower or 
the Guarantor notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with the 
assistance of the PMU with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, public utility, and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, 
a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; 
and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and at all times maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
Page  5
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and at all times maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial 
condition and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements), referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and the records and accounts of the Project, including those 
for the Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements 
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of its financial management system 
for the Project in order to enable the Borrower, not later than June 30, 2000, 
or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
Page  6
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for 
the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and applications of funds 
for the Project for the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report, and (B) shows separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during 
the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the 
six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) updates the Project cost, procurement plan, disbursement 
schedule and implementation schedule, indicating the 
progress in Project implementation, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said 
report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the 
end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Borrower shall 
not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of Borrower for the audit fiscal 
year immediately preceding, the date of such incurrence or for a later 
twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the 
greater, shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated maximum debt service 
requirements of Borrower for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of Borrower, 
including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
If any projection referred to in Section 6(a) of Schedule 5 of this 
Agreement shows that the Borrower would not meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph (a) of this Section 4.03 for the Borrower’s fiscal years covered by 
such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, 
without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its tariffs) in 
order to meet such requirements.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of KEGOC maturing by 
its terms more than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan 
contract or agreement or other instrument providing for such 
debt or for the modification of its terms of payment on the 
date of such contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement 
providing for such guarantee has been entered into.
(iii)
The term “net revenues”  means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations adjusted to take account of KEGOC’s rates 
in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even 
though they were not in effect during the twelve-month 
(12) period to which such revenues relate and net 
Page  7
though they were not in effect during the twelve-month 
(12) period to which such revenues relate and net 
non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations 
including power purchase costs, fuel costs, 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and 
interest and other charges on debt.
(iv)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference 
between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) 
above.
(v)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if 
any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section, it shall be 
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the 
Borrower, debt payable  in another currency, such valuation 
shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of 
exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of 
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of 
a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall: (i) produce, for each of its fiscal years, funds from internal sources 
equivalent to not less than 25% for the fiscal year 2000 and in each succeeding 
fiscal year of the average of the Borrower’s capital expenditures incurred, or 
expected to be incurred, for that year, the previous fiscal year and the next 
following year; and (ii) maintain beginning with the fiscal year 2000, a ratio 
of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.4. 
(b)
If any projection referred to in Section 6(a) of Schedule 5 of this 
Agreement shows that the Borrower would not meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph (a) of this Section 4.04 for the Borrower’s fiscal years covered by 
such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, 
without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its tariffs) in 
order to meet such requirements.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “funds from internal sources” means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations, consumer deposits and consumer 
contributions in aid of construction, net 
non-operating income and any reduction in working 
capital other than cash; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, 
including power purchase costs, fuel costs, 
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and 
Page  8
including power purchase costs, fuel costs, 
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes (excluding provision for 
depreciation and other non-cash operating charges and 
income taxes), debt service requirements, all cash 
dividends and other cash outflows other than capital 
expenditures, increase in working capital other than 
cash.
 (ii)
The term “working capital other than cash” means the 
difference between current assets excluding cash and current 
liabilities at the end of each fiscal year.
(iii)
The term “current assets excluding cash” means all assets 
other than cash which could in the ordinary course of 
business be converted into cash within twelve (12) months, 
including accounts receivable, marketable securities, 
inventories and prepaid expenses properly chargeable to 
operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
(iv)
The term “current liabilities” means all liabilities which 
will become due and payable or could under circumstances 
then existing be called for payment within twelve (12) 
months, including accounts payable, customer advances, debt 
service requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
and dividends.
(v)
The term “capital expenditures” means all expenditures 
incurred on account of fixed assets, including interest 
charged to construction, related to operations, averaged 
over a three (3) year period covering the year concerned and 
the year preceeding and the year succeeding such year.
(vi)
The term “current assets” means cash, all assets which could 
in the ordinary course of business be converted into cash 
within twelve (12) months, including accounts receivable, 
marketable securities, inventories and prepaid expenses 
properly chargeable to operating expenses within the next 
fiscal year.
Section 4.05.  The Borrower shall not provide discounted services unless 
said discounted services are mandated by appropriate corporate action based on 
commercial considerations.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall:
(a)
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and public utility 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted 
by competent staff in adequate numbers;
(b)
at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment 
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and public utility practices; and
(c)
take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other 
provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
Page  9
provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The EBRD Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by 
June 30, 2000, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that 
the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available 
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of 
the EBRD Loan made to the Borrower for the financing 
of the Project shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms 
of the EBRD Loan Agreement, or
(B)
the EBRD Loan shall have become due and payable prior 
to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: 
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
pre-maturing is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in 
paragraph (b)(i)(B) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to 
the proviso of paragraph (b)(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition 
to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01(c) of the General Conditions: a procurement and project management 
consulting firm has been engaged by the Borrower under terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank.
Section 7.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as 
Page  10
Section 8.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Kazakhstan Electricity Grid Operating Company
162 “zh”, Shevchenko Str.
Almaty 480008
Republic of Kazakhstan
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Johannes Linn
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
KAZAKHSTAN ELECTRICITY GRID OPERATING COMPANY
By /s/ Oraz Jandosov
Authorized Representative
Page  11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
70,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 85% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(2)
Supply & Installation of 
40,000,000
95% of expenditures
Equipment and Information
Technology Systems
(3)
Consultants’
 4,000,000
100% 
services and
training
(4)
Fee
 1,400,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
24,600,000
___________
      140,000,000
TOTAL
      ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule.
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency 
of any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Guarantor.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and supply 
and installation of equipment and information technology systems under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and (b) consulting services and training 
contracts for firms costing less than $50,000 under such terms and conditions as 
Page  12
costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and (b) consulting services and training 
contracts for firms costing less than $50,000 under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve the reliability and 
quality of electricity supply through the refurbishment of transmission 
substations and modernization of the dispatch control system; (b) develop 
competition through the establishment of a power pool and improved access to the 
transmission network; and (c) restructure KEGOC into a financially viable core 
grid company through cost recovery for its transmission and dispatch services 
and divesting non-core activities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives:
PART A:
REFURBISHMENT OF TRANSMISSION SUBSTATIONS
Refurbishment of selected KEGOC electricity transmission substations, 
including:
A.1.
Modernization of high voltage equipment at about 30 substations.
A.2.
Installation of shunt reactors for compensation of reactive power at 
about 10 substations. 
A.3.
Replacement of protective relaying at about 60 substations.
A.4. 
Supply and installation of monitoring and control equipment at 
about 60 substations.
PART B:
UPGRADING OF DISPATCH CONTROL
Modernization and upgrading of KEGOC’s electricity dispatch control 
system, including: 
B.1. Design, supply and installation of Supervisory Control and Data 
Acquisition (SCADA) system at 9 Regional Dispatch Centers (RDCs) and SCADA and 
Energy Management System (EMS) at the National Dispatch Center (NDC). 
B.2.  Reinforcement of telecommunication system at substations, RDC’s and 
NDC.
B.3.  Supply and installation of electricity trade system at NDC. 
B.4.  Supply of commercial meters and supply and installation of the 
electricity metering system at substations, RDCs and NDC.
PART C:
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Institutional strengthening of KEGOC, including the design, supply and 
installation of a computer-based Management Information System (MIS).
PART D:
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Page  13
Provision of technical assistance for: (i) Procurement and project 
management; (ii) the design and procurement of SCADA/EMS system, electricity 
trade system, and substation automation; (iii) the design and procurement of 
MIS; (iv) the development of a Grid Code; (v) the establishment of independent 
operation of the wholesale electricity pool; and (vi) training in the area of 
transmission system planning, and independent operation of the wholesale 
electricity pool.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
June 15, 2005
3,010,000
December 15, 2005
3,095,000
June 15, 2006
3,185,000
December 15, 2006
3,275,000
June 15, 2007
3,370,000
December 15, 2007
3,465,000
June 15, 2008
3,565,000
December 15, 2008
3,665,000
June 15, 2009
3,770,000
December 15, 2009
3,880,000
June 15, 2010
3,990,000
December 15, 2010
4,105,000
June 15, 2011
4,220,000
December 15, 2011
4,345,000
June 15, 2012
4,465,000
December 15, 2012
4,595,000
June 15, 2013
4,725,000
December 15, 2013
4,860,000
June 15, 2014
5,000,000
December 15, 2014
5,145,000
June 15, 2015
5,290,000
December 15, 2015
5,440,000
June 15, 2016
5,600,000
December 15, 2016
5,760,000
June 15, 2017
5,920,000
December 15, 2017
6,090,000
June 15, 2018
6,265,000
December 15, 2018
6,445,000
June 15, 2019
6,630,000
December 15, 2019
6,830,000
_________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount of Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
Page  14
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods, Supply and Installation of Equipment and 
Information Technology Systems
Part A:
General
Goods, supply and installation of equipment and information technology 
systems shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods, supply and 
installation of equipment and information technology systems shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods, supply and installation of 
equipment and information technology systems to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Two-stage bidding procedure
The bidding procedure for supply and installation of equipment under Parts 
A.4 and B.1 of the Project and for information technology systems under part C 
(procurement of MIS) of the Project shall be carried out in two stages in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Pre-qualification of bidders
Invitations to bid for supply and installation of equipment under Parts 
A.4 and B.1 of the Project shall be issued to firms pre-qualified in accordance 
with paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 
2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor.
(d)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the 
procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
Page  15
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved 
by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods, supply & installation of 
equipment and information technology systems estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more and to the first two contracts under Part C.1 above, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and 
the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 
thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for training under Part D of the Project may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
Page  16
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection 
of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Plan, agreed with the Bank, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to 
the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank, on or about June 30, 2002, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph 
(a) of this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by September 30, 2002, or such later date as 
the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the 
matter.
3.
The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project, maintain the Project 
Management Unit to assist it in carrying out and managing the Project, and shall 
entrust such functions and powers, and provide such funds, facilities and 
resources thereto, including qualified and experienced staff in adequate 
numbers, as may be deemed necessary by the Bank.
4.
The Borrower shall, by January 31, 2000 open, and thereafter, until 
completion of the Project, maintain an account in a bank, acceptable to the 
Bank, wherein it shall deposit on the first business day of each month 
sufficient funds from its own resources to cover at least the projected three 
months of local costs for the Project.
Page  17
5.
The Borrower shall implement the Environmental Management Plan, agreed 
with the Bank, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and shall provide the Bank 
with a summary status of the implementation (including results from 
environmental monitoring) as part of normal project reporting or when 
specifically requested by the Bank.
6.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, in consultation with the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, by 
October 31 of each year commencing in 2000, a draft five-year corporate 
performance plan (CPP) for the ensuing years, which shall, consistent with the 
Borrower’s obligations under this Agreement, include: (i) transmission system 
modernization targets for the Borrower, including the components of the capital 
expenditures program to be carried out during the concerned fiscal year and the 
investments under such components to be financed from the proceeds of the Loan; 
(ii) the financial targets for the Borrower; and (iii) the Borrower’s levels of 
services, borrowing needs, financing plan and tariff levels and structures; 
(b) 
obtain the Guarantor’s approval of the CPP and of the actions 
required thereunder, and furnish to the Bank the final version of the CPP prior 
to the start of the next fiscal year covered by it; and
(c) 
at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with 
respect to progress in carrying out the CPP.
7.
The Borrower shall install shunt reactors for the compensation of reactive 
power in accordance with the schedule agreed with the Bank.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $15,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
Page  18
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account 
of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to para-graph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said 
documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as 
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
Page  19
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by 
the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund 
to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case 
may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
