                                     Document of
                               The World Bank



                                                   Report No: ICR00001120



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-45260)



                                        ON A

                                       LOAN

             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$140 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                      TO THE

         KAZAKHSTAN ELECTRICITY GRID OPERATING COMPANY


                                      FOR AN

         ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION REHABILITATION PROJECT


                               December 14, 2009



Sustainable Development Department
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
            (Exchange Rate Effective November 20, 2009)

              Currency Unit = Kazakhstan Tenge (KZT)
                        1.00 = US$ .00672
                       US$1.00 = 148.8 KZT

                          FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1-December 31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARNM    -   Agency for Regulation of Natural Monopolies
CAS     -   Country Assistance Strategy
CPS     -   Country Partnership Strategy
EBRD    -   European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIRR    -   Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMP     -   Environmental Management Plan
EMS     -   Energy Management System
FM      -   Financial Management
FSU     -   Former Soviet Union
GDP     -   Gross Domestic Product
GOK     -   Government of Kazakhstan
HV      -   High Voltage
IBRD    -   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ISR     -   Implementation Status Report
KEGOC   -   Kazakhstan Electricity Grid Operating Company
kV      -   kilovolt (1,000 Volts)
kWh     -   Kilowatt hour
M&E     -   Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS     -   Management Information System
MW      -   Megawatt (1,000,000 watts)
N/A     -   Not applicable
NDC     -   National Dispatch Center
NPV     -   Net Present Value
N/S     -   North South
O&M     -   Operations and Maintenance
PDO     -   Project Development Objective
PIP     -   Project Implementation Plan
PMD     -   Project Management Department
PMR     -   Project Management Report
RDC     -   Regional Dispatch Center
REK     -   Regional Electricity Distribution Company
SCADA   -   Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System
SS      -   Substation
TA      -   Technical Assistance
VAT     -   Value Added Tax
     Vice President: Philippe H. Le Houerou
   Country Director: Motoo Konishi
    Sector Manager: Ranjit Lamech
Project Team Leader: Istvan Dobozi
  ICR Team Leader: Istvan Dobozi
    Primary Author: Margaret Wilson
                                                  KAZAKHSTAN
                          Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project


                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 21
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 22
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 23
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 24
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 26
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 32
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 34
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 35
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 36
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 39
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 40
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Electricity
Country:                Kazakhstan              Project Name:             Transmission
                                                                          Rehabilitation Project
Project ID:             P065414                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-45260
ICR Date:               12/14/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          KZ ELECT TRANS
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                 GRID OPERATING
                                                                          CO.
Original Total
                        USD 140.0M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 140.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 140.0M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Kazakhstan Electricity Transmission Grid Operating Company (KEGOC)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD)

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/01/1999     Effectiveness:                                05/31/2000
Appraisal:            05/17/1999     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             12/21/1999     Mid-term Review:           10/15/2002        10/15/2002
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2005        06/15/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:



                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry         Moderately
                           No
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):                   Unsatisfactory
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original               Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Power                                                                 100                    100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to urban services and housing                                   25                     25
Infrastructure services for private sector development                 25                     25
Rural services and infrastructure                                      25                     25
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization                  25                     25

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Motoo Konishi                        Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Manager:            Ranjit J. Lamech                     Hossein Razavi
Project Team Leader:       Istvan Dobozi                        Istvan Dobozi
ICR Team Leader:           Istvan Dobozi
ICR Primary Author:        Margaret A. Wilson


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objectives of the Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project are to:
(i) improve the reliability and quality of electricity supply through the refurbishment of
transmission substations and modernization of the dispatch control system; (ii) develop
competition through the establishment of a power pool and improved access to the
transmission network; and (iii) restructure the Kazakhstan Electricity Grid Operating
Company (KEGOC) into a financially viable grid company through full cost recovery for
its services and divesting non-core businesses.


                                                ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not Applicable

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target        Completion or
                                                documents)         Values         Target Years
                PDO: Improve the reliability and quality of electricity supply through the
Indicator 1 : refurbishment of transmission substations and modernization of the dispatch
                control system.
                                            Average deviation                 Frequancy
Value           Average deviation of
                                            of system                         fluctuation is not
quantitative or system frequency (in
                                            frequency (in                     higher than +-
Qualitative)    mHz): 500
                                            mHz): 100.                        20mHz
Date achieved 01/01/2000                    06/30/2005                        06/15/2009
Comments
(incl. %        The target value has been over-fulfilled.
achievement)
                PDO: To develop competition through establishment of a power pool and
Indicator 2 :
                improved access to transmission network.
                                                               Operation of a
                                            Operation of a
                                                               liquid spot
Value           No organized short-term liquid spot market.
                                                               market.        Both targets
quantitative or (spot) market. No Grid Adoption of a
                                                               Adoption of a achieved
Qualitative)    Code.                       modern Grid
                                                               modern Grid
                                            Code.
                                                               Code.
Date achieved 01/01/2000                    12/31/2002         12/31/2003     06/15/2009
                The spot market operator (KOREM) was formally established in 2003 and began
Comments
                electronic trading in early 2004. A modern Grid Code was adopted in December
(incl. %
                2001 and modified to reflect amendments to the Electricity Law and changing
achievement)
                sector conditions.
                PDO: Restructure KEGOC into a financially viable grid company through full
Indicator 3 :
                cost recovery for its services and divesting non-core businesses.
                                            KEGOC to be
                KEGOC managing non- transformed into a
Value
                core activities             streamlined entity
quantitative or                                                               Achieved
                (distribution companies (transmission,
Qualitative)
                and some generation).       disptach and
                                            system services).
Date achieved 06/30/1999                    12/31/1999                        06/15/2009
Comments
                All non-core activities were divested. KEGOC is now solely responsible for the
(incl. %
                development and operation of the transmission network.
achievement)




                                              iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                                Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                  approval                       Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                 documents)                      Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Ensure financial viability of KEGOC.
Value
                  Poor payment collection Payment
(quantitative                                                                  Achieved.
                  (73%) .                 collection: 100%.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2000                  06/30/2005                       06/15/2009
Comments          KEGOC over-achieved its collection target in the early years of the project,
(incl. %          collecting more than 100% of billings, and now averages approximately 99%
achievement)      collections, all in cash.
Indicator 2 :     Ensure financial viability of KEGOC.
Value
                                            Profitable
(quantitative     Negative net income.                                         Achieved
                                            operation.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2000                06/30/2005                         06/15/2009
Comments
(incl. %          KEGOC has posted a net profit since (and including) 2001.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Completion of substation automation and protective relaying (SAPR).
Value                                       All (67)
                  No substation fully                                         20 substations fully
(quantitative                               substations
                  completed.                                                  completed.
or Qualitative)                             completed.
Date achieved     01/01/2000                06/30/2005                        06/15/2009
                  40 substations are expected to be fully commissioned by end-2009 with the
Comments
                  remaining 27 substations to be completed during 2010-11. The remaining work
(incl. %
                  under this component has been transferred to the N/S Transmission Project (No.
achievement)
                  4805 KZ).

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                         IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     05/25/2000            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     06/29/2000         Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory                  1.40
  3     12/19/2000            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      1.90
  4     06/25/2001            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      1.80
  5     12/21/2001            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      1.94
  6     06/18/2002            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      4.87
  7     12/15/2002            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    14.80
  8     06/25/2003            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    33.05
  9     11/18/2003            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    46.58
 10     06/15/2004            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    64.13



                                                 iv
 11    12/03/2004       Satisfactory               Satisfactory           77.95
 12    05/27/2005    Highly Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory    86.90
 13    11/02/2005       Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory    92.81
 14    06/09/2006       Satisfactory               Satisfactory           97.13
 15    10/31/2006       Satisfactory               Satisfactory          103.58
 16    06/28/2007       Satisfactory               Satisfactory          108.98
 17    11/08/2007       Satisfactory               Satisfactory          116.60
 18    06/24/2008       Satisfactory               Satisfactory          125.33
 19    02/21/2009       Satisfactory               Satisfactory          134.78
 20    06/27/2009       Satisfactory               Satisfactory          140.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                           v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

In 1996, the Government of Kazakhstan (GOK) embarked on a program of reforms
aimed at introducing private participation in the power sector and establishing a
competitive power market. By 1997, the electricity generation plants were separated
from the former Kazakhstanenergo (an integrated monopoly) and privatized, the high
voltage transmission network was set up as a separate state-owned enterprise, and
regional distribution companies (REKs) were established and took over the functions of
regional electricity supply. In addition, three REKs were privatized.

The power transmission company KEGOC was established on July 14, 1997, under the
GOK's sector restructuring program, as a state-owned joint stock company. Its envisaged
role was as a sole transporter of electricity and operator of the high voltage grid
responsible for centralized dispatch control. According to its Charter, KEGOC was to
ensure (i) the stability and reliability of the high voltage grid system of Kazakhstan; and
(ii) equal access to the wholesale market for both electricity producers and consumers.
KEGOC also operated international connections, principally with Russia, Kyrgyzstan and
Uzbekistan. The central dispatch arrangements were best characterized as self-dispatch
by generators against contracts both with REKs and large consumers directly connected
to the transmission system.

The GOK intended to implement a single buyer model but was unable to do so because
too many retail customers did not pay for electricity. Thus the designated single buyer
(the transmission company) could not honor its power purchase agreements with the
generation companies. Out of necessity, the generation companies created a competitive
market for electricity. At the time, the market operated on the basis of bilateral contracts
between a generator and a large consumer or REK for direct sale of power. Provided that
they acquired access to the KEGOC-operated high voltage network, large electricity
consumers could enter the market and shop around for power. A competitive bulk supply
market for electricity was being actively considered, with the GOK intending to create
the necessary technical and market infrastructure for a functioning power pool by 2002.
Definition of the market rules was in progress and was intended to be finalized under the
proposed Project.

The power sector was regulated by the Agency for Natural Monopolies and Protection of
Competition (the Regulator) reporting to the Prime Minister. The transmission tariffs
were approved by the Regulator on a justifiable cost-plus basis, whose components were
defined broadly in a resolution, dated August 19, 1998, issued by the Regulator for all
natural monopolies. KEGOC could request a tariff increase each quarter, but in practice
the tariff changed less frequently. The Regulator set actual tariff increases rather than
setting a formula that provides automatically for tariff adjustment. Regarding other
tariffs, although the Regulator set ceilings for the prices to be used in bilateral sales
contracts, the negotiated or market prices tended to be below the ceilings and determined
through competition. The regulated retail tariffs for electricity were below the cost of
service and cross subsidies were substantial.

Main Issues

Transmission Network. At the time of appraisal, KEGOC owned and operated over
23,000 km of high-voltage transmission lines as well as 73 substations (SSs),1 a National
Dispatch Center (NDC) and nine Regional Dispatch Centers (RDCs). The bulk of the
transmission network was built in the 1970s with equipment manufactured in the Former
Soviet Union (FSU). During 1991-1997, no regular maintenance of the grid was carried
out, which resulted in a reduction of equipment reliability and an increase in operation
and maintenance costs.

The level of SS automation was very low and did not permit the remote control of
KEGOC's transmission network from the NDC and RDCs. The monitoring system was
based on outdated analog equipment and there was no Supervisory Control and Data
Acquisition (SCADA) system. The lack of SS automation and the absence of SCADA
system prevented improvements in the reliability and quality of power supply.

The telecommunications system between SSs and RDCs was based on analog
technology. About 65 percent of the communications equipment was older than 10 years
and maintenance was increasingly expensive and difficult due to the growing number of
failures and lack of spare parts, which were no longer supported by manufacturers.

The dispatch control in NDC and RDCs was performed manually on the basis of
fragmented information and without the application of SCADA/EMS (Energy
Management System) functions. The level of automation of dispatch control did not
permit an efficient dispatch of generation operating reserves in the system, which was
needed to improve frequency control and load following. The lack of real-time metering
of electric energy and load at the borders of KEGOC's transmission system reduced the
efficiency of wholesale power market operations. To solve this problem, KEGOC
needed to install meters connected to the dispatch centers.

Transmission Sector Regulation. At the time of appraisal, there was no Grid Code to set
out clear rules governing access to the transmission network and the services of KEGOC.
In addition, the structure of the transmission tariff had major deficiencies. The tariff
comprised two parts: the first part was levied on the volume of energy (kWh) transmitted
and the second part on the same volume multiplied by the distance between buyers and
their suppliers. The tariff did not take into account the fact that most of the cost of
operating and maintaining an existing transmission network is independent both of the
volume of energy transported and the distance this energy travels. As a result, (i) all
transmission revenue depended on kWh volume, which had been decreasing; this created
a risk of under-recovery of KEGOC's revenue requirements; (ii) collecting fixed costs
through a volume-based transmission charge sent inaccurate price signals to wholesale
1
    Currently, the company operates 23,570 km of line and 74 substations.




                                                    2
market participants, discouraging the use of KEGOC's transmission network (the
distance-based component was particularly discouraging to transit transactions over long
distances and therefore distorted the potential of the competitive wholesale market); and
(iii) the tariff did not address the costs associated with congested lines.

Finally, because the retail tariffs were often insufficient to maintain the viability of the
REKs, and many industries were struggling with low revenues and high costs, KEGOC
was directed by the GOK to offer substantial tariff discounts to a number of customers.
These discounts, which effectively reduced KEGOC's revenues by 10 percent in the year
prior to appraisal, jeopardized the financial viability of the company and often obliged it
to charge higher-than-warranted tariffs to other customers. As a result, a number of
major customers were considering building their own transmission lines to bypass the
KEGOC network. Financial problems were compounded by poor payment collections,
leading to a net operating loss of KZT3.4 billion in 1998 or 35 percent of total revenues.

Power Trading Arrangements. At the time of appraisal, there were no appropriate
trading arrangements (e.g., spot market) to support the development of the competitive
market based on bilateral contracts. A major deficiency of the bilateral contracts is the
lack of arrangements to manage imbalances arising when actual generation and/or actual
consumption differs from the contracted volumes. This frequently led to the curtailment
of demand even when sufficient generation capacity existed. KEGOC therefore relied
mainly on load shedding to ensure system control. These and other weaknesses of the
bilateral contract market led to uneconomic dispatch of power plants.

The transmission system requires the provision of ancillary network support services
(spinning reserves for frequency control and load following, hot and cold reserves,
reactive power for voltage control and black start capability) to ensure that the power is
delivered to the customers at a stable frequency and voltage. Functioning arrangements
for the purchase of these services by KEGOC were largely missing, resulting in
inadequate quality of electricity supply.

KEGOC's interim management control of a large generation plant (Ekibastuz GRES II)
and ten REKs preserved an element of vertical integration in the electricity sector with a
potential of anti-competitive exercise of market power. KEGOC was viewed by some
private entities as not a disinterested party in the power market, including allowing access
to its network. To address these concerns about conflict of interest, it was necessary to
remove from KEGOC all non-core activities such as generation, distribution and trading
of electricity and capacity.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The development objectives of the Project (from the PAD) were to: (i) improve the
reliability and quality of electricity supply through the refurbishment of transmission SSs
and modernization of the dispatch control system; (ii) develop competition through the
establishment of a power pool and improved access to the transmission network; and (iii)
restructure KEGOC into a financially viable grid company through full cost recovery for



                                             3
its services and divesting non-core businesses. There was a slight variation in the
wording of the PDO in the Loan Agreement, but this was not significant.

Progress towards achieving the PDOs was to be monitored according to a set of
qualitative and quantifiable indicators developed during Project preparation with the
assistance of the Borrower. These included:

      Staged implementation of a transmission tariff system based on the capacity used
       on the transmission network and competitive allocation of constrained
       transmission capacity (by December 31, 2003);
      Issuance of a Grid Code (by December 31, 2000);
      Establishment of a Capacity Reserve Pool among power generators (by December
       31, 1999);
      Establishment of an electricity spot market [pool] (by October 31, 2002);
      Restructuring of KEGOC into a core transmission and dispatch company (by
       December 31, 1999);
      Maintenance of average deviation of system frequency within the following
       limits: 2000: 500 mHz, 2003: 250 mHz, 2005: 100 mHz;
      Maintenance of the average deviation of bus voltage at 200 kV and 500 kV SSs
       within the following limits: 2000: 10 percent, 2003: 7 percent, 2005: 5 percent;
      Reduction of technical losses in transmission due to the introduction of an EMS
       from 5.8 percent in 1998 to 5 percent or less in 2004 and thereafter; and
      Improvement in the stability of the North-South (N/S) power interconnector and
       an increase in the limit for power transfer as follows: 2000: 500 MW, 2002: 600
       MW, 2004: 700MW.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

N/A

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The primary direct beneficiary of the Project was KEGOC. Part of the Project funds was
allocated to the GOK for technical assistance (TA) in the establishment of a Grid Code
and a spot market for electricity trade. Indirectly, the Project was expected to benefit
electricity consumers through enhanced quality and reliability of electricity service.

1.5 Original Components

The Project comprised four components:

      Refurbishment of transmission SSs, including replacement of high voltage
       equipment at 30 SSs, installation of shunt reactors at 10 SSs, replacement of
       protective relaying and supply and installation of monitoring and control
       equipment at about 60 substations.


                                           4
      Modernization of the dispatch control system, including installation of a SCADA
       system at 9 RDCs, SCADA/EMS at the NDC, reinforcement of
       telecommunication system, installation of commercial metering system, and
       supply and installation of electricity trade system at NDC.
      Institutional development, including installation of a company-wide Management
       Information System (MIS) and corporate restructuring.
      TA for the following: procurement and project management; establishment of the
       wholesale spot market (pool); design and installation of SCADA/EMS system,
       electricity trade system and SS automation; design and procurement for MIS;
       development of a Grid Code; establishment of independent operation of the
       electricity pool; and training in the area of transmission system planning and
       independent operation of the pool.

1.6 Revised Components

Exchange rate losses during the course of Project implementation (see below) resulted in
a shortfall in available Loan financing. Hence, for the MIS component, only the TA
relating to the design was financed from the Bank loan. However, KEGOC has since
undertaken to implement this component with its own funds. At present, the MIS system
is partially completed. The required servers and software have been procured and the
Logistics and Human Resources modules have been introduced into all branches and
affiliates. Work has commenced on incorporating the Finance module into the system;
completion of this last step and integration of all modules into a corporate planning and
budgeting system is expected by the end of 2009.

KEGOC also revised the scope of its cofinancing during the course of the Project. There
was a significant increase in SS refurbishment (replacement of circuit breakers, battery
banks, transformers, etc. at 53 SSs as compared with 30 SSs planned at appraisal) as well
as installation of additional shunt reactors. In addition, based on the advice of design
consultants, KEGOC expanded the telecommunications component to establish a
company-wide digital communications network.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

The largest expenditure under the Project was a turnkey contract, for modernization of
the high voltage transmission SSs. However, completion of the final phase of the
contract was endangered by a shortage of funds due to large foreign exchange losses.
 The contract was concluded in Euro in 2003, while the Loan was denominated in US$.
The subsequent large depreciation of the US$ against the Euro increased the contract, in
US$ terms, from its original value of US$60.1 million to US$76.5 million. As of mid-
2008, the available loan funds had been exhausted, but 19 SSs had not yet been updated.
Kazakh legislation does not allow funding of cost overruns on goods and works contracts
without an additional public tender, which barred KEGOC from requesting additional
funds from the Bank to complete the contract.




                                           5
In the interim, KEGOC had entered into a second Loan Agreement (No. 4805 KZ) with
the Bank, in the amount of US$100 million, to finance construction of a section of a new
high voltage N/S Transmission Line and associated SS upgrades. This Project was
closely linked to the Transmission Rehabilitation Project and served the same key PDO
of improving the quality of electricity supply. As of mid-2008, KEGOC had realized cost
savings of US$5.7 million on the N/S Project under the turnkey contract for construction
of the transmission line. In addition, the loan for the N/S line included IBRD financing
for the VAT component of the Project (US$10.2 million).

In November 2008, KEGOC, with support from the GOK therefore proposed a
restructuring of the N/S Project, transferring the remaining automation and protective
relaying work on the SSs from the original Rehabilitation Project to the N/S Project.
KEGOC proposed to fund the additional work by applying cost savings from the N/S
Project to the SS rehabilitation contract and by using its own resources to fund the VAT
component of the N/S Loan. The restructuring will allow satisfactory completion of the
Rehabilitation Project without compromising achievement of the PDOs of the N/S
Project. Modernization of SSs is the core component of transmission rehabilitation and
its completion is critical for the full achievement of the Rehabilitation Project's PDO. At
the same time, the N/S Line cannot operate efficiently and reliably without completion of
the SS upgrades. Based on these considerations, the Bank agreed in January 2009 to the
restructuring of the N/S Project.

The Project's Closing Date was extended twice, first to June 15, 2007 and subsequently
to June 15, 2009 owing to delays in implementation of the SS automation and protective
relaying component.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Soundness of Background Analysis. The Bank team devoted significant initial effort to
developing a clear understanding of the structure and key issues in the power sector.
Over the course of the preparatory missions, extensive discussions were held both with
KEGOC and concerned GOK agencies. In addition, donor TA was mobilized to help in
the technical planning and procurement of the Project. The preparation team also took
careful note of lessons learned from previous power sector work in other FSU countries,
particularly as they related to the pace at which sector reforms should be implemented
and the degree of stakeholder commitment required. As a result, it was possible to define
technical and policy components which enjoyed strong stakeholder support, while at the
same time satisfying Bank requirements for a well-defined project and a meaningful
policy agenda.

Assessment of Project Design. The Project was technically relatively simple, involving
as it did rehabilitation of existing facilities using known technology. Complexity was
added by the fact that it involved almost half of KEGOC's SSs spread over a large
geographic area, and that while the technology was well proven, it was new to the



                                            6
KEGOC team. The works involved at each SS tended to be repetitive (replacement of
circuit breakers, automation of equipment). KEGOC had a relatively strong design and
implementation team and it was expected that experience gained at the initial sites would
facilitate the later stages of implementation. Care was also taken to ensure that KEGOC
had the technical support needed to ensure smooth implementation, through the use of
supply and install contracts and the funding of international consultants to assist initially
in design, procurement and project management. One important shortcoming in Project
design which was overlooked by both the Borrower and the Bank team was an under-
estimate of the extent and complexity of the works required to carry out SS automation.
Design differences among the individual Soviet-design SSs were also underestimated.
Had these differences been better recognized, it might have been possible to better
manage some of the problems that later arose in the implementation of the SS automation
component.

Cofinancing with EBRD was simplified by identifying unique and separable aspects of
the Project which could be financed by each partner. EBRD therefore took primary
responsibility for the upgrade of the communications network, while the Bank funds
focused on the SS improvements, dispatch and TA. Finally, there was a clear and direct
link between the Project's primary objectives (improved transmission system efficiency,
development of the power market) and the items being financed, which minimized the
risk of outside factors interfering with the Project's goals.

In accordance with Bank environmental assessment policy (OP/BP 4.01), the Project was
assigned "Category B" (modest impacts, of limited duration and extent and largely
reversible). Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) of good technical quality were
prepared by KEGOC for each MES (Regional Branch Office) addressing the key issues
of waste management (disposal, recycling/reuse of older equipment, materials to be
replaced, etc.) and electromagnetic field levels of the rehabilitated system when
energized.

Adequacy of GOK Commitment and Stakeholder Involvement. Kazakhstan was a
leader among the FSU countries in the restructuring of the power sector and the
commercialization/corporatization of sector enterprises. The country's commitment to
establishing an efficient, modern infrastructure was clear both from its actions and from
its support for the commercial operation of the sector participants. The GOK (through
especially the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources) was closely involved both in
Project design and in establishing the reform agenda. As such, reforms such as
establishment of the spot market and adoption of a Grid Code were adopted with virtually
no resistance.

Assessment of Risks. At the time of appraisal, the Project team identified three key risks
and associated mitigation measures as summarized in the table below. In each case, the
mitigation measures proved to be adequate to offset the associated risks.




                                             7
Risk                                    Rating      Risk Mitigation
GOK's failure in adjusting                 S        GOK will be required to enter into agreement
transmission tariff to cover costs,                 with KEGOC to adjust tariffs to a level
reasonable return and Project-related               enabling KEGOC to fully recover its costs
incremental revenue needs.                          and to meet its counterpart funding and debt
                                                    service requirements under the Project.

Lower than predicted improvement           S        GOK to (i) enable KEGOC to implement
in KEGOC's collection performance                   measures aimed at improving collection,
resulting in reduced ability to                     including vigorously cutting off supplies to
mobilize counterpart funding and                    non-payers; (ii) separate REKs from
service the loans.                                  KEGOC; and (iii) privatize REKs.

Delay in project implementation due        S        KEGOC to (i) maintain an adequately staffed
to KEGOC's lack of experience with                  and well-structured Project Management
(i) implementing large projects; and                Unit; (ii) put in place a procurement
(ii) procurement under International                monitoring and contract management system;
Competitive Bidding.                                (iii) contract international consultants with
                                                    proven skills in similar projects; and (iv) take
                                                    training in Bank procurement and
                                                    disbursement and on-the-job training by
                                                    experienced consultants. The Bank to provide
                                                    strong Project supervision.

                 Overall Risk Rating       S

The cost estimate included substantial physical and price contingencies. However, these
proved to be inadequate to offset the unanticipated and drastic shift in the value of the
US$ vis-a-vis the Euro, leading to the funding shortage discussed above. In retrospect, it
might have been prudent, once the size of the SS automation and protective relaying
contract was known, to suggest that KEGOC acquire a futures contract for the purchase
of the Euros needed in order to reduce their foreign exchange risk.

The risk assessment did not specifically address the risk of Project delays caused by the
failure of the SS Contractor to provide adequate staff to fulfill their contract in a timely
manner. Contractor failure is usually dealt with through careful pre-screening of bidders
(which was done in this instance) and through performance conditions in the contract
(which were also included, but would have been costly and time-consuming to enforce).
However, any additional risk mitigation measures (for example, splitting the contract
among a number of suppliers) would under normal circumstances have been contrary to
procurement efficiency. Hence, there was no shortcoming in Project quality at entry
associated with failing to mitigate the delays caused by the performance of the
Contractor, a leading engineering company which was generally viewed as having a good
reputation.

QAG Review. A Quality at Entry review was carried out in the Spring of 2000 and
ranked the Project as Marginally Unsatisfactory. Discussion of the findings of the review
is contained in Section 5.1(a). The Region issued a Note of Dissent dated April 7, 2000.


                                               8
2.2 Implementation

Success during Project implementation is at least in part attributable to the constancy of
the parties involved both on the side of the Borrower and on the side of the Bank. The
key staff in KEGOC's Project Management Department (PMD) remains largely the same
today as at the time of Board presentation. Where staff had to be replaced during the
course of the Project, care was taken to ensure qualified individuals were appointed and
that there was adequate transition and training to maintain smooth implementation
progress. On the Bank side, the TTL and Economist/Financial Analyst have been with
the Project since Board presentation. The initial Project Engineer stayed with the team
until all of the procurement had been completed. As a result, a pattern of mutual respect
and understanding was developed which made it possible to overcome hurdles that arose
during implementation.

Initiatives at the GOK level progressed well owing to the GOK's support for the legal
and institutional changes. There was a slight delay in the adoption of a Grid Code
because the consultants did not complete their work until mid-July, 2001. However,
adoption within the GOK proceeded smoothly.
An effective training program in Bank procedures, together with the willingness of PMD
staff to learn, also contributed to effective implementation. Qualified Bank procurement,
disbursement and financial management staff in the offices in Almaty and Astana were
also available to provide day-to-day assistance in procedures. The strict routine of semi-
annual supervision missions also ensured that implementation issues were caught and
addressed at an early stage. The TA provided in Project management was less successful,
at least during the early stages. KEGOC prided itself on its ability to manage large and
complex engineering projects and initially tended to act without closely involving the
resident advisor. The supervision missions were ultimately able to act as an impartial
intermediary to resolve this issue, however, and the advisor ultimately became a
reasonably well-functioning member of the implementation team.

The main problem that arose during implementation was the slow progress on the
contract for SS automation and protective relaying. Implementation of this component
lagged from the date of contract signing (April 2003). The Bank mission of May 2004
flagged the risk of further delays and called for accelerated implementation. The mission
proposed remedial actions, including the need for increased Contractor manpower on the
Project and better work coordination on the ground. On September 29, 2004, the
Contractor proposed to extend the contractual time schedule to mid-2009 as opposed to
end-2006 in accordance with the original contractual schedule. Numerous meetings were
held over subsequent months and years, with the Bank granting a two-year extension in
the Loan Closing Date (to June 15, 2007) in response to action plans agreed between
KEGOC and the Contractor. However, while the Contractor made modest improvements
in design procedures and in staffing, they consistently failed to adhere to the revised
agreed implementation schedules. It was only by the end of 2006 that the Contractor
made substantive improvements in its implementation procedures and staffing. In early
2007, the Bank granted an additional two-year extension to the Loan Closing Date (to
June 15, 2009) based on an agreed schedule that envisaged SS work substantially


                                            9
completed by the end of 2009. Ultimately the restructuring that took place in January
2009 (see section 1.7) in response to the serious funding shortfall also helped to resolve
the timing issue by transferring the remaining works under the SS automation contract to
the N/S Project.

The Project was never deemed to be at risk during the course of implementation. It
maintained a generally "satisfactory" rating with respect to PDO and IP throughout.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The M&E program outlined in the PAD was an integral part of the Project Outcomes and
Outputs matrix. As such, indicators were generally directly relevant to the achievement
of the CAS objectives, the PDO and the PIP. Data collection was based on either the
observed accomplishment of goals (e.g., implementation of the spot market), on
observations of supervision missions, and/or on data which was collected as a part of
KEGOC's normal operation. In general, the M&E indicators were based on specific
performance targets (power transfer capability, collections performance of the Borrower,
etc.) and thereby avoided the problems often associated with indicators (e.g., system-
wide performance improvements) that cannot be achieved owing to the impact of other
factors which could not be controlled (e.g., unanticipated load growth, performance
failure in un-rehabilitated parts of the network).

Mission Aide-Memoires and PSRs/ISRs indicate that data related to the achievement of
most monitoring indicators was collected consistently throughout the Project. When
implementation schedule problems arose, these became immediately apparent and
corrective actions were initiated. (Unfortunately, as noted above, the Contractor failed to
respond in any meaningful manner to early requests by KEGOC and the Bank team that
manpower assigned to the SS automation contract be increased.) Data on some of the
system-wide indicators highlighted other performance problems in the network which
ultimately led to further IBRD Loans (N/S Transmission Line and the Moinak
Transmission Line which was approved on September 15, 2009) and the current
preparation of a fourth Bank-funded project (Alma Electricity Transmission Project).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The primary issues triggered by the Project were Environmental Assessment (EA) and
Financial Management (FM). With respect to the former, an EA was carried out during
Project preparation, and an EMP was prepared. Implementation of the EMP was closely
followed by KEGOC, and the Bank supervision team received regular reports of the
contracts for orderly removal of old equipment, transformer oils and scrap metal, and the
status of measurements of electric and magnetic fields.

Safeguards implementation for ten projects, including the subject operation, was
independently reviewed by the ECA Safeguards Team in 2006. With respect to this
Project, it was concluded:




                                            10
   Effectiveness of safeguards implementation process (both at design and
    implementation) was "Very Good."
   Safeguards implementation capacity of KEGOC was "Very Good."
   Coordination with environmental authorities was "Good."

An FM reporting process was established at the start of implementation with the
assistance of the Bank's FM Specialist. A Project accounting system was established as
well as a format for ongoing quarterly reporting. These were later integrated into the
company's MIS. The quarterly reports, together with the annual audit reports were
consistently submitted in a timely manner and were acceptable for the Bank. Bank
reviews of KEGOC's FM system were carried out in March 2005, October 2006 and
October 2008 as part of the FM Supervision of the N/S Project. The following areas of
the Project FM arrangements were covered: planning and budgeting; Project accounting and
reporting arrangements; internal control procedures; funds flow, including counterpart funding;
external audits; and capacity of accounting staff. FM arrangements established by KEGOC
were found to be fully satisfactory and KEGOC's performance to be fully compliant with
Bank standards.

All procurement was carried out consistent with Bank Guidelines and in accordance with
the methods and thresholds specified in the LA. Procurement plans were reviewed and
updated during each mission. Consultant support for procurement was brought on line
early in the implementation period (October 2000). The technical complexity of some of
the components led to some early delays in preparation of the technical specifications
(which were, in many cases, being prepared with the assistance of consultants).
However, by the end of 2003 virtually all contracts for equipment and services had been
signed and several had been completed.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

A significant portion of the investments financed by the Project was the replacement of
existing HV equipment; this is now largely operational and has been fully integrated into
KEGOC's operating and maintenance program. Extensive training was provided for the
SCADA/EMS systems and KEGOC appears to be having no difficulties with the new
hardware and software.

The unfinished part of the contract for SS automation has been transferred, under Project
restructuring, to the N/S Project, so funding for its completion is secured. About 40 SSs
are expected to be fully commissioned by end-2009 with the remaining 27 SSs to be
completed during 2010-11. In addition, KEGOC has arranged funding from EBRD
(EUR 255 million) to carry out rehabilitation of those SSs that were not covered under
the subject Project.

A legal basis has been established for the tariff-setting methodology and the Regulator
continues to set transmission tariffs that fully reflect KEGOC's operating costs and
investment needs. In addition, the state holding company (SamrukKazyna, the sole
shareholder of KEGOC) has pledged additional equity injections to cover any cash-flow



                                              11
shortfalls that might arise as a result of the ongoing investment program. As a result,
there appears to be adequate provision to ensure the financial sustainability of the
company.

A solid legal and institutional framework has been established for electricity trade and the
organized spot market (KOREM) has grown to be a significant part (about one-fifth) of
wholesale electricity trading, marking high liquidity in international comparison. The
competitive market for power supply has now expanded to include a real-time balancing
market, which was introduced under the N/S Project and is currently functioning in a trial
mode.

As regards post-Project M&E, the N/S Project and the Moinak Project provide a basis for
continuing to monitor KEGOCs financial performance as well as sustain the agreed
program of sector reforms. These Projects include the same financial monitoring
indicators as the subject Project, while the former also provided a basis for the
establishment of the balancing market and further reform of the tariff methodology (by
adopting "zonal" transmission tariffs.)

The primary sector issues still to be addressed include broadening the electricity market
to better integrate the other Central Asia power systems and securing the
commercialization of KEGOC and its protection from excessive GOK intervention. With
respect to the former, while this issue remains on the regional agenda, further expansion
of the Central Asia power market is contingent on decisions yet to be made with respect
to expansion of the power supply capabilities of Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan and
agreements on modifying the operating rules of the hydroelectric plants (which are
currently dispatched against irrigation demands).

As regards the commercial independence of KEGOC, GOK intervention to date has been
relatively benign, with the exception of the forced move to Astana which was both costly
to the company and added to the problems of attracting highly qualified personnel.
Generally speaking, SamrukKazyna has limited its involvement to strategic oversight and
approval of KEGOC's capital investment program. Establishing and enforcing clear and
limiting rules with respect to the role of SamrukKazyna in the management of KEGOC's
operations would be a desirable next step.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The Project objectives and design remain highly relevant in the context of Kazakhstan's
development priorities. Kazakhstan has maintained an ongoing commitment to
developing an infrastructure which meets international standards and is capable of
supporting economic growth and development. Establishment of an efficient and reliable
power transmission network and the resultant improvements in the cost and reliability of
power supply, have been key in facilitating the rapid economic growth that has occurred
over much of the course of Project implementation. Although the GOK has reduced its



                                            12
sovereign-guaranteed borrowings in recent years, it continues to provide support for
KEGOCs program of transmission system expansion and upgrade, thereby demonstrating
the importance that it assigns to these initiatives. The PDOs therefore continue to be
highly relevant to the country's development priorities.

The PDO and Project design also remain consistent with the objective of the current CPS,
which is to support the development priorities of the GOK. These include as one of the
key pillars "investing in human capital and infrastructure" given that major segments of
infrastructure (e.g., road and power transmission networks) do not fully meet the needs of
a rapidly expanding economy. As noted above, improving the reliability and efficiency
of electricity supply was a focal point of the Project objectives. Finally, the Project
continues to be consistent with sector strategies for power sector reform, which advocate
corporatization of sector entities where privatization is not a viable option and also the
fostering of competition in the electricity industry to improve cost effectiveness.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

With respect to the achievement of PDOs, the Project (despite the limited completion of
the SS component) has been a success. PDOs and performance relative to the agreed
indicators are summarized in the table below:

PDO                             Indicators and Targets                  Achievement
Improve the reliability and     Improve the stability of N/S tie-line   Power transfer capability of 630 MW
quality of electricity supply   and increase the limit for power        on single line. A second line has
through the refurbishment of    transfer in MW:                         been completed which will increase
transmission SSs and                     2000 2002 2004                 the power transfer capability to 1,350
modernization of the dispatch             500    600      700           MW by the end of 2009.
control system.

                                The average deviation of system         Maximum deviation in system
                                frequency (in mHz) maintained within    frequency is now 20 mHz. The UPS
                                the following limit:                    is operated in parallel with the UPS
                                         2000 2003 2005                 of Russia and the Central Asian
                                          500    250     100            republics.

                                The average deviation of bus voltage    Average deviation in bus voltage is
                                at 220 kV and 500 kV SSs maintained     not measured by KEGOC, but
                                within the following limit:             maximum deviation from the rated
                                         2000 2003 2005                 bus voltage is not more than 5%.
                                       10%        7%        5%

                                Replacement of equipment and            Installation of the SCADA/EMS was
                                automation of dispatch control in       completed in 2006 and has operated
                                accordance with the Project             successfully since then, providing
                                implementation schedule.                improvements in the quality and
                                                                        reliability of electricity supply.
                                                                        Outdated SS equipment has been
                                                                        replaced and approximately two
                                                                        thirds of the SS automation has been
                                                                        completed.


                                Reduction of technical losses in        Technical losses increased initially,
                                transmission from 5.8% in 1998 to 5%    reaching 6.9% in 2005. They
                                or less in 2004 and thereafter.         declined steadily since and were at



                                                     13
                                                                              6.2% in 2008. Failure to achieve the
                                                                              targeted loss reduction is largely due
                                                                              to an almost 40% increase in annual
                                                                              transmission volumes -- which was
                                                                              not anticipated during Project
                                                                              preparation and was caused by the
                                                                              booming economy -- without any
                                                                              substantial expansion of transmission
                                                                              capacity. This increase in line loads
                                                                              over-rode any loss savings achieved
                                                                              owing to replacement of HV
                                                                              equipment and modernization of the
                                                                              NDC and RDCs.
Develop competition through the      Establishment of a commercial            Tariffs for ancillary support services
establishment of a power pool        framework for ancillary network          were incorporated into KEGOC's
and improved access to the           support services to regulate             tariff structure in a transparent
transmission network.                frequency/voltage (by September 30,      manner as a separate component
                                     2000).                                   in January 2002.

                                     Issuance of a Power Grid Code (by        A modern Grid Code was adopted in
                                     December 31, 2000).                      December 2001 and modified from
                                                                              time to time to reflect amendments to
                                                                              the Electricity Law and changing
                                                                              circumstances in the power sector.

                                     Establishment of a Capacity Reserve      The Reserve Pool was established
                                     Pool (by December 31, 1999).             and has been successfully
                                                                              maintained.

                                     Establishment of an Independent          The spot market operator (KOREM)
                                     Market Operator for pool (October 31,    was formally established in 2003 and
                                     2001) and establishment of spot          began electronic trading in early
                                     market [pool] (by October 31, 2002).     2004. Amendments to the Electricity
                                                                              Law in July 2004 created a legal
                                                                              basis for spot trading. In 2008, there
                                                                              were over 100 registered market
                                                                              participants and about one-fifth of
                                                                              wholesale market turnover
                                                                              (equivalent to 9.5 TWh) was traded
                                                                              on the spot market.
Restructure KEGOC into a             KEGOC becoming a well functioning        All non-core activities were divested.
financially viable grid company      grid company focusing on its core        KEGOC is now solely responsible
through full cost recovery for its   activity (by December 31, 1999).         for the development and operation of
services and divesting non-core                                               the transmission network.
businesses.
                                     KEGOC annually achieving the             KEGOC made several Regulator-
                                     following financial performance          approved adjustments to the tariff
                                     targets:                                 methodology over the course of the
                                          Self-financing ratio: 25%          Project. Tariffs are now established
                                          Debt-service cover ratio: 1.5      on a full cost recovery basis,
                                           times                              including a component for return on
                                          Current ratio: 1.2                 investment and achievement of an
                                          Accounts receivable in days:       agreed capital investment plan.
                                      2000 2001 2002 2003 2004                KEGOC became profitable in 2002
                                        70       65      65      60      60   and has continued to be so through
                                                                              2008. The company has also
                                                                              consistently satisfied all financial
                                                                              performance targets.

                                     Implementation of a capacity-based       Zonal tariffs were adopted on May 1,
                                     transmission tariff system (by           2006. These tariffs reflect (i) supply
                                     December 31, 2003).                      deficit in a given power zone



                                                         14
                                                               (region); (ii) constraints on the
                                                               capacity of transmission links to
                                                               other regions; and (iii) capacity
                                                               constraints on intra-regional
                                                               transmission.

In accordance with Bank requirements at the time of Board Presentation, the PDOs were
specific to outcomes that could be directly attributed to Project activities. However, the
PAD also noted a series of sector-related CAS goals, which reflected higher-level
outcome targets and correspond more closely to the criteria for broadly defined PDOs
which were adopted in the early 2000s. The CAS-related goals were as follows:

      Support the transition to a market economy through the development of a
       competitive electricity market.
      Support a sustainable economic development by alleviating the power system
       bottlenecks.
      Catalyze private investments through the rehabilitation and modernization of
       power infrastructure.

Achievement of the first of these goals is partly reflected in the growth of trading on the
electricity spot market (from zero in 2004 to one-fifth of total wholesale trade by 2008).
The success of the spot market has been partly responsible for GOK decisions to establish
a real time balancing market.

With respect to sustainable economic development and stimulation of private
investments, Kazakhstan until very recently enjoyed rapid growth in GDP and in direct
foreign investment. While this may not be directly attributable to improvements in the
quality of electricity supply, the table below shows the consistent link between electricity
demand growth and growth in GDP. It is unlikely that the pace of growth could have
been maintained without the improvements arising as a result of the Project.

                                             2003     2004       2005        2006         2007
GDP Growth (%)                                 9.3      9.6        9.7         10.7         8.7
Foreign Direct Investment (US$ million)       2,213    5,436      2,123       6,626        4,834
Electricity Consumption (TWh)                  62.0     64.8       68.1        71.8         76.4
Growth in electricity consumption (%)                    4.5        5.1         5.4          6.4

3.3 Efficiency

At the time of Project appraisal, it was anticipated that the benefits of the Project would
accrue primarily from savings in operating and maintenance (O&M) costs (including
capital replacement) as a result of upgrading SS equipment and telecommunications
networks, savings in reserve capacity requirements through the establishment of a
capacity reserve pooling system, reductions in the average cost of wholesale power
through more efficient, market-based dispatch of plants, reductions in customer losses
due to outages, reduced transmission losses and savings accruing from more efficient
management of inventories and plant maintenance schedules. The Net Present Value




                                            15
(NPV) was projected to be US$145.7 million and the Economic Internal Rate of Return
(EIRR) as 24.4 percent.

The ex-post analysis, based on past and expected outcomes, yields a NPV of US$141.7
million and an EIRR of 24.1 percent. The primary realized benefits include deferred
capital investment, savings in O&M costs, savings in reserve capacity requirements,
reductions in transmission and outage losses and benefits of avoided carbon emissions
linked to reduced transmission losses. Details of the assumptions and estimated costs and
benefits are in Annex 3.

No Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR) analysis was carried out at the time of
Project appraisal. Realized financial benefits include deferred capital investment, savings
in O&M costs and reductions in transmission losses. The ex-post estimated FIRR for the
Project is 11.0 percent. NPV, discounted at KEGOC's weighted average cost of capital
(6.7 percent) is US$47.4 million.

The economic and financial returns of the Project show a robust benefits stream relative
to the costs incurred from both the national perspective (economic returns) and from the
perspective of the Borrower (financial returns). Overall, the Project can be considered
fully satisfactory in terms of efficient use of resources.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

The Project is considered to have been Satisfactory in terms of overall outcome. As
discussed above, the PDOs remain highly relevant to the priorities of both the GOK and
the Bank's CPS. All of the PDOs have been fulfilled relative to the M&E criteria
established at the time of Board presentation. As a result of the Project, a legal and
institutional framework has been established that will support the financial sustainability
of KEGOC and provide a basis for further development of competitive electricity
markets. In addition, the Project investments have made a significant contribution to the
sector-related CAS goals set out in the PAD. Moreover, the economic and financial
benefits of the Project have been substantial, notwithstanding the fact that one of the key
components (SS automation) is not yet fully complete and another (MIS) was only
partially implemented owing to the shortage of funds.

The only factor which argues against a Highly Satisfactory rating is the failure to
complete a part of the SS automation component  which was due both to a shortage of
funds (owing to the severe depreciation of the US$) and to the initially weak
implementation performance of the Contractor. While these events were unusual, had
they been anticipated at an early stage, mitigation options might have been available
(currency hedging, renegotiation and possibly splitting of the SS contract). On this basis,
Satisfactory rating is better justified.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development


                                            16
N/A

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Kazakhstan has become a model for other former FSU countries, having created an
efficient, profitable and commercially oriented Grid Operator, a reasonably effective
sector Regulator and a competitive power market within the framework of an overall
sound institutional and legal framework. While the infrastructure is not yet up to
international standards, this is attributable more to the scale of rehabilitation and
expansion required as a result of the country's geographic scope and history of chronic
under-investment during the Soviet era rather than to any significant failure on the part of
the GOK or sector institutions. Generally speaking, the country and its institutions have
established a solid foundation for expansion and development to meet the electricity
needs of a rapidly growing economy.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

An additional Project outcome, which was not anticipated in PDOs, includes follow-up
investments in strengthening the power network and improving the reliability of
electricity supply, such as the N/S Project, Moinak Project and the Alma Transmission
Project. The subject Project has significantly contributed to this outcome through
institutional development and capacity building in KEGOC and its financial
strengthening.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The risk to development outcome has been evaluated with respect to a number of criteria.
The findings are summarized below:

Technical Risks: Manageable and low. Most of the technologies introduced are well
established and KEGOC has received extensive training in the application of those that
were new to the company. There is a modest risk inherent in the delay in completing the
SS automation. While RTUs and relay protection have been installed at 44 of the SSs,
KEGOC has completed connections between the switchyard and the new terminals at
only 20 SSs. Hence, there are still 24 substations where the automation has not yet been
fully tested and commissioned for regular operation. However, the automation and
protection systems that have been completed to date have been successfully tested and
there is no reason to anticipate problems with the final commissioning of the upgraded
equipment at the remaining stations.



                                            17
Financial Risks: Moderate. The Regulator has consistently granted tariff increases
sufficient to cover KEGOC's full operating costs (as required under the tariff-adequacy
covenant of the Guarantee Agreement), and the parent company, SamrukKazyna has
committed to provide additional equity injections to cover any potential liquidity
problems associated with KEGOC's ambitious capital investment program. KEGOC has
been consistently profitable since 2002 and has maintained collections at close to 100
percent. Nevertheless, KEGOC has substantial debt service obligations as a result of its
large capital investment program. Most of this is denominated in foreign currency, so the
recent (January 2009) 18 percent devaluation of the KZT has significantly increased the
annual debt service burden in local currency terms. The company's current medium-
term Corporate Development Plan envisions substantial additional investments in system
rehabilitation and capacity expansion over the next 7 years, which will further add to the
company's cash flow burden and place upward pressure on tariffs.

Economic Risks: Moderate. These encompass risks at the country and global level.
Nationally, Kazakhstan faces the risk of a possibly protracted period of moderate
economic growth which would lead in turn to slower growth in the demand for
electricity. This risk is linked to uncertainty regarding the future state of world
commodity markets, since commodity exports are a key component of the country's GDP
and exports.

Environmental Risks: Low. The EA rating of Category B reflected an initial view that
the environmental risks were of limited scope. This assessment of risk has remained
during Project implementation. The independent ECA review of safeguards
implementation concluded that the environmental impact of the Project was "Neutral to
Good".

Government Commitment: Moderate. The GOK remains committed to developing a
modern infrastructure to support economic development, which includes modernization
and expansion of the HV transmission network as well as expansion of generation
capacity and inter-regional electricity trade. However, government revenues continue to
be largely dependent on revenues from oil/commodity exports and hence are subject to
wide fluctuations. If government revenue becomes unduly stressed, there is a risk that its
overall commitment to the costly infrastructure modernization program may falter.

Governance: Moderate. KEGOC has benefitted in the past from a strong and capable
management group, which has generally enjoyed the support of GOK agencies
responsible for overall policy setting. As a result, the commercial focus of the company
has been exemplary and political interference minimal. Hopefully, the company will be
able to continue on this track, but this has not always been the case with state-owned-
enterprises in Kazakhstan and there is a small degree of background risk that KEGOC's
commercial decisions may be over-ridden by political concerns.




                                           18
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the assessment of the Project preparation and design outlined in Section 2.1,
Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated as Satisfactory. Objectives were
well defined and consistent with country priorities, components were consistent with
objectives and implementation and safeguard issues2 were dealt with consistent with
Bank standards. Economic and financial projections were appraised based on detailed
review and consultation with KEGOC and incorporated the best knowledge available at
the time. The failure to fully recognize early on the implementation risks of the SS
automation component is a shortcoming in overall Bank performance.

As noted earlier, a Quality at Entry Assessment was carried out shortly after Board
presentation (in April 2000) and gave the Project a rating of 3 (Marginally
Unsatisfactory), stating that institutional and financial risks relating to the implementing
agency had not been adequately addressed. The Panel argued that the Project fell short of
requirements in terms of either establishing that KEGOC had sufficient institutional and
financial capacity to carry out the Project and/or setting up an action plan to develop the
requisite level of competence and as such carried an "inordinate risk." In a Note of
Dissent, the ECA region challenged this rating on the grounds that these risks had been
identified and mitigation actions proposed. The Region suggested that the Panel had
focused excessively on the past performance of the company and failed to take into
account the covenants relating to improved financial performance and the recent
restructuring of the company and changes in management. As it turned out, KEGOC's
financial performance has been strong and at no point during Project implementation
"inordinate risk" (financial or institutional) has been encountered.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Supervision of the Project was carried out on a regular basis, with twice-yearly missions
staffed by qualified specialists. All aspects of Project implementation were addressed
during the missions, potential problem areas were highlighted, early warnings were
issued when implementation problems surfaced, steps to resolve issues were agreed with
the Borrower and subsequent missions followed up on the outcomes.



2
  As indicated above, the Project was rated Category B for EA and no other safeguard policies were triggered. The team
provided KEGOC with detailed requirements for preparation of the EMP and associated requirements for public
consultation and disclosure. World Bank EA procedures during project design were assessed as "Very Good" by the
ECA Safeguards Review performed in 2006.




                                                         19
The Task Team reviewed the implementation of the EMP during each supervision
mission. Supervision reports and correspondence indicate that quarterly PMRs were
received and reviewed in a timely manner, as were annual audited financial reports.

Shortcomings in supervision relate primarily to the SS automation component. While the
supervision missions noted the inadequacy of the Contractor's performance at an early
stage, they might have been more aggressive in pressing for a resolution of the issue.
However, the selected Contractor's bid was significantly lower than that of the
competition, so financial considerations (as well as time and the generally good
reputation of the Contractor) were a definite disincentive to KEGOC's taking action to
cancel the contract and switch to an alternative supplier. The fact that the Bank was not
party to the contract largely limited the scope for Bank intervention.

The supervision missions were also unaware until 2007 that KEGOC was not performing
adequately in carrying out their end of the SS automation component, viz the cable
connection of the newly installed equipment to the switchyards. While it was agreed
during the October 2007 mission that KEGOC would assign additional staff to this
component and hire additional local contractors, the mission was advised in May 2008
that this continued to be an issue, with each party (KEGOC and the Contractor) claiming
that the other is the source of delays. Notwithstanding the relative merits of the cases, as
the contract nears its close, the Contractor is able to assign part of the blame for delays on
non-performance by KEGOC. It is unfortunate that this issue was not addressed more
forcefully during earlier supervision missions or addressed as part of the support for
contract management.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources was the primary GOK counterpart. The
Ministry provided the necessary support to implementation of such aspects as the
restructuring of KEGOC, adoption of a Grid Code and implementation of a spot market
in compliance with covenants in the Guarantee Agreement. They were also supportive of
the Regulator's decisions to approve transmission and dispatch tariffs that were adequate
to maintain KEGOC's financial viability and compliance with financial covenants.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory




                                             20
KEGOC complied with the covenants in the LA on a consistent basis, including the
timely submission of quarterly PMRs. PMD staff quickly learned to take over
responsibility for procurement and project implementation scheduling. Staff was always
well prepared for missions and complied promptly and fully with requests for
supplementary information. Field trips to observe implementation progress were
efficiently organized and missions received attention of the top management.

In terms of technical implementation, there was close cooperation between the PMD and
the operations staff charged with supervising design and implementation. While initial
response to consultant input was guarded in some instances, the staff ultimately
developed a co-operative and supportive working relationship with the outside
specialists.   The primary shortfall in performance relates to the planning and
implementation of the SS automation and specifically cabling to connect the automated
switching equipment to the SS control room. However, KEGOC has taken steps to
correct this problem lately so as to avoid causing any further delays in the final testing
and commissioning of the new equipment.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

6. Lessons Learned

Highlights of the lessons learned from the evaluation of the Project are listed below:

-      Risks associated with fluctuating exchange rates should be hedged if a significant
proportion of the expenditures financed by the loan are in a currency different from the
Loan currency.

-      Client and possible internal Bank pressures for an unrealistically short
implementation timetable for unusually complex and large operations should be resisted
by sector management and TTLs.

-      Procurement and implementation arrangements for technically complex project
components (such as the SS automation) should be carefully aligned with the real
capacity of the Contractor and the implementing agency.

 -     Borrower-financed components which are on the critical path for Project
implementation (such as the cable work under the subject operation) require careful and
timely monitoring to prevent their holding up the implementation of other Project
components.

-       Close involvement of the implementing agency in project design, together with
attentiveness to their views, helps to build a cooperative relationship between the Bank
and the Borrower.




                                            21
-      Continuity of Bank and Borrower personnel helps to create mutual respect and
understanding which in turn facilitates resolution of problems that arise during the course
of implementation.

-      Transferring slow-moving components to other projects with the same Borrower
should be considered in order to avoid prolonging Project closure, particularly in
instances where PDOs are similar and additional financing is not a viable option.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

KEGOC's ICR is attached in Annex 7. The report makes it clear that the company
benefitted substantially from its participation in the Project in a number of ways
including achievement of improved power supply, improved financial viability and
institutional development.

(b) Cofinanciers

EBRD's comments on the draft ICR are included in Annex 8. EBRD also notes the
problems associated with completion delays, but has rated the project as Satisfactory
from its own perspectives.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

N/A




                                            22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                               Actual/Latest
                                     Appraisal Estimate                                 Percentage of
           Components                                          Estimate (USD
                                      (USD millions)                                     Appraisal
                                                                  millions)
REFURBISHMENT OF
TRANSMISSION                                  132.6                   255.8                192.9
SUBSTATIONS
MODERNIZATION OF
DISPACH CONTROL
                                               49.2                    74.5                151.4
INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT
                                                 4.9                     0                   0
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                             5.0                     3.4                68.0

             Total Baseline Cost              191.7                    331.5               174.1
Physical Contingencies                         21.2                      0.00               0.00
Price Contingencies                            15.3                      0.00               0.00
              Total Project Costs             228.3                    331.5               146.2
Front-end fees                                   2.0                     1.9                95.0
Commitment fees                                  1.2                     2.8               233.3
Interest during construction                    26.9                    28.7               106.7

      Total Financing Required                258.4                    367.1               142.2

Note: Figures for individual components differ slightly from those in the PAD. The above table corrects
errors in the summation of local and foreign costs.

(b) Financing
                                                            Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                            Type of         Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                          Cofinancing        (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                            millions)   millions)
 European Bank for Reconstruction
                                            Loan              45.00             42.3             94
and Development3
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                            Loan              140.00            140.0            100
and Development
 Borrower                              Internal Funds         73.10             184.8            252




3
   At the time of Project appraisal, EBRD had agreed in principle to a loan of US$56 million. Shortly
thereafter, they reduced the loan amount to US$45 million. KEGOC agreed to fund the difference from its
own resources.



                                                   23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Refurbishment of Transmission Substations

This component of the Project had three sub-components, as itemized below. The first
and third of these were intended primarily to improve the stability and reliability of the
transmission system. The second (SS automation) was also aimed at improving system
reliability, but was also linked to the centralization and automation of dispatch control,
feeding essential information to the national and regional dispatch centers.

Sub-component                         Status                              Outputs
Modernization of HV equipment         Installation complete and           Outdated and/or faulty equipment
at 30 SSs.                            equipment operational.              replaced at SSs to reduce forced
                                      Component expanded to cover         outages, improve network
                                      replacement of equipment at 53      reliability, and reduce O&M
                                      SS.                                 expenditures. Included
                                                                          replacement of circuit breakers,
                                                                          disconnect switches,
                                                                          transformers, surge arresters,
                                                                          insulators and station batteries.
Replacement of protective             Expanded to 67 SSs. Complete        RTUs and protective relaying
relaying and automation of 63         with the exception of 19 SSs        installed at 44 SSs and linked to
SSs.                                  which were transferred to the N/S   SCADA system. This allows
                                      Project for full completion.        centralized monitoring and
                                                                          control of the HV network.
Installation of shunt reactors in 9   Installation complete and           Improved stability and voltage of
SSs.                                  equipment operational.              the network and facilitated stable
                                                                          operation of the N/S
                                                                          interconnector.


Component 2: Modernization of Dispatch Control

Sub-component                         Status                              Outputs
Supply and installation of            Installation and training           Real-time data on system status
SCADA system at 9 RDCs and            complete.                           available to dispatch centers
SCADA/EMS at NDC.                                                         allows better management and
                                                                          monitoring of network.
Reinforcement of                      Installation and training           All KEGOC departments and
telecommunication system.             complete.                           regional affiliates have been
                                                                          incorporated into a company-
                                                                          wide telecommunications system.
Installation of electricity trade     Installation and training           System serves as a base for
system.                               complete.                           operation of the spot market.
Installation of commercial            Installation and training           Better measurement of electricity
metering system.                      complete.                           flows and tracking of losses




                                                      24
Component 3: Institutional Development

Sub-component                         Status                            Outputs
Installation of a company-wide        Dropped from Bank-financing
MIS.                                  due to shortage of funds. Being
                                      implemented by KEGOC using
                                      own funds.
Internal corporate restructuring of   Reorganizing and stream-lining    The organizational structure
KEGOC.                                of company activities is          facilitates effective operations,
                                      substantially complete.           planning and FM. Functions are
                                                                        clearly defined, overlap is
                                                                        minimized and necessary
                                                                        coordination among departments
                                                                        is effectively managed.



Component 4: Technical Assistance

Sub-component                         Status                            Outputs
TA for the procurement and            TA completed.                     In addition to effectively dealing
project management.                                                     with procurement and project
                                                                        management for the subject
                                                                        Project, the PMD is now fully
                                                                        capable of handling new projects
                                                                        without the need for much
                                                                        additional technical support.
TA for the design and                 TA completed.                     The SCADA/EMS system was
procurement of SCADA/EMS,                                               procured and installed and is
electricity trade system,                                               being successfully operated by
protective relaying and SS                                              KEGOC personnel.
automation.
TA for the design and                 TA completed.                     TA provided a basis for the
procurement of MIS.                                                     design of an MIS which is now
                                                                        being implemented by KEGOC.
TA for the development of Grid        TA completed.                     The Grid Code was adopted in
Code.                                                                   accordance with the agreed
                                                                        schedule. It has since been
                                                                        amended to conform with
                                                                        amendments to the Electricity
                                                                        Law and reflect changing
                                                                        conditions in the sector.
TA for establishment of               TA completed.                     The spot market operator
independent operation of the                                            (KOREM) was formally
wholesale electricity pool.                                             established in 2003 and began
                                                                        electronic trading in early 2004.
TA for training in transmission       TA completed.                     KEGOC now successfully carries
system planning.                                                        out the planning of required
                                                                        transmission system
                                                                        enhancements including additions
                                                                        to transmission capacity and SS
                                                                        expansion/upgrades




                                                      25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

At the time of appraisal, it was anticipated that the benefits of the Project would accrue
primarily from savings in O&M costs (including capital replacement) as a result of
upgrading SS equipment and telecommunications networks, savings in reserve generation
capacity requirements through the establishment of a capacity reserve pooling (sharing)
system, reductions in the average cost of wholesale power through more efficient,
market-based dispatch of plants, reductions in customer losses due to outages, reduced
transmission losses and savings accruing from more efficient management of inventories
and plant maintenance schedules. The NPV was projected to be US$145.7 million and
the EIRR as 24.4 percent.

Some aspects of the ex-post assessment of the Project's efficiency are complicated by
difficulties in separating the Project's positive impacts from the countervailing impacts of
system growth which has taken place over the period of implementation and also from
the impacts of other new investments. Since 2000, for example, both total electricity
consumption and peak demand have grown by approximately 5 percent per year. Over
the same period, transmission losses declined from 6.7 percent to 6.2 percent. In the
absence of new transmission lines, transmission losses would be expected to increase in
proportion to the increased load, so the loss reduction implies a significant Project
benefit. However, in 2008, KEGOC commissioned a segment of the new N/S line which
significantly increased transmission capacity on the main transmission route. Separating
the impact of the subject operation from that of the N/S line requires judgments which
may compromise the reliability of the analysis.

Improvements in the economic dispatch of generating plants also proved difficult to
isolate. Dispatch of the low-cost generating stations in the north was constrained by lack
of adequate transmission capacity to the rapidly growing southern markets and by
bilateral contracts negotiated between buyers and sellers of power. Savings in
telecommunications expenditures as a result of the Project were difficult to measure,
since KEGOC significantly extended its corporate telecommunications network over the
Project period and does not maintain separate accounts for parts of the system related to
the Project expenditures.

A review of KEGOC's operating and financial statistics since inception of the Project
indicates that the Project has had a measurable impact on a number of performance
indicators, including total transmission losses, losses due to forced outages and
expenditures on system maintenance and repair. The figure below shows how these
indicators have changed since 2000 in comparison with the total transmission volumes.
In all instances, there has been an improvement in performance  most markedly in terms
of the amount spent on system maintenance and repair.




                                            26
As part of the ex-post assessment of Project economic efficiency, estimated values were
developed for the key measurable benefits that have accrued to date and are likely to be
sustained. The main benefit categories and the underlying assumptions are discussed
below:

Avoided Repair Costs. KEGOC's repair costs have declined dramatically since the
beginning of the Project, both in terms of cost/kWh of transmission services and in
absolute terms as well. In estimating the Project benefits, it was assumed that in the
without-Project scenario, repair costs per kWh would have increased in real terms by 5
percent per year. Maintenance and repair cost with the Project were taken at actual
values through 2008. Beyond 2008, they were assumed to increase in proportion to
transmission volume. However, in the without-Project scenario, it was assumed (see
below) that KEGOC would eventually have made the investments that were made under
the Project, in order to avoid increasingly prohibitive costs associated with repair of
outdated equipment. Hence, the Project benefits of avoided repair costs were reduced as
the without-Project investments were implemented.

Avoided Replacement of Equipment. Having implemented the Project, KEGOC is able
to avoid/defer future replacement and/or installation of the selected equipment. To
account for this benefit, it was assumed that in the absence of the Project, KEGOC would
have made investments of a similar value with a 7-year time lag. Since this deferred
investment program is likely to be on a more ad hoc basis than the Project, a 10 percent
penalty was also applied to the total cost. As noted above, once the replacement



                                          27
equipment is in place, the other benefits of the Project were assumed to decline in
proportion to the completion status of the replacement Project.

Avoided Transmission Losses. As mentioned earlier, it is difficult to separate the effects
of the Project investment from those of other investments with respect to transmission
losses. KEGOC does, however, prepare an annual "normative" figure for expected losses
which are based on transmission capacity and the expected transmission volumes. The
difference between the standard losses and the actual losses experienced since Project
inception were taken as an indication of the Project's benefits. Avoided transmission
losses were valued at KEGOC's cost of purchasing losses.

Avoided System Outages. Losses associated with forced system outages were linked to
transmission volumes and were assumed to increase, in the without-Project scenario, at a
rate of 2 percent per year. The expected without-Project losses were compared with the
actual losses due to forced outage over the period of Project implementation. After 2008,
future outage losses with the Project were taken at the 2008 level relative to projected
transmission volumes. Avoided outage losses were valued at a weighted average of
customer willingness to pay for electricity, net of the cost of generation (which would not
be lost in the event of a forced outage).

The estimated value of the measured savings was small (maximum of US$24,000 per
year). However, the value of avoided system outages is not limited to the avoided cost of
lost electricity. KEGOC can incur substantial costs in responding on an emergency basis
to system failures. In addition, customers can incur substantial losses (equipment
damage, cost of mitigation) in the event of outages which exceed the willingness to pay
associated with the tariff. However, KEGOC does not maintain separate statistics
relating to the cost of emergency maintenance and customer responses to system
unreliability have not been surveyed in a comprehensive manner. Consequently, these
additional benefits were omitted from the analysis.

Savings in Reserve Capacity Requirements. At the time of Project inception, KEGOC's
system information and communications were inadequate to support a central pool of
emergency reserve capacity. As a result, there were frequent delays in responding to
capacity shortfalls and major customers were obliged to make their own arrangements
(usually in the form of direct contracts) for reserve capacity. Consultant studies at the
time estimated that the contracted reserves of these customers were in the order of 2,000
MW. Had the status quo continued, this would undoubtedly have increased as the
capacity requirements of major customers grew. As a condition of the Loan, a capacity
reserve pool was established and successfully maintained in the Kazakh power market,
which allowed a significant reduction in the need for reserves to serve major customers.
At the time of appraisal, the potential saving in reserve requirements was estimated to be
900 MW.

There was no ex-post assessment of the extent of separate contracting for capacity
reserves. However, a functioning capacity reserve pool has responded in a timely fashion
to capacity shortages, so it seems fair to say that the need for customers to maintain



                                            28
separate reserves has been substantially reduced.  The value of the capacity reserve
benefit was estimated at US$18/kW/year which is equivalent to the tariff charged by the
Central Asian grid for balancing capacity.

Environmental Benefits of Avoided Transmission Losses. The final category of benefits
measured were the carbon emissions avoided as a result of avoided transmission losses.
The total tons of carbon associated with the avoided losses were calculated based on coal-
fired generation and valued at recent average prices for carbon credits under the Clean
Development Mechanism, viz. US$13.50 per ton.

Based on these assumptions, the EIRR of the Project is estimated at 24.1 percent. NPV
(using the 10 percent discount rate used in the initial analysis) is US$141.7 million. Cost
and benefit calculations are summarized in Table 3.1 below.

The FIRR analysis was based on essentially the same assumptions as the economic
analysis. However, measurable benefits were restricted to avoided repair costs, avoided
future replacement of equipment and avoided transmission losses. While there is also
some financial benefit associated with avoided losses due to forced outages, this was
insignificant when valued at the transmission tariff. As with economic benefits,
emergency response costs associated with forced outages are difficult to determine and
were omitted from the analysis.

The estimated FIRR of the Project is 11.0 percent (real) and the NPV, discounted at
KEGOC's weighted average cost of capital, is US$47.4 million. Table 3.2 below
provides details of the FIRR calculations.

The economic and financial returns of the Project show a robust benefits stream relative
to the costs incurred from both the national perspective (economic returns) and from the
perspective of the Borrower (financial returns). Overall, the Project can be considered
fully satisfactory in terms of efficient use of resources.




                                            29
Table 3.1
Economic Efficiency
2000 US$ million

                                   2000    2001     2002     2003     2004    2005    2006   2007   2008   2009   2010    2011    2012   2013   2014   2015


Project Costs
                                   10.9     7.6     17.1     63.1     56.3    40.4    30.6   19.4   30.8

Project Benefits
Avoided Repair Costs
                                    0.8     0.6      1.8      5.6     10.1    11.6    14.4   18.1   21.6   16.5    18.1    16.1   13.4   10.9    8.0    5.7
Avoided Future Replacement of
Equipment*                             -       -        -        -        -       -      -   11.9    8.4   18.8    69.4    62.0   44.5   33.7   21.3   33.9
Avoided Transmission Losses
                                       -    1.8      0.6      1.1      2.1    (0.3)    1.7    0.3    0.6    1.7     2.3     2.4    2.3    2.1    1.8    1.3
Avoided System Outages
                                    0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Saving in Reserve Capacity
Requirements                                                          19.3    20.1    21.2   22.7   22.7   22.7    22.7    22.7   22.7   22.7   22.7   22.7
Environmental Benefits of
Reduced Losses                         -    2.9      1.1      1.9      3.5    (0.5)    2.7    0.4    0.5    1.4     1.3     1.0    0.7    0.5    0.3    0.2

Total Benefits
                                    0.8     5.4      3.6      8.7     35.1    30.8    40.2   53.4   53.8   61.1   113.9   104.3   83.6   69.9   54.1   63.8

Net Cash Flow
                                  (10.0)   (2.2)   (13.5)   (54.5)   (21.2)   (9.6)    9.5   34.1   23.0   61.1   113.9   104.3   83.6   69.9   54.1   63.8

EIRR
                                  24.1%
NPV 2000 - 10% Discount Rate
                                  141.7

* 7 year delay plus 10% premium
for emergency




                                                                               30
Table 3.2
Financial Efficiency
2000 US$ million

                                   2000        2001       2002       2003       2004       2005        2006       2007       2008       2009       2010       2011       2012       2013       2014       2015


 Project Costs                 10.9        7.6        17.1       63.1       56.3       40.4        30.6       19.4       30.8       -          -          -          -          -                     -
                               -           -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
 Project Benefits              -           -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
 Avoided Repair Costs          0.8         0.6        1.8        5.6        10.1       11.6        14.4       18.1       21.6       16.5       18.1       16.1       13.4       10.9       8.0        5.7
 Avoided Future Replacement                                                                                   11.9       8.4        18.8       69.4       62.0       44.5       33.7       21.3       33.9
 of Equipment*
 Avoided Transmission Losses   -           1.8        0.6        1.1        2.1        (0.3)       1.7        0.3        0.6        1.7        2.3        2.4        2.3        2.1        1.8        1.3


 Total Benefits                0.8         2.4        2.5        6.7        12.3       11.2        16.2       30.3       30.6       37.1       89.8       80.5       60.2       46.6       31.1       40.9


 Net Cash Flow                 (10.0)      (5.2)      (14.6)     (56.4)     (44.1)     (29.2)      (14.4)     11.0       (0.2)      37.1       89.8       80.5       60.2       46.6       31.1       40.9


 FIRR                          11.0%
 WACC                          6.70%
 NPV @ WACC                        $47.4


 * 7 year delay plus 10%
 premium for emergency




                                                                                              31
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
           Names                            Title                  Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Istvan Dobozi                TTL, Lead Energy Economist           ETWES
Dejan Ostojic                Sr. Power Engineer                   ECSIE
Margaret Wilson              Economist/Consultant                 ECSIE
Yolaine Joseph-Lucas         Financial Analyst                    ECSIE
Bernard Baratz               Principal Environmental Specialist
Leonid Vanian                Procurement Specialist               ECSIE
Tariq Hassan                 Sr. Counsel                          LEGEC
Hannah Koilpillai            Sr. Disbursement Officer              LOA
Alma Zhandauletova           Financial Management Specialist       ECC
Ruslan Mamishev              Operations Officer                    ECC
Yukari Tsuchiya              Team Assistant                       ECSIE
Supervision/ICR
Istvan Dobozi                Task Team Leader                     ECSIE
Dejan Ostojic                Sr. Power Engineer                   ECSIE
                             Environmental
Bernard Baratz                                                    ECSPF
                             Specialist/Consultant
Norpulat Daniyarov           Financial Management Specialist      ECSPS
Charles M. Feinstein         Energy Sector Manager                EASNS
Angelica A. Fernandes        Procurement Analyst                  ECSPS
Reinaldo Mendonca            Power Engineer/Consultant            LCSEG
Sergio Gonzalez Coltrinari   Sr. Power Engineer                   ECSSD
Leonid Vanian                Sr. Procurement Spec.                ECSPS
Margaret A. Wilson           Economist/Consultant                 ECSSD
Yuling Zhou                  Senior Procurement Specialist        ECSPS
Josephine Kida               Program Assistant                    ECSSD


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                                                    190.77
  FY00                                            59                      154.02
  FY01                                                                      1.90
  FY02                                                                      2.03
  FY03                                                                      0.00
  FY04                                                                      0.00
  FY05                                                                      0.00



                                             32
  FY06                                  0.00
  FY07                                  0.00
  FY08                                  0.00
                  Total:        59    348.72
Supervision/ICR
  FY99                                   0.00
  FY00                        3         39.18
  FY01                       31        131.28
  FY02                       22        141.58
  FY03                       27        147.45
  FY04                       17        119.93
  FY05                       21        170.01
  FY06                        9         92.28
  FY07                        9         82.80
  FY08                       11         86.85
  FY09                        6        124.04
                  Total:    156      1,135.40




                           33
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
None




                                      34
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
None




                                   35
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project was the first strategic investment
project in Kazakhstan's electric power industry. The project implementation was a part of
reforms carried out by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the sector.
KEGOC JSC developed a program for updating production base, implementation of new
technologies including information technologies and identified major objectives for
establishment of a competitive power market.
Main aim of the project lies in improvement of reliability and quality for customer supply
through modernization of substations, dispatch control and monitoring systems as well as
telecommunication system; creating conditions for wholesale power market sustainable
operation; reduction of operating expenses; and extension of the scope of services
rendered by KEG .
Moreover, the project implementation was closely related to reforms in institutional base
and further power market liberalization.
The project was financed through IBRD and EBRD loans in the total amount of USD 185
million. Whereas USD 2.7 million of EBRD funds under the Rehabilitation Project were
reallocated to the Project "Construction of 500 kV Second Transmission Line of
Kazakhstan North-South Transit" to make advance payment for KEC International Ltd.,
the loan proceeds under the project were disbursed in the amount of USD 182.3 million
in total. Total project cost amounts to about USD 377.9 million, with KEGOC co-
financing amounting to USD 195.6 million.
For cooperation with international financial institutions, IBRD and EBRD as well as
leading companies participating in the project and operating in the sphere of modern
high-voltage equipment manufacturing, information technologies and consulting services,
a team of highly qualified specialists was established dealing with technical, commercial
and financial matters including translators providing a professional communication with
foreign partners.
For its scale and objectives the Rehabilitation Project is considered as unique one and
KEG      has become a leader in electric network modernization among CIS countries.
During the project implementation the company gained invaluable experience in solving
many technical issues as well as project management and monitoring, which is used
during implementation of similar projects in other countries and regions.
Successful implementation of the project and KEG 's reputation as a reliable and
financially sustainable partner enabled further borrowing from international banks for
implementation of subsequent projects to further improve the company's performance.
One of the factors in successful project implementation was the implementation in the
company of the best international practice in corporate governance. As a result, in
January 2009 Standard & Poor's agency assigned the company with corporate
governance rating of CGR-5. Earlier, based on audit results of Integrated Management
System KEG       JSC Executive Administration (EA), NDC SO and Akmolinsk MES
branch were certified in compliance with ISO 9001-2000, ISO14001-2004 and OHSAS
18001-1999 standards.



                                           36
Key results of the Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project implementation are as
follows:
-   Establishment of institutional base: adopting Power Grid Code, Rules for
    Arrangement and Operation of Centralized Electricity Trade (KOREM spot market).
-   Modernization of high-voltage equipment at 53 substations. This was done through
    international competitive bidding. More than 350 companies expressed their interest
    in different project components. Due to fund savings and based on successful tenders
    results, it was possible to increase equipment procurement volume by 15 percent. In
    total 5213 units of high-voltage equipment were supplied under the Project.
-   Delivery and installation of relay protection and automation devices was carried out
    at 67 substations.
-   Unified Automated Electricity Grid Operation System SCADA/EMS was established.
    This enabled to improve reliability of the National Power Grid management and
    reduce operating expenses.
-   Digital corporate telecommunication network is established, which ensures effective
    management of the company economic activity. When establishing corporate
    telecommunication network the technologies and solutions were used that are new for
    Kazakhstan's power industry.
-   Commercial Metering System (CMS) is established. For the CMS effective operation
    the commercial meters were procured and installed at G    JSC facilities.
-   The effective operating, tactical and strategic company management system has been
    created using state-of-art integrated management ERP system of Oracle E-Business
    Suite.
-   The electricity trade system has been established for the spot market of KOREM.
-   Advanced training of KEGOC personnel. During the period from 2002 to 2009 the
    training under project contracts was delivered to 896 specialists of the company,
    including 507 specialists for relay protection and substation automation. The factory
    tests of the high voltage equipment were attended by 107 company specialists.
-   In accordance with the loan terms and conditions of the financing banks, KEGOC
    prepared an Environmental Management Plan (EMP). This plan was prepared in
    accordance with the requirements of IBRD and EBRD and the laws of the Republic
    of Kazakhstan related to environment protection. As a result, the company has
    established the effective environment monitoring system, which allows taking
    required measures at each stage of the project implementation and provide for
    required measures for mitigation of adverse environment impact.
The key lessons/issues that shall be considered during future investment project
implementation:
-   The best cost and time efficient solution for implementation of the large scope and
    complex projects is the turn-key contract.
-   The procurement process shall take due account of the time required for review and
    approval of the bidding stages (the evaluation of prequalification report/biding




                                           37
    results, short listing, etc.) by the financing banks and company administration, which
    heavily depends on the applicable administrative procedures.
-   Since the project financial statements for IBRD are not generated automatically, the
    preparation thereof takes certain time, and also it increases the risk of human error.
-   The foreign exchange rate may result in unexpected increase of expenses. For this
    reason the Corporate Management Information System component of procurement
    plan financed by IBRD was abandoned under the Rehabilitation Project. KEGOC has
    implemented this component out of the own funds.
-   The cost of SARP (substation automation and relay protection) contract, the most
    extensive component, denominated in euro, has increased considerably in USD
    equivalent. To this end, it should be possible to request that the bidders quote their
    bid price in loan currency as extended by the financing Bank.
-   During preliminary evaluation of substation automation and relay protection
    component of the project both the specialists of IBRD and the specialists of KEGOC
    underestimated the complexity of the upcoming works on designing, development,
    installation and commissioning of the new numerical facilities for relay protection
    and automation at existing substations. It should be noted that the Contractor also
    underestimated the complexity of works. All these resulted in extension of the
    completion dates against the initially projected ones. We believe that this experience
    shall be considered by the Bank during implementation of the similar projects in other
    countries.
-   In the course of project preparation and implementation, the documents for KEGOC
    internal review and for submission to corresponding regulating and supervising
    Government authorities of Kazakhstan shall be translated (Russian/English).
    Therefore the time for translation must be taken into account during preparation of
    the documents. The quality of translation is critically important for effective
    communication; particularly concerning the specific industry terminology, which
    includes many financial, economic, legal and technical aspects. Incorporation of the
    translation service in the project implementation unit shall ensure the required quality
    of communication and documents. And the number of translators shall be in line with
    the work load of the project implementation unit.
In our opinion, the successful implementation of the project to a large extent has become
possible owing to highly proficient economic, financial, engineering and procurement
experts of the IBRD team. The timely and competent assistance of the Bank experts at all
stages allowed solving the issues with high quality and at very short notice.




                                            38
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

EBRD Comments

KEGOC Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project (Kazakhstan) (Opid 6274) was
partially financed with a USD 45 million EBRD Loan to finance rehabilitation of the
transmission power infrastructure across Kazakhstan. The project was approved by the
Board in Oct 1999 and the Loan Agreement signed in Dec 1999.

The main objectives of the investment intended to cover KEGOC's investment program
(2000-2004) focusing on the refurbishment and modernization of the company's
transmission network. The overall performance of the project on EBRD's side was
deemed successful (based on assessment undertaken in Nov 2006). Similarly to World
Bank's implementation report, EBRD's assessment of achievement of objectives was
deemed satisfactory on the grounds of implementation delays that have been resolved and
progressing since then.

The evaluation report by World Bank is consistent with the Bank's assessment of the
project, successes and issues encountered during implementation. Assessment of the
positive relationships between World Bank and EBRD throughout the project
implementation has been properly reflected in the World Bank implementation report. In
order to facilitate the co-financing arrangements with the World Bank, the Bank (i)
accepted an expanded project size to accommodate World Bank lending on a large scale;
(ii) opted for lending with full recourse to sovereign guarantees; (iii) agreed its
conditionalities with World Bank albeit for broader sector policy goals. These
goals/covenants have been largely met but unfortunately were overshadowed by
implementation problems of the investment operation itself.

Kazakhstan has advanced in terms of both the sector reform and upgrade of its power
infrastructure with the project deemed a catalyst to the progress. Institutional reform of
the power sector coupled with the investments that were brought about by the project
enabled to create an efficient and profitable transmission operator and laid down the
ground for future growth of the Kazakh economy.




                                             39
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

KEGOC's Annual Reports
Quarterly PMR's, 20002009
KEGOC Audited Financial Statements, 20002008
KEGOC reports on monitorable indicators
Supervision Aide Memoires and Project/Implementation Status Reports
PAD and supporting analyses
QEA Report, April 2000 and ECA Region's Note of Dissent
Internal country assessments of Financial Management, Environmental Supervision,
Project Supervision
Documentation on restructuring of North/South Project




                                         40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 30227

                                                       KAZAKHSTAN                                                                            60                                                                                    70                                                                                     80                                                                                             90

                      E L E C T R I CI T Y T RANS M I S S I ON                                                                              R U S S I A N F E D E R AT I O N

                        R E H AB I L I TAT I ON P ROJ E CT
                 1150kV   500kV   220kV                                                                                                                                                                                       PETROPAVLOVSK                                                                                                                                 BARNAUL
                                                                                         NDC   NATIONAL DISPATCH CENTER
                                          EXISTING TRANSMISSION LINES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         90
                                                                                         RDC   REGIONAL DISPATCH CENTERS
                                          EXISTING SUBSTATIONS                                                                                                                                                                  AVRORA
                                                                                               THERMAL POWER PLANTS
                                          PROJECT SUBSTATIONS




                                                                                                                                                                      (Tobol)
                                                                                               HYDRO POWER PLANTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         s
           lga




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (Ir
                                                                                                                                                                                                              KOKSHETAU
         Vo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ty
                                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             sh
                                                                                                                           Uka l




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               )
                                                                                                                                                                RDC
                                                                                                                                                                                KOSTANA                                                                                                                          JERMAK
                                                                                                                                                        SOKOL                                                                                                                                  PAVLODAR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      O
                                                                                                                                                         yl




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       b`
                                                                                                                                                      Tob
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RDC
                                                                                                               IRIKLINSK                                                                                                                                                      EKIBASTUZ
   50                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      50
                                                                                                                                                   DETYGARA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Esil       (Ish                                                                                                                                     RDC                                           MONGOLIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 im)
                                                STEPNAYA                                                                                                                                     ESYL                                                                                                                                                                               UST-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            KAMENOGORSK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RDC
                                                                      URALSKA - 220
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ASTANA                CGPP
                                                     Zhaiy




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Buktyrm
                                                          k (Ur




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ra
                                                                                                                      KEMPIRSKA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Nu
                                                                                                                                       hyz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SCHULBINSK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NURA
                                                               al)




                                                                                                                                      Yrg
                                                                                                             ULKE                                                               i
                                                                                                                                                                      ha
                                                                                          AKTYUBINSK                                                             Torg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KARAGANDA                                                                                                                                     Lake
                                                                          Oiyi                                                                                                                  VOSTOCHAYA
                                                                                                   RDC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Zaisan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RDC
Vol
  a g




                                          RDC                                                       m
                                                 ATYRAO                                          Zhe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ayakos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AGADIR



                                                                                                                                                                                             DZHEZKAZGAN                 u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   r ys
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Sa
                                                                           KULSARI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Leps          Alakol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Lake                                      Ak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     su
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Balkhash             Ka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tal
         Ca




                                                                                                                       Aral                                                                                                                                               SOUTH                            Ile
            spi




                                                                                                                        Sea                                                                                                                                             KAZAKHSTAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Shu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                           KZYL-ORDA
                an




                       AKTAO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (Ch                                                           KAPTSCHAGAJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              u)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Talas                                                                                                               en
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Keg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ALMATY
                 Sea




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               k




                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DZHAMBUL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Shili




                                                                                                                                                                                                       rd
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                         iy
                                                                                                                                    1990 LEVEL OF ARAL SEA




                                                                                                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                                   1960 LEVEL OF ARAL SEA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SHIMKENT                                                                                                                                            This map was produced by the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RDC                                                                                                                                               The boundaries, colors, denominations

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R E P.                                                         and any other information shown on

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           YZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 this map do not imply, on the part of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       G                                                                         The World Bank Group, any judgment
   40                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            YR                                                                             on the legal status of any territory, or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              K                                                                                  any endorsement or acceptance of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 such boundaries.
                            KAZAKHSTAN
                                                                                                                                                      U Z B E K I S T A N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0                 100        200          300              400 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AN
                                                                                      T U R K M E N I S TA N                                                                                                                                       I   ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JIK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0                           100                       200 Miles
                                                                                                                60                                                                                                                               70                                                                                                                            80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OCTOBER 1999
