Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20605
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
TRANSPORT AIR QUALITY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
FOR THE MEXICO CITY METROPOLITAN AREA
(Loan 3543-ME)
June 22, 2000
Mexico Country Management Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 24, 2000)
Currency Unit = Mexican Peso ($)
US$1.00    MexNP9.42
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANOBRAS    National Bank for Public Works and Services (Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios
Publicos)
CO              Carbon Monoxide
CAM             Metropolitan Environmental Conimission (Comisi6n Ambiental Metropolitana)
CMPCCA          Commission for the Prevention and Control of Environmental Pollution in the
Metropolitan Area of the Valley of Mexico (Comisi6n para la Prevenci6n y Control
de la Contaminaci6n Ambiental en la Zona Metropolitana del Valle de Mexico)
CNG             Compressed Natural Gas
COMETRAVI  Metropolitan Transport and Road Commission (Comisi6n Metropolitana de
Transporte y Vialidad)
GDF             Government of Federal District (Gobierno del Distrito Federal)
GTZ             German Technical Assistance Agency
I/M             Inspection and Maintenance System
IMP             Mexican Petroleum Institute (Instituto Mexicano de Petr6leo)
MCMA            Mexico City Metropolitan Area
NAFIN           National Finance Institution (Nacional Financiera,SNC)
NOx             Nitrogen Oxides
PM              Particulate Matter
PM10            Particulate Matter less than 10 microns in diameter
PEMEX           Mexican Petroleum Company (Petr6leos Mexicanos)
SHCP            Ministry of Finance (Secretaria de Hacienda y Credit Piblico)
SOM             State of Mexico (Estado de Mexico)
VOC             Volatile Organic Compounds
Vice President           : David de Ferranti
Country Director         : Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager           : Adolfo Brizzi
Task Team Leader         : Carl-Heinz Mumme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
TRANSPORT AIR OUALITY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
FOR THE MEXICO CITY METROPOLITAN AREA
(Loan 3543-ME)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No:
PREFACE ................................................................                                                                                   i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ................................................................ ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .............................................. 1
A. Introduction .......................................................................                                                       I
B. Project Objectives .......................................................................                                                  I
C. Achievement of Objectives .......................................................................                                          2
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project .............................................................                                          4
E. Project Sustainability .......................................................................                                             6
F. Bank Performance ......................................................................                                                    7
G. Borrower Performance ......................................................................                                                8
H. Assessment of Outcome ......................................................................                                               9
I. Future Operation ......................................................................                                                    9
J. Key Lessons Learned ...........................................................                              ...........                   9
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ................................................................                                                             11
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ..................................................................I  11
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ...............................................................                                          12
Table 3: Project Timetable ......................................................................                                            13
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .....................                                                    14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ..............................................                                            15
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .....................................................                                          19
Table 7: Technical Assistance and studies Included in Project .................................                                             20
Table 8: Project Costs and Financing ...............................................................                                        21
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants ..................................................................                                       22
Table 10: Resources Used: Staff Inputs ............................................................                                         26
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions ...............................................................                                          27
APPENDIXES ................................................................                                                                             28
Appendix A: Mission's Aide Memoire ............................................................                                             28
Appendix B: Borrower Contribution to the ICR ..................................................                                             31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






l
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
TRANSPORT AIR QUALITY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
FOR THE MEXICO CITY METROPOLITAN AREA
(Loan 3543-ME)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Transport Air Quality
Management Project for the Mexico City Metropolitan Area for which Loan 3543-ME in the amount
of US$ 220.0 million equivalent was approved on December 15, 1992 and made effective on June 27,
1994. The original closing date was June 30, 1997 and the final closing date was June 30, 1999. Some
US$ 91.8 million were disbursed from the loan and the balance was cancelled.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Howard A. Jones and Carl-Heinz Mumme, consultants, and
reviewed by Adolfo Brizzi, Country Sector Leader, Agriculture and Enviromnent, Mexico Country
Management Unit.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission,
September 6 to 10, 1999. It is based on material in the project file. The borrower contributed to
preparation of the ICR with the latest information on project implementation and views on the project
which are expressed in the ICR.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
TRANSPORT AIR OUALITY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
FOR THE MEXICO CITY METROPOLITAN AREA
(Loan 3543-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
1.    The project supported the government's Comprehensive Program for Pollution Prevention and
Control which was launched in 1990. Project cost was estimated to be US$ 1,086.7 million with a
Bank loan of US$ 220 million equivalent. Final project costs were US$ 7,178.4 million, with US$
91.8 million disbursed from the Bank loan.
2.    Prior to approval of the loan, the Bank signed a "broadened" co-financing agreement with the
Export-Import Bank of Japan which financed the Gasoline Project to assist PEMEX to produce
unleaded gasoline. This was not a typical co-financing arrangement and the entities did not participate
in the supervision of the other's project. Accordingly, the Export-Import Bank of Japan was not
invited to participate in this implementation assessment.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.    According to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and the Loan Agreement (LA), project
objectives were to:
(i) reduce the growth of emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx), volatile organic compounds
(VOC), carbon monoxide (CO), lead and of particulate matter (PM) from transport sources;
(ii) develop a policy framework to support both transport and air quality objectives;
(iii) improve the scientific base underlying the air quality program development and
management; and
(iv) strengthen institutional capabilities to effectively plan and implement air-quality programs
over the long term.
4.   In order the achieve these objectives, the project had five components: (i) a vehicle component
to support high-use vehicle modernization, emission control retrofit and the acquisition of inspection
equipment in private garages through lines of credit; emission standards development and
enforcement, and upgrading the inspection and maintenance and vehicle registration systems; (ii) a fuel
component to establish vapor recovery systems and carry out an alternative fuel pilot program; (iii)
studies to help prepare an integrated transport and air quality management strategy for the Mexico City



iii
Metropolitan Area (MCMA; (iv) a scientific base component to improve the level of scientific
knowledge regarding air pollution in the MCMA; and (v) an institutional strengthening component.
The Gasoline Project and the vehicle and fuel components of the project were expected to reduce the
growth of emissions from transport sources. The other project components were related directly to the
other stated objectives of the project.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
5.    During the project implementation period, tremendous progress has been made to reduce air
pollution in the MCMA. Ambient lead concentrations have been reduced by 98%, sulfur dioxide
reduced sufficiently to reach healthy levels and few violations of the CO air quality standard remain.
On the other hand, air quality concentrations of ozone remain high on most days, often exceeding
acceptable levels by a factor of two or more. PMIO levels are also high, especially in heavily
industrialized areas and traffic and erosion influenced zones. Despite continuing growth in population
and the number of vehicles, there is, however, also evidence of progress for these serious pollutants.
There is a downward trend in the highest concentrations of ozone and PMl 0.
6.    Progress in establishing a coordinated transport and air quality framework in the MCMA has
been significant. A report for an Integrated Transport and Air Quality Strategy for the MCMA has
been prepared which represents a new departure for planning in Mexico City in that (i) it attempts to
integrate plans for the transport and air quality sectors; and (ii) it covers the whole metropolitan area of
Mexico City. The development of the strategy has done much to focus attention on the need for an
integrated approach, which has hardly been achieved in any city in the world.
7.    Considerable efforts have been made to improve the scientific base underlying the air quality
program development and management. The automatic air quality monitoring network in the MCMA
was upgraded and expanded under the project. The monitoring stations provide "real time" air quality
monitoring information through the internet, radio stations and through billboards located next to
major roads. The US Environmental Protection Agency verifies the network twice a year. In addition,
efforts have been made to improve the emissions inventory and modeling capabilities.
8.    Governmental institutions that form the Metropolitan Environmental Commission (CAM) have
been strengthened under the project.  They have enhanced their diagnostic, planning and
implementation capabilities and have tripled their professional staff.   Comprehensive local
environmental laws and regulations have been passed. An important step toward the sustainability of
the program was the creation of an Environmental Trust Fund which levied a surcharge on gasoline in
the MCMA producing earmarked funds for environmental projects in the MCMA.
9.    The project has been considered a blue print within and outside the region for its achievements,
lessons learned, and for its integrated approach in addressing transport and air quality management
issues. The lessons learned during the design and implementation of the project gave birth to the Clean
Air Initiative in Latin American Cities, aimed at irnproving the air quality in the most polluted cities in
the region. The Clean Air Initiative is being replicated in Eastern Europe, Asia and Sub-Saharan
Africa.



iv
10.   While the accomplishments of the project were impressive they occurred over a significantly
longer period of time than was forecast at appraisal when it was estimated that the project would be
completed by the end of 1996. Some project components were not completed until 1998 and the
environmental audit is not expected to be completed until mid-2000. Final project costs were
significantly above appraisal estimates mainly because the number of new trucks operating in the
MCMA expanded rapidly. Bank funds were used mainly to finance vehicles before the economic
crisis which began at the end of 1994 and vapor recovery systems and air monitoring equipment.
11.   There were four main factors which affected the execution of the project: (i) delays in
declaring effectiveness because of a failure to implement the agreed arrangements to transfer loan
funds to the Government of the Federal District (GD)F) on a grant basis; (ii) delays in providing loan
funds after effectiveness was declared; (iii) the decision to limit credit line operations to finance taxis
and minibuses to BANOBRAS even though NAFIN had begun a program to finance taxis and had
developed an extensive group of financial intermediaries through which to channel resources for this
purpose; and (iv) the economic crisis which began at the end of 1994 and severely limited financial
intermediary lending for vehicles in subsequent years.
12.   The first of these factors delayed loan effectiveness for 18 months until June 1994. At that time
it was agreed that funds would be made available to the GDF through a loan to the Environmental
Trust Fund. The provision of loan funds to carry out project components was further delayed after
loan effectiveness. They were to have been provided by a loan to the Trust Fund which was to have
been repaid from the proceeds of a surcharge on gasoline . However, the surcharge was only levied for
a year at a time and initially the proceeds from the tax could only be used for vapor recovery systems.
Accordingly, the Trust Fund was no longer considered an appropriate vehicle for assuming the
obligations of a subsidiary loan under the project. Moreover, any funds received by the GDF from the
loan counted against the GDF's overall budget allocation giving the GDF little incentive to use Bank
funds. The utilization of less loan proceeds than originally anticipated delayed implementation of a
number of project components until alternative financing could be arranged from grant funds or budget
allocations.
13.   Bank performance in project identification and preparation as well as in appraisal and
supervision was satisfactory. Performance of the borrower was satisfactory during project preparation
when government staff worked closely with Bank staff, consultants and the External Panel. An
important aspect of project preparation was the creation of the Commission for the Prevention and
Control of Environmental Pollution in the MCMA (CMPCCA). Project appraisal was sound. The
project supported an on-going government program which gave considerable assurance that the
government's commitment to the project would be sustained. However, as mentioned above, the
decision to allocate credit lines for taxis and minibuses to BANOBRAS did not take into account
NAFIN's programs in this area. Also, the arrangement to allocate loan funds to the GDF for important
project components was apparently not feasible. Borrower performance in implementation was
satisfactory. Despite the serious delays in implementing a number of the studies and technical
assistance due to the flow of funds issue, most of the key project components were implemented
successfully on a timely basis. Borrower compliance with loan covenants throughout the
implementation period was deficient due to the failure to provide project funds on a timely basis which
delayed the implementation of important project components and the delays in providing adequate
external audit reports on project accounts.



v
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATION, AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
14.   Overall, the project outcome was satisfactory and project objectives were either fully or partly
achieved although project implementation was slowed for a number of technical, financial and
institutional reasons. The growth of air pollution in the MCMA was controlled and in some ways
significantly reduced. The institutional arrangements and systems for continuing to deal with air
quality issues have been firmly established and the ground has been prepared for further improvements
in transport and air quality in the MCMA. Such improvements are badly needed and programs to
achieve them will yield high economic benefits.
15.   Future operations of the air quality management and control systems depend upon a continuing
commitment of the government to its objectives in this area. Further improvements in the air quality in
the MCMA will depend upon a number of factors including the following: (i) a strengthened incentive
system to promote the use of less polluting vehicles, to reduce the use of private vehicles and increase
the use of public transport; (ii) implementation of a coordinated transport and air quality strategy in
investment decisions and policy measures; (iii) further imnprovements in the scientific base; (iv)
institutional strengthening; and (v) improved program evaluation. These issues are expected to be
dealt with in a proposed new Bank loan.
16.   Key lessons learned relate to program support, flow of funds, credit lines and the External
Panel. The project supported an on-going program to which the government had demonstrated its
commitment at the federal and local levels. This gave considerable assurance that the project would be
implemented. Arrangements to provide funds to implementing agencies should have been in place
prior to loan signing or Board presentation. Moreover, if the Environmental Trust Fund were provided
with a reliable permanent source of funds it would provide greater assurance that key public
environmental investments would be carried out and program benefits would be sustained. The
advantages of including NAFIN in the credit lines to finance taxis and minibuses from the beginning
have been discussed above. The External Panel was a great success, providing the government and the
Bank with expert advice and technical assistance from the preparation to the implementation stages.
Such panels should be established whenever possible in similar projects.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
TRANSPORT AIR OUALITY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
FOR THE MEXICO CITY METROPOLITAN AREA
(Loan 3543-ME)
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Introduction
1     The Transport Air Quality Management Project for the Mexico City Metropolitan Area
(MCMA) supported the government's Comprehensive Program for Pollution Prevention and Control
which was launched in 1990. Project cost was estimated to be US$ 1,086.7 million with a Bank loan
of US$ 220 million equivalent. Final project costs were US$ 7,178.4 million, with US$ 91.8 million
disbursed from the Bank loan. The loan was approved by the Board in December, 1992 and made
effective in June 1994. The original closing date was June 30, 1997 and the final closing date June 30,
1999.
2.    Prior to the approval of the loan, the Bank signed a "broadened" co-financing agreement with
the Export-Import Bank of Japan which financed the Gasoline Project to assist PEMEX to produce
unleaded gasoline. This was not a typical co-financing arrangement and the entities did not participate
in the supervision of the other's project. The Bank agreed to supervise an environmental fuels study
and to carry out an assessment of the overall fuel program, the costs of which were reimbursed by the
Export-Import Bank of Japan and the government of Mexico. Because it was not a typical co-
financing arrangement, the Export-Import Bank of Japan was not invited to participate in this
implementation assessment.
B.   Project Objectives
3.    The objectives of the project were to:
(i) reduce the growth of emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx), volatile organic compounds (VOC),
carbon monoxide (CO), lead and of particulate matter (PM) from transport sources;
(ii) develop a policy framework to support both transport and air quality objectives;
(iii) improve the scientific base underlying the air quality program development and
management; and
(iv) strengthen institutional capabilities to effectively plan and implement air quality programs
over the long-term.
4.   In order to achieve these objectives, the project had five components: (i) a vehicle component
to support high-use vehicle modernization, emission control retrofit and the acquisition of inspection
equipment in private garages through lines of credit; emission standards development and



2
enforcement, and upgrading the inspection and maintenance and vehicle registration systems; (ii) a fuel
component to establish vapor recovery systems and to carry out an alternative fuel pilot program; (iii)
studies to help prepare an integrated transport and air quality management strategy for the MCMA; (iv)
a scientific base component to improve the level of scientific knowledge regarding air pollution in the
MCMA; and (v) an institutional strengthening component. The Gasoline Project and the vehicle and
fuel components of the project were expected to reduce the growth of emissions from transport
sources. The other project components were related directly to the other stated objectives of the
project.
5.    Project objectives were clear, realistic and important for Mexico, for the sector and the Bank's
country assistance strategy which gave high priority to environmental issues in Mexico. They covered
the key areas which needed to be dealt with as a matter of urgency and those required to prepare a
long-term strategy for improving air quality in the MCMA. However, although the objectives were
clear, the measures to achieve them were complex and involved a large number of agencies at the
federal, state and municipal levels. The achievement of project objectives depended upon the
effectiveness of institutions in establishing and maintaining a high level of coordination among them.
In addition, the mechanisms for financing key project components involved a number of private and
public financial agencies and required the development of financial arrangements and incentives which
required sophisticated and timely institutional responses.
6.   In order to minimize the risk that the program might not achieve its objectives, or that priorities
might be found to be misplaced, the Bank conducted extensive sector work and established an External
Advisory Panel and financed expert consultants to provide advice and guidance. It was also planned to
use private consultants and contractors to assist the CMPCCA (Commission for the Prevention and
Control of Environmental Pollution in the MCMA) Technical Secretariat until it had time to build up
its staff numbers and experience.
C.   Achievement of Objectives
7.    During the project implementation period, tremendous progress has been made to reduce air
pollution in the MCMA. Ambient lead concentrations have been reduced by 98%, sulfur dioxide
reduced sufficiently to reach healthy levels and few violations of the CO air quality standard remain.
On the other hand, air quality concentrations of ozone remain high on most days, often exceeding
acceptable levels by a factor of two or more. PM1O levels are also high, especially in heavily
industrialized areas and traffic and erosion influenced zones. Despite continuing growth in population
and the number of vehicles, there is, however, also evidence of progress for these serious pollutants.
There is a downward trend in the highest concentrations of ozone and PMIO.
8.   In order to achieve these goals a number of measures have been implemented, the most
important of which were the following: (i) Tax policies were used to reduce the price differential
between unleaded and leaded gasoline to reduce misfueling and to encourage the introduction of clean
natural gas vehicles; (ii) exemptions from the one day a week ban on the use of vehicles were used as
an incentive to modernize the vehicle fleet; (iii) a surcharge on gasoline was used by the
Environmental Trust Fund to finance the installation of vapor recovery equipment in service stations
which is a highly cost effective way of reducing emissions; (iv) improvements in the refining process
financed by the Gasoline Project have allowed the production of unleaded gasoline and important



3
reformulation of gasoline which have reduced emissions from vehicles in the MCMA; (v)
demonstration projects have been carried out on the use of alternative fuels for vehicles; (vi) the
inspection/maintenance (I/M) system in the MCMA has been significantly upgraded by the move to a
completely centralized system and expanded testing for CO, HC and NOx; (vii) upgraded emission
standards for new vehicles have been established; (viii) modeling in Mexico in recent years has
substantially increased the understanding of the underlying causes of air pollution levels; and ix)
replacement policies for high use vehicles (taxis, microbuses, trucks) and financing programs for them
have accelerated the replacement of such vehicles.
9.    Progress in establishing a coordinated transport and air quality framework in the MCMA has
been significant. A report for an Integrated Transport and Air Quality Strategy for the MCMA has
been prepared by COMETRAVI (the Metropolitan Transport and Road Commission) in coordination
with the CAM (the Metropolitan Environmental Commission). The report represents a new departure
for planning in Mexico City in that (i) it attempts to integrate plans for the transport and air quality
sectors; and (ii) it covers the whole metropolitan area of Mexico City. The development of the strategy
has done much to focus attention on the need for an integrated approach, which has hardly been
achieved in any city in the world. The study has assembled a great deal of useful information and has
considered most of the elements which might form part of a strategy. Nevertheless, concerns remain
with respect to the way proposed measures were integrated, their combined impact and financial
viability.
10.   Considerable efforts have been made to improve the scientific base underlying the air quality
program development and management. The automatic air quality monitoring network in the MCMA
was upgraded and expanded under the project. The monitoring stations provide "real time" air quality
monitoring information through the internet, radio stations and also through billboards located next to
major roads. The US Environmental Protection Agency verifies the network twice a year. In addition,
efforts have been made to improve the emissions inventory and modeling capabilities.
11.   Government institutions that form the CAM have been strengthened under the project. They
have enhanced their diagnostic, planning and implementation capabilities and have tripled their
professional staff. Comprehensive local environmental laws and regulations have been passed. An
important step towards the sustainability of the program was the creation of an Environmental Trust
Fund which levied a surcharge on gasoline in the MCMA. This surcharge was earmarked for
environmental projects in the MCMA. The surcharge had to be approved by the Finance Ministry
(SHCP) on an annual basis and the surcharge for recent years has not been approved. Discussions
have been carried out among the GDF, the SOM and the federal government in order to improve
further the effectiveness of the CAM.
12.   The project has been considered a blue print within and outside the region for its achievements,
lessons learned, and for its integrated approach in addressing transport and air quality management
issues. The lessons learned during the design and implementation of the project gave birth to the Clean
Air Initiative in Latin American Cities, aimed at improving the air quality in the most polluted cities of
the region. The Clean Air Initiative is now being replicated in Eastern Europe, Asia and Sub-Saharan
Africa. In addition, through the project, the Bank has played a critical role in promoting the
participation of the private sector and in liaising local institutions to international donor, co-financing,
and technical agencies. The Bank's participation facilitated the co-financing arrangement with the



4
Export-Import Bank of Japan to assist in the financing of the PEMEX ecological package to improve
fuel quality and the German Technical Assistance Agency (GTZ) grant to fund technical assistance to
improve the scientific base and to strengthen local environmental institutions. The private sector has
played a major role in the vehicle fleet modernization and inspection/maintenance components. Other
institutions such as the United States Energy Department also participated in the program, providing a
grant to fund air quality modeling efforts.
13.   While the accomplishments of the project were impressive, they occurred over a significantly
longer period of time than was forecast at appraisal. At appraisal it was estimated that the project
would be completed by the end of 1996. Some project components were not completed until 1998 and
the environmental audit is not expected to be completed until mid-2000. At the end of 1994, the
External Panel concluded that failure to carry out some of the air pollution studies and technical
assistance may have adversely affected the quality of a significant amount of pollution reducing
investments which had been carried out. Reasons for the delays in project implementation are
discussed in detail below. Because of the delays it is extremely difficult to compare total project costs
with SAR estimates. During appraisal it was assumed that the project would finance a relatively small
number of new taxis, minibuses and trucks and a relatively large number of truck conversions.
Between 1991 and 1999 there was a very large growth in the truck fleet and approximately US$ 6
billion was invested by business in new trucks despite the lack of banking credit after 1994.
Accordingly, a comparison of actual project costs with appraisal estimates has little meaning. Also, for
reasons spelled out below only US $91.8 million of the loan were disbursed, mainly for vehicles (until
the end of 1994) and for vapor recover systems and air monitoring equipment after 1994.
14.   Accomplishments under the project are based on a joint evaluation of the program for
improvement of air quality in the MCMA (including the Gasoline Project) carried out in 1997 by the
Japan Export-Import Bank and the Bank, and data on subsequent progress provided by the
government. The evaluation was to have been based on results of the annual environmental audits
included in the project, the first of which is only now being carried out.
D.   Major Factors Affecting the Project
15.   There were four main factors which affected the execution of the project: (i) delays in
declaring the project effective because of a failure to implement the agreed arrangements to transfer
loan funds to the GDF on a grant basis; (ii) delays in providing loan funds after effectiveness was
declared; (iii) the decision to limit credit line operations through NAFIN to own-account trucks,
emission control retrofit investments, and emission testing and diagnostic equipment and not to use
loan funds to finance taxis through NAFIN; and (iv) the economic crisis which began at the end of
1994 and severely limited financial intermediary lending for vehicles in subsequent years.
16.   The first of these factors, which was subject to government control, delayed loan effectiveness
for about 18 months until June, 1994. At that time it was agreed that funds that were to have been
made available to the GDF on a grant basis (to carry out the project components for which it was
responsible) would be made available to the GDF through a loan to the Environmental Trust Fund.
17.   The provision of loan funds to carry out project components was further delayed after loan
effectiveness. As mentioned above, they were to have been provided by a loan to the Trust Fund



5
which was to have been repaid from the proceeds of a surcharge on gasoline in the MCMA. However,
the surcharge was only levied for a year at a time and initially the proceeds from the tax could only be
used for vapor recovery systems which were considered a high priority. Accordingly, the Trust Fund
was no longer considered an appropriate vehicle for assuming the obligations of a subsidiary loan
under the project. Moreover, any funds received by the GDF from the Bank loan would be included in
the GDF's overall budget allocation requiring the reduction by equivalent amounts of funds received
from the federal government for other categories of expenditure. The GDF had therefore little
incentive to use Bank funds. As a result, the only project components other than the credit lines
financed with Bank loan funds were the vapor recovery systems, air monitoring equipment, part of the
alternative fuel pilot program and a small amount of consultant services. Nevertheless, all project
components were ultimately completed, although some with major delays. Many were completed with
grant resources arranged with Bank assistance.
18.   The third of these factors, was due to a weakness in project design. When the loan was
prepared, the government wished to carefully separate the roles of the two development banks
involved in the project (NAFIN and BANOBRAS), based on their experience. BANOBRAS was to be
responsible for credit lines financing taxis, microbuses and common carrier trucks. NAFIN was to be
responsible for credit lines to finance own-account trucks, the emission control retrofit program
(conversions to LPG or CNG and re-engining and retrofitting) and emission testing and diagnostic
equipment. However, NAFIN had also begun an ambitious program to finance taxis and had
developed a more extensive group of financial intermediaries through which to channel its resources,
partly because it offered larger financial spreads to them. When the loan was amended in 1994,
NAFIN was allowed to use Bank resources to finance taxis and onlending terms and financial spreads
were adjusted accordingly. To some extent, the use of credit lines was also affected by the delay in
making the loan effective. If funds had been available both BANOBRAS and NAFIN would have had
an incentive to develop their credit lines and possibly to improve them.
19.   The fourth factor which adversely affected project implementation was the economic crisis
which began at the end of 1994. As a result of the 1994 devaluation and a jump in domestic inflation,
interest rates increased to very high levels. New lending virtually ceased and the non-performing loans
of financial institutions increased dramatically. The lending portfolio of financial institutions to the
transport sector deteriorated significantly and lending to the sector has still not recovered. As a result,
no vehicles were financed under the project after 1994, although plans to develop a new lending
program for bus companies were studied extensively beginning in 1996. Moreover, after the economic
crisis began, the lending programs of the development banks were reoriented with NAFIN no longer
lending for vehicles.
20.  In order to deal with these problems, the Bank amended the loan documents on three separate
occasions. In May 1994, the loan documents were amended to: (i) change the arrangements for
channeling loan funds to the GDF from a grant basis to a loan through the Environmental Trust Fund;
(ii) permit NAFIN to finance taxis and minibuses; and (iii) allow loan funds to be used in the vehicle
credit component on a first-come, first-served basis. In March 1995, loan documents were further
amended to facilitate the financing of buses under the loan. In August 1997, further amendments were
agreed to: (i) assure that the Trust Fund components of the project were coordinated amongst the
CAM, GDF and the SOM; (ii)assure that resources in the Environmental Trust Fund be used for the
Trust Fund components; (iii) revise the terms of onlending for BANOBRAS' credit line to increase



6
financial spreads and the share of subprojects financed; (iv) extend the final date for submitting
subloans under the BANOBRAS' credit component until June 30, 1998 and the closing date from June
30, 1997 until June 30, 1999; and (v) cancel US $43.1 million equivalent of the loan for vehicle
retrofitting and conversion carried out by the private sector ($30 million), consulting and laboratory
testing INE had carried out with its own resources ($7.7 million) and unneeded credit line funds for
vehicle emissions testing equipment ($5.4 million).
21.   After the last amendment in 1997 the two remaining components were the Trust Fund
component amounting to $35.2 million and the BANOBRAS credit component for $60 million. The
main items of the Trust Fund component financed with Bank resources were the vapor recovery
systems, part of the alternative fuel pilot program and a small amount of technical assistance for the
CAM. Air monitoring equipment for INE was also financed from the loan. Most of the other Trust
Fund components were financed with budget funds or grant funds. Considerable effort was made by
Bank staff to assist BANOBRAS to prepare its credit program for buses. However, loans to newly
established bus companies were much more difficult than those to small entrepreneurs operating
minibuses and taxis. They affected the regulatory framework, the letting of concessions for specific
bus line operations, the adequacy of fare levels, fuel taxes, types of bus to be acquired, etc. Finally, no
credit operations for buses were carried out.
22.   As mentioned above, a number of project items were financed with Trust Fund resources.
These resources were then reimbursed by the Bank loan. However, a subsidiary loan agreement was
never made with the Trust Fund to onlend Bank loan funds to, it. Instead, the funds went to SHCP.
Had the funds reimbursed the Trust Fund, it could have provided additional resources for
environmental projects in the MCMA.
23.   Other factors affecting the project, but in a more limited way, were the change in the federal
administration in 1994 and subsequently in the GDF and the State of Mexico, involving changes in
personnel and their need for training. Also, the vapor recovery systems took significantly longer to
install than expected. Studies were required to identify the best technology, training needs, inspection
requirements, etc. The vapor recovery systems in the service stations were financed by loans from the
Trust Fund from revenues generated by the surtax on gasoline. Incentives for the station owners were
provided by subsidized loans to finance their purchase but the station owners were slow to install the
systems until measures were taken to require stations without vapor recovery systems to close on high
pollution days. Even with such measures systems have only recently been installed in all the stations
in the MCMA.
E.    Project Sustainability
24.   The probability that project benefits will be sustained is high. CAM, the key institution
involved in air quality, is in place, and although it can be strengthened, it has been a relatively effective
instrument in coordinating the measures which have achieved significant advances in air quality in the
MCMA. Moreover the following key systems to improve air quality are in place and functioning: air
monitoring, I/M, vehicle registration, emission standards, age limits for high-use vehicles, alternative
fuels program, mobile sources emissions laboratory, etc. Information on the health effects of pollution
are becoming better known and disseminated. Air quality issues have high public visibility and public
support and pollution levels are published and reviewed daily. The government is committed to the



7
achievement of improvements in air quality. However, an effectively operating Environmental Trust
Fund, with a reliable financing source would provide greater assurance of program sustainability. A
proposed new Bank loan would attempt to build on the achievements of the first loan by strengthening
the incentive system and institutional capacity, further improve the scientific base and program
evaluation and support the implementation of an Air Quality Strategy in investment decisions and
policy formulation and implementation.
F.    Bank Performance
25.   Project Identification and Preparation:     Satisfactory. The project was identified in
1989 and the issues clearly identified. Project preparation took considerable time and was based on a
thorough review of the issues involving a Bank sector study, consultants studies and Bank assistance in
the preparation with Japan Export-Import Bank of the fuel project (the Gasoline Project) which was
cofinanced with the Bank project and which was an important component of the overall program. The
establishment of an External Advisory Panel to bring expert technical advice to project preparation
(and eventually to project implementation) was an important innovative device which provided the
government and the Bank with considerable assurance that the program was well designed.
26.   Project Appraisal:  Satisfactory. The project objectives were appropriate as were the project
components to achieve them. The project provided an integrated approach to air quality problems in
the MCMA combining investment with institutional strengthening, improvement of the scientific base
and policy development. The project supported an on-going government program which gave
considerable assurance that the government's commitment to project implementation would be
sustained and the Bank considered that the commitment of the GDF and of the federal government was
high. The commitment of the State of Mexico (SOM) was less clear partly because of its serious
financial problems. There also was the issue of the division of responsibilities for credit lines between
NAFIN and BANOBRAS discussed above. The Bank should probably have attempted to permit the
two institutions to compete for Bank funds for some of the credit line funds for vehicle modernization.
27.   Supervision:       Satisfactory. The continuity of staff involved in project preparation and
appraisal was maintained throughout most of the implementation period and the Task Manager was
maintained throughout. The Bank's Resident Mission staff became more involved in supervision in
1994 and thereafter gave continuous attention to project issues in the field. During the later stages of
project implementation attention continued to be paid to project issues in the field during preparation
missions for a follow-up project. Moreover, supervision in general, particularly on the technical side,
was greatly helped by the continuous involvement of the External Panel in providing advice and
guidance in program implementation. The Bank devoted considerable human resources to assist the
government in resolving project issues and in revising the loan documents to permit NAFIN to
participate in credit lines for taxis, to adjust responsibilities for some project components, and to help
resolve flow of funds issues and provide alternative sources of financing through grants.  A
considerable Bank effort was made to review the study to help prepare an integrated transport and air
quality management strategy for the MCMA. Due to delays in declaring loan effectiveness, only one
supervision mission was carried out in 1993 and 1994, but two were carried out in 1995 and three in
1996, the most active years of project implementation. One mission in 1997 and two in 1998
continued to focus on project components not yet completed, and to assist BANOBRAS to prepare a
credit line for buses to be financed under the loan.



8
G.   Borrower Performance
28.   Preparation and Appraisal:     Satisfactory. Staff in  the  GDF  and  the  federal
government worked closely with Bank staff in preparing the project. Consultants assisted the
government in defining project components and worked closely with Bank staff, Bank consultants and
the External Panel during the preparation and appraisal stages. An important aspect of project
preparation was the creation of the CMPCCA (subsequently replaced by CAM) to coordinate
environmental measures in the MCMA and this was a major achievement of the federal, state and local
government in the MCMA. Government commitment to project goals was well coordinated through
the office of the GDF which had taken the lead in air pollution control programs in the MCMA;
however, the commitment of the SOM government was less clear, but did not turn out to be an issue.
29.   Project appraisal was less well managed. The government's decision to allocate credit lines
between NAFIN and BANOBRAS was based on historical responsibilities and did not adequately take
into account the current programs of these institutions and the range of financial intermediaries with
which they worked. Also, their agreement to transfer loan funds to the GDF for project components
for which they were responsible on a grant basis was apparently not feasible. Alternative sources of
finance for these components should have been sought when this problem was known, probably from
grant funds. A clearer understanding of these two issues would have greatly facilitated project
implementation.
30.  Implementation:   Satisfactory. Despite the serious delays in implementing a number of the
studies and technical assistance components due to the flow of funds issue, most of the key project
components were implemented, most on a timely basis. Despite the economic crisis beginning at the
end of 1994, a large number of high use vehicles were modernized or retrofitted during the 1990s,
some with financing from the loan and many with own funds. Emission standards and the I/M system
were implemented successfully on a timely basis. The gasoline vapor recovery systems were installed,
although over a considerably longer time period than expected, due mainly to technical issues which
needed to be resolved, but also due to opposition from the gasoline owners, which was eventually
overcome by imaginative policy measures. The vehicle registration system was established with
modest delays. The CMPCCA and then the CAM have been strengthened considerably and have
worked closely, as indicated above, with environmental agencies and experts in other countries (and in
Mexico) to strengthen its scientific knowledge and systems for dealing with air pollution.
31.   Compliance with Loan Covenants:  Deficient. While the government and implementing
agencies complied with procurement, reporting and many other covenants in the loan documents, there
were serious delays in providing resources to carry out important project components which slowed the
achievement of project objectives. There was also a delay in providing audit reports by the various
implementing agencies. NAFIN, the borrower, should have arranged with the implementing agencies
to provide financial information on which a consolidated set of project accounts could have been
prepared but this was never done and information on compliance with loan covenants was fragmented
and incomplete. This put additional responsibility on project supervision teams.



9
H.   Assessment of Outcome
32.   Overall Rating:    Satisfactory. Although implementation was slowed for a number of
technical, financial and institutional reasons, all of the project's objectives were either fully or partially
achieved. The growth of air pollution in the MCMA was controlled and in some cases significantly
reduced. The institutional arrangements and systems for dealing with air quality issues have been
firmly established and the ground has been prepared for further improvements in transport and air
quality in the MCMA. Such improvements are badly needed and programs to achieve them will yield
high economic benefits. As mentioned above, the Bank supported a comprehensive program for
pollution prevention and control which had solid and continuing government commitment.
Government officials pointed out that the Bank made a very important contribution through its
continuing involvement, in particular the technical assistance provided, the capacity to bring all the
various components of the project together, and the rigor of the analysis that it forced upon the
participants. The financial contribution was considered less important.
I.    Future Operation
33.   The institutional arrangements and systems exist for managing air quality issues in the MCMA.
Further improvements in air quality in the MCMA will depend upon a number of factors including the
following: (i) a strengthened incentive system to promote the use of less polluting vehicles, to reduce
the use of private vehicles and increase the use of public transport, etc. (ii) implementation of a
coordinated transport and air quality strategy in investment decisions and policy measures; (iii) further
improvements in the scientific base; (iv) institutional strengthening; and (v) improved program
evaluation. These issues are expected to be dealt with in a proposed Air Quality Management Project.
As mentioned above, an environmental audit is now being carried out. When the audit has been
completed, its findings should be taken into account in preparing the follow-up project.
J.    Key Lessons Learned
34.   The lessons learned are discussed below:
(i) Program Support. The project supported an on-going program to which the government had
demonstrated its commitment at the federal and local levels. This gave considerable assurance that the
project would be implemented which in fact occurred, although with some delays. Projects of this kind
need to be developed in the context of a government program to which clear commitment has been
demonstrated.
(ii) Flow of Funds. Key project components were seriously delayed for lack of funds which were to
have been supplied to the executing agencies by transferring loan funds on a grant basis .
Arrangements to provide funds on this basis should have been in place prior to loan signing or Board
Presentation not as a condition of effectiveness. Failing that, alternative sources of finance should
have been sought. In any arrangement to provide funds the budget procedures in Mexico need to be
carefully taken into account.
(iii) Environmental Trust Fund. If the Environmental Trust Fund were provided with a reliable
permanent source of financing it would provide greater assurance that key public environmental
investments would be carried out and that program benefits would be sustained. Ideally, such an
arrangement would be in place when the loan was appraised or very soon after project implementation
began.



10
(iv) Credit Lines. The responsibility for different credit line components was rigidly divided between
NAFIN and BANOBRAS based upon their historical sectoral experience. Each should have been
allowed to compete for credit line funds in support of project objectives where they had demonstrated
the competence to onlend funds in such areas.
(v) External Panel. The external panel of technical experts from various countries was a great success
in this project, providing the government and the Bank with expert advice and technical assistance on
the major aspects of the project from the preparation to the implementation stages. Such panels should
be established wherever possible in similar projects.



11
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives           Substantial    Partial      Neeligible    Not applicable
Macro Policies
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives
Institutional Development    D
Physical Objectives    D
Poverty Reduction
Gender Issues                                                 D
Other Social Objectives                 D
Environmental Objectives     0
Public Sector Management      0
Private Sector Development
Other (specify):                                                                       0
Likelv      Unlikelv     Uncertain
B. Project Sustainability                   S
Hi2hlv     Satisfactory    Deficient
Satisfactory
C. Bank Performance
Identification                 0
Preparation Assistance                 E
Appraisal                   0
Supervision                   0
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                   0
Implementation                   E
Covenant Compliance                                  E
Operation (if applicable)
Hiehly     Satisfactorv  Unsatisfactor     Hiahlv
Satisfactory                             Unsatisfactorv
E.. Assessment of Outcome
OVERALL                                               0



12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title           Purpose        Year of        Amount           Status
approval    (US$ million)
PRECEDING OPERATIONS
1. Pollution Control Project   Facilitate          1982            60.0          Closed
(2154-ME)                      industrial
pollution control
investments
2. Environmental Project       Strengthen           1992           23.8          Closed
(3461-ME)                     institutional and               (after partial
policy                         cancellations)
framework to
carry out
environmental
protection and
natural resource
management
functions
3. Transport Project in Medium  Facilitate urban    1993          200.0          Ongoing
Cities (3559-ME)               transport
investments
4. Environmental Project for the    Strengthen      1996           65.4          Ongoing
Northern Border (3750-ME)      environmental                   (after partial
agencies and                   cancellations)
support selected
protected areas
FOLLOWING OPERATIONS
Air Quality Management Project  Improve air      FY '02          100.0
quality
management in
the MCMA
TOTAL                                                  478.40
Source: World Bank Statements of Loans



13
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned                     Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive                                                  April 7, 1989
Project Summary)
Preparation                          May 1989- March 1991           April 1989 -November 1991
Appraisal                                   July 1991                    February 24, 1992
Negotiations                               May 1992                   September 8 - 11, 1992
Board Presentation                         July 1992                    December 15, 1992
Signing                                    May 1992                     December 18, 1992
Effectiveness                            September 1992                   June 27, 1994
Midterm Review                           September 1994                  January 19, 1997
Project Completion                     December 31, 1996                December 31, 1998
Loan Closing                              June 30, 1997                   June 30, 1999



14
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements:
Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$ Millions)
FY   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98    FY99   FYOO
93
Appraisal Estimatesa    43   113      187     209     220      220     220     220
Actual     -    31.9    96.9    96.9    96.9    96.9    96.9    91.8
Actual as %    0    28.2    51.8    46.6    44.1    44.1    44.1    41.8
of Estimnate
Date of Final Disbursement: March7, 2000
Source: World Bank and Project Files
The original closing date was June 30, 1997. The closing date was extended to June 30, 1999,
to finance vehicles delayed during the economic crisis that began at the end of 1994, and to
finance vapor-recovery equipment installation, delayed pending the implementation of
technical studies and training.



15
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Component and Sub-Component    j         Target       Iarget |       Agency         Actual          Comments
Tage              | Date I                      Date I
1. Vehicle Component
EMISSION STANDARDS
- technical assistance: emission     SIGNED                 04/93   INE/SEMARNAP    04/93
standards (TOR I)                    CONTRACT
Heavy-duty Diesel Emissions
-promulgation of initial standards  PROMULGATION           06/93   INE/SEMARNAP    06/93
-promulgation of revised standards   PROMULGATION           12/94  INE/SEMARNAP    01/96
Minibuses and Medium-duty Vehicle
Emissions
-promulgation of standards          PROMULGATION           12/93   INE/SEMARNAP    10/93
Durability, Warranty, In-service
Compliance
-promulgation of procedures         PROMULGATION           12/93  INE/SEMARNAP          00    INE is reviewing standards
with the auto industry
Evaporative Emissions                                                                           -expect to issue norm in
-promulgation of standards           PROMULGATION           12/93  INE/SEMARNAP    10/93   2000
Fuel Standards
-review completed                    REPORT                 12/93   INE/SEMARNAP    12/94
-technical assistance: emission      COMPLETION OF          08/95   INE/SEMARNAP    06/98
standards (TORI)                     CONTRACT
Emission Standards Enforcement
-technical assistance: emission testing  SIGNED             07/93   INE/SEMARNAP    10/93   Bank funds not used-
(TOR 2)                              CONTRACT(S)                                                government required auto
-technical assistance: emission testing  COMPLETION OF      06/96  INE/SEMARNAP    06/98   industry to develop
(TOR 2)                              CONTRACT                                                   infrastructure to carry out
tests with own equipment
INSPECTION/MAINTENANCE                                                                          under government
SYSTEM                                                                                          authorities
High-volume Inspection Stations
- total number of lanes available for  MNIMUM 54            12/93   GDF and SoM         06/97
operation                            LANES
Emission Testing and Diagnostic
Equipment in Private Garages
- percentage of private stations equipped  100%/o           12/93   GDF                 96/97
with emission
testing and diagnostic equipment: GDF
- percentage of private stations equipped   100%            12/93   SoM                 96/97
with emission
testing and diagnostic equipment: SM
I/M PROGRAM ASSESSMENT &
DEVELOPMENT
- GDF staff in-place                 25 STAFF IN PLACE    0 1/94   GDF                  12/93
- SM staff in-place                  10 STAFF IN PLACE    01/94   SoM                   12/93
- technical assistance: management   SIGNED                 01/94   GDF/SoM             09/99
contractor (TOR 3)                   CONTRACT
- technical assistance: management   COMPLETION OF          06/96   GDF/SoM             07/00
contractor (TOR 3)                   CONTRACT



16
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION (CONT.)
Component and Sub-Component              Target        Target     Agency      Actual            Comments
I                 I Date                   Date
I. Vehicle Component (cont)
FM SUPERVISORY CONSULTANT
- technical assistance: I/M consultant (TOR 4)   SIGNED      09/92   DDF/SoM        09/97   Contracted consultant to advise
CONTRACT                                          on implementation, initial
- technical assistance: PM consultant (TOR 4)   COMPLETION   08/94   DDF/SoM        06/98   operation and maintenance of
OF CONTRACT                                       PM system. Also financed TA
in installation, operation and
maintenance of IM/240 systems
for dynamic analysis
INSPECTOR/MECHANIC TRAINING
- number of trained inspectors and mechanics   1500          12/93   DDF/SoM        06/98   Training for specialized
inspection station-all inspectors
HIGH-USE VEHICLE FLEET                                                                       received training in equipment
MODERNIZTION -                                                                              use in GDF 1,430 mechanics
LINES OF CREDIT (see note 1)                                                                were trained; in SoM 980
Taxis                                                                                        mechanics trained
- new taxis under Project 1993-96         UP TO 25000        06/96   }                       1992-1999           1993-96
- new taxis financed by World Bank loan   UP TO 2800         06/96   }                       54,965               37,591
- new taxis financed by reflows of World  UP TO 4700         06/96   }                       } 6,316               6,316
Bank funds                                                           }                       }
}}
Trucks -Own Account                                                  }                       }
}                      }
- new trucks under Project 1993-96        UP TO 10000        06/96   } 
- new trucks financed by World Bank loan  UP TO 2800         06/96   }                       } All Trucks Total:
- new trucks financed by reflows of World  UP TO 1700        06/96   }                       } 159,210            102,584
Bank funds                                                           CAM/NAFIN               } Financed By Bank:
/BANOBRAS              } 659                    659
Trucks - Third Party                                                 }                       } 159,210            102,584
}                      }
- new trucks under Project 1993-96        UP TO 6000         06/96   1
- new trucks financed by World Bank loan  UP TO 1400         06/96   }
- new trucks financed by reflows of World  UP TO 900         06/96   }
Bank funds                                                           }
}
Trucks - Conversion (LPG - CNG)                                      }
}
- truck conversions under Project 1993-96  UP TO 72000       06/96   }                        31,341               19,355
- truck conversions financed by World Bank    UP TO 11400    06/96   }
Loan                                                                 }
}
Minibuses                                                            }
}
- new minibuses under Project 1993-96     UP TO 3000         06/96                            8,633                 6,402
- new minibuses financed by World Bank loan  UP TO 850       06/96   }                        2,384                 2,384
VEHICLE REGIISTRATION SYSTEM
- technical assistance: vehicle registration  SIGNED         07/93   GDF                    The governments of the Federal
system (TOR 5)                            CONTRACT                                           District and of the SoM have
- installation: DDF                       INSTALLATION   06/94   GDF                        brought their vehicle registries
COMPLETED                                         up to date; however a registry
- installation: SoM                       INSTALLATION   06/94   GDF/SoM                    system for the MCMA does not
COMPLETED                                         exist. The governments are in
- technical assistance: vehicle registration  COMPLETION     06/94   GDF/SoM                the process of letting a contract
system (TOR 5)                            OF CONTRACT                                .       for this assignment



17
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION (CONT.)
Component and Sub-Component              Target        Target      Agency      Actual           Comments
Date                    Date
H. Fuel Component
GASOLINE VAPOR RECOVERY
- vapor recovery installation at terminals and   INSTALLATION    01/94   PEMEX       06194
tank trucks                              COMPLETED
- technical assistance: vapor recovery (TOR    SIGNED        01/94   DDF/SOM         09/95
6)                                       CONTRACT
1996
- installation in DDF and SoM            INSTALLATION    04/98   DDF (in              12/99
COMPLETED                  coordination
with PEMEX
and SoM)
- technical assistance: vapor recovery (TOR    COMPLETION    12/94   DDF/SoM         02/96
6)                                       OF CONTRACT
ALTERNATIVE FUEL PILOT PROGRAM
- technical assistance: alternative fuel  SIGNED             04/93   CAM             06/97
program (TOR 7)                          CONTRACT
- technical assistance: alternative fuel  COMPLETION         12/94   CAM              10/99
program (TOR 7)                          OF CONTRACT                        _
HI. Transport Policy and Management Compne                                                  __
- technical assistance (TOR 8)           SIGNED              04/93   COMETRAVI   08/96
CONTRACT
- Transport Air Quality Strategy agreed by  }                12/93   COMETRAVI   06/99   Workshop to discuss
Mexican Authorities                      }                                                    integrated strategy - The
}AGREEMENT                                          surategy document was agreed
- travel demand policy agreed by Mexican  }    BY            12/93   COMETRAVI                by the authorities of the
Authorities                              } MEXICAN                                            Federal District and SoM.
}AUTHORITIES                                        The integration of the strategy
- public transport policy agreed by Mexican    }             12/93   COMETRAVI                with the programs of the
Authorities                              }                                                    Federal District and SoM and
}                                                   with their investment plans is
- urban freight policy agreed by Mexican  }                  12/93   COMETRAVI                being implemented
Authorities                               }
}
- annual transport investment programs   }                   annual  COMETRAVI
- technical assistance (TOR 8)           COMPLETION          12/94   COMETRAVI
OF CONTRACT
IV. Scientific Base Component
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO CAM                                                                 Bank funds were not used:
TO lMPROVE SCIENTIFIC BASE                                                                  Government used its own funds
- technical assistance (TOR 9)        SIGNED                 07/93   CAM                    and technical assistance
CONTRACT                                              provided by various
- updated emissions inventory         REPORT                 annual  CAM                     international agencies
- photochemical grid model            MODEL                  12/94  IMP              12/94  In progress
- human exposure model                MODEL                  12/95  IMP              12/95
- epidemiological study               REPORT                 12/95   SEC.            10/96
HEALTH
- improved economic methodology       NEW PROCEDURES    12/94   CAM
ADOPTED                                               Government now using
- technical assistance (TOR 9)        COMPLETION OF          06/96   CAM             09/97  methodology developed in
CONTRACT                                              project



18
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION (CONT.)
Component and Sub-Component                Target        Targe       Agency        Actual         Comments
t Date                    Date
II. Scientific Case Component (cont.)
EOUIPMENT FOR SEMARNAP/INE
- air quality monitoring system           INSTALLATION    06/95   SEMINAP/INE    06/00
COMPLETED
- equipment for short-term forecasting    INSTALLATION        12/95   SEMINAP/INE    06/98
COMPLETED
IMP MOBILE SOURCE EMISSIONS
LABORATORY                                INSTALLATION        12/94  IMP                07/97
- installation                            COMPLETED
CAM TECHNICAL SUPPORT TEAM
- technical assistance: project coordinator  SIGNED           09/92   CAM               06/93
(TOR 10)                                  CONTRACT
- staff in-place                          25 STAFF            12/92   CAM               12/92
- technical assistance: long-term consultants    SIGNED       04/93   CAM               94-98
(TOR 11)                                  CONTRACT            annual
70 MAN-
MONTHS/YEAR
- updated Integrated Program agreed by CAM    AGREED          annual  CAM               1994 to
PROGRAM                                       date
- annual scientific base programs agreed by  AGREED           annual  CAM               1994 to
CAM                                       PROGRAM                                        date
- environmental impact assessment procedure   NEW            06/94   CAM                         The government adopted
PROCEDURES                                            environmental impact
ADOPTED                                               assessments
as requirement for new
- preparation investments for             REPORTS             annual  CAM               annual  industries and industrial
funding/implementation                                                                           expansion and for
commercial and service
- technical assistance: project coordinator  COMPLETION       06/96   CAM               06/98   industries
(TOR 10)                                  OF CONTRACT
- technical assistance: long-term consultants    COMPLETION   06/96   CAM               06/98
(TOR 11)                                  OF CONTRACT
ANNUAL ENVIRONMENTAL AUDIT
- technical assistance: (TOR 12)          SIGNED              07/93   CAM               12/99
CONTRACT
- O/P: annual report                      REPORT              annual  CAM
- technical assistance: (TOR 12)          COMPLETION          12/96   CAM                        In progress as of 05/00
OF CONTRACTS                               I         I        _I



19
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations
Table 6.1 - Number of Days Exceeding the Ozone IMECA
Value of 100, 200, 250 and 300
Year          Days Over 100    Days Over 200   Days Over 250   Days Over 300
1991               353               174               61                8
1992               331               122               36               10
1993               324                80               14                1
1994               344                93                4                0
1995               324                88                6                0
1996               326                69                5                0
1997               322                52                2                0
1998               320                58                3                0
1999               300                30                2                0
Table 6.2 - Number of Days Exceeding the PM-10 IMECA
Value of 100
Year                                   Days Over 100
1995                                         92
1996                                         179
1997                                         153
1998                                         189
1999                                         20



20
Table 7: Technical Assistance and Studies Included in Project
Technical Assistance           Executing      Starting Date    Ending Date
and Studies                 Agency
Target  Actual  Target  Actual
TOR   Development of Vehicle              INE/        4/93    4/93    8/95     8/95
1    Emission Standards and Related    SEMARNAP
Regulation
TOR   Emission Standards Enforcement      INE/        7/93    8/97    6/96     6/98
2                                    SEM ARNAP
TOR   Vehicle Inspection &                INE/        1/94    1/94    6/96     6/96
3    Maintenance System              SEMARNAP
TOR   Technical Assistance -             GDF/SM       9/92    1/93    8/94     6/93
4    Implementation and Initial
Operation of Upgrade Inspection
and Maintenance System
TOR   Vehicle Registration System       GDF/SOM       7/93    1993    6/94     1997
5
TOR   Selection, Procurement &          GDF/SOM       4/93    1/95    12/94    2/96
6    Acceptance Testing of Stage II
Refueling Vapor
Recovery Systems
TOR   Alternative Fuel Pilot Program      CAM         4/93    7/97    12/94    6/98
7
TOR   Transport & Air Quality Strategy   COMETRAVI   4/93    2/96    12/94    1/98
8
TOR   Scientific Base Studies             CAM         7/93    9/97    6/96     6/98
9
TOR   Project Coordinator                 CAM         9/92    8/97    6/96     6/98
10
TOR   Technical Assistance to the         CAM         4/93    6/92    6/96     6/98
11    CMPCCA/CAM
TOR   Annual Environmental Audit          CAM         9/93    12/99   12/96     In
12                                                                           progress



21
Table 8: Project Costs and Financing1
(US$ Millions)
SAR Estimates                                                             Actual
Private    Gov't        Bank          Total       Private       Gov't        Bank           Total
sector                                            sector                    ._
A. Credit Lines
(a) High-use Vehicle Fleet Modernization                                           _                    _
Taxis                              239.3                   82.4          321.7        498.7         5.6          22.5          526.8
Minibuses                           73.1                   23.3          96.4         172.3          9.4         29.4          211.1
Trucks                             200.5       20.7        126.2         347.4       6,010.0         5.7         19.9         6,035.6
Buses                                -          -            -                        167.3         0.9          3.5           171.7
Emission-control Retrofit          187.2       5.3         30.0          222.5        19.8           -            -            19.8
(b) J/M System Analyzers in Private    8.2        1.2         7.1           16.5         6.2           0.3          1.7           8.2
Garages
708.3      27.2        269.0        1,004.5      6,874.3        21.9         77.0         6,973.2
B. Financing Investments & T.A.
Vehicle component
(a) Emission Standards                                        7.7           7.7         54.8
(b)IM System                          14.2                    3.5          17.7         54.8           1.0          -            55.8
(c) Vehicle Registration System        -                      0.8           0.8         54.8          9.4       _                 9.4
14.2        -          12.0          26.2         54.8          10.4          -            65.2
Fuel component
(a) Vapor Recovery Systems              -         16.0        17.4          33.4         35.4                       9.5           44.9
(b) Alternative Fuel Pilot Programs                            1.0          1.0           -           55.0          0.9           55.9
16.0        18.4          34.4         35.4          55.0        10.4          100.8
Transport Policy & Management                      -          2.7      -   2.7                    _    0.9                        0.9
Scientific Base Component
(a) Technical Assistance for CAM           _      4.7         4.7                                      15.0         0.2           15.2
(b) Air-monitoring Equipment for        -         0.7         3.8           4.5                        0.3          4.0           4.3
INE/GDF
(c) BMB Mobile-Source Emission Lab      -         0.7         3.5           4.2                   _    8.8                        8.8
-         1.4         12.0          13.4                      24.1          4.2          28.3
lnstitutional Strengthening.
(a) CAM Technical Support Team          -                      5.1          5.1                        9.6                        96_  9
(b) Annual Environmental Audit          -                     0.4           0.4           -            0.2          0.2           0.4
__________                 5.5          5.5                    __9.8            0.2           10.0
GR_AND TOTAL                          722.5      44.6         319.6        1,086.7     6,964.5        122.1        91.8         7,178.4
' Bank loan US$220 million; vehicles projected to be financed through vehicle subloan repayments US$99.6 million.



22
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section   Covenant   Present       Original      Revised         Description of         Comments
Type      Status     Fulfillment   Fulfillment        Covenant
Date         Date
Guarantee    2.01        3         CD                                 Provision  of funds for  Provided    with
project                  delays  amended
in 1994 to permit
Agreement    3.02        3          C                                  Onlending  arrangements  NAFIN to finance
for:                     taxis       and
a) credit lines          minibuses
b)    IMP      emission
laboratory
Fund    transfer    to
environmental trust find
3.06       12         C         01/01/93                 Inspection  of  high-use
vehicles  in  test-only
inspection stations
3.09       9          C        Beginning      09/30/94    Provision  of  quarterly
03/31/93                 progress reports through
CMPCCA
3.10       9         CD      By September                Participation   through
each year                CMPCCA   in  annual
reviews    of   project
implementation and mid-
term review
3.11       5         CD      3 months after              Preparation    of   the
effectiveness             methodology  to  assess
economy and efficiency
of vehicle procurement
following    established
commercial practices
3.12       12         C         01/01/93                 Establishment  of  age
limits on high-use vehicles
operating in MCMA
3.13       12         C                                  Provision  of  unleaded
gasoline to meet MCMA
demand
Annual   surveys    of
availability of unleaded
gasoline and extent of
misfueling and reverse
misfieling in the MCMA
3.14       5          C                                  Assure that CMPCCA is
supported by an adequate
DDF technical team
4.01        1         CD        Annual                   Cause   CMPCCA    to  Audits  provided
Audits                  maintain  records  and  beginning in 1994
separate accounts on its  with delays
project components and
have them audited



23
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants (cont.)
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Present   Original      Revised         Description of           Comments
Type     Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment        Covenant
Date        Date
Loan       4.02       3         C                              NAFIN agrees to:          Amended in 1994 to
Agreement                                                         Relend loan proceeds for  permit NAFIN  also
trucks, vehicle conversions  to lend for taxis and
retrofitting,  emissions  minibuses
testing  . equipment  in
accordance with agreed
procedures
4.06       5         C
Agreement to follow Bank
procurement guidelines
4.07       9        CD       Annually               Agreement to carry out  Responsibility   for
annual     environmental  environmental audits
audits                   transferred to CAM
through
4.08       9         C      September               Agreement to participate in  Environmental Trust
each year              annual reviews of project Funds for June 1997;
implementation and provide  expected completion
government with data on  mid-2000
project  components  for
which it is responsible
4.10       3         C                              Repayments of subloans  Not needed - lending
made to NAFIN used to  stopped in 1995
make further subloans
4.11       5         C                              Agreement to promote its
credit lines in accordance
with its  1992 promotion
plan
5.01       1        CD       Annual                 Agreement  to  maintain  Failure  to  provide
Audits                project accounts and have  consolidated
them audited annually    accounts  for  all
project   operations
until 1998 and delays
in receiving annual
audit reports
Banobras    2.02        3         C                              Relending  loan  proceeds  Amended  schedules
Project                                                         for taxis, minibuses, buses  to  adjust  interest
Agreement                                                         and trucks in accordance  rates, and spreads in
with agreed procedures   June 1997 to permit
proposed lending for
2.07       5         C                              Agreement to follow Bank  buses
procurement guidelines
2.08       9        CD      September               Agreement to participate in
each year              annual    implementation
reviews and provide project
data



24
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants (cont.)
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Present   Original      Revised         Description of           Comments
Type     Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment        Covenant
Date        Date
2.10       3         C                              Repayment of subloans to
Banobras used to make
further subloans
2.10       5         C                              Agreement  to  promote
credit line in accordance
with 1992 promotion plan
3.01       1        CD        Annual                Agreement  to  maintain
Audits                project accounts and have
them audited annually
Trustee     2.01       5        CD                              Agreement to carry out Amended  in  June
Project                                                         project  components  for  1997  to  include
Agreement                                                         which it is responsible  environmental audits
and to provide loans
to  finance  vapor
recovery   systems
from its resources
from 1995
2.02       3        CD                              Agreement to make funds  Not done until 1997
available to GDF on grant
basis to carry out project
components
2.06       5         C                              Agreement to carry out
procurement in accordance
with Bank guidelines
2.07       9         C      September               Agreement to participate in
each year              annual    implementation
reviews and provide project
data
3.01       1        CD        Annual                Agreement  to  maintain
Audits                project accounts and have
them audited annually
IMP       2.01        5                                        Agreement to carry out  1MP           Project
Project                                                         expansion and upgrading of Agreement and all its
Agreement                                                         IMP        mobile-source  obligations
emissions laboratory     thereunder    were
terminated      by
2.05       5                                        Agreement to carry out  amendment in May
procurement in accordance  1994.        IMP
with Bank guidelines     implemented
component with its
2.06       9                                        Agreement to participate in  own resources.
annual    implementation
reviews and provide project
data
3.01       1                                        Agreement  to  maintain
project implementation and
have them audited annually



25
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                       9. =  Monitoring, review and reporting
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation   10. =  Project implementation not covered
from beneficiaries                           by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds  11. =  Sectoral or cross-budgetary or other
resource allocation
4. =  Counterpart funding                    12. =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral
policy/regulatory/institutional action
5. =  Management aspects of the project or   13. =  Other
executing agency
6. =  Environmental covenants
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
8. =  Present Status:
C   =  covenant complied with
CD =  complied with after delay
CP =  complied with partially
NC -  not complied with



26
Table 10: Resources used: Staff Inputs
(US $ Thousands)
Stage of Project Cycle     Bank Resources        Trust Fund Resources       Total Resources
Labor  Travel   Total  Labor  Travel   Total   Labor  Travel   Total
PreparationtoApproval     530.5   118.2   648.7   21.1    7.8    28.9   551.6   126.0   677.6
Appraisal to Board        35.5    9.2    44.7   67.2   22.6    89.8   102.7   31.8   134.5
Negotiations through Board   69.0    13.6    82.6    6.2   1.9      8.1    75.2    15.5    90.7
Supervision               331.0   56.1   387.1   84.8   28.7   113.5   415.8   84.8   500.6
Completion                 16.7    3.3    20.0      -                      16.7    3.3    20.0
TOTAL                     982.7  200.4  1183.1  179.3   62.0   240.3   1162.0  261.4   1423.4
Source: Bank MIS



27
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of      Month]  Number   Days   Specialized  Performance          Types of Problems
Project Cycle     Year      of        In        Staff       Rating
Persons    Field     Skills
DO    IP
03/89      3         9        E,T
05/89      4         5        E,T
I. IdentificationJ    08/89   2        2         E,T
Preparation      09/89      11       12       E,T,A,P
05/90      iI        3        E,T
06/90      4        10         E,P
01/91      12       16       E,T,L,F
07/91      10       20       E,T,F,P
10/91      6        18       E,P,F,T
Appraisal       02/92      9        20      E,A,L,F,T
04/93      4         8        E,T,F      S      S    Fund Transfer Arrangemnent
07/94      3         5        E,F        S      S    Fund Transfer Arrangement
01/95      4         5         E,F       S      S          Bus financing
08/95      2        10         E,F       S      S            delays in
11. Supervision   03/96      2         5         E,F       S      S        procurement study
05/96      3         5        E,F        S      S         Project Revision
12/96      2        5         E,F        S     S          Project Revision
04/97      1         5          F        S      S         Project Revision
03/98      6        10        E,T,A      S      S    Revisions in loan document
Staff Skills
E. Environmental Economist                     T. Transport Specialist
! A. Air Quality Engineer                        F. Financial Analyst
L. Lawyer                                      P. Procurement Specialist
Performance Rating
DO - Development Objectives                    IP - Implementations Progress
Source: Project Files



28
Appendix A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
TRANSPORT AIR OUALITY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
FOR THE MEXICO CITY METROPOLITAN AREA
(Loan 3543-ME)
Aide Memoire



29
MISION DE PREPARACION DEL INFORME DE CIERRE DEL PROYECTO
(IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT, ICR)
DEL PROYECTO DE GESTION DEL TRANSPORTE Y LA CALIDAD DEL AIRE
EN LA ZONA METROPOLITANA DE LA CIUDAD DE MEXICO
(PRESTAMO 3543-ME)
AYUDA DE MEMORIA
10 de septiembre de 1999
En la semana comprendida del 6 al 10 de septiembre de 1999, se llev6 a cabo una misi6n para
preparar el Implementation Completion Report (ICR) del Proyecto de Gesti6n del Transporte y la
Calidad del Aire en la Zona Metropolitana de la Cuidad de Mexico y el Prestamo 3543-ME. En la
misi6n participaron los seflores Carl-Heinz Mumme, Luis Banck y Sergio Sanchez. La Misi6n
agradece a todas las instituciones participantes y sus representantes los muiltiples apoyos recibidos
para el desarrollo de los trabajos incluyendo a la Comisi6n Arnbiental Metropolitana (CAM) y sus
instituciones miembros, la Cornision Metropolitana de Transporte y Vialidad, el Instituto Mexicano
del Petr6leo, la Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Puiblico, asi como NAFIN y BANOBRAS.
OBJECTIVO DE LA MISION
De acuerdo con los Terminos de Referencia de la misi6n, el prop6sito central de las reuniones
sostenidas fue el reunir la informaci6n necesaria para que la misi6n del banco prepare el ICR. El
segundo objetivo de la misi6n fue acordar con el Gobierno y las agencias ejecutoras los pr6ximos
pasos requeridos para la elaboraci6n de este reporte.
A lo largo de la semana la misi6n tuvo la oportunidad de reunirse con NAFIN, BANOBRAS, la
CAM y las agencias ejecutorias del proyecto para solicitar la informaci6n asi como sus puntos de
vista sobre el proyecto.
La misi6n obtuvo el dia de hoy, un paquete que contiene informaci6n preliminar para la elaboraci6n
del reporte. La versi6n final de este paquete sera integrada por NAFIN en cooperaci6n con la CAM
para su entrega a la misi6n del banco.
La misi6n brindo asesoria y apoyo a NAFIN, en su calidad de prestatario del proyecto, con respecto
a la preparaci6n de sus contribuciones para la elaboracio'n del ICR.



30
PASOS A SEGUIR
Se acord6 que:
a) NAFIN, en coordinaci6n con la Secretaria Tecnica de la CAM, enviara al Banco el paquete de
informacifn sefialado anteriormente, asi como los anexos estadisticos correspondientes antes del 4
de octubre.
b) La Comisi6n Ambiental Metropolitana coordinara la preparacion de la informacion faltante para
la elaboraci6n del ICR, incluyendo los siguientes aspectos: fase 0 y 1 de la recuperaci6n de vapores
(en la parte de autotanques de PEMEX); sistema de registro vehicular de la zona metropolitana;
estrategia integral del transporte y calidad del aire; revision del cumplimiento de acuerdos del
proyecto (cuadro 8) estimacion de costos totales de la renovacion de taxis, microbuses y autobuses;
estudio de evaluacio6n de impacto ambiental del paquete ecol6gico de PEMEX y informacion sobre
estudios terminados durante la ejecuci6n del proyecto (cuadro 6).
c) La Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Puiblico enviaria al Banco por medio de NAFIN un informe
con respecto al Fideicomiso Ambiental, incluyendo resultados, situaci6n actual y perspectivas.
d) La mision del Banco Mundial, enviara informaci6n adicional a NAFIN sobre los requisitos para
elaborara el Plan Operacional, antes del 15 de Septiembre.
e) NAFIN, en su calidad de prestatario, elaborara y enviarA al Banco el Plan Operacional del
Proyecto, incluyendo sus puntos de vista sobre la instrumentacion y operaci6n del mismo, antes del
1 de Octubre.
f) La misi6n del Banco Mundial enviara para su revisi6n un borrador del ICR a NAFIN, en su
calidad de prestatario, y al JAPAN Exim Bank, en su calidad de agente cofinanciero del proyecto,
de dos a tres meses despues de la conclusi6n de esta misi6n.
g) Una vez que NAFIN haya recibido el borrador del ICR concluira su evaluaci6n del proyecto y la
enviarA al Banco con un resumen.
h) Cuando NAFIN haya enviado la informaci6n sefialada en los incisos a-d), la misi6n preparara un
addendum a esta Ayuda Memoria, resumiendo los puntos de vista del Banco, del prestatario y de las
agencias ejecutoras con respecto a la instrumentaci6n y operaci6n del proyecto.
PUNTOS DE VISTA PRELIMINARES DE LA MISION
La misi6n del Banco concluy6 que los objetivos del proyecto fueron alcanzados en funcion de las
siguientes consideraciones: la tasa de crecimiento de los principales contaminantes se ha reducido,
un marco de polftica y gesti6n del transporte y calidad del aire ha sido desarrollado, la base
cientifica ha sido mejorada y la capacidad institucional para la gesti6n da la calidad del aire ha sido
fortalecida.
Todos los componentes del proyecto fueron instrumentados utilizando menos recursos del prestamo
que los anticipados originalmente. En gran medida, la menor cantidad de recursos desembolsados
del prestamo fue compensada por un incremento en el uso de inversiones del sector privado, de
donaciones y asistencia tecnica de agencias internacionales, de recursos puiblicos y del fideicomiso
ambiental.



31
Appendix B
Borrower Contribution to the ICR
The Borrower (NAFIN), sent the Bank in January, 2000 documentation on the
implementation of the project. It included data on the implementation of the various
project components, loan disbursements and included comments on project implementation
by NAFIN itself and by other project implementing agencies including BANOBRAS, the
Mexican Petroleum Institute (IMP), the Government of the Federal District (GDF), the
Metropolitan Transport Commission (COMETRAVI) and the Environmental Trust Fund.
The data on project implementation and disbursements were used in the preparation of the
ICR. The following provides a summary of the comments made by the implementing
agencies. The complete report can be found in the project files.
GDF
1. The GDF reported on the reasons for the delay in carrying out the annual environmental
audits included in the project, the status of the alternative fuels program and the reasons for
delays in the program, and the status of the vehicle inspection system and reasons for
delays in its implementation.
2. The annual environmental audits were not carried out due to delays in declaring the loan
effective and subsequent modifications in the air quality improvement program.
Accordingly, the Bank accepted a single integrated audit of the Transport Air Quality
Management Program as fulfilling the obligation under the project and terms of reference
for the study were agreed in July, 1998. Bids for the work were requested towards the end
of 1998, but were all rejected for failure to supply the required documentation. A new
short list of bidders was approved by the Bank in February, 1999, but again for failure to
supply adequate documentation (in this case the required guarantees), no contract was
awarded. (Note: subsequently new proposals were requested and a contract was awarded
at the end of 1999.)
3. The pilot program for alternative fuels was begun in 1998. As a result, the GDF had in
operation during 1999, through a program of conversion and purchase, 1,148 vehicles
(principally patrol cars, garbage collection vehicles) operating with compressed natural gas
(CNG) supplied by two service stations for CNG. In the second half of 1999, studies were
completed which demonstrated the environmental and economic benefits from the
program. The new vehicles replaced vehicles which were in some cases more than 20
years old. The operation of the new vehicles permits the monthly reduction of significant
amounts of CO, hydrocarbons and NOx and an important economic saving in that CNG
costs some 34% less than Magna Sin (unleaded gasoline). In order to provide a greater
incentive to use CNG, the GDF is attempting to get the government to reduce the special
tax on CNG. The GDF considers that the following factors have been obstacles to the use



32
of CNG: (i) the structure of relative prices of fuel; (ii) the high incremental cost of vehicle
technologies using CNG; (iii) lack of service stations for CNG; (iv) lack of interest by
vehicle manufacturers in producing CNG vehicles; (v) lack of interest by the commercial
banks in financing CNG vehicles; (vi) the unsafe use of CNG vehicles has caused serious
accidents that have dissuaded the public from converting to CNG vehicles; (vii) the
relative facility of appropriating gasoline or diesel for personal use compared with CNG by
drivers of governmental or private vehicle fleets encourages such drivers to resist the
introduction of CNG vehicles; and (viii) the high cost of vehicle conversion.
4. The vehicle inspection system was initiated in 1982 as a voluntary system and in 1988
was made obligatory. By 1991 there were 900 centers in the Federal District plus 13
verification centers belonging to the GDF. These shops caused service and quality control
problems and it was decided to strengthen the system with larger verification centers with
better control systems. As a result, in 1992 20 macrocenters were built with 110 service
lines and the 13 centers belonging to the GDF were closed. At the same time BAR-90
systems were introduced with dynamometers for high use vehicles. In 1993 six additional
centers were installed and training programs were initiated on the use of verification
systems and related matters. In 1994 some 300 inspection/maintenance (I/M) shops were
closed for failure to comply with required operating procedures. Until 1995, the MCMA
operated with a hybrid system with some centers dedicated exclusively to verification and
other private I/M centers which did inspection and maintenance. At the end of 1995 the
private centers were closed to be replaced by verification only centers which could be
operated by the former I/M station owners. In 1996 the new system began operations
which required that all vehicles registered in the MCMA had to be inspected twice a year.
The new system started in January 1996 with 26 centers in the Federal District and 24 in
the State of Mexico. Ten additional stations were introduced during 1996. Under the new
scheme centers have various types of analytical equipment testing for compliance with
CAM 96 standards (which are based on BAR specifications modified to deal with the
special requirements of the MCMA area). At the end of August 1999, 151 verification
centers were in operation in the MCMA (70 in the Federal District and 81 in the State of
Mexico), plus three institutional centers.
5. Due to the importance of the vehicle verification prograr, the importance of an
evaluation audit was recognized to evaluate the efficiency of vehicle inspections and the
degree of compliance of automobile owners and personnel of the inspection centers.
Terms of reference for the audit were agreed in July 1998 but two efforts to recruit
consulting services through public bidding failed. In 1999 the Environmental Trust Fund
was requested to authorize direct contracting with the Mexican Petroleum Institute to carry
out the audit and they are currently preparing the contract. In 1999, remote sensing
equipment and computer equipment were acquired for the vehicle inspection control
systems.
6. The following conditions affected the implementation of the inspection system: (i) the
legal arrangements which made it difficult to revoke concessions of the I/M centers; (ii) the
procurement rules of the World Bank which require the invitation of at least two foreign
firms in addition to Mexican firms. Experience shows that foreign firms rarely participate



33
in consulting assignments in Mexico due to the high cost of their services. Moreover,
national administrative rules require the presentation of at least three proposals requiring
extra approvals from the Controller General to obtain special permission which delays the
process significantly; and (iii) the losing bidder for the remote sensing equipment
disagreed with the adjudication delaying the award.
IMP
7. (The IMP made a series of recommendations for the application of the program to install
vapor recovery systems. They are in the project file and are not repeated here).
8. The following lessons were learned from the installation of the vapor recovery systems:
(i) need to strengthen the business culture of the gasoline station owners; (ii) the need to
communicate in an effective way to the station owners the benefits that they obtain from
the installation of the vapor recovery systems since it is not unusual for them to see only
the costs and problems of the new systems and see the requirement to install the systems as
an imposition and an authoritarian act which causes a negative reaction rather than a
voluntary and proactive response; (iii) the need to establish formal contracts clearly
spelling out the obligations and rights of the station owners; (iv) the need to establish
administrative procedures for the verification of payments of principal and interest in order
to avoid observations in internal and external audits.
9. The resources used for the purchase of complementary equipment for the laboratories
which test light motors and emissions of light vehicles have been used successfully and
have permitted IMP to offer services which were never offered previously. However for
the evaluation of heavy motors, the laboratories in Pachuca have not been used to the
pniamed degree. The main reason is the low level of interest of the authorities to establish
the required standards and the negative position of motor manufacturers because of the low
level of sales. To date, only three uses of the equipment have been made for PEMEX
related to the use of additives for diesel, and for the fuel evaluation studies.
10.     With respect to photochemical models it would be useful to adapt a particulate
simulator for primary and secondary particulate matter, due to the importance that such
contaminants have on health and air quality. It is advisable to monitor the effectiveness of
the conversion of gasoline vehicles to natural gas measuring the impact on maintenance
and system operating efficiency to be sure that the effect is not more negative than the
improvements one is trying to achieve. Another example is the monitoring of the exposure
of gasoline station employees before and after the installation of vapor recovery systems to
attempt to quantify appropriately the occupational health benefits.
Environmental Trust Fund
I.     The Environmental Trust Fund was financed by an initial contribution from
SHCP (Ministry of Finance) for one million pesos, and subsequently by a surcharge on the
sale of gasoline in the MCMA which was levied until December 31, 1997. The total
amount of resources received by the Trust Fund totaled 500 million pesos and these funds



34
have been used to implement various types of projects such as environmental education,
the pilot program for natural gas, vapor recovery systems, etc. Given the availability of
resources and the relatively slow use of such resources, procedures were not implemented
to obtain resources from the World Bank loan.
12.     The following lessons were learned from the project: (i) it is necessary to
elaborate operating rules which must be observed in authorizing projects; (ii) the
procedures of the World Bank for the contracting of consultants require that a maximum of
six firms can be selected to present proposals with a maximum of two from any country.
However, the Law for Procurement and Public Works requires that at least three national
firms be evaluated. The experience is that following World Bank procedures, normally
foreign firms, although expressing interest in participating, do not present proposals.
Accordingly, in accordance with the procurement law the bidding process, occasioning a
delay in the execution of the project. From the above, one would require that the World
Bank authorize the invitation to bid from three domestic companies.  (iii) need to
strengthen the Environmental Trust Fund financially in order to carry out new
environrmental projects for which it is necessary to request SHCP to renew the surcharge
on gasoline in the MCMA and return to the Trust Fund the resources for projects
implemented with Trust Fund resources carried out with funds disbursed from Loan 3543-
ME.
NAFIN
13.     Nacional Financiera (NAFIN), the borrower under the project had the following
comments on the project which were mainly focused on the credit line component.
Credit Lines
14..    The project started in 1992 and the lines of credit functioned until the end of
1994 when, after the devaluation, the economic crisis, especially in 1995 and 1996, caused
serious problems in the Mexican financial system which are still being felt. At the time the
economic crisis began, NAFIN was channeling its resources through some 400 financial
intermediaries (commercial banks, credit unions, financial leasing companies, factoring
companies, state and private development funds, trust funds). These institutions were
interested in renewing the vehicle fleet with NAFIN resources as NAFIN offered funds to
these institutions at interest rates lower than those offered by BANOBRAS, the other
project executing agency for lines of credit.
15.     The term for credits offered with NAFIN resources for financing vehicles was
between two and three years. Accordingly, the vehicle credits authorized between the end
of 1991 and the middle of 1993 were amortized without major problems. However, many
credits which were in the amortization phase when the economic crisis began fell into the
non-performing category for the following reasons: (i) steep increases in interest rates
which increased repayment amounts significantly; (ii) a general loss of purchasing power
by the general public and a consequent reduction in cargo transport and in taxi and
microbus usage to cheaper forms of transport such as the METRO ; (iii) failure to increase



35
tariffs for public transport as costs increased; (iv) poor selection of credit risks by the
financial intermediaries because of a lack of knowledge of the sector; (v) formation of
pressure groups by debtors requesting debt reduction or forgiveness; (vi) poor loan
administration by financial intermediaries which levied fines for late repayment which
made loans even more difficult to repay rather than establishing incentives to repay; (vii)
granting credits on the basis of a lien on the vehicle rather than on the value of the
concession for providing the transport service. Accordingly, NAFIN detected a significant
reduction in interest by financial intermediaries for lending for vehicle renewal in view of
their experience during the economic crisis.
16.     Based on the above, NAFIN drew the following lessons for a future line of credit
operation: (i) the need to train more rigorously management and technical staff of the
financial intermediaries, especially in the case of the non-bank financial intermediaries, as
they are the institutions most appropriate for lending to micro- and small enterprise, in this
type of lending; (ii) NAFIN has carried out a program of institutional strengthening for a
number of credit unions; (iii) requiring that all financial intermediaries with which NAFIN
deals has consulted with the National Credit Bureau and established means for the
provision of information concerning the financial condition of clients; and (iv) study the
possibility of establishing lending instruments with fixed interest rates especially for small
and micro enterprise.
General Comments on Project
17.     The loan, which had clearly defined objectives and was directed to the
improvement of air quality in the MCMA, was affected adversely by the fact that, from the
beginning, the powers and responsibilities of the executing agencies were never defined
clearly, resulting in the non-utilization of the resources of the loan.
18.     With respect to the support supplied by the loan department of the World Bank,
for the purpose of facilitating loan disbursements they permitted NAFIN to present
simplified statements of expenditure using the average monthly exchange rate which
simplified the preparation of disbursement documentation.
19.     Another lesson from the loan is that although environmental projects needed to
be focused as a matter of priority on cities which are more densely populated, the
establishment of preventive actions in intermediate size cities could prevent grave future
environmental impacts.
BANOBRAS
20.     Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos (BANOBRAS), an implementing
agency under the credit line component of the loan, provided comments on the loan which
are summarized below.
21.     Beginning in 1990, the authorities initiated a process of modernization of the
vehicle fleet focused primarily on the substitution of microbuses for combis and the



36
renewal of the taxi fleet. The participation of commercial banks, development banks, other
credit institutions, and commercial enterprises was important in the vehicle renewal
program. Nevertheless, beginning in 1992 a growing concern began to develop over non-
performing loans, particularly those made to finance microbuses. Two basic causes of this
problem were: (i) the disorganization of the transport enterprises, their low level of
technical knowledge and training, the failure to adjust transport tariffs as costs increased,
and a growing dis-equilibrium between the demand and supply of transport services caused
by a large increase in the number of concessions granted to operate public service vehicles;
(ii) a large increase in the number of credits to finance transport which were not based on
an adequate knowledge of the transport business or a systematic evaluation of the risks
inherent in public transport operations.  Accordingly, the confidence in the sector by
financial intermediaries declined and they gradually lost interest in lending to the transport
sector.
22.      As a development Bank, BANOBRAS has been promoting, based upon a
detailed analysis of the problems of the sector, and of the most suitable alternatives to
support its modernization and continuing development to support environmental
objectives, and has determined that the basis to restore financial viability to transport
concessionaries is their full modernization along the following lines: (i) improve their
organizational structures to increase their productivity, technical capabilities, quality and
efficiency of service and profitability; (ii) modernize, in accordance with the norms
regulating transport, under an orientation that permits the development of a system of
transport which is modern, efficient and organized; (iii) promote transparent tariff policies
which permits financial self-sufficiency; (iv) provide an adequate balance between the
supply and demand for transport services; (v) increase the capacity of the local authorities
to induce the required changes through institutional strengthening.
23.      Within the framework of this strategy, BANOBRAS participated actively with
the two last administrations which governed the Federal District of Mexico City and also
with the authorities of the State of Mexico in the search for elements for putting in
operation projects which were financially viable and that permitted the use of the resources
of the loan. Among the diverse actions which were implemented the most important were
the following: (i) participation in the review and formulation of a new regulatory
framework for transport in the Federal District; (ii) design of a mechanism to deal with the
negative impact on the financial condition of transport enterprises of the failure to
authorize passenger rate increases; (iii) the provision of technical assistance to the
authorities and transport enterprises on the bidding process for bus routes, and on the
preparation of projects; (iv) the design, with the authorities and automobile manufacturers
of financial schemes for taxi renewal; (v) negotiation with various financial intermediaries
of their participation in the credit line program, approving lines of credit to banks, four
vehicle leasing companies and automobile manufacturing companies which participated in
the taxi substitution program (in this effort BANOBRAS plans to work with a group of
financial intermediaries that are specialized in transport financing which will follow
responsible credit practices); (vi) with the objective of supporting the evolution of
companies which specialize in the provision of transport services, BANOBRAS designed
and elaborated the "integrated administrative and operational model for urban passenger



37
transport enterprises". This model is an important tool which provides technological and
computational elements for the modernization of service suppliers; the model has been
applied on various metropolitan routes.
25.     At this time BANOBRAS is continuing to provide support to the authorities in
the MCMA in the consolidation of the advances that have been achieved and in the
formulation of projects that can be financially viable. It is important to note that some
projects that appear to be financially viable were not approved for credit for reasons totally
independent of financial criteria related, among other factors, to the concessioning process
or with budget issues of the Federal District. These projects continue to be considered for
financing.
26.     The financing of vehicle modernization requires the financial viability of the
transport enterprises and specific financial mechanisms. Unless the structural problems of
transport are resolved, one runs the risk of translating an environmental problem into a
financial problern, besides which the environmental benefits would only have a short term
effect. Measures to support modernization taken by the authorities, besides promoting a
continuous develop of transport, supplies a context to give continuity and permanence to
the objectives that seek to reduce the environmental impact. In this process the support for
institutional strengthening is considered an action with important implications. From the
financial point of view, the ability to offer more attractive financial conditions, such as the
possibility of offering fixed interest rates on credits, is a factor which could help in
promoting financing operations.



