Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3543 ME
                       IMP Project Agreement
             (Transport Air Quality Management Project
              for the Mexico City Metropolitan Area)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                  INSTITUTO MEXICANO DEL PETROLEO
                      Dated December 18, 1992
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3543 ME
                       IMP PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 18, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and INSTITUTO MEXICANO
DEL PETROLEO (IMP).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to two hundred and twenty hundred
million Dollars ($220,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition, inter alia, that
IMP agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set
forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by the Guarantee Agreement of even date herewith between
the United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Bank, the
Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as are
set forth in the Guarantee Agreement;
Page  2
      (C)   by contractual arrangements to be entered into among,
inter alia, the Borrower, the Guarantor and IMP, part of the
proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be
made available to IMP on the terms and conditions set forth in said
contractual arrangements; and
      WHEREAS IMP, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Preamble to, and Section 1.02 of, the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project;
                 Management and Operations of IMP
      Section 2.01. IMP declares its commitment to the objectives of
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out Part D.3 of the Project and conduct its
operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial,
environmental and administrative standards and practices, with
qualified management and personnel.
      Section 2.02. IMP shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions in respect of Part D.3 of the Project.
      Section 2.03. IMP shall enter into, and duly perform all its
obligations under, the contractual arrangements referred to in
Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement. IMP shall exercise its rights
under such contractual arrangements in such manner as to: (i)
protect the interests of the Bank and IMP; (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of
Part D.3 of the Project. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
IMP shall not amend or fail to enforce such contractual arrangements
or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.04. IMP shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Part D.3 of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by IMP of its obligations
under this Agreement or under the contractual arrangements referred
to in Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement.
      Section 2.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 6 to the Loan Agreement.
      Section 2.06. IMP shall participate in the reviews referred to
in Section 3.10 of the Guarantee Agreement. IMP shall provide the
Guarantor with all information, pertaining to IMP's performance
under Part D.3 of the Project, required to allow the Guarantor to
meet its reporting obligations to the Bank. IMP shall also
contribute towards the preparation and implementation of any action
plan referred to in Section 3.10 of the Guarantee Agreement to the
extent any provisions of such action plan refer to Part D.3 of the
Project.
      Section 2.07. IMP shall carry out Part D.3 of the Project
Page  3
according to the timetables and targets set forth in the
Implementation Letter and shall make its mobile-source emissions
laboratory available for use by PEMEX, SEDESOL, CPCCA and commercial
clients.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) IMP shall maintain records and separate
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting
practices, the resources and expenditures in connection with its
execution of Part D.3 of the Project.
      (b)   IMP shall:
            (i)    have such records and separate accounts referred
                   to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each
                   fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   generally accepted auditing standards and
                   procedures consistently applied, by independent
                   and qualified auditors;
           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, a certified copy of the
                   report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                   scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                   reasonably requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts as well as
                   the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
      Section 3.02. For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, or for all expenditures with respect to
which withdrawals were made from the Special Account, IMP shall
provide to the Borrower all records and accounts necessary to allow
the Borrower to perform its obligations punctually under Article V
of the Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of IMP thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify IMP thereof.
      Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
Page  4
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      For IMP:
            Instituto Mexicano del Petroleo
            Eje Central Lazaro Cardenas 152
            07730 Mexico, D.F.
            Mexico
      Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of IMP may be taken or executed by its Director
General or such other person or persons as its Director General
shall designate in writing, and IMP shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
      Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Mexico City, Mexico, as of the
day and year first above written.
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                               RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Rainer Steckhan
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                         INSTITUTO MEXICANO DEL PETROLEO
                         By /s/ Julio Brena
                                         Authorized Representative
