Page  1
August 12, 1997
Mr. Roberto Casillas Contreras Medellín 
Director Internacional 
Nacional Financiera, S.N.
C.  Torre IV, piso 8 
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971 
01020 México, D.F. 
México
Mr. Jaime Corredor Esnaola 
Director General 
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, S.N.C. 
Tecoyotitla 100 
Colonia Florida 
01030 México, D.F.
México
Mr. Carlos Mendoza Valencia 
Director General de Crédito Público 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Insurgentes Sur 826, piso 9 
03100  México, D.F. 
México 
Re:
Loan No. 3543-ME (Transport Air Quality Management Project for the 
Mexico City 
Metropolitan Area) Amendment to the Loan, Guarantee, 
Banobras Project and 
Trustee Project Agreements and to the 
Implementation Letter
Dear Sirs: 
We refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) and Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower) dated December 
18, 1992 (the Loan Agreement), to the Guarantee Agreement of even date therewith 
between United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), 
to the Banobras Project Agreement of even date therewith between the Bank and Banco 
Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, S.N.C. (Banobras), to the Trustee Project 
Agreement of even date therewith between Banobras (the Trustee) and the Bank and to 
the Implementation Letter of even date therewith defined in Section 1.02 (j) of the 
Loan Agreement, each as amended.  We are pleased to inform you of our agreement to 
amend said Loan, Guarantee, Banobras Project and Trustee Project Agreements and 
Implementation Letter as follows:
General
1.
The word “COTAM”, wherever it appears in the Loan, Guarantee, Banobras Project 
and Trustee Project Agreements and in the Implementation Letter, and except as 
otherwise replaced pursuant to this amendment letter, is hereby replaced by the word 
“COMETRAVI”.
2.
The word “CPCCA”, wherever it appears in the Loan, Guarantee, Banobras Project 
and Trustee Project Agreements and in the Implementation Letter, and except as 
otherwise replaced pursuant to this amendment letter, is hereby replaced by the word 
“CAM”.
3.
The word “SEDESOL”, wherever it appears in the Loan, Guarantee, Banobras Project 
and Trustee Project Agreements and in the Implementation Letter, and except as 
otherwise replaced pursuant to this amendment letter, is hereby replaced by the word 
“SEMARNAP”.
Loan Agreement
4.
WHEREAS clause (E) in the Preamble is hereby amended by:  (a) replacing the 
words “Parts A.3 (c), (d) and (f), A.6, B, C, D.1 and E.1” with the words “Parts A.3 
(c), (d) and (f), A.6, B, C, D.1 and E”; and (b) replacing the words “and the Borrower 
Page  2
shall make available to the Trustee part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in 
this Agreement” with the words “and the Borrower shall, for the benefit of the 
Trustee, make available to the Guarantor part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided 
in this Agreement”.
5.
WHEREAS clause (G) in the Preamble is hereby amended by replacing the words “A.4 
(b)-(d), A.5 and E.2” with the words “A.4 (b)-(d) and A.5”.
6.
Section 1.02 (b) is hereby left intentionally blank.
7.
Section 1.02 (c) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  ““CETES 
Rate” means Tasa de Certificados de la Tesorería de la Federación (Federal Treasury 
Certificates Rate), defined as Tasa de CETES in the May 21, 1996 Circular-Telefax (fax 
circular) no. 51/96 issued by Banco de México (the Guarantor’s Central Bank);”.
8.
 Section 1.02 (d) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
““COMETRAVI” means the Comisión Metropolitana de Transporte y Vialidad (Metropolitan 
Road and Transport Commission) created pursuant to the Convenio (Agreement) among the 
DDF, SCT (as hereinafter defined) and SM (as hereinafter defined) published in the 
Guarantor’s Diario Oficial de la Federación on February 15, 1995;”.
9.
Section 1.02 (e) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  ““CAM” 
means the Comisión Ambiental Metropolitana (Metropolitan Environmental Commission) 
created pursuant to the Convenio (Agreement) among, inter alia, the Guarantor, the DDF 
and SM (as hereinafter defined) published in the Guarantor’s Diario Oficial de la 
Federación on September 17, 1996;”.
10.
Section 1.02 (s) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety: 
““SEMARNAP” means the Guarantor’s Secretaría de Medio Ambiente, Recursos Naturales y 
Pesca (Environment, Natural Resources and Fisheries Secretariat);”.
11.
Section 1.02 (u) is hereby left intentionally blank.
12.
Section 2.03 is hereby amended by replacing the date “June 30, 1997” with the 
date “June 30, 1999”.
13.
Section 4.01 is hereby amended by replacing the words “A.4 (b)-(d), A.5 and E.2” 
with the words “A.4 (b)-(d) and A.5”.
14.
Section 4.05 is hereby amended by replacing the words “(for Parts A.3 (c), (d) 
and (f), A.6, B, C, D.1 and E.1 of the Project)” with the words “(for Parts A.3 (c), 
(d) and (f), A.6, B, C, D.1 and E of the Project)”.
15.
Section 4.07 is hereby left intentionally blank.
16.
Section 4.08 is hereby amended by replacing the words “Parts A.4, A.5 and E.2 of 
the Project” with the words “Parts A.4 and A.5 of the Project”, as well as by 
replacing the words “A.4 (b)-(d), A.5 or E.2 of the Project” with the words “A.4 
(b)-(d) or A.5 of the Project”.
17.
Section 6.01 (d) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  “(i) the 
Trust Agreement, (ii) the Convenio (Agreement) published in the Guarantor’s Diario 
Oficial de la Federación on September 17, 1996 creating CAM, (iii) CAM’s internal 
regulations, (iv) the Reglas de Operación referred to in Section 2.08 of the Trustee 
Project Agreement or (v) the charter, regulations or other documents whereby Banobras 
was created or is governed shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect, in the Bank’s opinion, materially and adversely the operations 
or the financial condition of CAM, Banobras, the Trustee or the Fund or the 
Guarantor’s, Banobras’ or the Trustee’s ability to carry out their Parts of the 
Project or to perform any of their obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the 
Banobras Project Agreement or the Trustee Project Agreement, respectively;”.
18.
Section 6.01 (f) (ii) is hereby amended by deleting the word “and” at the end 
thereof.
19.
Section 6.01 (g) is hereby amended by replacing the period at the end thereof 
with a semi-colon.
Page  3
20.
A new Section 6.01 (h) is hereby added immediately after Section 6.01 (g), to 
read as follows in its entirety:  “the Guarantor (including the DDF) or SM shall have 
failed to comply with the Guarantor or SM obligations, as the case may be, 
acknowledged in the Comité Técnico resolution that was approved as required for 
purposes of paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement); and”.
21.
A new Section 6.01 (i) is hereby added immediately after Section 6.01 (h), to 
read as follows in its entirety:  “the Comité Técnico resolution approved as required 
for purposes of paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely, in the Bank’s opinion, the carrying out of the Project.”. 
22.
Section 7.01 (a) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  “that 
the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement have been 
executed on behalf of the Borrower and the Guarantor (with respect to all Loan 
proceeds, other than those to be used for financing the Parts of the Project to be 
carried out or caused to be carried out by the Trustee); and”. 
23.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended by replacing the figure 
“500,000” in Category (1) with the figure “0”, by deleting the words “and laboratory 
testing” in Category (2), by replacing the figure “25,000,000” figure in Category (2) 
with the figure “8,650,000”, by replacing the figure “7,100,000” in Category (5) with 
the figure “1,679,000”, by inserting the words “(other than as covered by Category (8) 
below)” immediately after the words “Laboratory equipment” in column of Category (6), 
by replacing the figure “17,400,000” in Category (7) with the figure “17,900,000”, by 
adding a new Category (8) to read as follows in its entirety:
“(8)
Goods and their
 8,650,000
87%”,
installation in
connection with
Parts A.3 (d), A.6,
B.2 and D.1 of
the Project
by adding a new Category (9) to read as follows in its entirety:
“(9)
Canceled as of June 27, 1996          43,121,000”,
by amending Category (3) to read as follows in its entirety:
“(3)
Subloans to finance new
135,800,000
100% of amounts
replacement vehicles
disbursed under a
purchased pursuant to
Subloan”,
Part A.4 (a) of the
Project with Subloans
financed by Banobras
or by the Borrower
and by amending Category (4) to read as follows in its entirety:
“(4)
Subloans to finance
    0
100% of amounts
vehicle conversions,
disbursed under a
re-enginings or
Subloan”.
retrofittings pursuant
to Parts A.4 (b)-(d)
of the Project
24.
Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended by:  (a) replacing the words “Parts 
A.3 (c), (d) and (f), A.6, B, C, D.1 and E.1 of the Project” with the words “Parts A.3 
(c), (d) and (f), A.6, B, C, D.1 and E of the Project”; (b) replacing the word 
“Trustee” with the words “Trustee and the Borrower” in subparagraph (a) thereof; (c) 
replacing the text of subparagraph (b) thereof with “the Comité Técnico resolution 
referred to in Section 3.08 (b) of the Guarantee Agreement has been approved by said 
Comité Técnico;”; and (d) leaving subparagraph (d) thereof intentionally blank.
25.
Schedule 2, Part D.1 is hereby amended by replacing the word “assistance,” with 
Page  4
the words “assistance and of vehicle emissions monitoring devices,”.
26.
Schedule 2 is hereby amended by replacing the date “December 31, 1996” at the 
very end thereof with the date “December 31, 1998”.
27.
Paragraph 2 (b) of Section II of Schedule 5 is hereby amended as follows:
(a)
by replacing the words “100% of the selling price of the vehicle” with 
the words “87% of the selling price (including Mexican value added tax) of the 
vehicle” in subparagraph 2 (b) (i);
(b)
by replacing the words “100% of the price”, wherever they appear in 
subparagraphs 2 (b) (ii) and 2 (b) (iii), with the words “87% of the price (including 
Mexican value added tax)”; and
(c)
by deleting the last sentence thereof.
Guarantee Agreement
28.
Section 3.02 (a) (i) (C) is hereby left intentionally blank.
29.
Section 3.02 (a) (ii) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
“contractual arrangements with the Borrower and the Trustee, providing, inter alia, 
for:  (a) transfer from the Borrower to the Guarantor of part of the proceeds of the 
Loan in the same currencies as received by the Borrower from the Bank; (b) use by the 
Guarantor of such part of the proceeds to allow the Trustee to carry out Parts A.3 
(c), (d) and (f), A.6, B, C, D.1 and E of the Project; and (c) payment by the 
Guarantor to the Borrower of all amounts required by the Borrower to pay to the Bank 
on account of principal, interest and other charges on such part of the proceeds of 
the Loan.”.
30.
A new Section 3.02 (c) is hereby added, immediately after Section 3.02 (b), to 
read in its entirety as set forth in Attachment A to this letter.
31.
Section 3.08 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  “(a) The 
Guarantor shall cause Project implementation to be coordinated through CAM.  The 
Guarantor shall cause SM to perform its obligations under the Convenio (Agreement) 
referred to in Section 1.02 (e) of the Loan Agreement.  The Guarantor shall cause CAM 
to prepare and carry out a training program, satisfactory to the Bank, for the staff 
of the DDF technical team supporting CAM.
(b)
The Guarantor, through its representatives on the Comité Técnico referred 
to in Section 2.01 of the Trustee Project Agreement, shall propose for approval by 
said Comité Técnico a Comité Técnico resolution which acknowledges, on behalf of the 
parties said members represent on the Comité Técnico, the obligations of such parties 
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Guarantor, through its membership in CAM, through its membership in 
said Comité Técnico, and through any other means necessary, shall ensure that there 
always be available, in the corpus of the Fund, sufficient funds to carry out Parts 
A.3 (c), (d) and (f), A.6, B, C, D.1 and E of the Project until said Parts are 
completed as scheduled in the timetable and targets set forth in the Implementation 
Letter.”.
32.
Schedule 1 to the Trustee Project Agreement, as amended pursuant to paragraph 43 
of this amendment letter, hereby becomes Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement.
Banobras Project Agreement
33.
Paragraph 2 (b) of Section I of Schedule 1 is hereby amended by replacing the 
words “CETES plus 1.5%” with the words “the CETES Rate plus no more than 2.0 
percentage points”.
34.
A new paragraph 5 of Section I of Schedule 1 is hereby added, immediately after 
paragraph 4 of Section I of Schedule 1, to read in its entirety as set forth in 
Attachment B to this letter.
Page  5
35.
Paragraph 2 (b) of Section II of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read as follows 
in its entirety:  “Subloans shall be made in an amount up to 87% of the selling price 
(including Mexican value added tax) of the vehicle in question for purposes of Part 
A.4 (a) of the Project.”.
36.
Paragraph 2 (d) of Section II of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read as follows 
in its entirety:  “Subloans shall have a variable annual interest rate equal to:  (i) 
no more than the CETES Rate plus 7.5 percentage points and no less than the equivalent 
of the GIRA Rate in the case of taxis under Part A.4 (a) of the Project; (ii) no more 
than the CETES Rate plus 7.0 percentage points and no less than the equivalent of the 
GIRA Rate in the case of minibuses and common carrier trucks under Part A.4 (a) of the 
Project; and (iii) no more than the CETES Rate plus 7.0 percentage points and no less 
than the equivalent of the GIRA Rate in the case of buses under Part A.4 (a) of the 
Project.”.
37.
Paragraph 4 (c) of Section II of Schedule 1 is hereby amended by replacing the 
date “June 30, 1996” with the date “June 30, 1998”.
38.
A new paragraph 6 of Section II of Schedule 1 is hereby added, immediately after 
paragraph 5 of Section II of Schedule 1, to read in its entirety as set forth in 
Attachment C to this letter.
Trustee Project Agreement
39.
WHEREAS clause (C) in the Preamble is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety:  “by contractual arrangements to be entered into among, inter alia, the 
Borrower, the Guarantor and the Trustee, part of the proceeds of the Loan provided for 
under the Loan Agreement will be made available to the Guarantor, for the benefit of 
the Trustee, on the terms and conditions set forth in said contractual arrangements; 
and”.
40.
Sections 2.01, 2.02 (b), 2.03, 2.04, 2.05, 2.07, 3.01 are all hereby amended by 
replacing the words “Parts A.3 (c), (d) and (f), A.6, B, C, D.1 and E.1 of the 
Project”, wherever they appear, with the words “Parts A.3 (c), (d) and (f), A.6, B, C, 
D.1 and E of the Project”.
41.
Section 2.02 is hereby left intentionally blank.
42.
Section 2.08 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  “The Trustee 
shall provide loans, for purposes of financing the carrying out of Parts B.1 (c) and 
B.1 (d) of the Project, according to the terms of the Fund’s Reglas de Operación para 
Instalar Sistemas de Recuperación de Vapores en las Gasolineras del Valle de México 
(Operating Rules for Installing Gasoline Vapor Recovery Systems in Gasoline Stations 
in the Valley of Mexico), in effect as of June 1995 and as amended through April 1, 
1997.”.
43.
Schedule 1 is hereby transferred to become Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement 
and is hereby amended as follows:
(a)
by changing its title to read as follows in its entirety:  “Terms of the 
Comité Técnico Resolution Referred to in Section 3.08 (b) of this Agreement”;
(b)
by changing its preamble to read as follows in its entirety:  “The terms 
of the resolution referred to in Section 3.08 (b) of this Agreement shall be 
satisfactory to the Bank and shall include:”;
(c)
by changing its paragraph 1 to read as follows in its entirety:  “the 
obligation of the Guarantor (through the Trustee) to procure for the DDF and for SM, 
and make available to the DDF and to SM, on a non-reimbursable basis, the goods, works 
and services (financed out of the proceeds of the Loan) required for Parts A.3 (c), 
(d) and (f), A.6, B, C, D.1 and E of the Project;”;
(d)
by changing its paragraph 2 to read as follows in its entirety:  “the 
obligation of the Guarantor to provide to the DDF and to SM, on a non-reimbursable 
basis, the in-kind inputs (not financed out of the proceeds of the Loan) required for 
Parts A.3 (c), (d) and (f), A.6, B, C, D.1 and E of the Project, as well as the other 
facilities, services and resources required for such Parts of the Project;”;
Page  6
(e)
by replacing the words “D.1 and E.1 of the Project”, wherever they appear 
in its paragraphs 3 and 7, with the words “D.1 and E of the Project”;
(f)
by changing its paragraph 4 to read as follows in its entirety:  “the 
obligation of the Guarantor (through the DDF) and SM to use the goods, works and 
services (referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule) exclusively in furtherance of 
the objectives of the Project;”;
(g)
by leaving its paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 intentionally blank.
(h)
by replacing the word “employ” in its paragraph 10 with the words “make 
use of”;
(i)
by replacing the word “retain” in its paragraph 11 with the words “make 
use of”;
(j)
by replacing the term “E.1” in its paragraph 13 with the term “E”; and
(k)
by leaving its paragraph 15 intentionally blank.
Implementation Letter
44.
The Implementation Letter is hereby amended to read as set forth in Attachment D 
to this letter.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
the four originals of this letter in the spaces provided below, and returning one 
fully signed original to us.  This amendment shall enter into effect, as of the date 
of this letter, upon receipt by the Bank of said fully signed original.   
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade 
Director Mexico 
Country Department 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED: 
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Roberto Casillas Contreras
By /s/ Carlos García Moreno
Authorized Representative
       Authorized Representative
Date: September 11, 1997
Date: September 11, 1997
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y 
 SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C. 
(on its own behalf and as Trustee)
By /s/ Alfredo Navarrete
Authorized Representative
Date: September 11, 1997
Page  7
ATTACHMENT A:  Text of new Section 3.02 (c) of the Guarantee Agreement
"(c)
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Agreement or in the 
Banobras Project Agreement, the Guarantor shall cause the contractual arrangements 
with Banobras, referred to in this Section, to be irrevocably amended so as to require 
all of the following (but solely with respect to such Loan proceeds (hereinafter 
Affected Proceeds as more specifically labeled below) which have been or may be onlent 
by the Guarantor to Banobras pursuant to said contractual arrangements to cover 
amounts disbursed by Banobras to Financial Intermediaries under:  (I) non-Unidad de 
Inversión (Investment Unit; hereinafter UDI)-denominated Intermediary Loans, but are 
due to be repaid to the Guarantor after said Intermediary Loans become UDI-denominated 
Intermediary Loans (hereinafter UDI-repayable Affected Proceeds); or (II) 
UDI-denominated Intermediary Loans (hereinafter UDI-disbursable Affected Proceeds)):
(i)
that such amendment shall have one or more effective dates, that 
of such dates 
one shall be applicable to the Affected Proceeds of 
each UDI-denominated 
Intermediary Loan and that for each 
UDI-denominated Intermediary Loan such 
date shall be the 
amendment date referred to in paragraph 5 (a) of Section I 
of Schedule 1 
to the Banobras Project Agreement (hereinafter the Benchmark 
Date);
(ii)
that all Affected Proceeds be redenominated from pesos to UDIs as 
of the 
Benchmark Date for said Affected Proceeds according 
to the peso/UDI conversion 
rate applicable to that date as 
published in the Guarantor's Diario Oficial 
(Official Gazette);
(iii)
that the UDI-disbursable Affected Proceeds redenominated pursuant 
to paragraph 
(c) (ii) of this Section be disbursed by the Guarantor to 
Banobras in pesos 
according to the Peso/UDI conversion rate applicable 
to the date of 
disbursement as published in the 
Guarantor's Diario Oficial, be repaid and 
have interest 
charged thereon according to the terms of paragraphs (c) (v) and 
(c) 
(vi) of this Section but in all other respects be governed by the terms of 
the contractual arrangements as they read prior to their amendment allowed 
pursuant to this paragraph (c);
(iv)
that the UDI-repayable Affected Proceeds redenominated pursuant to 
paragraph 
(c) (ii) of this Section be repaid and have interest charged 
thereon according 
to the terms of paragraphs (c) (v) and (c) (vi) of 
this Section but in all 
other respects be governed by the terms 
of the contractual arrangements as 
they read prior to their 
amendment allowed pursuant to this paragraph (c);
(v)
that all Banobras principal repayments to the Guarantor with 
respect to an 
UDI-denominated Intermediary Loan’s Affected 
Proceeds be made in pesos, the 
amount of which shall be determined by 
adjusting for the difference in the 
value of the UDI between 
the Benchmark Date for such Affected Proceeds and the 
date of 
repayment by Banobras, all as set forth in the Decreto por el que se 
establecen las obligaciones que podrán denominarse en Unidades de Inversión 
(Decree establishing obligations that may be denominated in Investment Units) 
published in the Guarantor's Diario Oficial on April 1, 1995 (for 
purposes of 
the adjustment referred to herein, a repaid amount shall be 
applied to cancel 
the earliest outstanding disbursed amount); and
(vi)
that all Banobras interest payments to the Guarantor on 
outstanding disbursed 
Affected Proceeds be made in pesos at a 
variable rate equal at the time of the 
interest payment to a 
publicly-quoted market-determined interest rate, 
satisfactory 
to the Bank and to be specified in the contractual arrangements, 
on 
UDI-denominated government bonds, except that, until a market to determine 
such rates is established, the applicable variable rate shall be equal at the 
time of the interest payment to the tasa real (real rate) calculated 
according 
to the formula set forth in the November 1, 1995 Oficio 
305.-269/95 from the 
Guarantor’s Director General de Crédito 
Público of the Secretaría de Hacienda 
y Crédito Público to Banobras’ 
Page  8
Director General.".
ATTACHMENT B:  Text of new paragraph 5 of Section I of Schedule 1 to the Banobras 
Project Agreement 
"5.
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Agreement or in the 
Guarantee Agreement, Banobras shall cause each Participation Agreement, referred to in 
this Section, to be irrevocably amended so as to require all of the following (but 
solely with respect to such Loan proceeds (hereinafter Affected Proceeds as more 
specifically labeled below) which have been or may be onlent by Banobras to a 
Financial Intermediary pursuant to said Participation Agreement to cover amounts 
disbursed by the Financial Intermediary to a Subborrower under:  (I) non-Unidad de 
Inversión (Investment Unit; hereinafter UDI)-denominated Subloans, but are due to be 
repaid to the Financial Intermediary after said Subloans become UDI-denominated 
Subloans (hereinafter UDI-repayable Affected Proceeds); or (II) UDI-denominated 
Subloans (hereinafter UDI-disbursable Affected Proceeds)):
(a)
that such amendment shall have one or more effective dates, that of such 
dates one shall be applicable to the Affected Proceeds of each UDI-denominated Subloan 
and that for each UDI-denominated Subloan such date shall be the amendment date 
referred to in paragraph 6 (a) (i) of Section II of this Schedule (hereinafter the 
Benchmark Date);
(b)
that all Affected Proceeds be redenominated from pesos to UDIs as of the 
Benchmark Date for said Affected Proceeds according to the peso/UDI conversion rate 
applicable to that date as published in the Guarantor's Diario Oficial (Official 
Gazette);
(c)
that the UDI-disbursable Affected Proceeds redenominated pursuant to 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph be disbursed by Banobras to the Financial 
Intermediary in pesos 
according to the peso/UDI conversion rate applicable to the 
date of disbursement as published in the Guarantor's Diario Oficial, be repaid and 
have interest charged thereon according to the terms of subparagraphs (e) and (f) of 
this paragraph but in all other respects be governed by the terms of the Participation 
Agreement as it read prior to its amendment allowed pursuant to this paragraph 5;
(d)
that the UDI-repayable Affected Proceeds redenominated pursuant to 
paragraph (b) of this paragraph be repaid and have interest charged thereon according 
to the terms of paragraphs (e) and (f) of this paragraph but in all other respects be 
governed by the terms of the Participation Agreement as it read prior to its amendment 
allowed pursuant to this paragraph 5;
(e)
that all Financial Intermediary principal repayments to Banobras with 
respect to an UDI-denominated Subloan’s Affected Proceeds be made in pesos, the amount 
of which 
shall be determined by adjusting for the difference in the value of the 
UDI between the Benchmark Date for such Affected Proceeds and the date of repayment by 
the Financial Intermediary, all as set forth in the Decreto por el que se establecen 
las obligaciones que podrán denominarse en Unidades de Inversión (Decree establishing 
obligations that may be denominated in Investment Units) published in the Guarantor's 
Diario Oficial on April 1, 1995 (for purposes of the adjustment referred to herein, a 
repaid amount shall be applied to cancel the earliest outstanding disbursed amount); 
and
(f)
that all Financial Intermediary interest payments to Banobras on 
outstanding disbursed Affected Proceeds be made in pesos at a variable rate equal at 
the time of the 
interest payment to a publicly-quoted market-determined interest 
rate, satisfactory to the Bank and to be specified in the Participation Agreement, on 
UDI-denominated 
government bonds (plus a percentage point spread equal to no more 
than 2.0 percentage points), except that, until a market to determine such rates is 
established, the applicable variable rate shall be equal at the time of the interest 
payment to the tasa real (real rate) calculated according to the formula set forth in 
the November 1, 1995 Oficio 305.-269/95 from the Guarantor’s Director General de 
Crédito Público of the Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público to Banobras’ Director 
General (again plus a percentage point spread equal to no more than 2.0 percentage 
points).".
ATTACHMENT C:  Text of new paragraph 6 of Section II of Schedule 1 to the Banobras 
Project Agreement
Page  9
"6.
(a)
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Agreement or in the 
Guarantee Agreement, a Financial Intermediary may, with the agreement of the 
Subborrower and of all other parties, if any, to a written Subloan contract, amend 
such contract (in no case prior to April 4, 1995) so as to require all of the 
following:
(i)
that all Subloan amounts covered by said contract, which remain 
undisbursed 
from the Financial Intermediary to the Subborrower or have 
been disbursed but 
not repaid, be redenominated from pesos to Unidades 
de Inversión (Investment 
Units; hereinafter UDIs) as of the date of 
such amendment according to the 
peso/UDI conversion rate 
applicable to that date as published in the 
Guarantor's Diario 
Oficial (Official Gazette);
(ii)
that the undisbursed Subloan amounts redenominated pursuant to 
subparagraph 
(a) (i) of this paragraph be disbursed in pesos according to 
the peso/UDI 
conversion rate applicable to the date of 
disbursement as published in the 
Guarantor's Diario Oficial, be 
repaid and have interest charged thereon 
according to the 
terms of subparagraphs (a) (iv) and (a) (v) of this paragraph 
but in 
all other respects be governed by the terms of the original written 
Subloan contract as it read prior to its amendment allowed pursuant to this 
subparagraph (a);
(iii)
that the disbursed but not repaid Subloan amounts redenominated 
pursuant to 
subparagraph (a) (i) of this paragraph be repaid and have 
interest charged 
thereon according to the terms of 
subparagraphs (a) (iv) and (a) (v) of this 
paragraph but in all other 
respects be governed by the terms of the original 
written Subloan 
contract as it read prior to its amendment allowed pursuant to 
this 
subparagraph (a);
(iv)
that all the Subborrower's principal repayments to the Financial 
Intermediary 
with respect to the UDI-denominated Subloan be made in 
pesos, the amount of 
which shall be determined by adjusting for the 
difference in the value of the 
UDI between the date of the amendment 
referred to in subparagraph (a) (i) of 
this paragraph and the date of 
repayment by the Subborrower, all as set forth 
in the Decreto por 
el que se establecen las obligaciones que podrán 
denominarse en Unidades de Inversión (Decree establishing obligations that may 
be denominated in Investment Units) published in the Guarantor's Diario 
Oficial on April 1, 1995; and
(v)
that all the Subborrower's interest payments to the Financial 
Intermediary on 
outstanding disbursed UDI-denominated Subloan 
proceeds be made in pesos at a 
variable rate equal at the time of the 
interest payment to a publicly-quoted 
market-determined interest rate, 
satisfactory to the Bank and to be specified 
in the written Subloan 
contract, on UDI-denominated government bonds (plus a 
percentage 
point spread equal to no more than 7.5 percentage points for taxi 
Subloans under Part A.4 (a) of the Project, 7.0 percentage points for bus 
Subloans under Part A.4 (a) of the Project and 7.0 percentage points for 
minibus and common carrier truck Subloans under Part A.4 (a) of 
the Project), 
except that, until a market to determine such rates 
is established, the 
applicable variable rate shall be equal 
at the time of the interest payment to 
the tasa real (real rate) 
calculated according to the formula set forth in the 
November 1, 1995 
Oficio 305.-269/95 from the Guarantor’s Director General de 
Crédito Público of the Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público to Banobras’ 
Director General (again plus a percentage point spread equal to no more than 
7.5 percentage points for taxi Subloans under Part A.4 (a) of the 
Project, 7.0 
percentage points for bus Subloans under Part A.4 (a) of the 
Project and 7.0 
percentage points for minibus and common carrier 
truck Subloans under Part A.4 
(a) of the Project).".
(b)
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Agreement or in the 
Page  10
Guarantee Agreement, a Financial Intermediary may enter into new, as yet unamended 
written Subloan contracts for UDI-denominated Subloans which contain the disbursement, 
repayment and interest provisions set forth in subparagraphs (a) (ii), (a) (iv) and 
(a) (v) of this paragraph, but only if the remaining provisions of said new written 
Subloan contracts are consistent with the terms of this Schedule as relate to Subloans 
not denominated in UDIs.".
