Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3543 ME
                          Loan Agreement
             (Transport Air Quality Management Project
              for the Mexico City Metropolitan Area)
                              between
                    NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated December 18, 1992
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3543 ME
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 18, 1992, between NACIONAL
FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A) the United Mexican States (the Guarantor),
through its Departamento del Distrito Federal (DDF), in September
1991 issued a revised Programa Integral Contra la Contaminacion
Atmosferica de la Zona Metropolitana de la Ciudad de Mexico
(Integrated Program Against Air Pollution in the Mexico City
Metropolitan Area) describing a program of actions, objectives and
policies (the Program) designed to reduce air pollution in the
Mexico City metropolitan area (MCMA);
      (B)   the Borrower and the Guarantor, having satisfied
themselves as to the feasibility and priority of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (C)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
Page  2
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as are set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement;
      (D)   Part A.4 (a) (with regard to taxis, minibuses, buses and
common carrier trucks) of the Project shall be carried out by Banco
Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C. (Banobras) in
accordance with the terms of the agreement (the Banobras Project
Agreement) of even date herewith between Banobras and the Bank, and
the Borrower shall make available to Banobras part of the proceeds
of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;
      (E)   Parts A.3 (c), (d) and (f), A.6, B, C, D.1 and E.1 of
the Project shall be carried out or caused to be carried out by
Banobras (acting as trustee (the Trustee) for the environmental
trust fund (the Fund) which was created pursuant to the trust
agreement (Trust Agreement) entered into between the Guarantor and
Banobras on November 30, 1992) in accordance with the terms of the
agreement (the Trustee Project Agreement) of even date herewith
between the Trustee and the Bank, and the Borrower shall make
available to the Trustee part of the proceeds of the Loan as
provided in this Agreement;
      (F)   Parts A.1, A.2, A.3 (a), (b) and (e) and D.2 of the
Project shall be carried out or caused to be carried out by the
Guarantor in accordance with the terms of the Guarantee Agreement,
and the Borrower shall make available to the Guarantor part of the
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;
      (G)   Part D.3 of the Project shall be carried out by
Instituto Mexicano del Petroleo (IMP) in accordance with the terms
of the agreement (the IMP Project Agreement) of even date herewith
between IMP and the Bank, and the Borrower shall make available to
IMP part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;
      (H)   Parts A.4 (a) (with regard to own account trucks), A.4
(b)-(d), A.5 and E.2 of the Project shall be carried out by the
Borrower in accordance with the terms of this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
      (b)   in Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank's Articles of Agreement."; and
      (c)   the words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and
the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at the
end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted
therefor:
Page  3
            "or (f) by the date specified in Section II, paragraph
      4 (c) of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement and in Section II,
      paragraph 4 (c) of Schedule 1 to the Banobras Project
      Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect of any portion of the
      Loan, (i) have received no applications or requests under
      paragraphs 4 (a) or 4 (b) of said Sections II or (ii) have
      denied any such applications or requests, the Bank may, by
      notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right
      of the Borrower and/or Banobras to submit such applications or
      requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the
      case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of the
      Loan. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or portion
      of the Loan shall be cancelled.".
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Banobras Environmental Subloan Regulations" means the
rules under which Banobras shall provide financing pursuant to Part
A.4 (a) of the Project;
      (b)   "CETES" means Certificados de la Tesoreria de la
Federacion (Federal Treasury Certificates), as defined in the
Guarantor's Diario Oficial de la Federacion dated November 28, 1977;
      (c)   "CETES Rate" means the average annual yield, calculated
monthly, on CETES with maturities of up to one month, issued during
the month in which a CETES Rate is calculated, or such other index
reflecting the cost of funds to the Guarantor as shall be acceptable
to the Guarantor and the Bank;
      (d)   "COTAM" means the Consejo de Transporte del Area
Metropolitana (Metropolitan Area Transportation Council) created
pursuant to the Convenio (Agreement) among the DDF, SCT (as
hereinafter defined) and SM (as hereinafter defined) published in
the Guarantor's Diario Oficial de la Federacion on February 12,
1991;
      (e)   "CPCCA" means the Comision para la Prevencion y Control
de la Contaminacion Ambiental en la Zona Metropolitana del Valle de
Mexico (Commission for the Prevention and Control of Environmental
Pollution in the Metropolitan Area of the Valley of Mexico) created
pursuant to the Acuerdo (Resolution) published in the Guarantor's
Diario Oficial de la Federacion on January 8, 1992;
      (f)   "CPP" means the Costo Porcentual Promedio de Captacion
(average cost of funds) published monthly by the Guarantor and
defined in the Guarantor's Diario Oficial de la Federacion on
October 16, 1981;
      (g)   "External Advisory Panel" means the panel of consultants
funded by a Japanese grant pursuant to the Japanese Grant Agreement,
dated January 9, 1992, entered into between the Guarantor and the
Bank (acting on its own behalf and as administrator of grant funds
provided by Japan);
      (h)   "Financial Intermediary" means a credit institution,
with qualifications satisfactory to the Borrower (for purposes of
Part A.4 (a) of the Project with regard to own account trucks and
A.4 (b)-(d) of the Project), to Banobras (for purposes of Part A.4
(a) of the Project with regard to taxis, minibuses, buses and common
carrier trucks) and in good standing with the Guarantor's Comision
Nacional Bancaria (National Banking Commission), which makes
Subloans (as hereinafter defined) under the Project;
      (i)   "GIRA Rate" means the interest rate in Schedule 1,
Category VI.2, to the General Agreement on Interest Rates Applicable
to Credit Operations of Fondos de Fomento Financed by the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development entered into
between the Bank and the Guarantor on August 7, 1984, as amended
Page  4
through November 16, 1990;
      (j)   "Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date
herewith from the Guarantor to the Bank containing timetables,
targets and indicators for implementation of the Project, as well as
containing reference to the matters to be examined during the
reviews referred to in Section 3.10 of the Guarantee Agreement;
      (k)   "Intermediary Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be
made by the Borrower or Banobras to a Financial Intermediary: (i)
with the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) in an amount equal to the amount
of the Subloan (as hereinafter defined) in question; and (iii)
pursuant to a Participation Agreement (as hereinafter defined);
      (l)   "Japan EXIM Bank Loan Agreement" means the loan
agreement between the Export-Import Bank of Japan and the Borrower,
entered into on June 24, 1991, for the "PEMEX Gasoline Project";
      (m)   "NAFIN Environmental Subloan Regulations" means the
rules under which the Borrower shall provide financing pursuant to
Parts A.4 and A.5 of the Project;
      (n)   "Normatividad" means the Normatividad para el Ejercicio
de Creditos Provenientes de Organismos Financieros Internacionales
Destinados a la Banca de Desarrollo y Fondos de Fomento con Apoyos
del Gobierno Federal por Diferenciales Negativos en Tasas de Interes
(Regulations Governing the Use of Loans from International Finance
Institutions to Development Banks and Funds with Assistance from the
Federal Government for Negative Differentials in Interest Rates),
issued by the Guarantor's Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
(Finance Ministry) and Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto
(Planning and Budgeting Ministry), by means of Oficio No. 102-B-049,
dated November 18, 1988;
      (o)   "Participation Agreement" means an agreement to be
entered into by the Borrower or by Banobras with a Financial
Intermediary pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement or Section
2.02 of the Banobras Project Agreement;
      (p)   "PEMEX" means the Guarantor's petroleum and
petrochemical enterprise Petroleos Mexicanos;
      (q)   "peso" means the currency of the Guarantor;
      (r)   "SCT" means the Guarantor's Secretaria de Comunicaciones
y Transportes (Communications and Transportation Secretariat);
      (s)   "SEDESOL" means the Guarantor's Secretaria de Desarrollo
Social (Social Development Secretariat);
      (t)   "SM" means the Estado (State) of Mexico, one of the
states that constitutes the United Mexican States;
      (u)   "SM/CPCCA Agreement" means the agreement entered into
between CPCCA and SM on January 9, 1992;
      (v)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (w)   "Subborrower" means a person or entity to which a
Financial Intermediary proposes to make or has made a Subloan (as
hereinafter defined);
      (x)   "Subloan" means a loan made or proposed to be made, with
the proceeds of an Intermediary Loan, by a Financial Intermediary to
a Subborrower for purposes of Parts A.4 or A.5 of the Project;
      (y)   "Subloan Reflows" means the principal repayments
referred to in Sections 4.10 of this Agreement or 2.10 of the
Banobras Project Agreement; and
      (z)   "Subproject" means a purchase or activity financed under
Page  5
a Subloan pursuant to Parts A.4 or A.5 of the Project.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of two hundred and twenty million Dollars ($220,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
Page  6
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."
                   "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Transfer of Loan Proceeds
      Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into contractual
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Guarantor,
Banobras, the Trustee and IMP, providing, inter alia, for:
      (a)   transfer to the Guarantor of the proceeds of the Loan in
the same currencies as received from the Bank;
      (b)   onlending by the Guarantor of part of the proceeds of
the Loan to the Borrower to carry out Parts A.4 (a) (with regard to
own account trucks), A.4 (b)-(d) and A.5 of the Project and to
Banobras to carry out Part A.4 (a) (with regard to taxis, minibuses,
buses and common carrier trucks) of the Project under terms and
conditions which shall include: (i) funds onlent shall be
denominated and repayable in pesos; (ii) the interest rate charged
on funds shall be equal to the CETES Rate and shall be paid on
amounts withdrawn and outstanding on a monthly basis; and (iii)
principal amounts withdrawn and outstanding shall be repaid
semiannually in accordance with the timetable set forth in the
amortization schedule in Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
      (c)   provision by the Guarantor to the Borrower and Banobras,
in accordance with the Normatividad and by means of specific annual
budgetary allocations, of all amounts required to cover: (i) the
difference, if any, between the CETES Rate and the interest rate
charged by the Borrower and Banobras on Intermediary Loans; and (ii)
financial intermediation and operating costs of the Borrower
incurred in carrying out Parts A.4 (a) (with regard to own account
trucks), A.4 (b)-(d) and A.5 of the Project and of Banobras in
carrying out Part A.4 (a) (with regard to taxis, minibuses, buses
and common carrier trucks) of the Project;
      (d)   transfer by the Guarantor of part of the proceeds of the
Loan to the Trustee to carry out or cause to be carried out Parts
A.3 (c), (d) and (f), A.6, B, C, D.1 and E.1 of the Project;
      (e)   transfer by the Guarantor of part of the proceeds of the
Loan to the Borrower to carry out Part E.2 of the Project;
Page  7
      (f)   onlending by the Guarantor, on the same terms and
conditions of the Loan, of part of the proceeds of the Loan to IMP
to carry out Part D.3 of the Project; and
      (g)   payment by the Guarantor to the Borrower of all amounts
required by the Borrower to pay to the Bank on account of principal,
interest and other charges on the proceeds of the Loan.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not change or fail to enforce any provision of the
contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under such
contractual arrangements in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan.
                            ARTICLE IV
                     Execution of the Project;
             Management and Operation of the Borrower
      Section 4.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (a) carry out Parts A.4 (a)
(with regard to own account trucks), A.4 (b)-(d), A.5 and E.2 of the
Project and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with
sound financial, environmental and administrative standards and
practices, with qualified management and personnel, and in
accordance with the NAFIN Environmental Subloan Regulations; and (b)
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for it to carry
out such Parts of the Project.
      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of
the Loan for Parts A.4 (a) (with regard to own account trucks), A.4
(b)-(d) and A.5 of the Project by making Intermediary Loans to
Financial Intermediaries in accordance with the procedures set forth
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement and under Participation Agreements
to be entered into or already entered into between the Borrower and
each Financial Intermediary, containing terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank which shall include, inter alia:
            (i)    rights adequate to protect the interests of the
                   Bank, the Borrower and the Guarantor, including
                   the right to suspend or terminate the right of
                   the Financial Intermediary to the use of the
                   proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such
                   Financial Intermediary to perform its
                   obligations under the Participation Agreement;
                   and
           (ii)    the applicable terms and conditions set forth or
                   referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Participation Agreements in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Bank, the Borrower and the Guarantor; (ii) comply
with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of Parts A.4 (a) (with regard to own account trucks), A.4
(b)-(d) and A.5 of the Project. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce any
Participation Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 4.03. The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, Subloans under Parts A.4 (a) (with regard to
own account trucks), A.4 (b)-(d) and A.5 of the Project shall be
made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 4.04. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Page  8
Loan, or the performance by the Borrower of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the contractual arrangements referred to in
Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement.
      Section 4.05. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions shall be carried out or caused to be
carried out by the Guarantor (for Parts A.1, A.2, A.3 (a), (b) and
(e) and D.2 of the Project) pursuant to Section 3.04 of the
Guarantee Agreement, by Banobras (for Part A.4 (a) (with regard to
taxis, minibuses, buses and common carrier trucks) of the Project)
pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Banobras Project Agreement, by the
Trustee (for Parts A.3 (c), (d) and (f), A.6, B, C, D.1 and E.1 of
the Project) pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Trustee Project
Agreement and by IMP (for Part D.3 of the Project) pursuant to
Section 2.02 of the IMP Project Agreement.
      Section 4.06. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 4.07. The Borrower shall, through consultants, carry
out Part E.2 of the Project according to the timetables and targets
set forth in the Implementation Letter.
      Section 4.08. The Borrower shall participate in the reviews
referred to in Section 3.10 of the Guarantee Agreement. The Borrower
shall provide the Guarantor with all information, pertaining to the
Borrower's performance under Parts A.4, A.5 and E.2 of the Project,
required to allow the Guarantor to meet its reporting obligations to
the Bank. The Borrower shall also contribute towards the preparation
and implementation of any action plan referred to in Section 3.10 of
the Guarantee Agreement to the extent any provisions of such action
plan refer to Parts A.4 (a) (with regard to own account trucks), A.4
(b)-(d), A.5 or E.2 of the Project.
      Section 4.09. The Borrower shall: (a) cause Financial
Intermediaries promptly to exercise their rights set forth in
Section II, paragraph 5 (e) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and (b)
promptly exercise its suspension or termination rights referred to
in Section 4.02 (a) (i) of this Agreement.
      Section 4.10. Intermediary Loan principal repayments received
by the Borrower (until the first date listed in the amortization
schedule in Schedule 3 to this Agreement) from or on behalf of
Financial Intermediaries shall be used by the Borrower to make
further loans to Financial Intermediaries on substantially the same
terms and conditions of, and for the same purposes as, its
Intermediary Loans.
      Section 4.11. The Borrower shall promote its credit lines
under Parts A.4 and A.5 of the Project in accordance with the terms
of the Borrower's promotion plan dated July 1992.
                             ARTICLE V
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the resources and
expenditures in connection with the execution of the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have such records and separate accounts referred
                   to in paragraph (a) of this Section, including
                   records and accounts for the Special Account,
                   for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   generally accepted auditing standards and
                   procedures consistently applied, by independent
Page  9
                   and qualified auditors;
           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, a certified copy of the
                   report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                   scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                   reasonably requested;
          (iii)    furnish to the Bank each month certified
                   statements of the Special Account; and
           (iv)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning the said records and accounts as well
                   as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
                   to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain, or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and separate accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, or cause to be retained, until at least
                   one year after the Bank has received the audit
                   report for the fiscal year in which the last
                   withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out
                   of the Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and separate accounts
                   are included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE VI
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   Banobras, the Trustee or IMP shall have failed to
perform any of their obligations under the Banobras Project
Agreement, the Trustee Project Agreement or the IMP Project
Agreement, respectively;
      (b)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that Banobras, the Trustee or IMP
will be able to perform their obligations under the Banobras Project
Agreement, the Trustee Project Agreement or the IMP Project
Agreement, respectively;
      (c)   the Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of CPCCA, SEDESOL, Banobras, the Trustee, the Fund or IMP or for the
suspension of the operations of any of them;
Page  10
      (d)   (i) the Trust Agreement, (ii) the Resolution (Acuerdo)
published in the Guarantor's Diario Oficial de la Federacion on
January 8, 1992 creating CPCCA, (iii) CPCCA's internal regulations,
(iv) the SM/CPCCA Agreement or (v) the charter, regulations or other
documents whereby Banobras or IMP were created or are governed shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect, in the Bank's opinion, materially and adversely the
operations or the financial condition of CPCCA, Banobras, the
Trustee, the Fund or IMP or the Guarantor's, Banobras', the
Trustee's or IMP's ability to carry out their Parts of the Project
or to perform any of their obligations under the Guarantee
Agreement, Banobras Project Agreement, the Trustee Project Agreement
or the IMP Project Agreement, respectively;
      (e)   the Banobras Environmental Subloan Regulations or the
NAFIN Environmental Subloan Regulations shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to conflict with any
term of this Agreement or the Banobras Project Agreement or in any
manner which could materially and adversely affect the carrying out
of the Project;
      (f)   (i)    subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                   (A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                   proceeds of the loan made to the Borrower
                   pursuant to the Japan EXIM Bank Loan Agreement
                   shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                   terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
                   terms thereof; or (B) such loan shall have
                   become due and payable prior to the agreed
                   maturity thereof;
           (ii)    subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Bank that such suspension,
                   cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
                   caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
                   any of its obligations under the Japan EXIM Bank
                   Loan Agreement or is caused solely because of
                   the Borrower's failure to perform any of its
                   loan repayment or servicing obligations under
                   the Japan EXIM Bank Loan Agreement; and
      (g)   the event of suspension referred to in Section I, Part
C, paragraph 2 (c) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement shall occur (in
which case such suspension shall apply only to the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account for the type of
vehicle in question).
      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 90
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower;
      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) or (e) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
      (c)   the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VII
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section
Page  11
3.01 of this Agreement have been executed on behalf of the Borrower,
the Guarantor, Banobras, the Trustee and IMP; and
      (b)   that the agreement referred to in Section 2.02 of the
Trustee Project Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Trustee, the Guarantor and SM.
      Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   on behalf of Banobras (with respect to the Banobras
Project Agreement), the Trustee (with respect to the Trustee Project
Agreement) and IMP (with respect to the IMP Project Agreement), that
each such Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by
Banobras, the Trustee and IMP, as the case may be, and is legally
binding upon such authorizing or ratifying party in accordance with
its terms;
      (b)   on behalf of each of the parties to the contractual
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, that
such contractual arrangements have been duly authorized or ratified
by each such party and are legally binding upon each such party in
accordance with their terms; and
      (c)   on behalf of each of the parties to the agreement
referred to in Section 2.02 of the Trustee Project Agreement, that
such agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by each such
party and is legally binding upon each such party in accordance with
its terms.
      Section 7.03. The date March 18, 1993 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VIII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 8.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
            Direccion Internacional
            Plaza NAFINSA, Insurgentes Sur 1971
            Torre IV, piso 8
            01020 Mexico, D.F.
            Mexico
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   NAFIN                     NAFIME 383-1775765
                   Mexico City               Mexico City
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
Page  12
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Mexico City, Mexico, as of the
day and year first above written.
                         NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                         By /s/ Oscar Espinosa Villarreal
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Rainer Steckhan
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                  500,000       85%
(2)  Consultants'              25,000,000       100%
     and laboratory
     testing services
(3)  New replacement                            85%
     vehicles purchased
     pursuant to Part
     A.4 (a) of the
     Project:
     (a)  with Subloans         80,300,000
          financed by
          Banobras
     (b)  with Subloans         52,000,000
          financed by
          the Borrower
(4)  Vehicle conversions,       30,000,000      85%
     re-enginings or
     retrofittings
     pursuant to Parts
Page  13
     A.4 (b)-(d) of the
     Project
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(5)  Equipment pur-              7,100,000      85%
     chased pursuant
     to Part A.5 of the
     Project with
     Subloans financed
     by the Borrower
(6)  Laboratory                  7,700,000      85%
     equipment
(7)  Goods and instal-          17,400,000      85%
     lation services
     for Part B.1 (c)
     and (d) of the
     Project
                               ___________
     TOTAL                     220,000,000
                               ===========
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) items financed by a
Subloan unless the Subloan has been made in accordance with the
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement for purposes of Parts A.4 (a) (with
regard to own account trucks), A.4 (b)-(d) and A.5 of the Project or
in Schedule 1 to the Banobras Project Agreement for purposes of Part
A.4 (a) (with regard to taxis, minibuses, buses and common carrier
trucks) of the Project; and (b) payments made for expenditures prior
to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $7,000,000, may be
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after May 1, 1992.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures financed by
Subloans for any vehicle type or vehicle modification covered by
Part A.4 of the Project, or for equipment covered by Part A.5 of the
Project, until the Banobras Environmental Subloan Regulations or the
NAFIN Environmental Subloan Regulations, as the case may be, contain
policy, emissions, safety and technical standards and lending terms
satisfactory to the Bank for the equipment, vehicle type or vehicle
modification proposed to be financed by the Subloan in question (in
the case of new replacement taxis under Part A.4 (a) of the Project,
such standards shall include that such taxis meet emissions
standards set for model year 1993 (for 1993 model taxis) or for
their subsequent model year (for post-1993 model taxis)).
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to support the Program by:
(a) reducing the growth of emissions of nitrogen oxides, volatile
organic compounds, carbon monoxide, lead and particulate matter from
transport sources in the MCMA; (b) developing a policy framework to
support both transport and air quality objectives in the MCMA; (c)
improving the scientific base underlying air quality program
development and management in the MCMA; and (d) strengthening
institutional capabilities needed to plan and implement effective
air quality programs for the MCMA over the long-term.
      The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon
Page  14
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Vehicles
1.    Preparation and promulgation of federal regulations regarding,
inter alia: (a) emissions standards for heavy-duty diesel engines;
(b) emissions standards for minibuses and medium-duty vehicles,
including vehicles powered by liquified petroleum gas or compressed
natural gas, as well as for all vehicles covered by Part A.4 of the
Project; (c) manufacturers' liability for emissions durability,
warranty and in-service compliance; (d) evaporative emissions
standards; and (e) fuel standards.
2.    (a)   Enforcement of federal vehicle emissions standards
through emissions testing by SEDESOL and other laboratories; and (b)
preparation of technical specifications, bid documents and cost
estimates for a new SEDESOL emissions testing laboratory capable of
testing medium- and heavy-duty vehicles and of conducting fuel and
emissions research.
3.    Improvement of the vehicle inspection and maintenance systems
in the MCMA by: (a) private sector construction, financing and
operation of vehicle-only high-volume computerized emissions testing
and diagnostic inspection stations (comprising a minimum of 54 test
lanes in total) under licenses issued on a competitive basis by the
DDF and SM; (b) licensing and oversight of private vehicle
inspection stations in the MCMA; (c) establishment and use of a
metropolitan computer center to support monitoring and enforcement
of vehicle inspection and maintenance standards in the MCMA; (d)
carrying out of research to improve the effectiveness of vehicle
inspection and maintenance procedures and subsequent updating of
such procedures based on the results of such research; (e) training
of vehicle inspectors and mechanics in proper emissions testing and
amelioration techniques; and (f) provision, through the DDF, of an
inspection and maintenance systems supervisory consultant to CPCCA.
4.    Provision of financing, in the form of Subloans and Subloan
Reflows, for: (a) replacing existing high-use vehicles (taxis,
common carrier and own account trucks, minibuses and buses) in the
MCMA with new emission-controlled high-use vehicles; (b) converting
such trucks powered by gasoline or diesel into ones powered by
liquified petroleum gas or compressed natural gas; (c) re-engining
such trucks powered by gasoline or diesel so as to meet morestringent emissions 
standards; or (d) retrofitting such trucks with
catalytic converters.
5.    Provision of financing, in the form of Subloans and Subloan
Reflows, for purchase and installation of computerized emissions
testing and diagnostic equipment in private vehicle inspection
stations in the MCMA.
6.    Improvement of coordination and linkages between the DDF and
SM vehicle registration and data base systems so as to support
consistent emissions standards enforcement across DDF and SM
jurisdictional lines.
Part B:     Fuels
1.    Installation and use of gasoline vapor recovery systems in:
(a) petroleum terminals; (b) tank trucks; (c) service station tanks;
and (d) retail gasoline pumps throughout the MCMA.
2.  Design, implementation and monitoring of a pilot program to test
the feasibility and demonstrate the use of vehicles powered by
alternative fuels.
Part C:     Transport Policy and Management
      Preparation and subsequent implementation of a transport and
air quality management strategy for the MCMA which shall include the
establishment of policies related to travel demand management, urban
freight management, public transport and transport sector investment
Page  15
planning.
Part D:     Scientific Base
1.    Provision of technical assistance, through the DDF to CPCCA,
to improve the level of scientific knowledge regarding air pollution
in the MCMA, as well as to improve planning, evaluation and
emergency response capabilities related to such pollution.
2.    Establishment and use of an air quality monitoring system in
and around the MCMA, as well as acquisition and use of short-term
air pollution forecasting equipment and software.
3.    Expansion, upgrading and use of the IMP mobile-source
emissions laboratory to establish an emissions inventory and plan
for and evaluate the effects of transport emissions control
measures.
Part E:     Institutional Strengthening
1.    Strengthening CPCCA by providing it, through the DDF, with
technical assistance and a coordinator for the Project.
2.    Carrying out of annual environmental audits to determine to
what extent public agencies and private organizations are meeting
the emissions reduction indicators for the MCMA set forth in the
Implementation Letter.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
      beginning April 15, 1998
      through October 15, 2007             11,000,000
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                   Premium
                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on
                                     the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  0.20
      before maturity
More than three years but                  0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity
Page  16
More than six years but                    0.73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                 0.87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity
More than 13 years before                  1.00
      maturity
                             SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, provided,
however, that notwithstanding the provisions of Section II,
paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and Section II,
paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 1 to the Banobras Project Agreement,
payments for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of
free-limit Subloans may be made out of the Special Account before
the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account in
respect thereof. Such expenditures, however, shall qualify as
eligible expenditures only if the Bank shall subsequently authorize
such withdrawals; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $20,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
Page  17
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents
and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:  (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 5
      Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of Intermediary
Page  18
      Loans Made by the Borrower and Subloans Financed by the
      Borrower for Parts A.4 (a) (with regard to own account
            trucks), A.4 (b)-(d) and A.5 of the Project
Section I:  Intermediary Loans
1.    Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the terms and
conditions of, and procedures for making, Intermediary Loans shall
be as set forth in the NAFIN Environmental Subloan Regulations.
2.    (a)   Intermediary Loans shall be denominated, and their
interest, principal and other charges be payable, in pesos.
      (b)   Intermediary Loans shall have a variable annual interest
rate equal to: (i) CPP minus 2% in the case of Intermediary Loans
used to finance Subloans made to enterprises with 15 or less
employees; (ii) CPP minus 1% in the case of Intermediary Loans used
to finance Subloans to enterprises with 100 or less employees; (iii)
CPP in the case of Intermediary Loans used to finance Subloans to
enterprises with 250 or less employees; and (iv) CPP plus 1% in the
case of Intermediary Loans used to finance Subloans to enterprises
with more than 250 employees.
3.    The principal amount of each Intermediary Loan shall be
repaid, irrespective of whether the Subloan or Subloans financed by
such Intermediary Loan are repaid, on the same terms and conditions
applicable to such Subloans, provided, however, that if a Subloan or
any part thereof shall be repaid to the Financial Intermediary in
advance of maturity, or, if a Subloan or any part thereof shall be
sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by
the Financial Intermediary, the Financial Intermediary shall
promptly repay to the Borrower the amount of the Intermediary Loan
corresponding to such Subloan or any part thereof so repaid in
advance or disposed of for value.
4.    Participation Agreements shall, inter alia, contain:
      (a)   the obligation of the Financial Intermediary to abide by
the terms of the NAFIN Environmental Subloan Regulations to the
extent consistent with this Agreement; and
      (b)   the obligation of the Financial Intermediary to: (i)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial
condition, including records and separate accounts regarding its
activities under Parts A.4 and A.5 of the Project; (ii) have such
records and accounts, together with its financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements), for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards and procedures consistently
applied, by independent and qualified auditors; (iii) furnish to the
Borrower no later than six months after the end of each such year:
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such
scope and in such detail as the Borrower shall have reasonably
requested; and (iv) furnish to the Borrower such information and
documentation as required to allow the Borrower to comply with its
obligations under Article V of this Agreement.
Section II:  Subloans
1.    Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the terms and
conditions of, and procedures for making, Subloans shall be as set
forth in the NAFIN Environmental Subloan Regulations.
2.    (a)   Subloans shall be denominated, and their interest,
principal and other charges be payable, in pesos.
      (b)   Subloans shall be in an amount: (i) up to 100% of the
selling price of the vehicle in question for purposes of Part A.4
(a) of the Project; (ii) up to 100% of the price of the conversion,
re-engining or retrofitting for purposes of Part A.4 (b)-(d) of the
Page  19
Project; and (iii) up to 100% of the price of acquiring and
installing equipment for purposes of Part A.5 of the Project. If
Subloans are for less than 100% of such prices, the remainder of
such prices shall be provided by Subborrowers in the form of
downpayments.
      (c)   Subloans shall be repaid in monthly installments and
shall have a maturity of at least one year but no more than seven
years.
      (d)   Subloans shall have a variable annual interest rate
equal to no more than CPP plus 6% and no less than the equivalent of
the GIRA Rate.
3.    No expenditures for goods or services required for a
Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan unless:
      (a)   the Subloan shall have been approved by the Bank and
such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 180 days
prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received the
application and information required under Section II, paragraph 4
(a) of this Schedule in respect of such Subloan; or
      (b)   the Subloan for such Subproject shall have been a free-
limit Subloan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the
Loan Account and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier
than 180 days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received the request and information required under Section II,
paragraph 4 (b) of this Schedule in respect of such free-limit
Subloan. For the purposes of this Agreement, a free-limit Subloan
shall be any Subloan except for the first twelve Subloans (four for
own account trucks, four for equipment under Part A.5 of the Project
and four for vehicle modifications) for which the Borrower seeks
Bank approval or withdrawal authorization.
4.    (a)   When presenting a Subloan (other than a free-limit
Subloan) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish the
Bank an application containing: (i) the name of the Financial
Intermediary and a summary description of the Subborrower and
Subproject, including a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the terms and
conditions of the Subloan, including the schedule of amortization
therefor.
      (b)   Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Subloan
shall contain the same information referred to in subparagraph (a)
(i)-(ii) of this paragraph (except for the schedule of amortization
therefor).
      (c)   Applications and requests made pursuant to the
provisions of subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be
presented to the Bank on or before June 30, 1996.
5.    Each Subloan shall be made on terms whereby the Financial
Intermediary shall obtain, by written contract with the Subborrower,
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank, the Borrower
and the Financial Intermediary, including the right to:
      (a)   require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods
and services shall be used exclusively in furtherance of the
objectives of the Project;
      (b)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Bank or the Borrower if the Bank or the Borrower shall so
request, the vehicles or equipment acquired or modified with the
proceeds of the Subloan as well as the operation thereof;
      (c)   require that: (i) the Subborrower shall take out and
Page  20
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable
by the Subborrower to replace or repair such goods;
      (d)   obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the
Subborrower and to the benefits to be derived from the Subproject;
and
      (e)   suspend or terminate the right of the Subborrower to the
use of the proceeds of the Loan, or accelerate maturity of the
Subloan, upon failure by the Subborrower to perform its obligations
under its contract with the Financial Intermediary.
                            SCHEDULE 6
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more for
goods.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Mexico may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    (a)   Goods (except for equipment under Part A.5 of the
Project, laboratory equipment, goods for Part B of the Project,
vehicles for the private sector and vehicle conversion, re-engining
or retrofit parts for the private sector) estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $250,000 per contract or per bid package; and
(b) civil works may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.    (a)   Vehicle conversion, re-engining or retrofit and parts
therefor for the private sector and equipment under Part A.5 of the
Project may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least two suppliers
or contractors eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
    (b)     Vehicles for the private sector may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of established commercial practices
prevalent in Mexico unless, after any of the periodic assessments
referred to in this paragraph, the Bank deems that such practices
are, in the Bank's opinion, inconsistent with economy and efficiency
(in terms of the resulting prices) or with Project objectives (in
terms of sufficient and timely vehicle availability). The first such
assessment shall be carried out nine months after the Effective
Page  21
Date, and subsequent assessments every six months thereafter, on the
basis of the methodology and with the help of the procurement
consultant referred to in Section 3.11 of the Guarantee Agreement.
    (c)     If, as a result of any such assessment, the Bank
determines that such practices are inconsistent with economy and
efficiency or with Project objectives as described in subparagraph
(b) of this paragraph for any type of vehicle referred to in Part
A.4 of the Project, the Bank may suspend the right of the Borrower
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account for that type of vehicle
until the Guarantor agrees to revised procurement arrangements,
consistent with more liberalized vehicle imports and satisfactory to
the Bank, for such vehicle. If no such agreement is reached within
six months after such suspension, the Bank may reallocate the Loan
amounts from the disbursement Category or Categories in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement which cover such vehicle
to any other such Category or Categories or may cancel such Loan
amounts. If such agreement is reached, the vehicle in question shall
thereafter be procured in accordance with the terms of such
agreement.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to: (i) each contract procured under Part
A.1 of this Section; and (ii) each Project executing agency's first
contract procured under Part C.2 of this Section, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to
the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Part E:     Use of Standard Documents
      All procurement of goods or civil works to which international
or local competitive bidding applies shall be carried out using
standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist in carrying out the Project, consultants
shall be employed whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Page  22
