Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3543 ME
                        Guarantee Agreement
             (Transport Air Quality Management Project
              for the Mexico City Metropolitan Area)
                              between
                       UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated December 18, 1992
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3543 ME
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 18, 1992, between UNITED MEXICAN
STATES (the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the
Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
Bank and the Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower
a Loan in various currencies equivalent to two hundred and twenty
million Dollars ($220,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition, inter alia, that
the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of such loan and to undertake such other obligations as
provided in this Agreement;
Page  2
      (C)   by the Banobras Project Agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos,
S.N.C. (Banobras), Banobras has agreed to undertake the obligations
set forth in the Banobras Project Agreement;
      (D)   by the Trustee Project Agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and Banobras, acting as trustee (the Trustee) for
the environmental trust fund (the Fund) which was created pursuant
to the trust agreement (the Trust Agreement) between the Guarantor
and Banobras on November 30, 1992, the Trustee has agreed to
undertake the obligations set forth in the Trustee Project
Agreement;
      (E)   by the IMP Project Agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and Instituto Mexicano del Petroleo (IMP), IMP has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in the IMP Project
Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration, inter alia, of the
Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower and to
undertake such other obligations as set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in the Loan Agreement (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Preamble to
this Agreement and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the Loan
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                   Guarantee; Provision of Funds
      Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out or cause to be carried
out Parts A.1, A.2, A.3 (a), (b) and (e) and D.2 of the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial, environmental and administrative standards and practices
and shall provide, in a timely manner as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for such Parts of
the Project (including the funds, throughout the course of Project
implementation, required to operate the DDF technical team
supporting CPCCA and to maintain at least 25 professionals working
within such team).
      Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on
the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of all the
other obligations of the Borrower, Banobras, the Trustee and IMP,
all as set forth in the Loan Agreement, the Banobras Project
Agreement, the Trustee Project Agreement and the IMP Project
Agreement, respectively.
      Section 2.03. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Borrower, Banobras, the
Page  3
Trustee or IMP will be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures
required for the carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide such parties or cause
such parties to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet
such expenditures.
                            ARTICLE III
                          Other Covenants
      Section 3.01. Without any limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under this Agreement, the Guarantor shall:
(a) take all measures required to assist the Borrower, Banobras, the
Trustee and IMP in carrying out their obligations under their
respective Project Agreements; (b) not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with the performance by
the Borrower, Banobras, the Trustee and IMP of their obligations
under their respective Project Agreements; and (c) act in a manner
consistent with the Program.
      Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall enter into the contractual
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement and,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not change or fail
to enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements.  The
Guarantor shall exercise its rights under such contractual
arrangements in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Guarantor and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 6 to the Loan
Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall carry out or cause to be
carried out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions with regard to Parts
A.1, A.2, A.3 (a), (b) and (e) and D.2 of the Project.
      Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall carry out or cause to be
carried out Parts A.1 and A.2 (through SEDESOL), A.3 (a), (b) and
(e) (through the DDF and SM) and D.2 (through SEDESOL) of the
Project according to the timetables set forth in the Implementation
Letter.
      Section 3.06. (a) With regard to Part A.3 (a) of the Project,
all taxis, minibuses, buses and trucks registered in the MCMA, as
well as all publicly-owned vehicles registered in the DDF, shall,
and all other private vehicles registered in the MCMA may, be
inspected annually, beginning in January 1993, at the private
inspection stations mentioned in such Part of the Project or at
inspection stations operated by the DDF. All such inspection
stations shall be equipped to inspect vehicles powered by either
gasoline, diesel, liquified petroleum gas and compressed natural
gas. Technical specifications and operating, licensing and
monitoring procedures for all such inspection stations shall be
satisfactory to the Bank and applied throughout Project
implementation.
      (b)   With regard to Part A.3 (b) of the Project, standards
and procedures for upgrading, operating, licensing and monitoring
private vehicle inspection stations in the MCMA not covered by Part
A.3 (a) of the Project shall be satisfactory to the Bank and applied
throughout Project implementation. Such standards shall require,
inter alia, that as of January 1, 1993 all such stations be equipped
with and use "BAR 90" emissions analyzer systems.
      Section 3.07. The Guarantor shall enter into, and duly perform
its obligations under and cause SM to perform its obligations under,
the agreement with the Trustee referred to in Section 2.02 of the
Trustee Project Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Guarantor shall not change or fail to enforce any provision of
Page  4
such agreement. The Guarantor shall exercise its rights under such
agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Guarantor and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
      Section 3.08. The Guarantor shall cause Project implementation
to be coordinated through CPCCA. The Guarantor shall cause SM to
perform its obligations under the SM/CPCCA Agreement. The Guarantor
shall cause CPCCA to prepare and carry out a training program,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the staff of the DDF technical team
supporting CPCCA.
      Section 3.09. By no later than March 31, June 30, September 30
and December 31 of each year, beginning in 1993, the Guarantor,
through CPCCA, shall submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports
with regard to the implementation of the Project, such reports to be
in a format satisfactory to the Bank and to include data pertaining
to the timetables and targets referred to in the Implementation
Letter.
      Section 3.10. (a) The Guarantor (through CPCCA) shall
participate, and the Guarantor shall cause SM and PEMEX to
participate, in annual reviews of Project implementation to be held
in conjunction with the Bank each month of September during Project
implementation, beginning in 1993. Such reviews shall, inter alia,
focus on discussing the topics referred to in the Implementation
Letter (with regard to annual reviews) and on analyzing the
quarterly progress reports referred to in Section 3.09 of this
Agreement. As part of each such review, the Bank may require that
the Guarantor (through CPCCA) prepare an action plan, satisfactory
to the Bank, to make adjustments in Project implementation. The
Guarantor (through CPCCA) shall furnish such action plan to the Bank
no later than one month after the conclusion of the review in
question and shall thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried out,
such action plan in accordance with its terms.
      (b)   The Guarantor shall (through CPCCA) participate, and the
Guarantor shall cause SM and PEMEX to participate, in a Project
implementation mid-term review to be held with the Bank and the
External Advisory Panel as part of the annual review to be held in
September 1994. During such mid-term review, attention shall
particularly focus, inter alia, on the topics referred to in the
Implementation Letter (with regard to the mid-term review).
      Section 3.11. No later than three months after the Effective
Date, the Guarantor shall prepare a methodology, satisfactory to the
Bank, to be applied in carrying out the assessments referred to in
Section I, Part C, paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 6 to the Loan
Agreement. Such assessments shall be carried out by the Guarantor
with the help of an independent procurement consultant satisfactory
to the Bank.
      Section 3.12. The Guarantor shall, no later than January 1,
1993, require or cause to be required, and thereafter enforce or
cause to be enforced, that: (a) no taxi operating in the MCMA be
more than six years old; (b) no public passenger transport vehicles,
other than taxis, operating in the MCMA shall be more than nine
years old for fixed-route services and more than seven years old for
non-fixed-route services; and (c) no own account passenger vehicles,
own account trucks and common carrier trucks operating in the MCMA
shall be more than fifteen years old.
      Section 3.13. (a) The Guarantor shall: (i) provide unleaded
gasoline sufficient to meet demand in the MCMA throughout the course
of Project implementation; (ii) ensure that the rate of misfueling
of catalyst-equipped vehicles in the MCMA with leaded gasoline does
not increase from the present levels of misfueling of approximately
12% for private vehicles and 13% for high-use vehicles; and (iii)
make its best efforts to reduce such misfueling rates.
      (b)   The Guarantor shall furthermore make its best efforts to
resolve any problems of reverse misfueling in the MCMA.
Page  5
      (c)   The Guarantor shall cause CPCCA to carry out annually,
throughout Project implementation and through an independent
consultant acting under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
a survey of the availability of unleaded gasoline and the extent of
misfueling and reverse misfueling in the MCMA. The results of such
survey for each year shall be made available to the Bank for the
annual reviews referred to in Section 3.10 of this Agreement.
      Section 3.14. Throughout the course of Project implementation,
the Guarantor shall cause CPCCA to be supported by a DDF technical
team which shall be staffed and maintained in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank. All technical assistance and other resources received
by the DDF under the Project shall be used, inter alia, in support
of CPCCA.
      Section 3.15. Throughout the course of Project implementation,
the Guarantor shall cause the Fund to be utilized in a manner
consistent with the Program.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Guarantor shall maintain or cause CPCCA
to maintain records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the resources and
expenditures in connection with the Guarantor's execution of Parts
A.1, A.2, A.3 (a), (b) and (e) and D.2 of the Project.
      (b)   The Guarantor shall:
            (i)    have such records and separate accounts referred
                   to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each
                   fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   generally accepted auditing standards and
                   procedures consistently applied, by independent
                   and qualified auditors;
           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, a certified copy of the
                   report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                   scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                   reasonably requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts as well as
                   the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
      Section 4.02. For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, or for all expenditures with respect to
which withdrawals were made from the Special Account, the Guarantor
shall provide to the Borrower all records and accounts necessary to
allow the Borrower to perform its obligations punctually under
Article V of the Loan Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
            Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
      Section 5.01. The Director General de Captacion de Credito
Externo of the Guarantor is designated as representative of the
Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Guarantor:
Page  6
            Direccion General de Captacion de Credito Externo
            Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
            Palacio Nacional
            Patio Central, piso 4
            Despacho 4025
            06066 Mexico, D.F.
            Mexico
                                           Telex:
                                             1777313 SHDCME
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Mexico City, Mexico, as of the
day and year first above written.
                         UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                         By /s/ Pedro Aspe Armella
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                               RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Rainer Steckhan
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
Honorary Witness:
Fernando Menendez
