Document of
FILE COPY uThe World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2028-BO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR AN
EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL
TRAINING PROJECT
March 31, 1977
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                           Bolivian Peso $b
US$1                                    $b20.00
$bl                                     US$0.05
$bl million                             US$50,000
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
Kilometer (km)                          0.62 miles
Square Kilometer                        0.386 square miles
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CONES       National School Building Council
FOMO        National Manpower Development Service
IBA         Bolivian Apprenticeship Institute
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
PREALC      Regional Employment Program for Latin America
and the Caribbean
SNDC   :    National Community Development Service
UNESCO :    United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural
Organization
UNICEF :    United Nations Children's Fund
USAID  :    United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOIMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA FOR AN
EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Bolivia for the equivalent of US$15 million to help finance
a primary and community education and vocational training project. The loan
would have a term of 20 years, including four and one-half years of grace,
with interest at 8.5% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.        A report entitled "Economic Mtemorandum on Bolivia" (1546-BO) dated
tMarch 23, 1977, was distributed to the Executive Directors. Country data
sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        Despite the increasing importance of petroleum and natural gas
exports, as well as significant mineral deposits, Bolivia remains one of the
poorest countries in South America. The majority of its population is engaged
in traditional agriculture. Only a small part of the labor force is employed
in the modern sectors. The infrastructure is primitive and the road and rail
networks cover only a fraction of the country. The combination of strong tra-
ditional ties within the indigenous communities and geographic, health and
educational obstacles to population mobility has perpetuated the demographic
concentration on the inhospitable 3-4 thousand meter plateau, the Altiplano.
About half of Bolivia's population lives a physically, culturally and econo-
mically isolated subsistence existence in this region, which is rich in
mineral deposits but limited in agricultural potential.
4.        The 1952 revolution sought to put an end to the dual structure
which had characterized Bolivia's economy since colonial times and to deprive
the landowning -and mining oligarchy of its econornic base. This objective was
only partially achieyed.   Progress was made in eradicating feudal relations,
distributing the land and eliminating obstacles to social mobility.    The
agrarian reform and the nationalizationlof large mines, however, were followed
by falling production.- GDP declined in the 1950s and did not recover to its
pre-1952 level until 1961. During the subsequent decade, output increased
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
steadily at an average annual rate of around 5%, providing for per capita
income increases averaging 2.5% p.a. As a result, GNP per capita, which had
fallen by 24% in the 1952-60 period, recovered to its 1952 level by 1970
and was more equally distributed. However, the momentum of economic growth
was again lost in 1969/71, when political instability led to declining private
investment and deteriorating public finances. The deterioration of public
finances reflected a structural problem in the economy. Bolivia's public
sector is proportionately one of the largest in South America and a source of
livelihood for a sizeable segment of the population. With scarce employment
opportunities in the private sector, pressures to expand public employment
proved difficult to resist. Large expenditures on wages and salaries, combined
with a weak tax system, have limited the resources available for public invest-
ment. Moreover, the inability of the public sector to generate adequate
savings limited its capacity to utilize available external capital assistance.
5.        On coming to power in 1971, President Banzer faced the need to
provide jobs for the unemployed and to revitalize investment and growth.
Initially, this task was complicated by a sharp deterioration in Bolivia's
terms of trade, which produced a weakening in the balance of payments and a
further deterioration in public finances, eventually resulting in a substantial
devaluation in 1972. However, more rational economic policies were put into
effect and a more favorable climate for private investment was established.
New laws offering guarantees and incentives to private investors, especially
in the hydrocarbon field, were promulgated and claims pending from earlier
nationalizations were settled. The Government also improved public adminis-
tration and the pricing policies of some public undertakings. These policies
were successful in increasing private investment and in bolstering the rate of
growth.
Recent Economic Developments and Prospects
6.        Bolivia's economic performance has continued to be strongly in-
fluenced by movements in its terms of trade, which have been particularly
volatile in recent years. The sharp increases in petroleum and mineral
prices in 1974 resulted in a major terms of trade gain, which led to a dra-
matic reversal in the balance of payments and increase in foreign exchange
reserves. While GDP increased by about 5%, improvements in the terms of trade
helped raise gross domestic income by more than 20%, permitting a substantial
increase in both consumption and investment. Moreover, this was accomplished
within the context of an unprecedented improvement in public finances. After
current deficits in 1970-73, the Central Government achieved savings equivalent
to one-third of its capital expenditure. For the public sector as a whole,
savings in 1974 exceeded 10% of GDP and covered nearly 90% of capital expendi-
ture. On the balance-of-payments side, a near doubling of exports permitted a
trade surplus which exceeded US$160 million despite a rapid increase in imports.
The current account showed a surplus for the first time in decades and net
capital inflows approached US$90 million, nearly four times their 1973 level,
as a result of substantially higher loan disbursements to the public sector
and increased foreign investment associated with hydrocarbon exploration.
As a result, foreign exchange reserves rose by a record US$124 million.



- 3 -
7.        The extreme dependence of the Bolivian economy on its foreign sector
was once more brought into focus in 1975 and early 1976 as, with world eco-
nomic recession, the country's terms of trade deteriorated and export volumes
declined. Mineral exports fell by well over 20% as the weighted average of
mineral prices declined by approximately 13%, and shipments of most minerals
fell as a direct result of the recession and the unloading of speculative
stock on international markets. The situation was exacerbated by the fact
that exportable surpluses of crude petroleum were significantly reduced for
the second year in a row due to falling production and rapidly rising domestic
consumption of hydrocarbon derivatives. While the export picture was helped
by a significant price increase for natural gas exports to Argentina, this
could not compensate for the overall decline in export earnings. On the
whole, merchandise exports in 1975 declined by 16%. On the other hand, growth
of GDP and investment continued unabated as imports rose by about 36% in the
wake of the start-up of new public investment projects and the liberalization
of imports for consumer durables and motor cars earlier in the year. As a
result, the balance-of-payments current account shifted from a surplus of
US$150 million in 1974 to a deficit of US$190 million in 1975. Despite
further substantial increases in disbursements of medium-term loans to the
public sector, net foreign exchange reserves fell by US$54 million to US$134
million, or about 2.5 months of imports. The weakening of the balance of
payments was accompanied by a deterioration of the fiscal situation. The
Central Government's current surplus decreased to just about 1.7% of GDP,
after reaching 2.6% in 1974, and increased borrowing from external resources
and the domestic banking system was necessary to finance growing public invest-
ment. However, some public utilities strengthened their financial situation
due to increased rates.
8.        The authorities, reacting to the weakening of the external accounts,
took action late in 1975 to tighten trade restrictions. This resulted in a
significant reduction of import growth to only 2.0% during 1976. This, toge-
ther with a recovery in mineral prices and overall merchandise exports, helped
reduce the current account deficit by about US$50 million. At the same time,
Bolivia continued to attract substantial external capital inflows which
enabled it to finance the current account deficit and recoup the foreign
exchange reserves lost the preceding year. Conservative incomes policies
applied since 1974 have resulted in a reduction of inflation to an annual
rate of about 14%.
9.        Economic growth prospects over the medium- to longer-term depend
on the Government's ability to increase savings and stimulate investments
particularly those for developing hydrocarbon, mineral and agricultural
resources. Investment in mining and hydrocarbons-is accelerating. Inten-
sified exploration for hydrocarbons by the state-owned petroleum company and
private foreign companies is underway and may lead to significantly increased
production and exports of crude petroleum and natural gas, which could permit
an acceleration of economic growth towards the end of the decade. Recent
exploration results have been fairly positive, i.e. a new oil field with
immediate commercial potential was discovered at Montecristo near Santa Cruz
and a private foreign concern made a gas strike in the Abapo-lzozog region in



- 4 -
the southeast of the country. Fiscal performance has remained weak during
the last two years, with the Central Government performance being adversely
affected by the deficits of decentralized agencies and state-owned enterprises.
However, the authorities are beginning to implement mining and income tax
reforms so as to improve the yields, efficiency and equity of the tax system.
Debt Service and Creditworthiness
10.       Bolivia's external debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1976
amounted to US$1.0 billion. Service on external debt amounted to 18.8% of
exports of goods and non-factor services net of investment income abroad.
Average terms of external debt have worsened as 46% of the newly contracted
public debt over the last two years has been from commercial banks. Between
1971 and 1976, average maturity has declined from 24 years to 14 years while
the average interest rate has increased from about 4.4% to 7% and the grant
element has fallen from 36% to 17%. Because of the heavy investment require-
ments associated with development of the mining and hydrocarbon sectors and
the large import content of these investments, Bolivia's trade gap and current
account deficit can be expected to rise for the remainder of this decade.
As a consequence, the debt service ratio is expected to increase to about 23%
by 1980. However, as investments in these sectors come to fruition, exports
will accelerate and import requirements of investment will decline. A gradual
fall in the debt service ratio is therefore likely in the 1980s. In view of
the nature and growing size of Bolivia's debt, prudence in selecting and
utilizing external capital will have to be an essential element of debt
management.
11.       Bolivia enjoys a substantial resource base in agriculture, minerals
and hydrocarbons, which has to be developed to sustain rapid economic growth
and, in particular, to achieve a rapid expansion of export earnings in the
foreseeable future. If production in the export sectors, particularly mining
and hydrocarbons, can be increased and prices for major export products remain
adequate, Bolivia can be considered creditworthy for moderate amounts of
external lending on conventional terms. Nevertheless, some additional lending
on soft terms (available from the Inter-American Development Bank's Fund for
Special Operations and the USAID) is justified by Bolivia's poverty and its
large and continuing external capital requirements. The country will require
substantial external financing of investment to supplement the domestic
savings effort at least until the early 1980s. The Government, in pursuing
its progressive development policies, is making a serious effort to mobilize
domestic resources and has prepared its first five-year economic plan. Imple-
mentation of the underlying investment program will require external assis-
tance for high priority projects in excess of the foreign exchange component.
Although substantially increased suppliers' and financial credits will prob-
ably become available, prudent debt management requires that they should cover
not more than about a third of the public capital inflows needed during
1977-80 for meeting a GDP growth target of 6% annually. The remainder
should be obtained on softer terms from bilateral and international develop-
ment financing agencies, including the Bank.



- 5 -
PART 11 - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOLIVIA
12.       Although Bolivia is an original member of the Bank, it did not
obtaini any Bank Group funds until 1964. Bolivia's tight budget constraints
and restricted capacity to service external debt had limited Bank Group
assistance until recently.  Apart from a US$23.3 rmillion Bank loan for a gas
pipeline, Bank Group operations until FY75 were exclusively through IDA.
Following Bolivia's emergence as a natural gas and petroleum exporter, albeit
on a limited scale, IDA's lending was phased out with the Agricultural Credit
I Project in June, 1975. By February 28, 1977, the Bank Group had approved
18 operations for Bolivia amounting to US$184.9 million, of which eight
have been fully disbursed. Net of undisbursed balances, Bolivia's debt to the
Bank and IDA in 1975/76 represented 7.9% of its public debt. The Bank's share
of the service on this debt is about 4%. Both figures are expected to increase
niarginally by 1980.
13.       Bank Group lending to Bolivia has assisted in the development of
various sectors. US$27.2 million have been for agriculture where our lending
has helped thie Governraent to initiate long term progress for the development
of a viable livestock industry, to increase agricultural production and to
improve living conditions on the Altiplano, as well as to strengthen the Banco
Avricola as a development institution. The five loans for power projects,
totalling US$53.4 million, have been instrumental in modernizing the sector,
expanding electricity services, stabilizing the electricity supply and setting
up a regulatory agency. Also, a,public poizer company was set up which has
been operated in an efficient and financially sound manner. Two railway loans
totalling US$40.0 million, of which US$3.3 million were cancelled when ElUFE
obtained funds from bilateral sources to purchase locornotives, have helped to
improve the quality of management, efficiency of operations and financial
condition of the national railways. Three operations, for a total of US$28.2
million, for medium- and s;aall-size mining aim at increased production and
improved sectoral coordination. A loan for a water supply and sewerage
project of US$11.5 million is expected to improve services in the main mlining
cities and 70 rural communities. Finally, thie proposed loan would assist
Bolivia to develop its human resources in a more effective and rational way.
14.       Because of the narroiw scope for private investment, IFC becamie
active in Bolivia only in 1973 through an investment of US$400,000 in a
firm prodtucing cables and plastic products. Wlith expanding opportunities
for private investment, however, IFC has most recently agreed to take an
eqluity participation of up to US$550,000 in Sanco Industrial S.A. (BISA) in
conjunction with a 13ank loan of US$10.0 million for the same institution to
assist in financing-medilmT--sized industrial and mining enterprises, and
US$337,500 in Banco Hipotecario Nac-ionall to assist in the developnent of
mortgage banking. The two IFC investments aim at corntributing  to the esta-
blislhmlent of a local raarket for long-term securities.  Annex II contains a
sumnary statemaent of the status of bank Croup operations in Bolivia as of
Februarvy28, 1977, and notes on the status of ongoing, projects.



15.       Remarkable progress has been made in achieving the goals set for
Bank lending to Bolivia. On the macro-economic level, the Government has made
important strides towards formulating a coherent and consistent set of overall
economic policies. On the sector and project level, public services have been
improved and the institutions strengthened. The financial positions of the
railroads and power sectors compare favorably with that of similar entities
in other developing countries. Also, during the last two years, the Govern-
ment has established an excellent record in providing the required counterpart
funds for Bank financed projects. Future Bank lending will continue to support
Government efforts to establish infrastructure necessary for sustained economic
development while simultaneously improving the distribution of the benefits of
economic growth. In this context, Bank activities will focus on the less
developed regions and the lower income strata of the population. At present
four projects are at an advanced stage of processing: an aviation development
project to improve domestic air transport and assist agricultural development
in the remote northeast area; a third project with the Ilational Railways (ENFE)
for its continued rehabilitation; an urban project to finance urban upgrading,
sites and services, employment generation schemes and supporting social infra-
structure; and an agricultural project for the development of alpaca/llama
husbandry to assist subsistence farmaers in the Altiplano and improve their
living standards. For the r,iore distant future, further Banl. projects in
irrigation, agroindustries, highway maintenance, electric energy, forestry,
industry and mining are under consideration.
PART III - EDUCATION IN BOLIVIA
Formal Education
16.       The Ilinistry of Education and Culture is responsible for administer-
ing all formal public education and supervising the decentralized and private
institutions in Bolivia, except for the universities.   The Itinistry's admin-
istrative structure includes separate subsecretariats and directorates for
urban 1/ and rural education, eachi with its own primary, secondary and teacher
training divisions, a carryover from the period of 1955-71 when responsibility
for rural education was in the Miinistry of Rural Affairs and Agriculture.
17.       Average annual enrollments grew at 5.5% in pre-basic and basic educa-
tion and at 10.7% at the intermediate and secondary levels during 1970-73, but
inequality between rural and urban areas lhas remained high. In comparison
with male attendance, the number of females enrolled at the basic level has
been rising slowly and accounted for 46% of total enrollments in urban areas
and 41% in rural areas in 1973.   At the intermediate level, only 42% of urban
students and 23% of rural students were female.   Only in teacher education did
the percentage of females exceed males at 65% of' total enrollments.
1/   Urban schools are defined as those located in towns of more than 2,000
inhabitants.



- 7 -
18.       Average retention rates and tlhe internal efficiency of the education
system lhave remained low. Ilationwide, it is estimated that of those entering
the basic level about 41% completed grade 5; of those continuing fron this
level only 68% completed grade 8; and only 54% of entrants to secondary
schools completed grade 12. If the very substantial number of overaged
students were discounted, the aforementioned figures would be even lower.
Based on past trends, it is likely that more than half of the pupils enrolling
in 1976 will not reach fourth grade -- the minimum level to achieve permanent
literacy. Although expenditures on education accounted for 27% of the total
Central Covernment recurrent budget, primary schools were able to accommodate
only 56% of school age children in rural areas in 1976, as against sufficient
places for children in urban areas.
19.       In 1976 recurrent expenditures accounted for 92% of the Ilinistry of
Education's budget and 99.6% of that was absorbed by personnel salaries. The
relatively hiigh recurrent costs per student of some US$65 and US$139 at the
basic and secondary levels, respectively, are due to pupil:teacher ratios,
inadequate workloads and, teachers' salaries averaging about US$1,500 per year
at the lower levels of education or almost five times the average per capita
incomae in Bolivia. The situation is caused partly by an overproduction
of teachers who are guaranteed employment in public schools which, in turn
has contributed to the proliferation of small, uneconomic colleges offering
inadequate training for new teachers. In 1973, the pupil:teacher ratios
ranged from 24:1 in the basic level to a low of 4:1 in industrial secondary
schools.  Bolivia thus has the lowest average pupil:teacher ratios in Latin
America and this results in very high recurrent costs per student.
20.       The present education system has an overly academic orientation,
which bears little relation to the students' environment and work prospects.
The typical Bolivian primary school continues to function as an isolated
institution, particularly in rural. areas where the relationship between the
school and the community is in most cases not mutually supportive. Some
rural communities view the school as directed against their cultural tradi-
tions and irrelevant to their wiorld of work. Attendance is often ciotivated
only by a hope that the school may provide some raeans of survival in dealings
outside the commnunity.  This isolation is aggravated by the rural studenits'
difficulties in speaking Spanish--the official language of instruction despite
the fact that about 60% of the population speak Aymara, Quechua and Cuarani.
Vocational Training
21.       Until the last few years, Bolivia did not have an organized system
of vocational training to prepare skilled and semiskilled manpower. Neither
the public nor the private sector has assigned much importance to training per
se as a iaeans of raising productivity and facilitating adaptation to changing
technology. Trained workers are not generally rewiarded by higher salaries or
aore rapid advancement on the job in comparison withi other employees.   Indeed,
training l1as sometimes been a deterrenit to getting a job, precisely because
emaployers fear pressures for higher salaries.  Promaotion within firms is based
on various factors, most notably longevity, and there are no *widely recognized



- 8 -
standards to use in categorizing skill levels. There has been a similar lack
of attention to managerial training, even on the part of the largest enter-
prises.
22.       The main organizations which have offered vocational training pro-
grams are the National 14anpower Development Service (FONIO), established in
1972 as a decentralized agency of the Ministry of Labor, and Bolivian Appren-
ticeship Institute (IBA), which started in 1968 under the I5inistry of Education.
IBA, though poorly equipped, enrolls 5,000 persons annually. Nevertheless, 80
percent of these are women studying mainly language, mathematics, honemaking
and childcare, rather than courses which would conventionally be classified
as skill training. In contrast, FObIO offered 85 courses in metal-mechanics,
construction and woodworking, electricity, agriculture and services, with a
total output of some 1,200 in 1975. About 45 percent of these were new
entrants to the labor market; the remainder were already employed persons
seeking to upgrade their skills.
23.       Until recently, FOIO has focussed its activities on rapid quantita-
tive expansion. As a result, it borrowed rather than designed most course
material, which was not alwiays directly relevant to the needs of Bolivian
enterprises or to the educational and skill levels of Bolivian workers.
Given the prevailing literacy levels of the work force and the job entry
requirements of most occupations, a shift to shorter and simpler courses
requiring less forr,mal education is indicated. As yet FOMO has not established
a placement or follow-up service for its trainees, neither does it evaluate
its activities. Some instructor training has been carried out by a Spanish
teclnical assistance team, but further strengthening of this activity is
required.
Government Strategy for Educational Development
24.       Following the recomriendations of a sector assessment undertaken in
1973 in cooperation with UJIESCO, the Itinistry of Education has established
various long-term objectives for educational development wlhich include:
(a) administrative decentralization and merging of rural and urban education;
(b) developing more relevant curricula in terms of the environment and tuture
employmnent prospects of students; (c) providing adequate school places at the
primary and secondary levels, and channelling raore resources into rural
education; (d) improving the internal efficiency and effectiveness of the
formal education system by increasing student:teacher ratios, reducing the
supply and improving the quality of primary teachers, rationalizing school
location planning and raising student retention rates; and (e) experimenting
with the use of bilingual instruction.   In the area of employment-related
education and training, in 1975 the Ilinistry of Labor commissioned and the
Regional Employment Program for Latin Anerican and the Caribbean (PREALC)
executed a lNational 1Lanpower Study for Bolivia.  This study, together with an
appraisal of the draft Five Year Development Plan indicates that, in addition
to inaproving the management and quality of present training programs, there is
an urgent need to increase the annual output of skilled and semiskilled
workers and upgrade a large proportion of the presently eraployed workers and
managers.



- 9 -
25.       Due to its limited capacity to undertake simultaneously major
educational reforma and/or expansion programs, the Bolivian Government has
opted to focus attention on the developmenit of a relevant and cost-effective
primary education system and on the provision of vocational training for the
adult population.  In support of this strategy, USAID has provided assistance
to help the Government in educational administration and has recently signed a
loan for a rural education project in thie Quechua-speaking valleys of the
Cochabamba Department. In addition, a similar small-scale project is being
implemented in the Tarija Department with local resources and UNICEF technical
assistance. A USAID education project for teacher training is in the pre-
liminary stages of preparation, and the IDB has provided grant assistance to
examine alternatives for the future development of technical education nation-
wide. The proposed Bank project will complement these efforts by financing a
scheme to improve and expand rural primary education and teacher training in
the Aymara-speaking highland region of thie La Paz Department and to expand a
national system for vocational training in Bolivia.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
26.       The project was prepared by the Government with assistance from
UJNESCU in January/February and the Bank in llarch, April/Hlay and August, and
was appraised by the Bank in September 1976. To expedite preparation, the
Bank agreed on I1ay 27, 1976 to advance US$366,750 from the Project Prepa-
ration Facility to help finance the establishment of a project unit, pre-
liminary architectural design work and elaboration of core furniture and
equipment lists. To date about US$268,000 have been withdrawn and most of the
balance should be disbursed by the Closing Date of April 30, 1977. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington on February 3-4, 1976.   The Bolivian delegation
was led by Ing. Fernando Anker.
Objectives and Composition
27.       The proposed project, which would be the first Bank operation in the
education sector in Bolivia, presents a two-pronged approach to the complex
probler,s discussed above by assisting (a) primary and community education and
(b) vocational training. Iloreover, the project will reinforce Bank activities
in its ongoing and future rural and urban developnent projects in the La Paz
Department and its prospective railways operation. The project lhas the
following two components.
28.       A.  Primary and Conmunity Education.   This component is confined to
five zones in the densely populated Ayrnara-speaking higlhlanid region of the La
Paz Department and has been designed to assist the Covernnenit in finding
cost-effective ways of (a) increasing access,to prirmary education through
expansion and improvement of basic and interia.ediate schools, more efficient
use of prir.tary facilities and teachers, and reorganization of primary school
adniinistration and supervision; (b) developing moru appropriate curricula,
learning materials and teacher training programs for primary education; and
(c) designing a community education program for the non-school age population.



- 10 -
Wlith a view towards raising the efficiency of the system, the project will aim
at gradually increasing primary student:teacher ratios to 35:1, improving
average retention rates to 70% and reducing overaged students from the present
40% to 20% of total enrollments by 1985. The project will introduce more
rational school location planning and teacher assignment, extensive use of
multigrade teaching, expansion of accelerated programs for overage students,
automatic prormotion, bilingual education, revision of school calendars to take
account of agricultural cycles and a campaign to encourage rural families to
leave female children in schools for longer periods. If successful in
meeting qualitative and efficiency objectives, the project will serve as a
model for a national primary education program in several years' time.
Specifically, this component will finance:
(a) construction, furnishing and/or equipping of 955 basic classrooms,
ten intermediate schools, one teacher training college and 287
houses for basic teachers;
(b) development of curricula and learning materials for all project
institutions;
(c) in-service training for about 1,300 teachers, teacher trainers,
directors and supervisors of project institutions;
(d)  introduction of bilingual education (Spanish and Aymara) in the
first three grades of all project basic schools, supported by
radio;
(e) community education and training activities, supported riainly
by radio and mobile action programs;
(f)  a preinvestment study on the education and training needs of thle
low income migrant population of La Paz City; and
(g)  related technical assistance, comprising 8-1/2 man-years of
specialist services and 54-1/2 man-years of fellowslhips for
local staff.
29.       Primary Education.   The project provides for the necessary facilities
to permit most children in the five project zones to have access to a five
year basic education within about a 5 km walking distance of their homes.    It
will provide new and/or upgraded schools required to accommodate some 37,820
chiildren annually by 1985, and housing for about 25%o of primary teachers in
rural areas of the project zones where alternative accommodations are not
available. In addition, ten intermediate schools will be constructed, repla-
cing and extending inadequate facilities.   lIhen full enrollment capacity is
reached in 1985, about 4,590 students annually will be accommodated in these
ten intermediate schools.
3U.       Administrative efficiency wilL be improved by merging of the rural
aiid urbani subsystems into a unitary restructured nucleus sysLeml of school
adminiistration and supervision within the project area.   Legislation estab-
lishing the unified system has been approved.   The furnisliing to tlhe Bank of



- 11 -
satisfactory legal evidence that the two subsystems have been merged will be
a condition of disbursement of loan funds for the primary and community educa-
tion component of the project (Schedule 1, paragraph 4(1i) of Loan Agreement).
Also, plans for revising school calendars in accordance with agricultural
cycles and for the expansion of the existing national accelerated basic
education program for overaged children will be submitted for the Bank's
comments within six months of loan signing, and these programs will commence
in calendar year 1978 (Section 3.06 of Loan Agreement).
31.       The project will provide for the replacement of inadequate physical
facilities at the Warisata Rural Teacher Training College, as well as for
staff training and the preparation of new curricula in order to ensure an ade-
quate supply of well-trained teachers for the project schools. Participants
will specialize in language and social sciences, natural sciences or agricul-
ture, and will receive training as well in handicrafts, health and nutrition
and community development, subjects which they will be required to teach in
the project schools. For admission to Warisata preference will be given to
candidates having a working knowledge of both Aymara and Spanish and that
efforts will be made to increase recruitment of competent women students and
staff (Section 4.06 of Loan Agreement).
32.       Curriculum Development.   Based on a study of needs in 1977, new
curricula will be formulated during 1978 and experimentally implemented in all
project schools during the academic years 1979-81. These curricula will place
greater emphasis on practical activities and experimentation in agriculture,
health, home skills and rural crafts. They will rely on more modern teaching
techniques, including the use of radio in language instruction and of the
vernacular in the first three grades of basic schools. Learning materials and
teachers' guides supporting the new curricula will be prepared and implemented
on an experimental basis at the same time. These experimental curricula and
learning/teachers' materials will be introduced in the project institutions
and at WJarisata starting during the .1979 academic year, after review by the
Bank (Section 3.07 of Loan Agreement).
33.       In-Service Training.  The project will support a comprehensive
in-service training program for about 1,200 basic and intermediate teachers
andl about 100 school directors, supervisors and teacher trainers. A tentative
training schedule was developed during project appraisal; a satisfactory, more
fully elaborated training program will be prepared within six montlhs of loan
signing (Section 3.09 of Loan Agreement).
34.       Bilingual Radio Education.   The Government will initiate bilingual
radio programs in the first three grades to help Aymara-speaking children
learn Spanish. Pupils and teachers will receive in advance printed material
related to the weekly transmissions. The language prograr.s will be introduced
in the 1978 academic year (Section 3.08 of Loan Agreement).
35.       Community Education.  Under the proposed project the Ilinistry of
Education will establish a community education program relying primarily on
the formation of rural radio listening groups, supported by simple printed
materials and live demonstration and follow-up activities by mobile action



- 12 -
teams. Beneficiaries will be encouraged to adopt new and useful practices in
agriculture, health, nutrition and education. The Government will use its
best efforts to contract a satisfactory local radio station on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank to implenent this program (Section 3.10 of
Loan Agreement).
36.       Preinvestment Study.   The preinvestment study will help to identify
and propose solutions to the social and enployment problems and related
education and training needs of the low-income migrants to La Paz City from
the surrounding Altiplano. The final report and recommendations will be made
available to the Bank within eighteen months of loan signing (Section 3.11 of
Loan Agreement).
37.       Technical Assistance.   The loan will finance 8-1/2 man-years of
specialist services and 54-1/2 man-years of fellowsliips in curriculun devel-
opment, learning/teaching materials production, teacher training, school radio
broadcasting, bilingual instruction, community development, school organiza-
tion and supervision, and evaluation techniques. The cost of technical
assistance is estirmated at US$55,000 per man-year of specialist services and
US$12,000 per man-year of fellowship.   Specialists will be employed on terms
and conditions satisfactory tu the Bank, suitable counterparts for the special-
ists will be provided, and all fellowslhip recipients will be selected and
placed in consultation witlh the Bank (Sections 3.02(a) and 3.12 of Loan
Agreement).
38.       B.  Vocational Training.   Under this component FOMO will expand
its operations to train new workers and contribute to raising productivity
levels by upgrading the skills of those presently einployed. The project will
also help FOMIO to develop training in the mining and rural sectors through
mobile action programs and to establish management consulting and training
services for small and mediurm-scale enterprises.   Specifically, this component
will consist of:
(a)  construction, furnishing and/or equipping of six vocational
training centers;
(b)  two mobile training workshops for the mining trades and fifteen
sets of equipment and transport for training in agricuiltural
and rural artisan occupations;
(c)  preinvestment study on the socio-econoinic conditions in the
major highland mining areas to identify employment generation
possibilities and related training needs and recommend action
programns; and
(d)  technical assistance including 9-1/2 man-years of specialist
services and 8-1/4 man-years of fellowslhips.
39.       Training and In-Plant Services.   The six training centers and
seventeen mobile training units will enable FO0IO to offer job entry and skill
upgrading courses in 38 occupations, with a direct annual output of about



- 13 -
7,700 workers. Mobile training will focus on the mining and rural sectors and
submission to the Bank of a satisfactory detailed training plan will be a
condition of loan disbursement for all equipment and vehicles required
(Schedule I,' paragraph 4 (iv) of Loan Agreement). Also, within two years of
loan signing an in-plant training unit will be established to help enterprises
diagnose training needs and implement on-the-job training programs for em-
ployees requiring skill upgrading (Section 2.08 of Project Agreement).
40.       All training will be based on occupational analysis and flexibility
will be ensured through the use of short self-contained training modules. In
addition, FObIO will establish national standards for specific skills, conduct
trade testing and award certificates to successful graduates. FOlIO will
introduce the aforementioned techniques, beginning with-the mining sector,
within one year of loan signing '(Section 2.09 of Project Agreement). To cater
to the large numbers of FOMO participants having minimal education, FOMO will
design audiovisual training materials which do'not rely so heavily on reading
and writing and these materials will be put into use within two years of loan
signing (Section 2.10 of Project Agreement). In order to help graduates of
the training courses to find j-obs, within one year of loan signing, FOM1O will
establish a guidance and placement service, which will work closely with the
employment service of the Hfinistry of Labor (Section 2.11 of Project Agree-
ment).
41. -     A management consulting and training unit will be established as
a separate division of FOlIO, reporting to the Board through the Executive
Director.  The unit will focus on raising-productivity in"enterprises in the
urban and rural sectors through management training, consultancy, organization
of local research,-establishment of an informat-ion service and in-plant career
development schemes. About 360 middle- and upper-level m'anagers will be
trained annually.  The management consulting and training unit will be estab-
lished within two years of loan-signing and the program will be evaluated
annually thereafter in consultation -withi thie employers' associations (Sections
2.12 and 3.06 of Project Agreement).
42.       Preinvestment -Study.  A preinvestinent study will explore the possi-
bilities of employmaent generation and -relevant training needs of the popula-
tion living in the major highland -r'ining areas.  The final report and recoin-
mendations for action programs will be nade available to thie Bank within 18
months of loan signing (Section 2.13 of Project Agreenment).
43.       Technical.Assistance. -The project will supplerient teclnical assis-
tance already being provided by other -bilatera-l and multilateral agencies witl
9-1/2 man-years of specialist services land -8-1'/4 -man-years of fellowshlips to
assist FOMO in in-plant -training., t-ra-ining organization, rural training,
instructor and management-training, reorganization of FOllO's management system,
procurement, design of buildings and preparation of audio-visual instructional
aids.  The cost of technical assistance is estimated at US$55,000 per i:an-year
of specialist services and US$12,000 per man-year of fellowships. Specialists
will be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, suitable
counterparts for the specialists will be provided, and all fellowship recipi-
ents will be selected and placed -in consultation with tbe Bank (Sections
2.02(a) and 2.07 of Project Ag'reer.ent). '



- 14 -
Project Cost and Financing
44.       The total project cost, net of identifiable taxes, is estimated
at US$21.4 million, including physical contingencies of US$1.8 million and
price contingencies of US$4.0 million. The proposed Bank loan of US$15.0
million, equivalent to 70% of the total project cost, will finance the full
foreign exchange component of US$9.5 million and US$5.5 million of local
currency costs. As mentioned in Part I, paragraph 11 above, local cost fi-
nancing is justified in Bolivia in light of the country's poverty and the
Government's intensive efforts to mobilize domestic savings, and will enable
the Bank to make an adequate contribution to meeting the country's external
capital requirements. The Government will make sufficient and timely allo-
cations to meet the annual counterpart fund requirements for implementing the
project (Section 3.01(a) and (b) of Loan Agreement).
45.       The recurrent costs generated by the primary and community education
component of the project will be well within the capacity of the Ministry of
Education and FOMO to finance. Legislation has recently been adopted to estab-
lish a 1% payroll levy on profit-oriented public and private enterprises to
secure a regular flow of revenue to finance FOMO's recurrent costs. Furnishing
to the Bank of satisfactory legal evidence to this effect will be a condition
of disbursement of loan funds for the vocational training component of the
project (Schedule 1, paragraph 4(iii) of Loan Agreement). The Government will
establish an effective system and begin collection of the 1% levy not later
than 9 months after the enactment of the legislation (Section 4.09 of Loan
Agreement). The Government will also take the necessary steps to make funds
available in the event of any shortfall in revenues needed to cover FOMIO's
operating expenditures (Section 3.01(c) of Loan Agreement). Finally, in the
interests of reducing the unit recurrent costs of basic education nationwide,
the Ministry of Education will review and adjust the supply of teachers in
line with demand, on the basis of more efficent student:teacher ratios and
teacher workloads (Section 4.07 of Loan Agreement).
Project Implementation
46.       The two main components of the project will be administered sepa-
rately, as follows:
A. Primary and Community Education. This component will be adminis-
tered by a special project unit which has already been established within the
Ministry of Education. The unit includes separate divisions for administra-
tion, infrastructure and educational activities, with a total full-time
permanent staff of 23 persons. A suitable director and two division chiefs
have already been appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
The Bank will be consulted on appointment of the third division chief and on
any future replacement of these key project unit staff and on the appointment
of the director of the lWarisata Rural Teacher Training College (Section 4.04
of Loan Agreement).
B. Vocational TraininR. FOMO will be responsible for implementa-
tion of the vocational training component of the project, through its Exe-
cutive Director, assisted by a full time architect and vocational training



- 15 -
specialist already appointed and working exclusively on the project. FOMO
will consult the Bank on any future replacements of the aforementioned staff
(Section 3.05 of Project Agreement).
47.       Prototype designs for basic classrooms and teachers' housing for the
primary education component of the project were discussed and agreed upon
during appraisal. Design of remaining project institutions will be executed
by consultant firms, contracted on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, and by staff of the Ministry of Education project unit. The Government
and FOO1 will establish within six months of loan signing special technical
committees to review all architectural designs and equipment and furniture
lists and specifications before submitting them to the Bank and they will
acquire the necessary sites for the project (Sections 3.02(c) and 3.05 of Loan
Agreetnent and Section 2.02(b) of Project Agreements).
48.       The basic and intermediate schools and teachers' housing located in
rural areas will be constructed by the- National Community Development Service
(SNDC), with participation of local covmmunities and supervised by the Ministry
of Education. project unit. SNDC is a decentralized agency of the Ministry
of Agriculture, with broad experience in managing rural self-help construc-
tion projects. The Ministry of Education will contract the services of SNDC
for the project on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and all SNDC
activities under the contract wi-ll be-supervised and audited by the project
unit (Schedule 4, paragraph B.1 of Loan Ag-reement). Construction of the basic
and intermediate schools located in urban areas and the teacher training
college will be by private contractor.. The National School Building Council
(COIES), a decentralized agency of the Ministry of Education with relevant
experience, will be responsible for the. bidding, and construction supervision
of these project institutions. The tlinistry of Education will contract the
services of CONES on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank for the
purpose of this project (Section 3.02(b) of Loan Agreemenit). Construction of
the vocational training centers will be by private contractors and FOMO will
be directly responsible for bidding and construction supervision. The Govern-
milent and FOtIO will make adequate budgetary allocations for the maintenance of
all buildings, furniture and equipment provided under the project (Section
4.05 of Loan Agreement and Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement).
Procurement
49.       Except for the rural schools. and teachers' housing construction
through SNDC, all contracts for civil works will be awarded to foreign or
registered local bidders on the basis of comnpetitive bidding advertised
locally and in accordance with. procedurest satisfactory to the Bank. Civil
works are of small size (averaging US$60,000 for the intermediate schools
and US$280,000 for the vocational training, centers) and located throughout
the country, and Bolivia has a competitive local construction industry.
Therefore, although foreign contractors will not be precluded frora partici-
pating in the bidding, it is unlikely that they will do so or that any civil
works contracts will be awarded to foreign firms. Contracts for furniture
and equipment will be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. To the extent practicable,



- 16 -
public and private industrial secondary and post-secondary schools and FOMO
will be encouraged to bid for production of furniture for the basic education
schools. The Government has agreed to permit importation on equal terms to
all bidders for the furniture included in the project to ensure timely imple-
mentation (Section 4.10 of Loan Agreement). Local manufacturers will receive
a margin of preference of 15% of the cif price or the actual tariff, whichever
is lower. Furniture and equipment which cannot be grouped into packages for
bulk procurement of at least US$50,000, not exceeding in the aggregate
US$750,000 (equivalent to about 15% of the estimated total cost of furniture
and equipment) will be procured in accordance with local procedures acceptable
to the Bank.
Disbursements
50.       The loan will be disbursed over a five year period, with the project
completed by June 30, 1981. Disbursements will finance an estimated 50% of
contruction expenditures for the primary and community education component and
30% for the vocational training component; 100% of foreign expenditures or 85%
of expenditures for locally procured equipment and furniture; and 100% of
expenditures for technical assistance, project administration, preinvestment
studies, community education activities, curriculum development and learning
materials production, and in-service training. Expenditures on civil works
incurred by the Ministry of Education after November 1, 1976 and before loan
signing will be financed retroactively up to a total of US$150,000 equivalent
(Schedule 1, paragraph 4(i) of Loan Agreement).
Conclusions
51.       The proposed project will assist the Government in developing a
cost-effective primary and related teacher training and community education
project, which will incorporate various innovative features (from both the
qualitative/educational and organizational/efficiency standpoints) that,
if successful, will later be expanded on a national scale. The project will
also help to redress imbalances in educational opportunities in the Altiplano
area of the La Paz Department by providing new basic school places for about
6,900 students annually, replacing, extending and upgrading places for an
additional 21,850 students, and furnishing and equipping school places for all
37,820 children in the project area. In addition, 4,590 intermediate and 425
preservice teacher training students annually would be accommodated in facili-
ties to be replaced and extended under the proj,ect and 1,200 teachers and 100
school supervisors and directors will receive in-service training under the
project. Finally the project will aim to increase primary student:teacher
ratios to 35:1 from the 19:1 prevailing today in the project area, increase
retention rates to 70% and reduce overage students from 40% to 20% of total
enrollments by 1985. It is estimated that these improvements could reduce
recurrent costs per student by as much as 30%.
52.       Regarding vocational training, the capacity of FOMO would be extended
sevenfold to meet urgent requirements for trained manpower at the managerial,
skilled and semiskilled levels, and to initiate new activities in the rural
and mining sectors. FO0I0's training programs would be upgraded through the



- 17 -
modernization of its course design, instructional techniques and learning
materials production. The introduction of trade tess and the certification
system would lay the basis for creating wage differentials among skilled
workers and thereby leading in due course to a better earnings profile.
53.       With respect to the primary and community education component,
various of the educational and organizational measures are by definition
experimental and therefore the extent to which they will meet stated objec-
tives can only be evaluated as they are implemented within the project area.
Accordingly, a strong evaluation team and adequate financing are provided
in the project to ensure timely preparation of annual evaluation reports
during 1977-81 in order to enable the Government and FO1IO to take correc-
tive action, if needed, to ensure satisfactory completion of the project
(Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement and Section 3.06 of Project Agreement).
The Government and FObIO would also prepare a report providing a preliminary
assessment of the project, its results and experience gained during imple-
mentation within three months of the Closing Date of the loan account (Section
4.08 of Loan Agreement and Section 3.07 of Project Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUILENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The dra't Loan Agreement between the Republic of Bolivia and thle
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and FOMM, the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement and a draft Resolution approving the proposed loan are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the
project are listed in Section III of Annex IV. Special conditions of dis-
bursements for the vocational training and for the primary and community
education components are that the Government has (i) furnished legal evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that legislation establishing a 1% payroll levy on
profit-oriented public and private enterprises to finance FOIIO's recurrent
costs has been enacted; (ii) submitted a detailed training plan for the mining
and rural sectors; and (iii) furnished legal evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that the rural and urban subsystems in the project area have been merged
(Schedule 1, paragraph 4(ii), (iii) and (iv) of the Loan Agreement).
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOl.tlENDATIONS
56.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loani.
Robert S. NlcNlamara
President
Attachiments
Ilarch 31, 1977






5g                  -Wa                                           M  t                                                                   Svt
*  ,                   'i              ' W'-~.           -'r-, 
Mi  SW                                               -                          asic                                            -  S  I .0 f  ft
-   - d                                                       S                           ..ts
S                                             -                     -a---.           -                                                     S~~~~~49LCa
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S~~~~.                            n                                                         I 
-                                                                                                                      S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
C                                                                                                                               S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c  r 
~~~~~~Sbt  S                                                          -.24                                       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. :  . 
*5  dc   C   CC    -~~~~~~ 0.  .C  C.  CCC  St         Ca, t        M              C,CICI  =           CC   Cr CC I                 C
* I  SiC  *  Ott  uh  --  NA  C  inSCi  e     045                         CCC    COin         SO  S  SiN                  84..I  C
OS  ht*O        -.    SN a,                             I I C    ,                    COi r   hNC            -  fl                   i 
45  SIN                                                in'OUI  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
a.~~~~~~ 



ANNEX I
page 2 of 5
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970 and for Moat Recant Estimate between
197 3 and 1975.
00 Peru ha. been oelectod as an obJective country because of aimoilar natural candlitiona, end conparable human and resource enadossnta.
BOLInIA     1960         Ratin of pnpulatlon under 15 and 65 and 9car to total labor forces;           /b  1965,     Is  Aso percentage of labor force In
onplnymoont;     /d  1963.
1970     InRatio of Population under 15 end 65 and ovr to total labor force;              /b   Ag a percentage of labor force in employmsent;
- -    In  Population;      /d  1964-66;     /s   Between 1965 and 1970 the duration of general seecondary education waa redaced fr-s
6 to 4 yeara..
MOST RECENr _T cIrI4ATE     /0  1971;     /h  Ratio of Population under 15 aod 65 and over to total labor forca;            Ic  A. perce-ntage of
Labor feces in eaployansnt;      Id  Including nidiveal        /a  1967-71 average;       Q  -1972;     it sent-es
t9b5 and 1970 the duration, of Fmssral secondary education asa reduced fras 6 to 4 yearn.
CAPIEROON   1970     Ia   1964-66;     Ih  13 years for Eaat Cenrseron.
HIONDURlAS  1970     Ia  Largely due to onnigrotis since 1969 of El Salvadorean resident in Honduras, population gresoth rate Is lover than the
rote of natural iooroa.e;       lb  Ratio of populaltion under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;           /.  1967-68 Population;
Li Registered, not all Practicing in the country.
PERU        1970     I   Enclodee Indias jungle population-        lb   Ratio Of population undsr 15 anld 65 and over to total labor for.e;          Ic  Urban
areas only;      Id  Including evening ochoola.
R6, March 10. 1977
DEFINlITIONES OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Are. (___h_____ 2)uao                                                                              pe   ~r nuring Person - Population, divded by number of practicing
Total -Total earfoce oca. comprising land area and inland waters.                                 Isl and female graduate nursea, "trained" or "certified", -ecea, A,
Agric.    Moat rece.nt esltimate of agricultural area used temoprarily or                       auniliary personnel aith training or enperiance.
pernanently for crops, pasture, narket & kitchen gardens or to lie                       Pocolatum en sr hoseitel bed - Population divided by stonIr of hospital bed.
fCohn.                                                                                      availablein public and private general and upecia1loed hoapgta1 sod
rehabtilttion centers. socludes nuruisg homseu and e-tablinlhnteo foe
- per capia %SW.- C? per caPita etic,Leu at Current market princes,                     cuetofial and preventive care.
rW SfT'incosnversono method an :nrld Rank Atlas (1973-T5 Lazio);                 Per c   tlau    lyoclris1of requirements)              - Computed frun energy
I   *t  anI d 1v7', data,                                                               equivln     onefndsplsavibeincuntrp per caPita per day;
avalube opples  unriae d-.oaJi producti on, lopor-s loe.      nepora,.
Pop.IaLi.n and ""' "at ......                                           ~~~~~~~~nd ch.angsin atnb; setsupplies enclude aninal feed, -edu, qoan.ti-
Ponlaion  -idid-v. nilliun   -As oi July first.      If sot available,                        tir.e'od in fond proces-inf asd Ion.s. -In dinrelbution, rq,p,ec
averalge of too end-year eotieetea; 1960, 190and 1975 data,                                  were  ulae       yP0hudo           hsooia         ed     o   ,Pa     ,cvt
and ht.alch cons Wdaring envlro.nteer1 tonperaLre,     body aii,.     age and
son dietrihotions Of population, sod allying ICC fot wafLo at hoe--
focolationl de,nuicy   p e, anoare on   M id-year PoPulation per square bile-                   bold level
seler (lOf hoctaron) uf total area.                                ~~Per c.pits apply of proteis foslensnrdy,            rtl     occ     f,c
Poglaion densit land  on    ur    nofarc        ln       onoe     s   bv     a                 capita net supply of foo.d per day;nt auppy of food is def iced 00
ogriculuoral land only.                                              ~~~~~~~~~above , -e`e-renents fur all countries etatblished by USDA EuonJoic
Vital SL.tilltica                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rea-uc lecokes provide for a olnininu aliovocov  r 60 croo  *ruI ,
Vital   irt Sttt tica Kth~..                                                                      -ut- ,PerCay, and Lu g         -n 1aLua   aod plrpraLci, cC.11
Crud  bith rte  cr couund.  vurce-Annual livp births per thousand4                   10 grau s'hould be asi-uL ProteIn; thene stondards are lover than those
,.f nid-yoa  pupula.tiun; ton-Ya      rithosetin av-rges ending In 1960 baa I9tO,             of 75 grates of total protein and U3 grana of animal protein au an
a'nd fio-;Year   -vraft. cndlcg In.197.5 for    o.t recent eatilteat.                          average for the world, pro.posed by FAO in the Third World Food Sarv-y.
erode death rotenor thonuond  outace  Annual deaba pe  huado     l-            Pr capita proteinnisupply Iron aenel andmpulse - Protein supply or food
ycar popolatton; ton-year urithoetc average        ending in 1960 and 1970 anOeie                      frasaiaoadpls              ngaoprdy
fIn ve -year overge   lenig ic 1975 for must recent estima.te.Death rate f/thou) aces 1-4 -                                   una   deathe Per thous.and ie age group
Ifantnralt       raeCthou) - A.nnuI deutho of infants under one year of                        1-4 yea:..  t  chid      Inei  thAis am  group, suggented an as Indi-caor of
age Per thuuoond lIon hirch-o.                                                               nnur      tion     I
iC vueunya   it     S)- Average.nohe.r of ye;ra of life renaining
at birth, ouua1llY five-year avro~ges cdi in 1 960,1970 and 1975 fur                      Education
developing cauntrieu.ijae                                                                           ooietrai             rmr      uol-leoieto               l   gna
Crouu reyruductio    rot   - ierug    esouhr of lIon d-ughtero a wunan uillIpret'ofpimy scholag                                      p,hoplatosr, luludacidento 1   E. ags
hpcir fincherinrty rteprodoucivo peio      if-  eeprsoapeetae                                6-Il y-r.r  hut adjntedfr different lengths of primary educa.tion,
speifi    fen  iit 17' raes,euouin l  fntive-year averagen ending is 1960,                  for cauntriso with unioeru1ad education, enrollment nay enceed 110%
1970latind17     Cu   devlpn      cotris....c -re                                                          pupilo ame holy or above cho official anhool a5..
Poplaton  rouh rte  0) tota    - Cranpoudana       ott     an     fed                Adjusted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Conputed as eboce,
yearll1. poplaio   fn.9160.907.na977.ncndury education requir,eu at lneo                                                                 fooc yearn of approved Primary
'ouote  ruh rot (:nZI - urban - Conpuied lihe grouth rate of total                      inecrurtiun, provides generoI. voctionalortahr              ring
poplation, dIfferentg dentisicon aof urban araau nay affect nonpara-                          instruction, fur pupilo of 12 to 17 years of age, correpondence
hiricya   o  da., ta.  o gcnriacourses are generally eoclded.
Ura  ouaIn (% of totul) - Ratio of urban to total population,                        Year   of schoolingprvddfrtanseodlvu                        -Talyrs         f
difeen d.fi...    ion   ofuba      reaey affect csuaporahility of dote                       schucling; at secondary level, vocational inatruction naly be par-
Angugceontte -.nt.        -Cide      (                 rig                                     dai.ly or cOnpletely e-clded,
ice  rrucure  percnt) n Chilren (UliP yart)     orbitong-age (15-64 yearu).            locational enrollnent 1% of necondary) - vocational in.titutiona
and retired (65 your.   adroe)0          peuecav    of oid-year Ppoplotiun,                 in-clude technical, indu-trio1 or other pregrnso which operate.
gedependency ratio - RatIo of .poplation under 15 ond 65 and over to                           independevtly or 00 depalrcnnta of ..econdoryIctttus
thooe ofp ages 15 through 64,                                                             Adolt literacy rte (7.) - LiLor,tc adultsl (able co read and onto) an
Econonic dependncy ratio -Ratio of IPoulation under 15 and 65 adnrpretg                                       lttlautyplco                ld1      er and over.
to the labor Curce inag      group of 15-64 yearu..                                           ec,.eo          ..     .tPP..inae              5y.~ad-r
fasilyLlenIg -accptra  canlai-e     ho)-Cunltive n,ebhcrof                           uln
acceptors of hirth-cnctroldevices under Ousin&           fntoa fufooyPesnrtran(brS-Arge                                           umrofpsns          eroosi
planningprugranniece iception                                                       oncuped conventional duellingu fourb.asre.., duellinio euclu,de
ban  y      chon ilde ea  -         4onr.y7.ufcoelu   ,une   - . brc tn . .u ....r lenon-p lsea..nt ltruct,,re- and unoccupie,d parts.
tmen lof. chilad-bearing ag   a15-4   yern)o  houu    bre-coira       devcea              luupie d delinga without Piped tatter,7Af       - Occupied tu-ctissool
to all earned wonco in uane age group.                               ~dwellings is urban and rural areas without insIde or outside piped
Enploynest                                                                                       water facilitieu au per-cntge of all on.upied duellinga,
T.t.1  abor frce (toull,n) - E.amiclly acive peson.,Acc.:eau t                   electr,icity ft of all d.ellingo) - Conventional d,,elli.sg
Total laor ferco(thoused) - icoonicaln atv   pesn,including                           with alnelericityllin living qoartera as percent of total dwellings in
arned foru    and uneployed hut euclondiegc.. oaesai,,eu, ltu,de-t, et.,                      uraI   n   urlaea
definitionu is variout countrion are.nt coParable.                                        Rral d         rlic  conetdta    lcrciy(s.          oeurda       bv     o
Labor force is aglclteeQ) - Agricultoral labor for,ce (in Carming,                            Rrura d-   elinga only.     .eetict          %      m.rda        bv    o
forety    .hunin    adfhing) an percentagea of total labor force,rrl .li..my
.nenlove      at oi lbor furre) -8 LnenplIyod ame unuo1lY defined as pers ons o.nco
who are ablc and cilling to take a job, out of a Jub on a given day.                       Rado  ruier       p    huno)-al          ye    o   eeiesfo         aiobad
renamed cot of a J''.t, and seekbIng    orkh for a specIfied ninissuo period              Rad    ta to.Wr gen ra_lbpl _Zlo pe  thousand s of populaio,r eforlrdin  brd
sot enceeding one week, nay not be conparable between countries due to                       uice-ssed rece~loer Ptbis   a u ntroie  ad  in  ep-art whe  reglutrtono
dit ffern   eiiin        fuepoe          n   oroo       aa    og   . nloy-                    radio sets was in effect; data for recent year- nay not be conparable
mn ofIce utatclinulo. uanPle somlveYul, cnPuIsory onoeployneet inourance.                iniec  ease c-utrlns abliohed li-nouing.
Incona dialtribution - Per-uncage of private ince (both in cash and hind)                    Po....  egr,- leR tha    eIght p    11,ersons; e clds onbu rsna  bearsu  and
received by richeot 57,, richeult 201. Poas,eot 20% and poorest 407% of                       eilitarylegta vbo eu  gtpro,          xld.         acs      er       n
houoeboldu.                                                         fl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Eectricii,L  (khb/yr per cap) - Annual consuptloc of indu-tri.1, con-
Diuctribution of loand otLerahi   -   ocsoenfln            wn     yoaiiu                          erc,a.. .public and prioote electricity in kilnatrt hours Por capit;..
I0% and ponrost 107. of land ouer-.                                                           generaill  baad on production, data, oithout al11nance for luo...      in
griAu but aIm-ing for inperts and euporta of electricity.
lealub end NutrItion                                               Newsprint (hg/yr pJ~ er cp,-Per capita annual oonaunption, is bilogran
Pup,,Ilaiopephsca           - Populatio'n divided by un-ber of praceticini                       estinated f-n    donentic production plus net inports of newaprint,
pbacan  .ulified frru  a nediua  school at sniveraity level.



ANOEX I
P.g. 3 of 5
EC0N8I 8CD0FVELO-PH8E  AT
(Am-t. in US$     lllIn
Aotoel             ~~~~~~~~P-oli.1 ..      Pro.tecd                 1969.     1973-     1976-      190
MA3IOlIAL ACOJUNTS                            1973          1974          Jfl            1976,         1980           19873!                   1976       190       198            1973      1976       1980      1985
Co..lte-t 19 7A 1'rlne  In  ALmm  US$                                            rCro.n 008.                               A. Percen t of GDY  -0     %
D- - -t1c P-odoct                     1,606          1.686         1.787          9.903         2.417          3.265            4.8       5.I.                 6.2          116.3     106.0      1053      15T
lame ft-en Tero. of Trod. f-cl  .225       .             .~~    ~     ~~~~                                                                   ~~~~87  .17-2  -7  -  -16.3  -6.0       .5.3      -5.6
Crose ItnttcIco                              ,50           1,686          8,700         9.796          2,290         3,092            3.1        9.2       6.3       6.1          100.0     100.0      90.       100
leparin (Intl. tIPS)               A~~     ~     ~~~~~07  519   605           600            892           -985          15.01     131:1       7.9        3.9          29.5      ...A       31.6       51.9
Z.2rt   lni   tIS    eonCrn         )       .80            .588          -1.60           50           -319616.6                               10.         5.5       8.9           2.5        8.        7.8       31.3
R--- rr.Cop                                     27           -6             lss            91            182            18            .         -          -         -              2.0                 -n r;     -
Coa--pti-n COp.ndl t-r.                      9.85          1,336          1,674         1,496          1,913         2.461            4.9       8.1        6.3        5.2          05.8       83.3      83.4       39.06
I_..et-ln E.p-ndit--c     (-1. .-kc.)          226           2861           382           391           561.           64.9          -6.5      20.6        9.6       2.8           16.2      21.8       24.6      21.0
lon,ontlc S ologe                  ~~~~          ~~~~          ~~19  350  227  300           582            63I          -5.2       95.2       6.2       00.6           14.2      16.7      16.6       20.4
Nol c,, I S.,olnoe                 ~~~~          ~~~~~167  331  21t            273           320            592          -2.6       93.6       6.1        9.9           93.5      15.2      13.9       16.6
A-nea   D.r ta t Cor...nt Pric..A.ecn                                                                                        f  oa     ann
Pood                                         57.7          40.0           55.1          36.2           930          16.            5.5      26.6       134       70011.1                  10.4        8.9       8.7
IlcAc Clne-er lil.od287                                     3.            67.0           607          119.           12.           5.9      28.4       16.3      11.6           1.         11.2      1.6        70.8
P0010                          1.8           ~~~~          ~~~~           ~~~~         ~~~~    ~     ~~5.0  6.9  7.311.7  19.6  6.9  59.5  12.5   I0.9            0.           13      1.1       1.
Ran Ht-tel.l 61 let. Gond.                   56.3          94.6          165.9         969.4          308.9         563.3         -20       41.8       17.8       282.                      9.        95        3.
Cailt. .1 bde                                998.8        180.0          195.6         216.0          470.9         758.7         .2.0      29.6       21.       10.0           40.0      40.0       44.9       42.7
0thrr bode                                   35.           366.5!4                      40.0          4j1.9           88.          4.6       6.4        6.7      11.3           14.1        7.4       5.0        5.0
Total M-h..,odi.e tnport                    249.5         390.0          530.0         040.6        1,067.5        1.778,         -0.7      29.4       98.0       19.7         100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0o
oP-rle                                                                                                                                                                               At P-rtet of tnfol Ecpor-
Prinary P-od-ct                             217.3         362.4          308.2         370.           550.9       1,130.9          9.       195        10.9      13.2           76.5      68.2       65.1      50.5
Foclo1 647                                                185.7)         153.9)        970.7'         296.64        788.859        8.3      3.    1     6.I) 46  I9.8           22.8      381.4      34.3      40.0
Oo C-odn P.tr-    -                         (46.8        (156.8)        (199.42       (11.3          1201.7)        (97.5         (6.2)    (36.7)     (15.3)     23.5          (16.5)     (21.0)    (23.5)     (29.9)
M-of-cto-d Good.                            1.9.,L          5            --LI           ___            ,,jA           12.3        30.3       9.6       21.2      17.9            0.7        0.        0.-.
Total M-rh.ndlt.   Utport                   593.0         553,9         4666.0         564.0          857.9       1,952.1          3,0      26.2       12.1      17.6          100.0      100.0     100.0      10.
Ent Pioc 1nd-o                           S1.3           0.0           93.4          197.6         131.7          188.0         9.3       23.9       78          .
lepart PrIce Iarn             61.3          006.          91.             181            59.1         222.8         10.2      03.3       7.7        7.
le-n o  fdl me0.7                                    10.            8.I8.                        82.8           06.6         5.8        0.6       0).1       0.4
VALUt AD0ED BY SfCT08                                              A. P ...e-t of Tte1 flDP
1973           1974          1975           1976          1980           195
Agcic-for                                    2 o           25.2           25.           Y     -o        Ts1.         12T           4.7        5.9       5.9        5.6
Indoetry and MInIng       34.4           35.4          ~~~~~         ~~~            ~~~~ ~~32.1  322 12.1  36.9  37        3,7       6.0        8.
Serolte                           6~~~           ~            ~~~~~         ~~~~~0.6  614  2.5  42.8  42.1  40.         5.8        7.5       9.0       5.1
Total                                       190.0         100.0          000.0          908.0         100.0          100.0
POOl II FINANCE                                               Portent of CDP
(Ceocrol lonorneont)               ~~~~~~~~1973   Ig1975                       1976
-orntRcIPo.                             13.7                         060            1.
Ct-rent Eopendi-ton                          13.7          96.6           16.           147
OndgntarY  1 ll,n8                                         2.6            1.00.
Poh~Ilo Sooto -  oeg                             66           12.4            7.1           6.6
Po.blto Fined Capital Po-ntIon                   89            90.4          10.5           10.
CCRROfST EPSIJ8      DTAILS                                                                                                           DETAIL ON
(4.7. Ttlbre         nE p-dito-)              1973          1974           1975          1976                                       P10.4040                               . Percet of Tnte1
Cool, and Set-attn.              ~~~~     ~     ~~~20.5  15.   19.            20.4                                      I90V0STO8Tr PROGRAM                         1976-800
OonodSaloico                             1.6          32.            51.           52.7                                         greler                                      9.6
It-athe  Paynnet,-                           12.           29.0           24 .9         24.0                                       MI.Ing end Uyroeb.23.
Other                                         5.1            3.31          4.0            2.0                                      led.   r7ed     -r                           25.
Tota  Cor-et Enp..dit.r.                    10.     9.0       0          1.0  0          00.0                                      TrnPoet otd.C.-t.teo    i...n                19.0
______________________________________________________________________________________________       Poblic lPernice end. 1octS 1 SorS-cc.22.2
SELECTED Ill0ICATOR0                            1969-          1973-         1976-          1900-                                     FI7IANCI8                             A. Pomen a.  f Total
1973           1976          1980           1905                                                                                   1977.800
:COR                                            3.8            3.0            3,6           3.31                                      Prt-tte Sector                               3:0.
[ealEloe   ly2.9                                            2.3            1.              64                                      fore.Ign Soo-n.30
ncoN   fOtmeal S-ningo late                   .15            .15           .14            .14                                     PobIl"   eno                                 39.0
na-final Nati ...l So-lnge tote                  -.07            .30           .10            .24                                     D661 Seenlne Rotin                           19.5
LA6000 FORCE AND                                                                                                                              l.I.e Added Per Worker
OLJIPUT PEll W0RKER                                In Th.....de                   . of 50101               Cr0th0 Rote                    in M5 Dilore     Percent of A-eroon
1970           1975          1970           1975             1970.75                    1970       1976       1970      1976
A0rrol,torO                                    1,307         i7-,4f          64'.4          57.9                2.                       264. 8     300.5       60.1      44.2
led,ety an     Ilg276                                          400           13.6           15.6                77                     1,654.9    1,402.7     247.7      202.1
S_rl_n                                           446            678          22.0           26.5                8.7                    1,215.9    1.17.9.5     184.0     161.5
To-1                                           2,029          2.559         1010.0         100.0                4.6                      659.0     .693.0      100.0     100.0



r      w7        r ,
W z W g - -a    W15                     ~  o w  n   n -  I  _ t  3 r.. _   O
C~~~~ 00 w                      _  e -    0<         wS 
.   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .  I2  I .  -  I .  - W
g    . .  ..   .  ..... Z  I  4 -  ZX-
A I I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                             0
C.  O'0.00                V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M. 
0.4  Z  t-  01 Jr
ooC~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~>_b 0  00x0  w0.  00  _  000               0 n_
0000  ,,..-.o  ~.o  00.0Cr                               0
OCCOu9    1  -> .OOOrWQ  ',            ,@r@|-|   i-r 
o0    r       o    0.04   - 0.044100   o Ho  i0-o  0 oP*Cv o_rw .  tO|
G 000   00.00   0 0 r  ._  0. 0&w 000|N 00.- 0  W
w 0' O 0 n -. !*                                0..._,   Xwo  ?@@  EQ~||  -  0 E 
w 0iDf i-40  0  00-b__ 4_or 0 
Io g40o""  - o ~ oo.,0I 1n0 o= rn w __r  'g  |  tPGw!  I 
n Co                                 0. oI 00  o    oCo N>
 n C  .            00                      o~.|  |  - t j 
w                                    t
_                         _ X W -@ .~ > r _  0.4111I-
3s ~  ~   00   IC0         .00
1 O  .0O0W   0.0O . V0.00040.
10r O 



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
1/
CONTRACTED PUBLIC AND PUBLICLY GUARANTEED EXTERNAL DEBT,      1969-1976
(US$ millions)
1969       1970      1971       1972      1973       1974      1975       1976-
International Organizations            39.1        6.9      26.8       35.0      17.2       41.2     144.1      123.5
CAF                                            -          0.1       2.0        1.2        -        38.1        6.3
IBRD                                23.3       -          -         -          -          ,        32.0       68.0
IDA                                  7.4        1.4       6.8       8.0        6.0        6.2       7.5
IDB                                  8.5       5.5       19.9      25.0       10.0       35.0      66.5       49.2
Governments                            30.0       17.2      35.2       71.7      34.1       64.0     109.2       33.3
Argentina                            3.2      14.3        4.3       4.2        3.4        2.9       3.4        -
Czechoslovakia                       -         -          3.9       1.4        -          -         -          -
Germany F.R.                         1.7        1.4       -          -         -         28.6       -          5.2
United Kingdom                       1.4        -         -          6.8       -          -         -          -
USA                                 22.7        1.5      25.3       40.0      26.5       28.8      26.9       25.3
USSR                                 -          -         -         15.9       -          -         -          -
Others                               1.0        -         1.7        3.4       4.2        3.7      18.9        2.8
Suppliers' Credits                     11.5        1.6       3.9       27.4      16.6        8.7      39.7       30.0
Argentina                            -          -         1.6        5.1       5.9        1.6       1.7        0.3
Belgium                              -         -          -          -         5.8        0.1       -          -
Canada                               -         -          -         -          3.7        -         -          -
Denmark                              0.7       1.3        -          0.8       0.2        -         3.0        -
Germany F.R.                         3.9       0.3        -          -         -          -        11.0        -
Israel                               -         -          -          -         -          -         5.5        -
Italy                                2.1       -          -         13.9       -          -         -          -
Japan                                -          -         2.0        6.4       -          -        10.8        4.4
Spain                                3.3       -          -          -         -          -         -
USA                                  -          -         -          1.1       0.9        1.9       2.4        -
Others                               1.5        -         0.3        0.1       0.1        5.1       5.3       25.3
Private Banks                           1.3        -        23.3       23.1       9.9       56.0      89.3      197.9
Brazil                               -         -         12.0        7.9       4.7       13.5       -          2.8
USA                                  1.3        -        10.0       12.8       1.5       34.3      63.9      144.0
Others                               -         -          1.3        2.4       3.7        8.2      25.4       51.1
Other                                  14.1        4.1       0.1       22.7       0.4        3.8       10.3       -
Nationalization (USA)                   _         78.6       _                    0.7         _        _          _
3/
TOTAL           96.2     108.4       89.3      180.0      78.9      173.7     392.6      384.7
1/  Repayable in foreign currency only.
2/ Provisional
3/ Net of adjustments and cancellations.
Source:  Central Bank, IBRD'Social and Economic Data Division.






ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOLIVIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of February 28, 1977)
US$ million
Loan  or                                                      Amount (less cancellations)
Credit #    Year   Borrower              Purpose              Bank      IDA       Undisb.
Fully disbursed loans and credits                             23.3     38.6
261        1971    Bolivia              Livestock                      6.8         1.2
433        1973    Bolivia              Power                          6.0         0.2
455        1974    Bolivia              Mining/Manufacturing           6.2         3.1
561        1975    Bolivia              Agriculture                    7.5         6.1
1121        1975    ENFE                 Railways             28.7                 12.2
1211        1976    Bolivia              Rural Develop.        9.5                  9.4
1238        1976    ENDE IV              Power                25.0                 24.8
1290 /1     1976    Bolivia              Mining/Manufactur.   10.0                 10.0
1324        1976    Bolivia              Water Sup. & Sew.    11.5                 11.5
1331 /1     1976    Bolivia              Small-Scale Mining   12.0      _          12.0
Total                                            120.0     65.1       90.5
Of which has been repaid                           5.1      0.5
Total held by Bank and IDA                       114.9     64'.6
Total undisbursed                                                     90.5
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (As of February 28, 1977)
Amount in US$ million
Year          Obligator             Type of Business          Loan     Equity     Total
1973    Plasmar, S.A.             Cables and Plastic           0.3       0.1       0.4
Products
1976    Banco Hipotecario         Capital Market                         0.3       0.3
Nacional
1976    BISA                      Development Financing                  0.6       0.6
TOTAL                         0.3      1.0       1.3
1/ Not yet effective



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
(as of February 28, 1977)
Credit 261-BO - Third Livestock Development Project, US$6.8 million,
June 25, 1971; Effective Date: September 15, 1971; Closing Date: June 30,
1977
After implementation slowed down in 1974, the project is now pro-
ceeding as scheduled and the credit should be fully disbursed by the closing
date of June 30, 1977.
Credit 433-BO - Third ENDE Power Project, US$6.0 million, October 17, 1973;
Effective Date: December 11, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The project was initially delayed due to unexpectedly long delivery
time for the gas turbines originally planned to be installed at Santa Cruz.
Project progress is now satisfactory. Cost overruns are estimated at about
34% over the original estimates, but this does not significantly affect the
economic justification of the project. ENDE will finance the overruns with
its own funds.
Credit 455-BO - Mining Credit Project, US$6.2 million, January 18, 1974;
Effective Date: June 18, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is proceeding as scheduled.
Credit 561-BO - Agricultural Credit I, US$7.5 million, June 20, 1975;
Effective Date: December 15, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project is proceeding as scheduled.
Loan 1121-BO - Second Railway Project, US$28.7 million, June 5, 1975;
Effective Date: August 6, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The Borrower has arranged bilateral financing for locomotives in
the project and in accordance with the understanding reached with the Bank,
the loan amount has been adjusted downward from $32 million to $28.7 million.
Project progress has been satisfactory with performance targets either having
been attained or exceeded.
Loan 1211-BO - Ingavi Rural Development Project, US$9.5 million, March 8,
1976; Effective Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is proceeding as scheduled.
Loan 1238-BO - Fourth ENDE Power Project, US$25.0 million, June 2, 1976;
Effective Date: August 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project is proceeding as scheduled.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Loan 1290-BO - Banco Industrial Mining and Industrial Credit Project,
US$10.0 million, October 15, 1976; Effective Date:            ; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The terminal date for the effectiveness of this loan, originally
January 13, 1977 and postponed once to March 14, 1977, has been postponed a
second time to April 14, 1977 to allow Banco Industrial to make arrangements
to receive the initial payment by IFC under its subscription agreement. The
loan is expected to become effective soon.
Loan 1324-BO - Urban and Rural Communities Water Supply and Sewerage Project;
US$11.5 million, October 15, 1976; Effective Date: December 20, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project is proceeding as scheduled.
Loan 1331-BO - Small-Scale Mining Development Project, US$12.0 million,
October 15, 1976; Effective Date:                  ; Closing Date:  December 31,
1980
The terminal date for the effectiveness of this loan, originally
January 13, 1977 and postponed once to March 14, 1977, has been postponed a
second time to April 14, 1977 to allow additional time for the Bank to receive
and review the documentation needed for effectiveness, which has already been
sent to the Bank. The loan is expected to become effective soon.






ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4
BOLIVIA - EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SU11MARY
Borrower:                         Republic of Bolivia
Beneficiaries:                    Ministry of Education and the National
Manpower Development Service (FOMO) of
the Mlinistry of Labor.
Loan Amount:                      US$15 million equivalent
Terms:                            Loan payable in 20 years, including 4-1/2
years of grace at 8.5% interest per annum.
Project Description:              The proposed project presents a two-pronged
approach to education problems in Bolivia by
financing:
A. Primary and Community Education
(i) Construction, furnishing and/or equipping
of 955 basic classrooms, ten intermediate
schools, one teacher training college and
287 houses for basic teachers;
(ii) development of curricula and learning
materials and in-service training for
about 1,300 teachers, teacher trainers,
directors and supervisors;
(iii) introduction of bilingual education
(Spanish and Aymara) in the first three
grades of all project basic schools,
supported mainly by radio;
(iv) community education and training activi-
ties, supported mainly by radio and
mobile action programs;
(v) a preinvestment study on the education and
training needs of the low income migrant
population of La Paz City; and



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4
(vi) related technical assistance comprising
8-1/2 man-years of specialist services
and 54-1/2 man-years of fellowship for
local staff.
B. Vocational Training
(i) Construction, furnishing and/or equipping
of six vocational training centers;
(ii) two mobile training workshops for the
mining trades and 15 sets of equipment
and transport for training in agricul-
tural and rural artisan occupations;
(iii) preinvestment study on the socio-economic
conditions in the major highland mining
areas to identify employment generation
possibilities and related training needs
and recommend action programs; and
(iv) technical assistance including 9-1/2
man-years of specialist services and
8-1/4 man-years of fellowship.
Estimated Cost:                                                (US$ million)
Local  Foreign   Total
Primary and Community Education           6.68   4.27     10.95
1.  Basic Education Schools              3.23   1.91      5.14
2.  Intermediate Schools                 0.69   0.51      1.20
3.  Teacher Training College             0.44   0.38      0.82
4.  Curriculum Development               0.72   0.13      0.85
5.  In-service Training                  0.15   0.03      0.18
6.  Community Education                  0.51   0.09      0.60
7.  Preinvestment Study                  0.08   0.02      0.10
8.  Technical Assistance                 0.06   1.06      1.12
9.  Project Administration               0.80   0.14      0.94



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4
Estimated Cost:   (Cont'd)
(US$ million)
Local  Foreign    Total
Vocational Training                       1.84    2.83     4.67
1.  La Paz City Center                   0.31   0.17      0.48
2.  La Paz/El Alto Center                0.33   0.49      0.82
3.  Cochabamba Center                    0.29   0.41      0.70
4.  Santa Cruz Center                    0.30   0.29      0.59
5.  Tarija Center                        0.10   0.17      0.27
6.  Oruro Center                         0.01   0.10      0.11
7. MIobile Training Units                0.03   0.53      0.56
8.  Preinvestment Study                  0.16   0.03      0.19
9.  Technical Assistance                 0.03   0.59      0.62
10.  Project Administration               0.28   0.05      0.33
Base Cost                        8.52   7.10     15.62
Contingencies
-  Physical (12%)                1.05   0.75      1.80
- Price (23%)                    2.32   1.64     3.96
Total Project Cost              11.89   9.49     21.38
Amount
Financing Plan:                 Source                (US$ million)
Bank                      15.0
Government                 6.4
21.4
Estimated Disbursements:        Fiscal Year           (US$ million)
(annual)       (cumulative)
1977           0.4               0.4
1978           3.5               3.9
1979           5.4               9.3
1980           3.9              13.2
1981            1.7             14.9
1982           0.1              15.0
Procurement Arrangements:       Except for the rural and teacher housing con-
struction through SIIDC, all contracts for civil
works will be awarded to foreign or registered
local bidders on the basis of competitive bidding



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4
advertised locally and in accordance with proce-
dures satisfactory to the Bank. Since the civil
works are of small size (averaging US$60,000 for
the intermediate schools and US$280,000 for the
vocational training centers) and located through-
out the country, and since Bolivia has a compet-
itive local construction industry, foreign
contractors are not expected to participate in
the bidding although they will not be precluded
from doing so. Contracts for furniture and
equipment will be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines. To the extent practic-
able, public and private industrial secondary
and post-secondary schools and FOlIO will be
encouraged to bid for production of furniture
for the basic education schools. Furniture
and equipment which cannot be grouped into
packages for bulk procurement of at least
US$50,000, not exceeding in the aggregate
US$750,000 (equivalent to about 15% of the
estimated total cost of furniture and equip-
ment) will be procured in accordance with local
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Local manu-
facturers will receive a margin of preference of
15% of cif price, or the actual tariff, which-
ever is lower.
Staff Project Report:           First Education and Vocational Training Project
in Bolivia, No. 1367a-BO, Education Projects
Division, Latin America and Caribbean Regional
Office.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:      8 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:      Ministry of Education/Project
Unit, National Manpower Develop-
ment Service, of Ministry of
Labor with UNESCO/Bank assistance.
(c)  Project first presented to          The project is an outgrowth of the
the Bank:                           recommendations of a UNESCO/CP
identification mission to Bolivia
in May/June 1975. The Government's
request for Bank financial assist-
ance was presented in February 1976.
(d)  First Bank mission to review        April 5, 1976
project:
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:     August 30, 1976
(f)  Completion of negotiations:         February 4, 1977
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:      July 31, 1977
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
Approval of US$336,750 from the Project Preparation Facility to help
prepare and accelerate early implementation of the project.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   Government will furnish satisfactory legal evidence that the rural
and urban education subsystems in the project area have been
merged (condition of disbursement for the primary and community
education component - paragraph 30).
2.   Government will submit plans to the Bank within six months of loan
signing for the revision of school calendars in accordance witl
agricultural cycles and for the expansion of accelerated basic
education program for overage children (paragraph 30).
3.   Govern,nent will give admissions preference to W4arisata to applicants
having a working knowledge of Aymara and Spanish and efforts will be
made to increase recruitment of competent women students and staff
to Warisata (paragraph 31).



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
4.   Government will introduce experimental curricula and learning/
teachers' materials during the academic year 1979 (paragraph 32).
5.   Government will prepare, within six months of loan signing, a
detailed training program for teachers and supporting staff
(paragraph 33).
6.   Government will introduce bilingual radio programs in academic
year 1978 (paragraph 34).
7.   Government will contract a local radio station to help establish
a community education program (paragraph 35).
8.   Government and FOMIO will submit to the Bank within 18 months of
loan signing the final reports of the preinvestment studies
(paragraphs 36 and 42).
9.   FO01O will submit a detailed training plan for the mining and
rural sectors (conditions of disbursement for the vocational train-
ing component - paragraph 39).
10.   FOMO will establish an in-plant training unit within two years
of loan signing (paragraph 38).
11.   FOMO will introduce, within one year of loan signing, beginning
with the mining sector, self-contained training modules, estab-
lish national standards for specific skills, conduct trade testing
and award certificates to graduates; within two years of loan
signing,audiovisual course materials; and establish within one year
of loan signing, a guidance and placement service for graduates of
training courses (paragraph 40).
12.   FOMO will establish a management consulting and training unit
within two years of loan signing (paragraph 41).
13.   Government will furnish satisfactory legal evidence that it has
enacted the legislation establishing a 1% payroll levy on profit-
oriented public and private enterprises to finance FOMIO's recurrent
costs (condition of disbursement for vocational training component)
and will establish an effective system and begin collection of the
1% levy not later than nine months after the enactment of the
legislation (paragraph 45).
14.   Government will undertake to review and adjust the supply of
teachers in line with demand (paragraph 45).
15.   Governmnent and FOMO will consult the Bank on any future replace-
ment of key staff in the implementing agencies (paragraph 46).



IBRD 12363
r  .  u6.  ,       .          eOLIA62              JANUARY 1977
PF                    B OLIVIA
B R A Z     L L                       FIRST EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
FOMO: VOCATIONAL TRAINING COMPONENT
* Headquarters of the National
Manpower Troining Service
Odd, SA                             Regional training centers
7 ~ XORIB%RALB 0Main roads
RIB  ALT           _________ ~~~~~~~~~econtdory roads
\>COBLI2  -_   N                                        R 0ailways
0( r 10 R ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ivers
\-AY   )   \ D  epartment boundaries
. .  _  .nternattonal boundaries
.12-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
[~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nr,0rl a,  c i't c 3\  S
R  _   n   C7p  v  f ~  ~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ Mgdoleno   m>
)  XAA   rk/>=                                             B R A Z i L
P E R              Cs 49) 
t   t     Scn Boric  2 ~~~~~~TRINIDAD                  J
HL A    P A    Z      
Toru2rSo>LA PAZ  3      $  t         V TodsS<nto
/  % i i    | ~~COGH     A        S A NTAC R U Z                  
t  \f  0&    COl\CHABAMBj 
8 ~   ~     ~    ~     ~ U R 0    \la,                      RAGUA             ,2
fl   %   XQuechisic 1) C HA U Q  C A  (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Purt
. ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ Rnrhot               A G     A YA /s   ) 
~~~~~~~~~QuChil                  u   I  L   EA tE 
o t      +        tA  R  G  E  @  T~~~~~~~ A   I N- A            1    V"*Vttp?ca - l'^.






,-0  T U R ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R A     Z I L C 
/                          N             IA Pa
/                     BU>EtTUR           N
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      A Neehc  I  I II, 
7'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~; A,rPARAGUZAY 
C  01~~~~~~~C b 
At (>  (* co  4$ 4,CHUddA  >g<<  \     1      q <   - - DeportmentR A  L D  E  MER|
(  5z  >ct5TAt  >  g  4  E , A g ^8Hurno ( ^<  \   Rlvers~~~~~~~~~~Z kE  WII
\  ic~~~ \  > s   @  /  \>  /  g  g ! 1 .B60 5  1 /  ,) \1 ff   \  | 169-~~~~~~P005  5)
.'                              .                                    0       N 0 A5i \,5-_PARAGUAY1 < 9 XWAROSAGA
10'Xe C ; {  X   X   \  SU  C   .z'.,_4
co C:C,;bAonSe
B? A C     -    1- <XX COLIVUIr  \  U/5A  6
1             NtA 'd 5~~ 0IRS EDCAI AND
~"  RAISRV8ARAVOCATIONAL TRAINIG PROJECT
If  P.f.                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~PRIMARY & COMMUNITY EDUJCATION COMPONENTS
PrNoiect Area Boudary
ff           L    C                              Teaches CcOLege
-h.c.                           ~ ~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~A loe-ned,osn Schools
)iTh   Regiona Zoes wCuhun Proecl Ar-
15'                                                             -   Main RO@ds
____ Secondcry Roadls 
'\  0-5i-5-5- Railrads
-  Provicial Bou,ndares  N
T. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--DepwforItenc5oie
N  COSTA                         Hoso    I    S               BoKunda ie 
7'IN  \                68ITII)ACHC~,/J/              0   26POf  |0  60  50  160 >  oP   a  Km  P | t20
SOATA                 Ksas,                    ILOMAETERS
'CPCAASANnR B                  OROiCO   /N0   \
T. CI,z~~~~~~~~  /  -                              61/ n 1 -in
N          "'-~~~7ARACA      0*05~~~  r    05.6ARAC8R86AT
.LOAsYZA t INQUISIVI                 .800x10a 
17'                                                                   - .CCACAgII~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-
Sanliags                \7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UII- NT             -
CRCORO       I   A--,         \  Q     ,     C,0
P A  A~~~~~~~~~I SI ANI 
/                                                  PUCR.
69    68-         PO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-       VA
,/AN8a    0     R    U     R     0                      iT,  -i          UTl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  C-~T



