RETURN TO                                  Document of
REPORTS DESK                            The World Bank                    FLOPY
WITHIN                                                             FILE C
ONE WEEK                           FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 136 7a-BO
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
FIRST EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
BOLIVIA
March 30, 1977
Education Projects Division
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This doeument ha a resticted drbution and m-y be used by recipients only In the performnce of
their ofcil du"s. Is cetenXt may nao otherwise be disclosed witKot World Bank authoriztaon.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit: Peso ($b.)
$b.          1  =  US$           0.05
$b.         20  =  US$           1.00
$b. 20,000,000  =  US$ 1,000,000.00
Measures
1 ha.     2.47 acres  =  10,000 M2
1 km.  =  0.62 miles
Acronyms
CEMA   - Accelerated Secondary Education Program
CONES  - National School Building Council
EBA    - Accelerated Basic Education Program
ERBOL  - Bolivian Radio Schools
FOMO   - Na*ional Manpower Development Service
IBA    - Bolivian Apprenticeship Institute
IDB    - Inter-American Development Bank
ILO    - International Labor Organization
PREALC - Regional Employment Program for
Latin America and the Caribbean
SNDC   - National Community Development Service
UNESCO - United Nations Education, Scientific
and Cultural Organization
UNICEF - United Nations Children's Fund
USAID  - United States Agency for International Development
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOLIVIA
STAFF PROJECT REPORT ON A FIRST EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..............................    i-xii
I.   DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY AND HUMAN RESOURCE IMPLICATIONS ..               1
Socio-Economic Environment .......................              1
Development Strategy and Prospects ....           ...........   2
Human Resource Implications ......................              3
II.    ISSUES IN FORMAL EDUCATION AND STRATEGY FOR IMPROVEMENT              8
Administration ...................................              8
- Rural-Urban Dichotomy ........................             8
- Administrative Reform ........................             9
Planning .........................................              9
Curricula and Teaching/Learning Materials .... ....             9
Relevance ........................................    10
Access to Education ..............................    11
- Participation Rates ..........................    11
- Over-aged Students ...........................    12
- Retention Rates ..............................    13
- The Teacher Problem and Inefficiency .... .....    13
- School Organization and Location ....          .........    14
Educational Finance ..............................    15
Government Strategy for Educational Development  ..    18
III.    NONFORMAL MANAGEMENT AND SKILL TRAINING -
THE NEED FOR A SYSTEM ...............................    25
Overview ....................         .....................    25
- Agricultural Training ........................    25
- Industrial Training ..........................    26
- Other ........................................    26
National Manpower Development Service ............    26
This report is based on the findings of appraisal missions which visited
Bolivia in May and September 1976. The missions comprised Ms. D. Dowsett
(economist) and Messrs. I. Matallana (architect), A. Kouros (general educator),
R. Hemingway (technical educator), R. McGuerty (technical educator, consultant),
and R. Burke (mass media specialist, consultant). Ms. L. Jallade (economist,
consultant) who visited Bolivia in August/September 1976 also contributed to
the staff project report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwis be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
IV.       THE  PROJECT   .............................................                          ......              29
Primary  and  Community  Education                                 ...................           29
-  Content  and  Objectives   ........................                                       29
-  Project  Area   .... *............ .............                              ....        31
-  Basic  Education   ......... . .   ............................... .                      32
-  Intermediate  Education   ........................                                        33
- Warisata Rural Teacher Training College .......    33
- Development of Curricula and Learning
Materials   ..................................... 0.........                              34
-  Bilingual  Education                            ...........................               34
-  In-service  Staff  Training   .....................                                       35
-  Community  Education   ..........                        .................                35
-  Preinvestment   Study  ...........................                                        36
-  Technical  Assistance                            ..........................               36
-  Evaluation   ..............................................                               37
Vocational  Training   ......... . .    ............................... .                        37
-  Content  and  Objectives   .................                           .......            37
-  Output   ................................................                                 38
-  Staff   ..........                  ...............................                       40
-  Preinvestment  Study  ...........................                                         41
-  Technical  Assistance   ..........................                                        41
-  Evaluation   ..............................................                               42
V.      COSTS  AND  FINANCING  OF  THE  PROJECT   ......................                                           47
Cost  Estimates   .....................................                                          47
-  Primary  and  Community  Education   ..                              ..............       48
-  Vocational  Training   ............................                                       48
Contingency  Allowances   .............................                                          49
Foreign  Exchange  Component   ..........                        ..        .............         49
Financial  Plan   .....................................                                          49
-  Capital  Costs   ............................... ...                                      49
-  Recurrent   Costs   ............................. ...                                     50
VI.       PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION   ..................................                                              54
Primary  and  Community  Education   ....................                                       54
-  Project  Administration   ..........                      ..        .............         54
- Professional and Technical Services  ..... .......   54
-  Construction                 .................            ..................              55
Vocational  Training   ................................                                         56
-  Project  Administration   ..........                      ..        .............         56
-  Professional  and  Technical   Services   .....                              .......     56
-  Construction                 .................             ..................            57
Implementation  Schedule   ...........                       ..        ...............          57
Sites         ...................... ........................                                   57
Maintenance   ................                   .........       .       ..............         57
Procurement                       ............ 57
Disbursements .......                                                    .....  58



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
VII.   BENEFITS, RISKS, UNCERTAINTIES AND EVALUATION ...........  62
Benefits  ...................e.................. *    62
Risks, Uncertainties and Evaluation ... --.oo-oo  62
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............. oo .... o.  64
IX.   RELATED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE .....o...o.....  68
ANNEXES
1.1  Population, 1970-85
I.2  Output, Employment and Productivity, 1970-85
II.1  Comparative Education Indicators
1I.2  Structure of the Education System, 1975
II.3 Proposed Structure of the Ministry of Education
11.4  Indicators of Access to Primary Education by Urban and Rural
Students
11.5  Public and Private Expenditures on Education, 1970-76
IV.1  Primary and Community Education - Technical Assistance Schedule
IV.2 Projected Annual Output of the FOMO System, 1981
IV.3  FOMO - Technical Assistance Schedule
V.1  Summary of Total Project Costs
V.2 Contingency Allowances
VI.1  Administrative Structure of FOMO, 1976
VI.2  Schedule of Implementation
VI.3 Disbursement Schedule
MAPS






BOLIVIA
FIRST EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Education in Bolivia
Formal Education
1.        The Ministry of Education and Culture is responsible for administer-
ing all formal public education and supervising the decentralized and private
institutions in Bolivia, except for the universities. The Ministry's admin-
istrative structure includes separate subsecretariats and directorates for
urban 1/ and rural education, each with its own primary, secondary and teacher
training divisions, a carryover from the period of 1955-71 when responsibility
for rural education was in the Ministry of Rural Affairs and Agriculture.
2.        Average annual enrollments grew at 5.5% in pre-basic and basic educa-
tion and at 10.7% at the intermediate and secondary levels during 1970-73, but
inequality between rural and urban areas has remained high. In comparison
with male attendance, the number of females at the basic level has been rising
slowly and accounted for 46% of total enrollments in urban areas and 41% in
rural areas in 1973. At the intermediate level, only 42% of urban students
and 23% of rural students were female. Only in teacher education did the
percentage of females exceed males at 65% of total enrollments.
3.        Average retention rates and the internal efficiency of the education
system have remained low. Nationwide, it is estimated that of those entering
the basic level about 41% completed grade 5; of those continuing from this
level only 68% completed grade 8; and only 54% of entrants to secondary
schools completed grade 12. If the very substantial number of overaged
students were discounted, the aforementioned figures would be even lower.
Based on past trends, it is likely that more than half of the pupils enrolling
in 1976 will not reach fourth grade -- the minimum level to achieve permanent
literacy. Although expenditures on education accounted for 27% of the total
Central Government recurrent budget, primary schools were able to accommodate
only 56% of school age children in rural areas in 1976, as against sufficient
places for children in urban areas.
4.         In 1976 recurrent expenditures accounted for 92% of the Ministry of
Education's budget and 99.6% of that was absorbed by personnel salaries. The
relatively high recurrent costs per student of some US$65 and US$139 at the
basic and secondary levels, respectively, are due to pupil:teacher ratios,
inadequate workloads and teachers' salaries averaging about US$1,500 per year
at the lower levels of education or almost five times the average per capita
income in Bolivia. The situation is caused partly by an overproduction
1/   Urban schools are defined as those located in towns of more than 2,000
inhabitants.



- ii -
of teachers who are guaranteed employment in public schools which, in turn
has contributed to the proliferation of small, uneconomic colleges offering
inadequate training for new teachers. In 1973, the pupil:teacher ratios
ranged from 24:1 in the basic level to a low of 4:1 in industrial secondary
schools. Bolivia thus has the lowest average pupil:teacher ratios in Latin
America and this results in very high recurrent costs per student.
5.        The present education system has an overly academic orientation,
which bears little relation to the students' environment and work prospects.
The typical Bolivian primary school continues to function as an isolated
institution, particularly in rural areas where the relationship between the
school and the community is in most cases not mutually supportive. Some
rural communities view the school as directed against their cultural tradi-
tions and irrelevant to their world of work. Attendance is often motivated
only by a hope that the school may provide some means of survival in dealings
outside the community. This isolation is aggravated by the rural students'
difficulties in speaking Spanish--the official language of instruction despite
the fact that about 60% of the population speak Aymara, Quechua and Guarani.
Vocational Training
6.        Until the last few years, Bolivia did not have an organized system
of vocational training to prepare skilled and semiskilled manpower. Neither
the public nor the private sector has assigned much importance to training per
se as a means of raising productivity and facilitating adaptation to changing
technology. Trained workers are not generally rewarded by higher salaries or
more rapid advancement on the job in comparison with other employees. Indeed,
training has sometimes been a deterrent to getting a job, precisely because
employers fear pressures for higher salaries. Promotion within firms is based
on various factors, most notably longevity, and there are no widely recognized
standards to use in categorizing skill levels. There has been a similar lack
of attention to managerial training, even on the part of the largest enter-
prises.
7.        The main organizations which have offered vocational training pro-
grams are the National Manpower Development Service (FOMO), established in
1972 as a decentralized agency of the- Ministry of Labor, and Bolivian Appren-
ticeship Institute (IBA), which started in 1968 under the Ministry of Education.
IBA, though poorly equipped, enrolls 5,000 persons annually. Nevertheless, 80
percent of these are women studying mainly language, mathematics, homemaking
and childcare, rather than courses which would conventionally be classified
as skill training. In contrast, FOMO offered 85 courses in metal-mechanics,
construction and woodworking, electricity, agriculture and services, with a
total output of some 1,200 in 1975. About 45 percent of these were new
entrants to the labor market; the remainder were already employed persons
seeking to upgrade their skills.



- iii -
8.        Until recently, FOMO has focussed its activities on rapid quantita-
tive expansion. As a result, it borrowed rather than designed most course
material, which was not always directly relevant to the needs of Bolivian
enterprises or to the educational and skill levels of Bolivian workers.
Given the prevailing literacy levels of the work force and the job entry
requirements of most occupations, a shift to shorter and simpler courses
requiring less formal education is indicated. As yet FOMO has not established
a placement or follow-up service for its trainees, neither does it evaluate
its activities. Some instructor training has been carried out by a Spanish
technical assistance team, but further strengthening of this activity is
required.
Government Strategy for Educational Development
9.        Following the recommendations of a sector assessment undertaken in
1973 in cooperation with UNESCO, the Ministry of Education has established
various long-term objectives for educational development which intlude:
(a) administrative decentralization and merging of rural and urban education;
(b) developing more relevant curricula in terms of the environment and future
employment prospects of students; (c) providing adequate school places at the
primary and secondary levels, and channelling more resources into rural
education; (d) improving the internal efficiency and effectiveness of the
formal education system by increasing student:teacher ratios, reducing the
supply and improving the quality of primary teachers, rationalizing school
location planning and raising student retention rates; and (e) experimenting
with the use of bilingual instruction. In the area of employment-related
education and training, in 1975 the Ministry of Labor commissioned and the
Regional Employment Program for Latin America and the Caribbean (PREALC)
executed a National Manpower Study for Bolivia. This study, together with an
appraisal of the draft Five Year Development Plan indicates that, in addition
to improving the management and quality of present training programs, there is
an urgent need to increase the annual output of skilled and semiskilled
workers and upgrade a large proportion of the presently employed workers and
managers.
10.       Due to its limited capacity to undertake simultaneously major
educational reform and/or expansion programs, the Bolivian Government has
opted to focus attention on the development of a relevant and cost-effective
primary education system and on the provision of vocational training for the
adult population. In support of this strategy, USAID has provided assistance
to help the Government in educational administration and has recently signed a
loan for a rural education project in the Quechua-speaking valleys of the
Cochabamba Department. In addition, a similar small-scale project is being
implemented in the Tarija Department with local resources and UNICEF technical
assistance. A USAID education project for teacher training is in the pre-
liminary stages of preparation, and the IDB has provided grant assistance to
examine alternatives for the future development of technical education nation-
wide. The proposed Bank project will complement these efforts by financing a
scheme to improve and expand rural primary education and teacher training in
the Aymara-speaking highland region of the La Paz Department and to expand a
national system for vocational training in Bolivia.



- iv -
The Project
11.       The project was prepared by the Government with assistance from
UNESCO in January/February and the Bank in March, April/May and August, and
was appraised by the Bank in September 1976. To expedite preparation, the
Bank agreed on May 27, 1976 to advance US$366,750 from the Project Prepa-
ration Facility to help finance the establishment of a project unit, pre-
liminary architectural design work and elaboration of core furniture and
equipment lists. To date about US$267,548 have been withdrawn and most of the
balance should be disbursed by the closing date of April 30, 1977. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington on February 3-4, 1976. The Bolivian delegation
was led by Ing. Fernando Anker.
Objectives and Composition
12.       The proposed project, which would be the first Bank operation in the
education sector in Bolivia, presents a two-pronged approach to the complex
problems discussed above by assisting (a) primary and community education and
(b) vocational training. Moreover, the project will reinforce Bank activities
in its ongoing and future rural and urban development projects in the La Paz
Department and its-prospective railways operation. The project has the
following two components.
13.       A.  Primary and Community Education.  This component is confined to
five zones in the densely populated Aymara-speaking highland region of the La
Paz Department and has been designed to assist the Government in finding
cost-effective ways of (a) increasing access to primary education through
expansion and improvement of basic and intermediate schools, more efficient
use of primary facilities and teachers, and reorganization of primary school
administration and supervision; (b) developing more appropriate curricula,
learning materials and teacher training programs for primary education; and
(c) designing a community education program for the non-school age population.
With a view towards raising the efficiency of the system, the project will aim
at gradually increasing primary student:teacher ratios to 35:1, improving
average retention rates to 70% and reducing overaged students from the present
40% to 20% of total enrollments by 1985. The project will introduce more
rational school location planning and teacher assignment, extensive use of
multigrade teaching, expansion of accelerated programs for overage students,
automatic promotion, bilingual education, revision of school calendars to take
account of agricultural cycles and a campaign to encourage rural families to
leave female children in schools for longer periods. If successful in
meeting qualitative and efficiency objectives, the project will serve as a
model for a national primary education program in several years' time.
Specifically, this component will finance:
(a) construction, furnishing and/or equipping of 955 basic classrooms,
ten intermediate schools, one teacher training college and 287
houses for basic teachers;
(b) development of curricula and learning materials for all project
institutions;



- v -
(c) in-service training for about 1,300 teachers, teacher trainers,
directors and supervisors of project institutions;
(d) introduction of bilingual education (Spanish and Aymara) in the
first three grades of all project basic schools, supported by
radio;
(e) community education and training activities, supported mainly
by radio and mobile action programs;
(f) a preinvestment study on the education and training needs of the
low income migrant population of La Paz City; and
(g) related technical assistance, comprising 8-1/2 man-years of
specialist services and 54-1/2 man-years of fellowships for
local staff.
14.       Basic and Intermediate Education.  The project provides for the
necessary facilities to permit most children in the five project zones to have
access to a five year basic education within about a 5 km walking distance of
their homes. It will provide new and/or upgraded schools required to
accommodate some 37,820 children annually by 1985, and housing for about 25%
of primary teachers in rural areas of the project zones where alternative
accommodations are not available. In addition, ten intermediate schools will
be constructed, replacing and extending inadequate facilities. When full
enrollment capacity is reached in 1985, about 4,590 students annually will be
accommodated in these ten intermediate schools.
15.       Administrative efficiency will be improved by merging of the rural
and urban subsystems into a unitary restructured nucleus system of school
administration and supervision within the project area. Legislation estab-
lishing the unified system has been approved. The furnishing to the Bank of
satisfactory legal evidence that the two subsystems have been merged will be a
condition of disbursement of loan funds for the primary and community educa-
tion component of the project (Schedule 1, paragraph 4(ii) of Loan Agreement).
Also, plans for revising school calendars in accordance with agricultural
cycles and for the expansion of the existing national accelerated basic
education program for overaged children will be submitted for the Bank's
comments within six months of loan signing, and these programs will commence
in calendar year 1978 (Section 3.06 of Loan Agreement).
16.       The project will provide for the replacement of inadequate physical
facilities at the Warisata Rural Teacher Training College, as well as for
staff training and the preparation of new curricula in order to ensure an ade-
quate supply of well-trained teachers for the project schools. Participants



- vi -
will specialize in language and social sciences, natural sciences or agricul-
ture, and will receive training as well in handicrafts, health and nutrition
and community development, subjects which they will be required to teach in
the project schools. For admission to Warisata preference will be given to
candidates having a working knowledge of both Aymara and Spanish and that
efforts will be made to increase recruitment of competent women students and
staff (Section 4.06 of Loan Agreement).
17.       Curriculum Development.  Based on a study of needs in 1977, new
curricula will be formulated during 1978 and experimentally implemented in all
project schools during the academic years 1979-81. These curricula will place
greater emphasis on practical activities and experimentation in agriculture,
health, home skills and rural crafts. They will rely on more modern teaching
techniques, including the use of radio in language instruction and of the
vernacular in the first three grades of basic schools. Learning materials and
teachers' guides supporting the new curricula will be prepared and implemented
on an experimental basis at the same time. These experimental curricula and
learning/teachers' materials will be introduced in the project institutions
and at Warisata starting during the 1979 academic year, after review by the
Bank (Section 3.07 of Loan Agreement).
18.       In-Service Training.  The project will support a comprehensive
in-service training program for about 1,200 basic and intermediate teachers
and about 100 school directors, supervisors and teacher trainers. A tentative
training schedule was developed during project appraisal; a satisfactory, more
fully elaborated training program will be prepared within six months of loan
signing (Section 3.09 of Loan Agreement).
19.       Bilingual Radio Education.  The Government will initiate bilingual
radio programs in the first three grades to help Aymara-speaking children
learn Spanish. Pupils and teachers will receive in advance printed material
related to the weekly transmissions. The language programs will be introduced
in the 1978 academic year (Section 3.08 of Loan Agreement).
20.       Community Education.  Under the pi~oposed project the Ministry of
Education will establish a community education program relying primarily on
the formation of rural radio listening groups, supported by simple printed
materials and live demonstration and follow-up activities by mobile action
teams. Beneficiaries will be encouraged to adopt new and useful practices in
agriculture, health, nutrition and education. The Government will use its
best efforts to contract a satisfactory local radio station on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank to implement this program (Section 3.10 of
Loan Agreement).
21.       Preinvestment Study.  The preinvestment study will help to identify
and propose solutions to the s)cial and employment problems and related
education and training needs of the low-income migrants to La Paz City from
the surrounding Altiplano. The final report and recommendations will be made
available to the Bank within eighteen months of loan signing (Section 3.11 of
Loan Agreement).



- vii -
22.       Technical Assistance.  The loan will finance 8-1/2 man-years of
specialist services and 54-1/2 man-years of fellowships in curriculum devel-
opment, learning/teaching materials production, teacher training, school radio
broadcasting, bilingual instruction, community development, school organiza-
tion and supervision, and evaluation techniques. The cost of technical
assistance is estimated at US$55,000 per man-year of specialist services and
US$12,000 per man-year of fellowship. Specialists will be employed on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, suitable counterparts for the
specialists will be provided, and all fellowship recipients will be selected
and placed in consultation with the Bank (Sections 3.02(a) and 3.12 of Loan
Agreement).
23.       B.  Vocational Training.  Under this component FOMO will expand
its operations to train new workers and contribute to raising productivity
levels by upgrading the skills of those presently employed. The project will
also help FOMO to develop training in the mining and rural sectors through
mobile action programs and to establish management consulting and training
services for small and medium-scale enterprises. Specifically, this component
will consist of:
(a) construction, furnishing and/or equipping of six vocational
training centers;
(b) two mobile training workshops for the mining trades and fifteen
sets of equipment and transport for training in agricultural
and rural artisan occupations;
(c) preinvestment study on the socio-economic conditions in the
major highland mining areas to identify employment generation
possibilities and related training needs and recommend action
programs; and
(d) technical assistance including 9-1/2 man-years of specialist
services and 8-1/4 man-years of fellowships.
24.       Training and In-Plant Services.  The six training centers and
seventeen mobile training units will enable FOMO to offer job entry and skill
upgrading courses in 38 occupations, with a direct annual output of about
7,700 workers. Mobile training will focus on the mining and rural sectors and
submission to the Bank of a satisfactory detailed training plan will be a
condition of loan disbursement for all equipment and vehicles required
(Schedule I, paragraph 4 (iv) of Loan Agreement). Also, within two years of
loan signing an in-plant training unit will be established to help enterprises
diagnose training needs and implement on-the-job training programs for em-
ployees requiring skill upgrading (Section 2.08 of Project Agreement).
25.       All training will be based on occupational analysis and flexibility
will be ensured through the use of short self-contained training modules. In
addition, FOMO will establish national standards for specific skills, conduct
trade testing and award certificates to successful graduates. FOMO will



- viii -
introduce the aforementioned techniques, beginning with the mining sector,
within one year of loan signing (Section 2.09 of Project Agreement). To cater
to the large numbers of FOMO participants having minimal education, FOMO will
design audiovisual training materials which do not rely so heavily on reading
and writing and these materials will be put into use within two years of loan
signing (Section 2.10 of Project Agreement). In order to help graduates of
the training courses to find jobs, within one year of loan signing FOMO will
establish a guidance and placement service, which will work closely with the
employment service of the Ministry of Labor (Section 2.11 of Project Agreement).
26.       A management consulting and training unit will be established as
a separate division of FOMO, reporting to the Board through the Executive
Director. The unit will focus on raising productivity in enterprises in the
urban and rural sectors through management training, consultancy, organization
of local research, establishment of an information service and in-plant career
development schemes. About 360 middle- and upper-level managers will be trained
annually. The management consulting and training unit will be established
within two years of loan signing and the program will be evaluated annually
thereafter in consultation with the employers' associations (Sections 2.12 and
3.06 of Project Agreement).
27.       Preinvestment Study.  A preinvestment study will explore the possi-
bilities of employment generation and relevant training needs of the popula-
tion living in the major highland mining areas. The final report and recom-
mendations for action programs will be made available to the Bank within
18 months of loan signing (Section 2.13 of Project Agreement).
28.       Technical Assistance.  The project will supplement technical assis-
tance already being provided by other bilateral and multilateral agencies with
9-1/2 man-years of specialist services and 8-1/4 man-years of fellowships to
assist FOMO in in-plant training, training organization, rural training,
instructor and management training, reorganization of FOMO's management system,
procurement, design of buildings and preparation of audio-visual instructional
aids. The cost of technical assistance is estimated at US$55,000 per man-year
of specialist services and US$12,000 per man-year of fellowships. Specialists
will be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, suitable
counterparts for the specialists will be provided, and all fellowship
recipients will be selected and placed in consultation with the Bank
(Sections 2.02(a) and 2.07 of Project Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
29.       The total project cost, net of identifiable taxes, is estimated
at US$21.4 million, including physical contingencies of US$1.8 million and
price contingencies of US$4.0 million. The proposed Bank loan of US$15.0
million, equivalent to 70% of the total project cost, will finance the full



- ix -
foreign exchange component of US$9.5 million and US$5.5 million of local
currency costs. Local cost financing is justified in Bolivia in light of the
country's poverty and its intensive efforts to mobilize domestic savings, and
will enable the Bank to make an adequate contribution to meeting the country's
external capital requirements. The Government will make sufficient and timely
allocations to meet the annual counterpart fund requirements for implementing
the project (Section 3.01(a) and (b) of Loan Agreement).
30.       The recurrent costs generated by the primary and community education
component of the project will be well within the capacity of the Ministry of
Education and FOMO to finance. Legislation has recently been adopted to
establish a one percent payroll levy on profit-oriented public and private
enterprises to secure a regular flow of revenue to finance FOMO's recurrent
costs. Furnishing to the Bank of satisfactory legal evidence to this effect
will be a condition of disbursement of loan funds for the vocational training
component of the project (Schedule 1, paragraph 4(iii) of Loan Agreement).
The Government gave assurances that it will establish an effective system and
begin collection of the 1% levy not later than 9 months after the enactment of
the legislation (Section 4.09 of Loan Agreement). The Government will also
take the necessary steps to make funds available in the event of any shortfall
in revenues needed to cover FOMO's operating expenditures (Section 3.01(c) of
Loan Agreement). Finally, in the interests of reducing the unit recurrent
costs of basic education nationwide, the Ministry of Education will review and
adjust the supply of teachers in line with demand, on the basis of more
efficent student:teacher ratios and teacher workloads (Section 4.07 of
Loan Agreement).
Project Implementation
31.       The two main components of the project will be administered sepa-
rately, as follows:
A. Primary and Community Education. This component will be adminis-
tered by a special project unit which has already been established within the
Ministry of Education. The unit includes separate divisions for administra-
tion, infrastructure and educational activities, with a total full-time
permanent staff of 23 persons. A suitable director and two division chiefs
have already been appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
The Bank will be consulted on appointment of the third division chief and on
any future replacement of these key project unit staff and on the appointment
of the director of the Warisata Rural Teacher Training College (Section 4.04
of Loan Agreement).
B. Vocational Training. FOMO will be responsible for implementa-
tion of the vocational training component of the project, through its Exe-
cutive Director, assisted by a full time architect and vocational training
specialist already appointed and working exclusively on the project. FOMO
will consult the Bank on any future replacements of the aforementioned staff
(Section 3.05 of Project Agreement).



-x-
32.       Prototype designs for basic classrooms and teachers' housing for the
primary education component of the project were discussed and agreed upon
during appraisal. Design of remaining project institttions will be executed
by consultant firms, contracted on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, and by staff of the Ministry of Education project unit. The Government
and FOMO will establish within six months of loan signing special technical
committees to review all architectural designs and equipment and furniture
lists and specifications before submitting them to the Bank and they will
acquire the necessary sites for the project (Sections 3.02(c) and 3.05 of Loan
Agreement and Section 2.02(b) of Project Agreements).
33.       The basic and intermediate schools and teachers' housing located in
rural areas will be constructed by the National Community Development Service
(SNDC), with participation of local communities and supervised by the Ministry
of Education project unit. SNDC is a decentralized agency of the Ministry
of Agriculture, with broad experience in managing rural self-help construc-
tion projects. The Ministry of Education will contract the services of SNDC
for the project on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and all SNDC
activities under the contract will be supervised and audited by the project
unit (Schedule 4, paragraph B.1 of Loan Agreement). Construction of the basic
and intermediate schools located in urban areas and the teacher training
college will be by private contractor. The National School Building Council
(CONES), a decentralized agency of the Ministry of Education with relevant
experience, will be responsible for the bidding and construction supervision
of these project institutions. The Ministry of Education will contract the
services of CONES on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank for the
purpose of this project (Section 3.02(b) of Loan Agreement). Construction of
the vocational training centers will be by private contractors and FOMO will
be directly responsible for bidding and construction supervision. The Govern-
ment and FOMO will make adequate budgetary allocations for the maintenance
of all buildings, furniture and equipment provided under the project
(Section 4.05 of Loan Agreement and Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement).
Procurement
34.       Except for the rural schools and teachers' housing construction
through SNDC, all contracts for civil works will be awarded to foreign or
registered local bidders on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally and in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Civil
works are of small size (averaging US$60,000 for the intermediate schools
and US$280,000 for the vocational training centers) and located throughout
the country, and Bolivia has a competitive local construction industry.
Therefore, although foreign contractors will not be precluded from partici-
pating in the bidding, it is unlikely that they will do so or that any civil
works contracts will be awarded to foreign firms. Contracts for furniture
and equipment will be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. To the extent practicable,
public and private industrial secondary and post-secondary schools and FOMO



- xi -
will be encouraged to bid for production of furniture for the basic education
schools. The Government has agreed to permit importation on equal terms to
all bidders for the furniture included in the project to ensure timely
implementation (Section 4.10 of Loan Agreement). Local manufacturers will
receive a margin of preference of 15% of the cif price or the actual tariff,
whichever is lower. Furniture and equipment which cannot be grouped into
packages for bulk procurement of at least US$50,000, not exceeding in the
aggregate US$750,000 (equivalent to about 15% of the estimated total cost of
furniture and equipment) will be procured in accordance with local procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
Disbursements
35.        The loan will be disbursed over a five year period, with the project
completed by June 30, 1981. Disbursements will finance an estimated 50% of
contruction expenditures for the primary and community education component and
30% for the vocational training component; 100% of foreign expenditures or 85%
of expenditures for locally procured equipment and furniture; and 100% of
expenditures for technical assistance, project administration, preinvestment
studies, community education activities, curriculum development and learning
materials production, and in-service training. Expenditures on civil works
incurred by the Ministry of Education after November 1, 1976 and before loan
signing will be financed retroactively up to a total of US$150,000 equivalent
(Schedule 1, paragraph 4(i) of Loan Agreement).
Conclusions
36.        The proposed project will assist the Government in developing a
cost-effective primary and related teacher training and community education
project, which will incorporate various innovative features (from both the
qualitative/educational and organizational/efficiency standpoints) that,
if successful, will later be expanded on a national scale. The project will
also help to redress imbalances in educational opportunities in the Altiplano
area of the La Paz Department by providing new basic school places for about
6,900 students annually, replacing, extending and upgrading places for an
additional 21,850 students, and furnishing and equipping school places for all
37,820 children in the project area. In addition, 4,590 intermediate and 425
preservice teacher training students annually would be accommodated in facili-
ties to be replaced and extended under the project and 1,200 teachers and 100
school supervisors and directors will receive in-service training under the
project. Finally the project will aim to increase primary student:teacher
ratios to 35:1 from the 19:1 prevailing today in the project area, increase
retention rates to 70% and reduce overage students from 40% to 20% of total
enrollments by 1985. It is estimated that these improvements could reduce
recurrent costs per student by as much as 30%.
37.       Regarding vocational training, the capacity of FOMO would be extended
sevenfold to meet urgent requirements for trained manpower at the managerial,
skilled and semiskilled levels, and to initiate new activities in the rural



- xii -
and mining sectors. FOMO's training programs would be upgraded through the
modernization of its course design, instructional techniques and learning
materials production. The introduction of trade tests and the certification
system would lay the basis for creating wage differentials among skilled
workers and thereby leading in due course to a better earnings profile.
38.       With respect to the primary and community education component,
various of the educational and organizational measures are by definition
experimental and therefore the extent to which they will meet stated objec-
tives can only be evaluated as they are implemented within the project area.
Accordingly, a strong evaluation team and adequate financing are provided
in the project to ensure timely preparation of annual evaluation reports
during 1977-81 in order to enable the Government and FOMO to take correc-
tive action, if needed, to ensure satisfactory completion of the project
(Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement and Section 3.06 of Project Agreement).
The Government and FOMO would also prepare a report providing a preliminary
assessment of the project, its results and experience gained during imple-
mentation within three months of the Closing Date of the loan account
(Section 4.08 of Loan Agreement and Section 3.07 of Project Agreement).
Recommendation
39.       The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$15.0 million to the Republic of Bolivia for a term of 20 years including a
4-1/2 year period of grace.
March 30, 1977



I. DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY AND HUMAN RESOURCE IMPLICATIONS
Socio-Economic Environment
1.01      Bolivia can be characterized generally as a rural, low-income country
whose development prospects are limited by very strong cultural and geographic
barriers to domestic integration and pronounced imbalances in the distribution
of population and natural resources. About 70 percent of the 5.6 million
(1975) inhabitants reside in rural areas (Annex I.1), and 85 percent of these
are concentrated in the semi-arid northwestern highlands (altiplano, 55 per-
cent) and the temperate central valleys (30 percent), where they engage in
small-scale subsistence agriculture using very primitive technology. Most are
Indians and many neither speak nor understand Spanish. Their productivity is
low and their output has stagnated for decades, if not centuries. Neverthe-
less, efforts to resettle the altiplano population to the valleys and lowlands
have failed. The extreme harshness of life is reflected not only in low per
capita income figures, which reached only US$315 for the country as a whole in
1975, but also in indicators such as an average life expectancy of just 44
years, high infant mortality rates of 157 per 1,000 live births, and an adult
literacy rate of 38 percent.
1.02      Although Bolivia is at present poor, its ample resources could
support substantially higher levels of material welfare in time. Development
and exploitation of these resources will, however, require heavy capital
investment and inputs of managerial and technical expertise. Mineral deposits
are numerous but require major investments to upgrade existing operations
and develop new reserves. Agricultural potential has hardly been tapped, and
with considerable availability of arable land at different altitudes, a larger
variety of crops can be grown and possibilities of raising all kinds of livestock
are excellent. The situation is similar for Bolivia's ample forest resources
and its potential inland fisheries. Nevertheless, further development of
commercial export agriculture requires substantial investment both on farms
and in supporting infrastructure. In many respects, Bolivia faces the small
country problem - economy of scale contraints severely limit the scope for
expanding output on the basis of domestic demand alone. At the same time,
with an area of over one million square kms, Bolivia is quite a large country
for which the high costs of providing adequate transport, communications'and
social services are further increased by extremely rugged topography. More-
over, Bolivia is landlocked with long and difficult access to potential
export markets.
1.03      Overall, agriculture accounts for about one-fourth of GDP and 53
percent of employment, and this situation will not change rapidly (Annex I.2).
Manufacturing accounts for only 10 percent of GDP and 8 percent of employment,
with perhaps 80 percent of the latter in traditional, low-productivity handi-
crafts and cottage industries. The balance of output is derived from the
services sector (43 percent of GDP), construction (4 percent), and mining
and hydrocarbons (which together account for some 18 percent). Although by
international standards Bolivia is a very small producer of petroleum and
natural gas, the increase in prices since late 1973 has dramatically improved



- 2 -
the country's development prospects. If estimates of natural gas reserves
are confirmed by exploration presently underway, hydrocarbons would become
the major growth sector of the economy. This would not, however, have much
impact on employment, with less than one percent of the labor force engaged in
hydrocarbons and related activities.
1.04      The present economic "scenario" in Bolivia is thus one of a very
small modern sector, super-imposed on a large low productivity traditional
sector with weak infrastructure. However, the modern sector also suffers from
low productivity, as there is a serious shortage of qualified manpower on all
levels in both the public and the private sectors and in almost all fields of
economic activity. Average value added per worker in agriculture, industry
and services in Bolivia in 1975 was consistently less than that of other
countries at comparable levels of development, if one excludes mining and
hydrocarbons. While the differences in productivity among the countries
certainly reflect in part the particular structure and capital intensity of
activities within the main economic sectors, they are also closely related to
the very low educational level of the Bolivian labor force, as set forth below.
Educational Attainments of the Bolivian Labor Force, 1975
% of Labor Force
No Education/                          Complete
Incomplete            Incomplete   Secondary
Occupational Category               Primary   Primary   Secondary   and Above   Total
Professionals                         3.4        4.6        14.6         77.3       100.0
Managers and Administrators            5.5       5.0        12.0         77.5       100.0
Officer Workers                        6.9       9.5        35.5         48.0       100.0
Commercial and Sales Workers           5.8      10.1        38.9         45.2       100.0
Skilled and Semi-skilled Workers   56.6         21.3        11.4         10.7       100.0
Others                               87.8        6.3         5.1          0.8       100.0
Total                              71.8        8.3         9.1         10.8       100.0
Development Strategy and Prospects
1.05      Bolivia has been experiencing a relatively high level of growth
during the first half of this decade, accompanied, since 1971, by an unpre-
cedented degree of political stability which has helped to restore confidence
of the domestic private sector and improve the climate for external investment.
Real GDP growth exceeded 5 percent annually during 1970-75, despite poor per-
formance in the important mining sector. Today Bolivia may well be at a
crossroads in its long-term development path. More favorable prices for some
of its main export commodities combined with good prospects for expansion in
the volume of oil, gas and agricultural exports could break two major const-
raints on the country's development effort -- the perennial balance of pay-
ments problem and the fiscal deficits which in the past have hampered the
mounting of a large scale, sustained development program. However, even with



- 3 -
these bright prospects difficult fundamental problems remain to be solved,
most notably in the traditional agricultural sector on the altiplano. In
view of the many economic, technical and sociological factors involved,
eventual development of the altiplano is more likely to result from experi-
ences gathered through specific experimental projects than from any gene-
ralized solutions. A large scale development effort will also require
strengthening of planning, project identification and preparation, and
probably some decentralization of economic decision making and management
from the central government to autonomous agencies and/or regional bodies.
1.06      Looking towards the medium-term, the government has just completed
preparation of a five-year economic and social development plan (1976-80)
which emphasizes expansion of the main export sectors of hydrocarbons and
minerals, agriculture and agro-industries. The plan recognizes that addi-
tional transport, communications, power and water supply infrastructure is
basic to Bolivia's development and also that to achieve stated objectives
within a stable financial environment will depend largely on: (a) the success
of oil and gas exploration; (b) the evolution of world prices for Bolivia's
main exports; (c) controlling aggregate demand to curtail the growth of
consumption in favor of productive investment; (d) the success of efforts
to expand output and raise agricultural productivity to increase exports
and lower dependence on imported foodstuffs, while reducing rural poverty
and underemployment; and (e) the continued availability of external economic
assistance.
Human Resource Implications
1.07      Although the draft plan does discuss employment and related social
sector issues, there is a definite emphasis on Bolivia's physical and natural
resource base, at the expense of attention to the urgency of mobilizing its
human resources. Expansion of the education and training system is proposed,
but the financial implications are not carefully examined in light of the
already high share of resources devoted to that sector (27 percent of central
government recurrent expenditures in 1976) and the need, therefore, to estab-
lish a feasible set of investment priorities and to develop more cost-
effective delivery systems. One major exception to this is the decision to
develop a strong vocational training system within the framework already
established by the National Manpower Development Service (FOMO). FOMO will
perform an essential function in training skilled and semi-skilled manpower,
particularly for the urban manufacturing and mining sectors and it will begin
to develop a capacity to provide agricultural and rural non-farm training.
1.08      The appraisal mission explored the main quantitative implications
of the draft five-year plan with the Ministries of Labor and Planning. In
summary, assuming an average annual growth of GDP of 5.9 percent during



1975-80 and 6.6 percent during 1980-85, 1/ with agriculture, manufacturing
and services growing at a slightly lower rate and construction and hydro-
carbons more rapidly, average annual manpower requirements would total 159,300
workers during the next decade. These would include 83,000 new and 76,300
replacement workers (to compensate for attrition, which is slightly higher at
3 percent per year in Bolivia than elsewhere because of the unusually low life
expectancy).
1/   Provided hydrocarbon exploration is successful and substantial foreign
investment can be obtained for development of the natural gas and petro-
leum industries. Should this not materialize, the economy is more
likely to grow at around 5.2-5.5 percent for the entire period, which
would not substantially change the manpower analysis, in the sense that
the demand for trained manpower would still far exceed the projected
output of the education and training system.



Manpower Requirements by Economic Activity and
Occupational Group, 1975-85
1975       1980        1985
I.   Total Workers Required
by Economic Activity                  2,544.1    2,939.6    3,374.5
Agriculture                              1,504.2    1,718.5    1,944.3
Mining                                      87.6        90.0        99.5
Hydrocarbons                                 8.3        11.8        18.8
Manufacturing                              227.4       266.5       300.2
Construction                                65.7        82.3       99.6
Services                                   650.9       770.5      912.1
II.   Total Workers Required
by Occupational Group                 2,544.1    2,939.6    3,374.5
Professionals, Managers
and Administrators                        66.1       85.2       111.3
Office Workers                              81.4       108.8      145.1
Commercial and Sales Workers               142.5       167.6      199.1
Skilled and Semi-Skilled                   325.6      405.7       499.4
Other /                                  1,928.4    2,172.4    2,419.5
III.   New and Replacement Workers                                           Total Annual
Required by Occupational          New      Replacement    Total   Requirements
Group, 1975-85                   830.4        763.2       1,593.6       159.4
Professionals, Managers
and Administrators                45.2         19.8          65.0         6.5
Office Workers                      63.7         24.4          88.1         8.8
Commercial and Sales Workers        56.6         42.7          99.3         9.9
Skilled and Semi-Skilled           173.8         97.7         271.5        27.1
Others /1                          491.1        578.5       1,069.6       107.0
/1   Including agricultural workers.
Of particular interest is the annual demand for skilled and semi-skilled
workers (27,100), which will be about four times the output of the FOMfO voca-
tional training system after it is fully operational in 1981. The deficit
will be met to some extent by graduates of the technical streams of diver-
sified secondary schools, but in the main through informal on-the-job training.
To these demand figures for training of new entrants to the labor force must
be added the need to upgrade a large proportion of the presently employed
workers, whose low productivity and educational attainments were described
above. This is true not only for the modern sector and export agriculture
occupations, but also for traditional handicrafts and small-scale agriculture
which will remain the principal source of employment and income for much of
the population over the forseeable future.



BOLIVIA
FIRST EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Population, 1970-85
1970         1975          1980         1985              1975/70  1980/75    1985/80    1985/70
TOTAL ('0OOs)                           4931.2       5633.8        6455.7       7375.5                2.7       2.8        2.7          2.7
Rural (%)                               70.7         69.4          68.0         66.5               2.3        2.3        2.2          2.3
Age Distribution:
0-5                               821.7         939.0       1072.6        1227.3
6-13                             1069.3        1220.5       1398.0        1595.8
14-17                              517.8         591.5        678.1         773.6
18-25                              803.7         916.3       1048.8        1196.3
26 and over                       1718.7        1966.5       2258.2        2582.5
Labor Force                           2479.4       2829.1        3216.5       3657.0                                                 2.6
Geographic Distribution:
Altiplano                         2719.5        3102.1       3549.0        4047.9                                                 2.7
La Paz                          1590.6        1821.5       2092.1        2395.5                                                 2.8
Oruro                            332.8         379.1        433.1         493.2                                                 2.7
Potosi                           796.1         901.5       1023.8        1159.2                                                 2.5
Valles                            1487.1        1699.0       1946.8        2224.2                                                 2.7
Chuquisaca                       448.3         510.6        583.3         664.3                                                 2.7
Cochabamba                       798.1         911.5       1044.1        1192.4                                                 2.7
Tarija                           240.7         276.9        319.4         367.5                                                 2.9
Lianos                             724.6         832.7        959.9        1103.4                                                 2.8
Santa Cruz                       502.7         579.9        671.1         774.3                                                 2.9
Beni                             190.5         217.0        247.9         282.5                                                 2.7
Pando                             31.4          35.8         40.9          46.6                                                 2.7
Sources:  Ministry of Coordination and Planning; National Institute of Statistics;
Ministry of Labor; IBRD Staff Estimates.



BOLIVIA
FIRST EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Output, Employment and Productivity. 1970-85
1970      1975       1980        1985                 1970       1975       1985       1985                 1975/70   1980/75   1985/80   1985/70
(Constant 1974 US$ Millions) ---                        --------- (% of Total GDP) --------                    --------- (% Annual Change) ---------
I.   TOTAL OUTPUT (GDP)          1,339.0   1.773,2   2,358.3   3,245.1                   100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0                    5.8        5.9        6.6        6.1
Agriculture                346.1      453.8      607.9      813.6                 25.8       25.6       25.8        25.1                   5.6        6.0        6.0         5.9
Mining                     216.9      207.1      227.5      268.9                  16.2       11.7        9.6        8.3                  -0.9         1.9       3.4         1.4
Hydrocarbons                59.3      118.3      214.9      436.4                  4.4         6.7        9.1       13.4                  14.8       12.7        15.2       14.2
Manufacturing              118.8      156.5      207.5      277.6                   8.9        8.8        8.8        8.6                   5.7        5.8         6.0        5.8
Construction                56.2       77.8      107.6      150.9                  4.2        4.4        4.6         4.6                   6.7        6.7        7.0         6.8
Services                   541.7      759.7      992.9   1,297.7                  40.5       42.8       42.1       40.0                    7.0        5.5        5.5         6.0
(Constant 1974 US$ Millions)                             (% of Total Labor Force)                                    (% Annual Change)
II.  TOTAL LABOR FORCE           2,479.4   2,829.1   3,216.5   3,656.9                   100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0                    2.7        2.6        2.6        2.6
Employment                 2,029.0   2,544.1   2,939.6   3,374.5                     81.8       89.9       91.4       92.3                   4.6         2.9        2.8        3.4
Agriculture              1,307.0   1,504.2   1,718.5   1,944.3                    52.7        53.2       53.4       53.2                   2.9         2.7        2.5        2.7
Mining                      52.0       87.6       90.0       99.5                   2.1        3.1        2.8        2.7                  11.0         0.5        2.0        4.4
Hydrocarbons                 5.0        8.3        11.8       18.8                  0.2        0.3        0.4        0.5                  10.7         7.3        9.8        9.2
Manufacturing               171.0     227.4      266.5      300.2                   6.9        8.0        8.3        8.2                   5.9         3.2        2.4        3.8
Construction                48.0       65.7       82.3       99.6                   1.9        2.3        2.5        2.7                   6.5         4.6        3.9        5.0
Services                   446.0      650.9      770.5      912.1                  18.0       23.0       24.0       25.0                   7.9         3.4        3.4        4.9
Unemployment                 450.4      285.0      276.9       282.4                 18.2       10.1        8.6        7.7                  -9.6        -0.6        0.4       -3.2
(Constant 1974 US$ Millions)                           (% of Average Productivity)                                   (% Annual Change)
III. PRODUCTIVITY PER WORKER    659.9         697.0      802.3      961.7                100.0      100.0      100.0       100.0                   1.1        2.9         3.7        2.6
Agriculture                264.8      301.7      353.7      418.5                 40.1        43.3       44.1       43.5                   2.6         3.2        3.4        3.1
Mining                   4,171.2   2,364.2   2,527.8   2,702.5                    632.1      339.2      315.1      281.0                 -12.0         1.4        1.3       -2.9
Hydrocarbons            11,860.0  14,253.0  18,211.9  23,212.8                 1,797.2   2,044.9   2,270.0   2,413.7                        3.7        5.0        5.0        4.6
Manufacturing              694.7      688.2      778.6      924.7                 105.3       98.7       97.0       96.2                   -0.2        2.5        3.5        1.9
Construction             1,170.8   1,184.2   1,307.4   1,515.1                    177.4      169.9      163.0      157.5                    0.2        2.0        3.0        1.7
Services                 1,214.6   1,167.2   1,288.6   1,422.8                   184.1       167.5      160.6      147.9                  -0.8         2.0        2.0        1.1
Source: Ministry of Coordination and Planning; Central Bank; IBRD Staff Estimates.



II. ISSUES IN FORMAL EDUCATION AND STRATEGY FOR IMPROVEMENT
2.01      The following number among the main deficiencies of the formal edu-
cation system identified in recent sector assessments undertaken both by the
Bolivian government and external agencies: (a) over-centralization of admin-
istrative control in La Paz and administrative division of rural and urban
education into virtually independent subsystems; (b) not fully relevant
curricula in terms of the environment and future employment prospects of
students; (c) a major shortage of school places at the primary and secondary
levels, exacerbated by the disproportionate concentration of public education
expenditures in urban areas, which account for only 30 percent of the total
population; and (d) serious internal inefficiencies, reflected in average
primary retention rates of 35 percent (dropping to 15 percent in many rural
areas) and comparatively low student:teacher ratios ranging from 24:1 for
primary education to 4:1 for industrial secondary schools. These and related
issues in formal education in Bolivia, and the government's strategy for
improvement are discussed below.
Administration
2.02      Formal education in Bolivia comprises four levels:  pre-primary
(2 years), primary (five years "basic" and 3 years "intermediate"), diversified
secondary (4 years) higher education (2-6 years) including technician courses,
teacher training and university education (Annex II.2). This structure was
introduced in 1969 and modified in 1973, replacing a 6-year primary and 6-year
secondary system, which had not included a pre-primary level.
2.03      Bolivia has three types of formal education institutions--public,
private and "decentralized". Private institutions, mostly affiliated with
church organizations, exist at all levels, and their recurrent expenditures
are subsidized by the government. "Decentralized" authorities, principally
government-owned mining and petroleum corporations, run and finance their own
schools. The one private and 8 public universities are independent, although
subsidized by the government. The Ministry of Education and Culture adminis-
ters all the public and supervises the decentralized and private institutions,
except for the universities. Other Ministries (Labor, Health, Rural Affairs
and Agriculture, Industry, Commerce and Tourism, Planning) and decentralized
and private agencies offer nonformal education and training courses at differ-
ent levels of specialization, as set out in Chapter III below.
2.04      Rural-Urban Dichotomy.  Until 1971, rural formal education had been
the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Affairs and Agriculture, whereas
the Ministry of Education was confined to urban areas. Thereafter, the two
systems were merged under the Ministry of Education. Because of perceived
differences, particularly in the field of teacher training, the administrative
machinery of the Ministry of Education was restructured to accommodate the two
systems under separate Sub-Secretariats. To assist in their eventual integra-
tion, there is only one Director-General of Education reporting to the two
Sub-Secretaries. In practice, however, these remain two quite separate



- 9 -
systems and the barriers to movement from one to the other by students,
teachers and administrators are great.
2.05      Administrative Reform.  To promote efficiency in the education
system, the Ministry of Education is implementing an administrative reform
with USAID assistance. The reform, which is to be fully operational by 1980,
aims at restructuring and largely decentralizing all administrative and educa-
tional services at the national and regional levels and unifying the urban and
rural subsystems (Annex II.3). Although the decentralization concept is
theoretically sound, its full implementation will be difficult and will
undoubtedly take considerable time because of the very limited trained man-
power and financial resources of the Ministry of Education, not to mention the
political implications of any major shift in responsibilities and authority
within the system. Despite these limitations, viewed from the long-run, the
change is in a positive direction and is deserving of support.
Planning
2.06      Educational planning, both in its quantitative and qualitative dimen-
sions, has not yet been used as an effective operational tool in Bolivia. In
1973, with UNESCO assistance, the Ministry of Education undertook a comprehen-
sive study of the education system, which resulted in the publication of a
16-volume document: "Diagnostico Integral de la Educacion Boliviana" in 1974.
This was subsequently converted into a Five-Year Educational Development Plan
for the 1976-80 period. The Plan emphasizes expansion of basic and interme-
diate education, particularly in rural areas as a step towards equalizing
educational opportunities; the directing of more students towards the techni-
cal streams of recently (1973) diversified secondary school; and the need for
curricula revision. As with most earlier planning efforts, these proposals
were not well supported by quantitative data and targets, nor were their
financial, human or administrative implications thoroughly assessed.
2.07      The USAID-sponsored administrative reform (para. 2.05) would replace
the old Planning Office with a new Directorate of Educational Planning, includ-
ing a General Services Division of four Departments: Research, Programming,
Evaluation and Statistics. The Director would have increased authority, but
to be fully effective the restructuring of planning services must be accom-
panied by the recruitment (or re-training) of staff competent to run an
efficient planning mechanism, initiate experimentation and follow up action.
Curricula and Teaching/Learning Materials
2.08      A National Directorate for Curricula was first established in the
Ministry of Education in 1967, with USAID assistance. Although the recent
administrative reform would shift the locus of curriculum development services
from the national to the regional level, the Ministry has recently expressed
some reservations on the matter. The ambiguity as to whether curriculum devel-
opment will be centralized or decentralized will soon be clarified. Of greater
urgency is the fact that the service will not function well at any level unless
qualified personnel become available through new recruitment or re-training.



- 10 -
Of equal importance, if curricula changes are to be reflected in educational
practice, is the development and production of teaching and learning materials
(textbooks, library books, teachers guides and such other audio-visual aids
which are educationally relevant and financially viable). A materials devel-
opment unit should be an integral part of any curriculum office and trained
personnel, now lacking, should be provided in this indispensible area.
2.09      In terms of orientation, the present education system is geared
mostly towards academic studies which bear little relation to the students'
environment and work prospects. At first glance this might not appear to be
the case given a recent revision of curricula and timetables, with more
emphasis on practical activities in the basic and intermediate schools, and
diversified streams for pre-technician training at the secondary level.  How-
ever, the introduction of such activities in the basic and intermediate
schools has been done in a spirit of complete separation between academic
studies and practical pursuits, rather than as a reinforcement of all subject
areas through the "learning by doing" approach. There is, of course, the
additional problem that most schools lack the human and material resources to
implement such programs.
2.10      At the secondary level, nearly 95 percent of all students were in
academic programs in 1973, with the small remainder studying home economics,
commercial and industrial courses.  The response to this situation, however,
ought not to be an over-emphasis on highly technical education.  Despite the
soundness of the diversified school principle, the lack of reliable labor
market data calls at this stage for a broad kind of polyvalent education,
leaving narrow specialization to on-the-job training.
2.11      In higher education, most enrollments in 1974 were in the social
sciences (39.7 percent), health sciences (26.9 percent) and technology (18.2
percent). A comprehensive development plan, based on high-level manpower
requirements, should be a matter of urgent concern for the socio-economic
development of the country. Nevertheless, university autonomy and the
important political role of students and professors stand in the way of
such efforts.
Relevance
2.12      The question of "relevance" is not, of course, simply a matter of
whether or not there are practical subjects in the curriculum, but of the
impact of the schools on the life of the community and the wider socio-
economic environment. The Bolivian school is still an isolated institution
largely out of touch with the society, particularly in rural areas where the
relationship between the primary school and the community is in most cases not
mutually supportive. Some rural communities view the school as directed
against their cultural traditions or as simply quite irrelevant to their world
of work; that children are sent often reflects a fragile conviction that the
school may provide some means of survival in dealings outside the community.
The traditional attitudes of the teachers and their complete lack of training
in community development work reinforces the school's isolation.



- 11 -
2.13      In Bolivia, language is a major contributory factor to the problem.
Although about 60% of the population speak Aymara, Quechua and Guarani, the
language of instruction in all schools is Spanish. The government has pursued
a strict policy on this matter, with the result that teachers' training did
not include learning or using the above languages. At present, the government
is planning to introduce teaching in both the spoken vernacular and Spanish in
the first grades of primary school on an experimental basis through the pro-
posed project, but is resisting full implementation of a bilingual teaching
program on the grounds that such activities might encourage political sepa-
ratism. Nevertheless, if supported by appropriate pre-service and in-service
teacher training, the government's new policy to at least begin to introduce
the use of the vernacular is an important step in the right direction.
2.14      For years-various private organizations in Bolivia have used radio
for non-formal adult education. In future, the government intends to use
radio as a bilingual teaching aid in the first grades of primary school and
for other activities, such as in-service teacher training. This will call for
a close assessment of the best ways of establishing appropriate services to
guarantee efficient and effective development, production and evaluation of
radio education programs. The structure of the radio education service must
be defined, in the light of its function as a supporting teaching aid for the
implementation of curricula and for other educational activities. Assistance
in the form of studio equipment and personnel training for technical, educa-
tional and program evaluation activities has to be secured on a phased basis
which will provide an opportunity for continuous feedback and evaluation of
results.
Access to Education
2.15      The discussion to this point has emphasized the qualitative aspects
of the Bolivian education system and its external efficiency or "relevance".
However, the single-most overwhelming problem facing the government today
relates to the low level of participation and internal efficiency of the
system: in 1976 expenditures on education reached 27 percent of the total
central government recurrent budget, with only 56 percent of rural children
(who constitute 70 percent of the relevant population) in primary school
and more than half of these lost from the system by the end of the third
grade. If the very substantial numbers of over-age students were discounted,
these figures would be even lower. With budgetary allocations to the sector
already so high, the government cannot go much further in providing even a
minimum basic education to most of the population unless it increases its
overall revenue base and takes decisive action to improve the internal effi-
ciency of the education system, for which there is considerable scope. At the
primary level, which is the focus of most of the following discussion, this
implies, in addition to education and administrative reforms, changes in the
(a) production, placement and conditions of service of teachers and (b)
organization and location of schools.
2.16      Participation Rates.  An analysis of the data shows an annual aver-
age enrollment growth rate of 5.5 percent at the pre-basic and basic levels
and 10.7 percent at the intermediate and secondary levels during 1970-73



- 12 -
(Annexes II.4), but also reveals serious inequalities in educational oppor-
tunities between rural and urban areas, among geographic regions and between
the sexes.
BOLIVIA - Primary Education Representation Indices, 1973 /1
Basic (Grades 1-5)        Intermediate (Grades 7-9)
Department               Urban       Rural             Urban        Rural
Chuquisaca                1.444      0.528             9.579        0.050
La Paz                    1.583      0.640             2.164        0.126
Cochabamba               2.095       0.571             3.240        0.112
Oruro                    1.767       0.677             2.965        0.208
Potosi                    1.741      0.453             2.298        0.083
Santa Cruz               2.549       1.182             4.266        0.319
Tarija                   2.082       0.730             3.806        0.084
Beni                     2.532       0.846             3.401        0.123
Pando                    1.862       0.735             3.352        0.074
Total (Average)          ---- 1.000 ----              ----- 1.000 -----
/1   A representation index shows the ratio of the percent of total
enrollment to the percent of population in the age group. A
number above 1.00 indicates above-average representation; a number
below 1.00 indicates below average representation.
The Gini coefficients for relative inequality are fairly high in Bolivia at
the primary level (.3161) and very high for intermediate education (.6877)
when rural and urban areas are included in the sample. For additional data
regarding access to education by geographic origin, see Annex II-4.
2.17      With regard to female participation, in 1973 the rates for basic
education were 46.1 percent of urban enrollments and 40.8 percent of rural
enrollments. At the intermediate level, only 41.6 percent of urban students
were female and 22.6 percent of rural students. Only in teacher education
did the percentage of females exceed males at 65.1 (65.9 in urban areas and
40.9 in rural areas).
2.18      Over-Aged Students.  The above-mentioned participation rates are
distorted inasmuch as they include very large numbers of over-age students.
While there is no comprehensive data on the subject, the Ministry of Educa-
tion estimates that over 40 percent of all basic school students are not
enrolled in the correct grade for their age; the comparable estimates for
intermediate and secondary schools are even higher. This situation could be
the result of late enrollment after age six, repeaters, or a combination of
both.



- 13 -
2.19      Retention Rates.  The apparent average retention rate at the basic
level for the 1969-73 cohort was 41.5 percent (18.4 percent for rural areas);
at the intermediate level for the 1971-73 cohort 68.1 percent (32.4 percent
in rural areas); and at the secondary level for the 1970-73 colhort 54.2 per-
cent nationally. In urban areas poverty and an inadequate school environment
may account for most drop-outs, while in rural areas there are additional
factors, such as physical inaccessibility of schools, climatic and geographic
conditions, the need for children to contribute to family labor, negative
attitudes of parents towards schooling (especially for girls), irrelevant
curricula, obsolete teaching methods, language problems and an absolute lack
of school places. With regard to the latter, the number of places available
in 1973 in rural areas could accommodate only 56.0 percent of the 6-10 age
group, 4.5 percent of the 11-13 age group and 1.4 percent of the 14-17 age
group. At the same time, there are virtually no nonformal programs in rural
areas to provide alternative education or training opportunities for out-of-
school children and adults.
2.20      The Teacher Problem and Inefficiency.  In 1973, there were 41,695
teachers for 969,677 students of pre-primary, primary, secondary and teacher
training colleges, with a corresponding pupil:teacher ratio of 23:1 (ranging
from 24:1 for basic education to 4:1 for industrial secondary schools). To
place this in perspective, Bolivia has the lowest average pupil:teacher ratio
in all of Central and South America, which translates directly into very high
recurrent unit costs. A 1976 World Bank study 1/ on educational finance indi-
cates that only Costa Rica spends a greater share than Bolivia does of its
GNP on primary education, and yet Bolivia has the third lowest primary parti-
cipation rate (after Haiti and Guatemala) in the Region. Viewed from another
standpoint, the ratio of primary unit recurrent costs to per capita GNP in
Bolivia is greater than that of any other Central or South American country
and is twice the weighted average for the Region--a distinction which the
country can ill-afford to sustain.
2.21      The over-production of teacher training colleges has been more a
function of political considerations than of systematic planning: it has
historically been official Bolivian policy to guarantee employment to all
graduates of these colleges: hence, very strong community pressures to estab-
lish teacher training institutions, even in place of secondary schools. Be-
sides causing an absolute overproduction of teachers, this has meant a pro-
liferation of small, uneconomic colleges which could not possibly offer ade-
quate preparation.
2.22      The placement of teachers does not always correspond to enrollment
patterns, with consequent over- and under-staffing of schools. Closely con-
nected with the surplus of employed teachers is their workload, which stands
officially at 24 hours per week, although it is frequently 18 hours or less
1/  M. Zymelman, "Patterns of Educational Expenditures", November 1976.



- 14 -
in practice because of inadequate supervision and the extensive use of spe-
cialist teachers. With a simple increase in average teaching loads to the
official 24 hours per week, the entire primary and secondary school staff
requirements could be adequately met with some four-fifths of the present
teaching force, leaving the remainder to accommodate new entrants to the
system at no real increase in recurrent costs. Various measures which the
government might consider if Bolivia is to move towards a more efficient and
relevant education system during the next two decades include:
(a) control of the output of teacher training colleges to correspond
to actual needs;
(b) elimination of specialist teachers at the basic level and reduc-
tion in the number of specializations at the intermediate level;
(c) rational distribution of teachers among schools based on a fixed
teacher:pupil ratio, i.e. 40/35 students per teacher in basic
schools and 35/30 in intermediate and secondary schools, and on
use of multigrade teaching where appropriate;
(d) an increase of the teachers' work load;
(e) a re-examination of time-tables for possible adjustments which
would economize staff without affecting overall school efficiency;
(f) changes in the content and technology of teacher training--
curricula, learning materials, bilingualism, radio education,
community development--aimed at more efficient and effective
work by the teacher within the school and the community;
(g) in-service training opportunities aimed at professional improve-
ment for qualified and unqualified teachers and for professional
advancement based on merit rather than non-educational criteria;
and
(h) an optimum number of years for work in a community for a teacher
to make his or her impact felt on the school and the community.
These possibilities have all been examined thoroughly with the Ministry of
Education and (b) through (g) have been incorporated in the design of the
proposed project; the government has undertaken to review (a) with the Bank
(para. 4.10); and (h) will develop gradually as conditions of service improve
such that rural teacher training becomes a more attractive career prospect.
2.23      School Organization and Location - The Nucleus System.  Bolivia was
the first Latin American country to adopt a "nucleus" pattern of school organi-
zation, an administrative system towards which many other governments have
since been moving. A complete central (nucleo) school is surrounded by
various incomplete one to three-grade satellite (seccional) schools. Satel-
lites are constructed in areas where the school-age population does not
justify a full five-grade school; after finishing the first few grades in the



- 15 -
satellite, older children proceed to the central school to complete their
basic education. The satellites come under the administrative/supervisory
responsibility of the central school director.
2.24      Despite the theoretical soundness of this approach to school loca-
tion planning, the system has lost some of its logic in practice: many
satellite schools are too distant from the central school (over 10 km) for
children to walk or supervisors to visit; demographic patterns have changed
with the result that some satellites are larger and have more grades than
their related central school; and the rural/urban dichotomy has impeded the
integration of many schools which are "urban" in name only into the nucleus
system. The result of the above is that many children, particularly in rural
areas, are locked out of the system after a few grades because they either
cannot (distance) or are prohibited from ("rural" to "urban") going on to
complete schools.
2.25      A full-scale rationalization of the Bolivian nucleus system is
needed at this time, in light of known population settlements, geographic
considerations and the available teacher supply. Essentially, satellite and
central schools within no more than a 5 km radius could continue to form a
nucleus; any satellite not so situated would be converted to a complete pri-
mary school, with separate grades if justified by enrollment patterns or with
multigrade teaching if not. The objective would be to assure that all children
who enter the basic level have a feasible means of completing it.
2.26      This in turn would require a re-thinking of the role of school
directors and supervisors, who are the catalysts and initiators of any educa-
tional innovation. While central school directors continue to advise satel-
lites within the respective nuclei, regional supervisors would need to perform
the same function for complete schools outside the nucleus system and to per-
form school evaluation work for all institutions in the region. In this
regard, among the factors which the government might consider are:
(a) transport facilities (bicycles, motorcycles, allowances) should
be available to facilitate frequent visits by the persons respon-
sible for school guidance and supervision;
(b) selection of school directors and supervisors should be based on
merit only; and
(c) training should be provided in school organization, guidance and
evaluation techniques.
These possibilities have all been examined thoroughly with the Ministry of
Education and (b) and (c) have been incorporated in the design of the pro-
posed project; (a) has not been included because in the project area distances
between central and satellite schools will generally not exceed 5 km.
Educational Finance
2.27      In the past six years total education expenditures, including  sti-
mated private contributions, ranged from 5.3% to 5.5X o GDP (Annex II.5t. Of



- 16 -
this, public education accounted for some 4.6% to 5.0% of GDP and 17.5% of
total public expenditures (excluding export enterprises). The latter tends to
understate the importance of education, due to the fact that Bolivia's public
sector is very large in relation to GDP. Actually, the level of educational
expenditures is very high compared with other Latin American countries,
particularly those with similar per capita income levels.
2.28      The following summarizes the sources and application of total funds
budgeted for public education in 1976:
Sources
1.   National Treasury (general revenue)                74.0%
2.   Earmarked portion of general fund revenues
for universities                                 8.0%
3.   Earmarked taxes for universities and CONES          6.0%
4.   Institutions' own revenues from sale of
goods and services                               6.0%
5.   Regional or local general tax revenue               4.5%
6.   Other                                               1.5%
As of 1976, foreign financing was not yet an important source of public educa-
tion revenues. There are, however, in addition direct private contributions
to public schools by way of cash donations, labor and materials. All students
pay a US$0.50 registration fee, and communities have traditionally played an
important role in school construction and maintenance, particularly in rural
areas.
Application
1.   Ministry of Education                              75.0%
2.   Universities                                       12.0%
3.   Decentralized Agencies                              7.4%
4.   Public Enterprises                                  4.7%
5.   Other                                               0.9%
Expenditures by local departmental and regional agencies, while representing
some 6.5% of capital expenditures, are not a significant share of public
recurrent expenditures for education.
2.29      With regard to private education, schools in the lower levels of the
education system, run by religious groups, private enterprises, teachers'
cooperatives, and other are subsidized by the government. A recent study
estimated that in 1970 public subsidies represented a low 10% of private
schools' total expenditures, with other sources including students' fees
(75%), foreign subsidies and donations (5%), domestic donations (1.3%) and
miscellaneous (8.7%). The only existing private university received in 1976,
for the first time, a Ministry of Education subsidy amounting to 37% of its
budget, the remainder coming from student fees and sales of goods and services
(53%) and donations (10%).



- 17 -
2.30      While the volume of resources that the country devotes to education
is high, the effectiveness of such effort is low as the performance of the
system depicted in previous sections demonstrates. One problem is that the
share of funds allocated to capital expenditures is low: in 1976, recurrent
expenditures accounted for 92% of the Ministry of Education's budget, and
99.6% of that was absorbed by personnel salaries. School supplies, equipment
and maintenance are left almost exclusively to the communities, which can in
most cases cope with only the minimum needs. The situation is better for the
universities and the schools run by public enterprises and for urban education
in general. CONES, the main single agency involved in school construction, is
financed by a 1% levy on earnings of salaried employees which provides it with
a steady flow of funds which it applies almost entirely to urban areas. In
1976, rural areas will receive less than half the resources devoted to school
construction and equipment by all public and private agencies, while their
school age population is twice as large. Besides the low level of capital
investment in education, the sheer variety of public agencies involved in
rural construction poses a coordination problem. Rural schools are built
following the initiative of each individual agency without any overall plan,
with the Ministry of Education responding a posteriori by providing the neces-
sary funds for teacher posts. As part of its administrative reform program,
the Ministry is developing a national school construction plan. However, at
this stage, coordination remains an important problem which, together with
the artificial segregation of the rural and urban subsystems, often leads to
an irrational geographic allocation of investment.
2.31      Recurrent expenditures per pupil in the Ministry of Education system
tend to be high at about US$65 in basic education and US$139 in secondary edu-
cation. 1/ This state of affairs is primarily the result of low student/
teacher ratios and teachers' workloads, combined with salaries which average
about US$1,500 per year at the lower levels of education--equivalent to almost
five times the average per capita income. An increase in student/teacher
ratios to about 35:1 by 1985 in basic education and 22:1 in intermediate
schools, together with a more rational distribution of school directors based
on an integrated rural/urban nucleus system, would decrease unit personnel
costs per student and lead to economies in recurrent expenditures by as much
as 30% for basic and intermediate education, compared with the costs of the
system using 1976 practices. This would enable the Ministry of Education to
integrate a much larger share of the school age population into the system,
increase expenditures for school maintenance, equipment and consumable mater-
ials, and provide salary and other incentives to teachers willing to work in
rural areas. There would, however, still be a heavy reliance on community
resources traditionally available for school construction and maintenance in
Bolivia.
1/   It is extremely difficult to assess expenditures per pupil since the
Ministry of Education's budgeting procedures do not classify expenditures
by level of education. All figures given here are best possible estimates.



- 18 -
Government Strategy for Educational Development
2.32      Due to its limited financial and administrative capacity to under-
take simultaneously major quantitative and qualitative changes at various
levels of the education system and in all regions of the country, the Bolivian
government has opted to focus attention on the expansion and strengthening of
a relevant and cost-effective primary education system for the rural areas.
The initiation of other high priority programs (e.g. urban primary education,
secondary and post-secondary technical education) will have to be phased more
slowly. Briefly, the top short-term priorities will be:
(a) the simultaneous expansion of rural basic education and a gradual
reduction of over-aged pupils and improvement in enrollment and
retention ratios. Maximizing access will be accomplished, inter
alia, through new investment in school places, a more rational
matching of schools with the distribution of population, raising
of pupil/teacher ratios and increasing effective weekly teaching
loads, variation of school calendars to take account of agricultural
cycles, and a concerted effort using primarily the mass media and
teachers to encourage parents to leave their female children in the
school system for longer periods. Intermediate education will be
expanded only gradually as student flows through the basic level
increase, to minimize the need for costly boarding facilities;
(b) the development of improved curricula and teaching/learning mate-
rials, teacher and administrator training and re-training programs,
better school organization and supervision, the experimental use
of the vernacular in basic education and of radio in support of
bilingual programs and in-service teacher training; and
(c) the expanded provision of opportunities in rural areas for non-
formal community education and training for out-of-school children
and adults.
2.33      In support of the above strategy, the government has been receiving
USAID assistance in educational administration and has recently signed a loan
for a second USAID rural education project in the Quechua-speaking valleys
of the Cochabamba Department. In addition, a similar, but very small-scale
program, is being implemented in the Tarija Department with local resources
and UNICEF technical assistance. A third USAID education project for teacher
training is in the preliminary stages of preparation, and the IDB has provided
grant assistance to examine the alternatives for the future development of
technical education nationwide. The proposed Bank project, detailed in Chapter
IV below, will finance a scheme to restructure and expand rural primary educa-
tion and teacher training and to merge the rural and urban subsystems in the
Aymara-speaking highland region of the La Paz Department.



-19-
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS                                                  Annex   II. 1
2=::.:3:..::.  : as:: 2:.:..,Page   1  of   2
CDECEMBER 14, 1976
I   I GNP/ I % GNP   IX TOTALtX   OF PUBLIC  t                 I        I           aPRI. IAV.PRI.   t                I        iSEC   I
ICAPITAt DEVOTEOIPUBLIC  I EDUCATION    ILITER.  a PRI. ICOMPLE-  tSTU- ISCM.TEACM:PROGRESS-t  SEC. ISTU- I
I        I  AT   3 To EDU.1  EXP. I RECURRENT    IACY               IENROLLsTION         %OENT318ALARY  IN:ION RATE IENROLLIDENTSIH2IGH2ER:
I        :24ARKET:  CPU8LICIDEVOTEDIEXP ALLOCATED:  RATE IRATIO IRATE FORiPER   IRELATIOIN  :FROM PRI.IRATIO  IPER   IENROLL:
I POP. tPRICE811 EXP.    aIl    TO:I            0         :CZ OF   , NET   IPRI.3CH.tTEAC2lm  TO GNP/ iTO SEC.   I NET   sTEACM- RATIO:
YRICOOO)  I (USS: ONLY)   I  EDU. 3PRI. SEC. 0MT.sADULTS)t  MX   :CYCLECX)ER    I CAPITA   I X M                                 (1)   :ER    I CZ)
I              I          II 0                             3         1     :       I                         1        :       I   
(21  It  (2) I  (3)    I  (4)   1            (5)       : 16)    3 (7)   s  (a)    I (9) a  (10)    I (ail               vC12)   sC13)  :(ao) 
-- - -    - - -   - -  -  - - - - -    - - - - - - - -     -  - -  - - - -   - -  --  - -   - - -  -  - -  - - -   - - -   - -  - -  - - -   - - - -   -  - -  -  - - -
ADVANCED
AUSTRIA     ~~~~71    7.5   1,510      4.3      9*9      470   250   200    99        98         91        26        2. 0        99         St       19       S.0 0
CANADA            7?  22.1D 9,4qoD         7.7    19.9       S0    38    19       98       89        98         24        2.0         99        82       17       9.00
GERmIANY F.REP.72  "I.1.On 5, 12.10        '1. 2   19.2      ...  74** 26         99       91        99         33        ...         99        92       22      17.00CY
J A PAN           71 I 48.32  3.4 630D     4.3    20.7       39    38    12       99       990       991        251C      2.0         99C       940      20C    28.000
NET4ERLANIIS    72   13.40 4,133oD         8.5    19.IG    32    41    19         99       95        95i        29        3.0         97        73       20      11 00
NEW ZEALAND    73    2.9   1.680           5.2    ...        39    24    29       99       99        99         26        ...         99        67       19      24.00
NnlRWAY           72    1.90 4,6600        7.0    159.2      98    23    13       99       99        98         20        1.9         99        76       14      11.00
SWEDEN            711   8.1  5,91o         8.9    :6.4       36    14    11       99       99        99         17         *          90        85       10      30 .0 0
U.K.              72  SS.(2O 3.060D2    6.1    12.7          26    39    22       98       99        ...        26        2.0         ...       63       17      11.00
U.S.A.           72 220.40  6,2001D        6.01    5.4       ...  73** 27         99       99        99         25U       2.0         ...       91       19u    29. 00
EUROPE
GR~EECE           it   8.90  t,8700        2.?    2i1.       547   29Y   14Y    82A        957        ...       327       .           704       587    '43Y    11.00
IRELAND          72    3.00 2.1520         S.2    t3.9D    43Y  41Y   14Y    98            97        994        35       ..          95A        75       19       7.0O4
POIRTUGAL         7?    9.20D 2,401D0       ...    ....       ..       ...    .....                                                   ...       6507Y     .       7.60Y
SPAIN             71   34.70  1,7100       2.18   1S.2A    497   22Y  1ly   94A            91          ..       IA       ..            .        294A     3        6.OOA
AFRICA
ALGERIA           75   15.7      177       7.5;              410   320   18G    s0         76        62E        42E       6.OG        429E      17       25       4.00
BENIN             73    ,.9      III)      5.3    32.0       97    23    10       1:       3208      708        508      25.08        438        78      398      0.44CY
8OTSWANA          74   4i. 7     3012      5.0    20.0       38    20    15       29       700       75         19        5.0         24        130      la       0.307
BURUNDI           70    I.S       92       2.S    19.90    479   41R   12R    10           200       10?        38       10.0         14         20      to       1.0
CAMERUON          71    6.?      250       5.9    20.0       387   297   27Y      ..       74          ..       5107    .....                            2317      .9017
C.A.R.            7~1    1. 791   2600     4.0N   20.0       %6    19     ... . .         64CY       25         65C7     ..           2          SlY    27BY    0.:07Y
CHAD              751   4.oD0    800       3.'    10.0       78    ?22      -     is       2908Y    322         6587    15.0           8         2087   30        0.0187
CO2NGO CB)        7it   1.3      45.2      6.02   19.3       40    12    21       so?    1130S       63         6 0       6.0         48        330      22       3.40
EGYP r           70   36.4       2ft0      5. 3              29    36    24       40       790       45         41)      ...          64        390      28      21.00
ETHIOPIA          71  26.5        901      3.1    20.(       42    29    18        7       171       '22        50        3.0         63         2       30       0.20
GARON            71    0.q   2,320         5.0    20.6       25s     9      t11    .      184087    25C         4fic      5.0         184       20C      21C      1.40Cr
OlHANA            72    9.322    1100D    '2.7    24.4DR  380   150   210    ...           56117    62          IOCY    ...           10        110      1617    0.748Y
IVORY COAST    72    5.80    38oo0         6.3    24.7       2787 3387  117        9A      52        57A       46       ..             .         0       25       1.20BY
KENyA             71   12.4      1712      6.4N   27.0       63    11    01       40       73        ...        40        8.0o        1'        112      23       1.0387
LESJTtnO         715   1.2       II0N    12T"IP  23.0        49    18    20       40       85        522        52        7.ON        81        10       26       1.00
LIBERIA           75,   1.9      4212      2.'2    13.2      P7    1s    20       73       58        ..         39        2.0         ...       22       26       1.10AY
MADAGASCAR        711   A.6      15,20     3.2    22.2       92    24    25       '20      680       10         64       15.0         48         90      26       1.00
M4ALAW.I          74    '2.A0    220n      3.1   20.9....... 25                            560       60         90        7.0         40         40      20       0.26CY
MALI              74    5.30      700      4.6N   32.3       368   528   128    001        ISA       224        4OA      10.08        374        44      174      0.1647
MAURITANIA        712   1.20    2000        '4.5    21.o.10                                151        ...       22        ...         ...        3       242
MAURITT2JS        7?    0.An    4200       3.7    .2700 7           1             80       86        99         II        ..           .        31       30       1.47Cy
MOROCCO           74   19.9      122       9.IIC   11, 5     44    47       9     267      54X       2i         37        ...         31        130      21       2.00
NIrERIA           72   70.20    21.10      3.?N   ...        40A  24A   204    ...         39xC7      ...       3417      ..   ...               4       2017    0.3717
RWANDA            73    1.90      7.0)     3.?C   28.00  ..         ...    ... 23          52        ...        S1        ...          ..        2       13       0.23Cr
SENFOAL           71    (.11n    2800      42.2N  22.5DR  38A   42A    54    10            180       ...        46        ...E        . .       1310     25       1:711Y
SIERRA LEO)NE   71    2.7        2621      lA1    23.4       31    36    so       15?      341       05l        12        0O         68         130      21       0.5387
SOMALIA           79    3.2      20-1       3.72)   20.80    490   160   190    50o?       141       86         sr)      111.0       60          1       15       0.10
SUDAN             72   17.10f    1300      22.5    23.2      43    29    28       Is       18        75         49        41.0       25         it       20       1.237
SWAZILAND         75    0.5      44i4      11.'.    18.o     37    11    13       50       70        50U       38         3.0        84         19       22       2.00
TANZANIA          74   13.21    1201       9.iN   27.0       36    ...   12       63       44X       ...        49        ...          7         2       21C      0.30
TUNISIA           73    s.'20    4600      6.3    23.a       37    43    to       55       72        81        41         6.0        31         14       21       3.00
UGANDA            70   10.80    15220D    5.2N   27.6CR   2209  220   250    254           480Cr    ...        36         ...         144        '20Cr   21       0.588Y
UPPER VOLTA    72    S.70)    700          '2.22   23.9      65    10o      6      9       1if       ...       45        28.0        20          2       23       0.0187
ZAIRE             71   23.41    l'22       S.?CN 21.31    94C   171   291    1s            63        38        444        6.0        43          8       24       0.968Y
ZAMBIA            74    4.7      482       5.3    222.2      14    18    16       43       88        at)       47         9.0        20         13       22       1.00
CENTRAL AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
COSTA  RICO;    72    1.80    7110         5.2    22.7       57      5    12      89       8617      659        29        2.0        58         2217    25       12.1117
DOMINICAN REP.72    '2.40    52.20         3.0    13.9       42    24    22       St       80        17        54         3.00       63         23.5    24        7.C00
EL SALVADOR    75    3.70    3500D    3.6    23.8            621     9    22      608      651       ...       1917       ...        39         1311    21Cr    4.3587
GIJATEMALA        73    9.1      500        1.9    16.0      55s   23    14       427      64        26         is        1.0        69          8       25       4.097
HAITI             72    4.220    1110D     22.9     6.60    61   2It        a     208      22        257       415        5.0        50          3       23       1.00?
HONDURAS          72    2.70    3211D       3.9    26.50    6,4    13    18       52       820       18        37         6,0        75         140      1a       3.00
JAMAICA           72    1.90    9920o      6.SY  19.7        337   227    77    86        10607      ...       92         ....                  3207    19        4.79Y
MEXICO            7o1  56.210    8900      2.6      9.3      5'4   24    12       76       71        31         26        00         6          19       23       6.3217
NICARAGUA         74    2.00    52200)    2.5    24.2        61    13    11       57       65        21        37         2.0        93         17       24       7.00
TRINIDAD & T. 71    1.00  1.31.20          5.2    18.9       93    27    12       90       950       87        39        12.0        15        49       25        2.5647
SOUTM AMERICA
BOLNIVA           76    5.S      31SF      S.')    t7.SF            ...,.   .     38       078       290       24         SF         B.          4       180
BRAZIL            74 101.ID    16210       4.3,  12oC,  02,  201 y         37    79.       S0ax                2717       ..          ,          8       15C;600
CHILE             72   10.20    7200        4.67    0 14647 36       47   367    ...      11007      ..         3777V     . ..       .D 2                ...
COLOMBIA          720  22.9O    4400       4.0    :0.9       35    IS    20       73       67        222        16        4.0        90         17       14       4;00
ECUADOR           72    6.70    3800        3.7    27.7C    45G7  4307  1007   69          72        ...       38         a. ..                 1        14       4.9787
GUYANA            74    0.7      '2100     9.BN   14.70    47    35i   14         834      921       39        13         6.         0           21      24       1.00
PARAGUAY          74    2.40    174         (.8    11.0      551   13    22       01       82        26         10        1.9        65         27       12       5.00
PERU              71   111.5D    0220       41.9    24.20    90    22    15r    72         80        38        3S907      3.0        70         30       23DY   02.00
VENEZUELA        71   12.2   1,bl          '21 .6    t9.'2   lG 9280  350    77A           82        ...       33         2. 4       . ..       33       ...    12.63C7



-20-
COMPARATIVE  EDUCATION4 IN!!CATOR8  ICONTD)                                  Annex  11.1
Rt3SSm3Us~~ssES3SS3u33SUZSPage  2  of  2
IDECEMBER 14, 1976
SNEERS flIERS REESE~~~~~~~~~I                                      SE          .
.1GNP/ 2. % GNP   ii TOTAL:%  OF PUBLIC                                     *PR(. 2AV.PRI.   ,                        SE 
I   iCAPITAs DEVOTED2PUBLIC  I EDUCATION    ILITER..  I PRI. ICOMPLE- .STU- ISCM.TEACHtPROGRESS..2  SEC. 2STU- I                           I
I IAT   I TO EDU.t  EXP. 2 RECURRENT    lACY               IENROLLITION         ,DENTS,SALARY INuiON RATE ,ENROLLIDENTS2HIGHER,
I       IMARKET,  (PUBLIC:DEVOTED2EXP ALLOCATE!).   RATE IRATIO IRATE FOR:PER   IRELATION iFROM PRI.:RATID  iPER   .ENROLLc
IPOP. :PRICESt EIP.    ITOL                 TO,       IC% OF   I NET   IPRI.SCH.2TEACMi TO GNP/ iTO SEC.      NET   ITEACH- RATIO,
YP2I(OO) ICUSS): ONLY)   IEDU. iPRI. SEC. HI.2ADULT3)1 (X)   ICYCLE(S)FR    I CAPITA   I   MX                            I (X)   zER    ICX)
I       I        I          I         I                 a         I       I           I      I            I           I        I       I2
:(1) 22  12) I  (3)    2  (4)   2           (15)          (6)    2 (7)   2  (B)    I (9) I  (101    I (it)           2(12)   1(13)  (104)   2
ASIA AND OCEANIA
AF_GH_A_NIS_T_AN ---7 0    1 6.3  94?     ..39P  23P   16P    20                        26X       24        41        9.0        78          ex     21       1.00
BANGLADESH       73  7 Is. /     80       1.2    20.2.         .     .         23       560       a.                     ,                  230     28
CHINA(FAIWANi 73  IS./I         660       3.?    14.40     2      II    2      82       98C       94        40       14.0        6A bC              26      20 00C
INDIA            7i 98(*9D    12D         2. 6VY  ...29                                 790       ...       43A                            28x      20AY    4.OOAY
INDONESIA        73 (23.30    1300        4.8    f1.o       3    23     1      62       63        40        32        9.0        92         12      16       2.00
IRAN             73  32.1       8710      3.3    22.6      508   288   028    50        77        74A       32        S. 08      80A       24       32       A.32CY
(34)j            72   10.30    89,)D      6.7    16.30R....... 26                       61CY      ...       22        ...         . ..     280CY  26         6.28CY
JORDAN           73    2.9      3/10      7.0      8.8     52    Is    21      59       910       76        38        5.0        BA         500     ?2       A*00
VCRFA            71  32.9       4 00      2.9    2).4 1    64    26      8     92       97        90        53        3.0         71        46       37      6 .0 0
LE 3A WIN        72    2. 91'   '4lID     3 .5r    I F.I u 39   '40    1 0     68       86        65        19        2.,0        63        26U     25      23. 00
MALAYSIA         74  2 1. 7     670)      6 ./I   28.0 U   44   31    11 i      0C      96F       90        32        4.00       83F        4 AF    27F      3. OOF
OMA N            72     0.610  8/4o0      I. 7 N    3.8    96      -   -       20       240       99        33        7. 0        . ..      0.40      9
PAKTSTAN         75  h6.20    1200       2.6    1 6.2    '45   25    18        2 1      470       514)      39        2.0         ...       270      1 8     6.140o
PAPUA N.G.       79r   2. 6  ~41/)        5.6    1 6.2     38    2 6    24     32       57?       73P       3 1      11 .0        90        12x?    24       0.90?
PHILIPPINES    70    '0 .20    28/40      2.5      4 *9    73    2 5    22     87      1040       . . .     30       159.)0       . . .     060      . . .   21I. 00
SINGAPORE        72    2.20  1,8l3a4)    3.    146 .2    '44    31    I S      75A      96Y       72A       33        ...         99A       57Y     24       8.25Y
TH,AILAN,1       73  39. 9      270       41.'NF 2/1.7F   65.    9    1 5      82       870       q3C       32        3.5  u     91C       2 10     24       2. 00
TURKEY           7?  37.9D    60//D       .. .    13.oDR.IOSOCY    . . .                                    3400      ..Y.                  2203    27DY    5 31BY
YE/5N            73    6. i     I,1       //l 115  4.u     4IS   2 P           20       150       18        36        5.          521                19      0.05By
VEIEN P.O.R.  7?        . 90    1I IDO    2. 3A   1 2. 6   79    2 2            10      700       3 1       29       1 0. 0       99        120     20       0 . OAY1
SUMMARY FOR DEVEL[IPTNG COUNTRIES,
NUM/BER OF COUNTRIES:                     7 5    7 2      69    68    6 8     7 0      7 8       5 4       7 7         9 2      94        78       7 4       7 3
RANGE:                                (//*5-  (3.8 -(25 -(C0.   (0.    (-5-          (10-      (17.-.     (19       (0.8-      (7-      I4       (9       (0
I2.'IP )  32.3)  96   52)  40)   98)            1540)    99         65          295.0)    99)       75.0)   43)      23.01
.)ARTILES:UPPER                        9. 2    22.4 t    5;5    3 1    22    7 5     8 7       75        4 6          a        80        2 9      2 6      6. 0
MEDIAN:                    4 .(I I  1. 0    45r   23    1       9 50     7 1        4o       3 8          )        6 3       1 6     23       2.0 0
LOWER I                    3.0)   1 3.9     38    16    12      20       92        30        33           3        25         9      20         .9
SYMROJLS: ... DATUM UNAVAILABLE                  A:1970 OR BEFORE              MzCURRENT PRICES                            SOURCES:
MNAGNTIJTUE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 8:2971                              N:GDP-------
?    UESTIDNARLE                    CZ1972                        PmINCLUDING FOREIGN AID                      COLJMNS2I  AND 2 wORLD BANK) ATLAS
*INCLUDES PAPT..TIME STUDENTS M=1973                              G=CENTRAL GOVT. ONJLY                                            OR IaRD MISSIONS
COMOINED WITH PRIMARY             EZ1974                        R=MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY                      3 TU  14 188D MISSIONS
Fz 1q7S                       $=MOE AND STATE GOVT. nNLY                                       AND/OR UNESCO
G= 1916                       T=EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                        STATISTICAL
U=PUIBLIC ONLY                                                   YEARBOOK
V=INCLUDING PRIVATE EXPFNDITURE
XmINCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
Y=UNESCO SOURCES
--   -  - -  - - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  --  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  -  -
COMP'APATIVE FDuJCATInN DATA ARE LJSEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS ANrD ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF ED)UCATIOINAL
OEVELOPMEN.T BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES, HnWFEVER,ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CAUTIUIN. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE WAVE BEEN CnLLECTED LARGELY SY THE BANK) MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCESI THE
0PF4AICDE( APE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA FRO)M IJNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE SEEN MADE TO) STANDARDIZE DEFINITIrlNS AND WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHECK THE
A'TCJP4CY rOF THF TATA. NEVYRTHELESS,SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS ANT' THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGREDSIVELY r)N THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA. THE FnlLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
HIlND?
1! )'EOL,CATIrN" AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL,
(e)'PRIMARY EDUCATInN REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND "SECONDARY- EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDLICATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEvEL RFGAROLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) 
I(0'LITERACY RATFS-CCOL.6) ARE OIFTENI OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCOUNJTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
TOrl, TF 1 THAT00 4NYINFI4RM DEFINITION OF -LITERATE' HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY,
(0"PIlLIC EXPENDIT,,YF IN EDUCATION" (COLS.3,4 AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITuREs DEVOTED TO EDUCATION BY
Pu4]LIC ANY QUAST-P,'RLIC AGENCIESI
E5   I P/ ILLmFKT RATI'/s"(COLS 7.  I,? AND I4) REFER TO SCHOOL TEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIG1RLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN T~L APPROPRIATE SCHUOOL, PUJBLIC AND PRI VATE BY LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE TEVELOPING
TOLUNTPIES fl.TN( TO VARIATION TN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATAII.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY APE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER fOF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN  SCHOOL. OVIERAGET, STUDENTS3 WH OSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED   BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



BOLIVIA
FIRST EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Structure of the Education System, 1975
HIGHER
Universities
________________________________________    Profes-
sionals
1    2    3    4      5    6            _____
Polytechnics
Upper-level
1 ' 2        3    4technicians
Superior Industrial School             and
equivalent
_             |            * ~~~~~~~workers
1    2    3    4                     - -. --___ - 
SECONDARY              Teacher Training, Secondary
Teachers,
Institutions included in                                                     (bachillerato)                                               Secondary
Proposed Project ....
Teacher Training, Primary          _____
-Academic                           _Teachers,
-Industrial             lv      --r- -                      Primary
- Commercial               -1    2    3              4  _.______________
- Agricultural                                       Technicians (middle)
PRIMARY                                      - Home Economics                               ,     and equivalent
workers
Intermediate            1    2           3   4                           ________
=         >              ~~~~~~~~OUT-OF-SCHOOL                           Skilled and
Basic                              l, (FOMO, IBA, etc.)                                                          semi-skilled
.....~.... .......                            ,,........                                                     work3ers-
Pre-stchool                                                                                                             - -  -  - -    --      --    ---    --   
I L 'i^'@*~~2*@@@4-- ....:____________
Unskilled labour
1  2                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rD
I I  I     I    I     I     I    I     I    I     I     I    I     I     I     I    I .      
6    7    8    9    10           11   12   13          14   15   16   17           18   19   20   21   22                     Age
Source: UNESCO.
World Bank-16711



BOLIVIA
FIRST EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Administrative Reform - Proposed Structure of Ministry of Education
|     MNISTER 
|S ub .Sec et
.f Ed-atio
f  Di-e-f.                         -d ir  | Se
Pr met  P                                            -.                                                       *   FacilNdt tna                                                     Setice
R         L OS  c0- Of
N|roa Generlrl                                              Ditrc CeGealiiner oa iut
for Schoor Boriainpt                                                               of Golf -tO
Directorate                                                                       for A~~~~~~~~~~Dminisra-
.f Ed-i                                                                                                       f., Aioin
I~ ~~~                    ~               ~ ~~~~                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -I _.~ i, P- = L                                   A,i I
Pri-ay Ed,-ca on        Piay Ed-cai-o            Ed-caio                   dcln                    dctnan   hsa Fiiie                                  reoneI                                    _        evcs
Sore   l isty    Educa-O-  1 976
VVrld Bank 16710



-23-                                      Annex II.4
BOLIVIA
FIRST EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Indicators of Access to Primary Education by Urban and Rural Students
(1973)
DEPARTMENT         % Total Enroll.   Participation Rate 1/  Gr.3 Retention2, Gr.5 Retentio
Urb.       Rur.     Urb.           Rur.      Urb.       Rur.   Urb.        Rur.
(Basic Level)
Chuquisaca           2.2      4.2        126.6         46.3      75.1       37.7   63.4        9.7
La Paz              19.7      11.9       138.8         56.1      62.6       60.2   55.8      21.3
Cochabamba           9.8       7.0       183.7         50.1      81.3       32.2   63.9       10.2
Oruro                4.7       2.9       154.9         59.4      87.4       32.7   76.4       19.2
Potosi               5.1       6.6       152.6         39.7      75.2       55.4   65.6       19.5
Santa Cruz           9.5      7.2       223.5         103.7      69.7       29.7   55.0      12.5
Tarija               1.7      2.5        182.5         64.0      74.9       40.2   68.4       15.8
Beni                 2.4      2.3       222.0          74.2      70.9       46.3   52.4       13.6
Pando                0.1      0.4        163.3         64.5      71.9       31.7   57.3        9.3
TOTALS            ---100.0----            ----87.7----           ---55.6---        ---35.3---
Intermediate
Level)
Chuquisaca          13.6      0.4       354.4           1.8      13.0       19.6
La Paz              29.0       2.5        80.1          4.7      71.0       19.9
Cochabamba          13.6       1.2      119.9           4.1      83.3       51.6
Oruro                8.5       1.0      109.7           7.7      82.0       39.0
Potosi               7.2       1.3        85.0          3.1      74.6       39.2       (N.A.)
Santa Cruz         13.2        1.6      157.8          11.8      69.9       17.8
Tarija               3.0      0.3        140.8          3.1      71.4       38.1
Beni                 3.3      0.3        125.8          4.5      92.6       45.8
Pando                0.2        -        124.0          2.7      80.6       71.4
TOTALS            ---100.0----           ----37.0----           ---55.0---
Notes:  1/ Number of children enrolled as % of age group 6-10 for Basic Level and
11-13 for Intermediate Level; includes over-age students and, for urban
areas, possibly some rural children coming to the city to complete schooling.
2/ Number of students who reach grade 3 as a % of each 100 students entering
grade 1 three years earlier (for intermediate level, number of students
who reach grade 9 as a % of each 100 entering grade 7 three years earlier);
includes repeaters.
3/ Same explanation as footnote 2 above, with respect to children reaching
grade 5 as a % of each 100 entering grade I five years earlier.
Source: IBRD SEIS Program, UNESCO Data.



BOLIVIA
FIRST EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Public and Private Expenditures in Education, 1976
(Millions Pesos)
1970                                     1973                             1976 (budget)
Recurrent      Capital      Total        Recurrent       Capital    Total         Recurrent      Capital       Total
A.  PUBLIC SECTOR 1/                                     443.6            39.6      483.2           890.3         116.7    1,007.0        2,059.2         293.3      2,352.5
(excluding 4)                                      (411.1)         (33.7)   (444.8)           (832.5)       (106.9)    (939.4)    (1,982.8)         (280.3)   (2,263.1)
1. Ministry of Education                            347.3            1.1      348.4            697.6           0.1       697.7       1,732.5          22.8      1,755.3
2. Main decentralized agencies                        o.6            6.5        7.1              3.8          38.6        42.4           17.6         86.3        103.9
School constr. council                           o.4            4.8        5.2             2.9          31.0         33.9           5.9         57.6          63.5
Community Develop. Service                       0.2            1.5        1.7             o.6           5.7          6.3          10.7         20.7          31.4
"Civic Acti on"                                   -             0.2        0.2             0.3           1.9          2.2           1.0 3j       8.0           9.0
3. Universities                                      60.6           18.6       79.2 2/         125.8          46.o       171.8         200.8          85.9        286.7
[81.57        [r18.9   [100.1-7          [181.97         f+6.07   [227.97          5977          55.           83.17
4. Public enterprises 3/                             32.5            5.9       38.4             57.8           9.8        67.6           76.4         13.0         89.4
5. Local governments  and agencies and
other public agencies                            2.6            7.5       10.1 SI          5.3           22.2        27.5 4/       31.9         85.3         117.2           4
B.  DIRECT PRIVATE  CONrTIBUTIONS TO PUBLIC SCHOOLS    6.3                n/d         6.3            11.3            n/d       11.3           47.9         n/d           47.9
C.  PRIVATE SECTOR                                        65.7             4.2       69.9           105.9          14.4      120.3           215.0         18.2        233.2 /
GRAND TOTAL A + B + C                                515.6           43.8      559.4          1,007.5         131.1   1,138.6         2,322.1         311.5      2,633.6
A as % of Public Sector expend.                           16.4             3.0       12.0            15.7           5.3       12.7            14.5          4.7          11.5 5/
(2,704.8)      (1,312.9) (4,017.7)        (5,688.5)    (2,214.6) (7,903.1)        (14,218.3)   (6,298.7)  (20,517.0)
Same excluding public enterprises                       25.6             3.8       17.8            23.7           6.8       18.5            23.2          6.4         17.5
(1,6c6.4)        (893.7) (2,500.1)        (3,505.1)    (1,572.5) (5,077.6)         (8,547.6)   (4,377.6)  (12,925.2)
1 as % of Central Govnt. expendt.                       28.7             0.3       22.5            25.8           0.01      20.5            26.5          1.4         21.6 5/
(1,211.0)        (336.0) (1,547.0)        (2,701.3)        (701.8) (3,403.1)       (6,544.9)   (1,600.3)   (8,145.2)
A + B as % of GDP                                                       -          4.6            -              _          4.9            _            _              5.0
A + B + C as % of  0DP                                 -                           5.3                                      5.5                                        5 5 
(10,628)             -              -   (20,779)                           _       (47,693)
Figures in parentheses refer to corresponding Public Sector, Central Government or GDP expenditures.
9/ Net of inter-agency transfers. Ministry of Education transfers to other agencies are included in 1.  Figures  in  [7  3 are gross of transfers.
9/ Budget figures. Distribution recurrent - capital estimated.                                                                                                                              D
3/ YPFB and COMIBOL
Estimated
5/ Projections
Includes a 10.7 rmillion for the private university not available for previous years.
SOURCES: Ministry of Education, Ministry of Finance, Consejo Nacional de Educacion Superior, YPFB, COMIBOL, Comision Episcopal de Educacion.
(Vision cuantitativa de la educacion privada 1976 and Costos y Financiamiento de la Educacion Publica en Bolivia, 1973) USAID (Preliminary Sector Assessment 1974)
Project unit and mission estimates. (See Annexes 1, and 5 to 11).



- 25 -
III.   NONFORMAL MANAGEMENT AND SKILL TRAINING - THE NEED FOR A SYSTEM
Overview
3.01      Until the last few years, there has been no nonformal training
"system" in Bolivia concerned with the preparation of technological manpower,
especially at the skilled and semi-skilled levels. Neither the public nor the
private sector has assigned much importance to training per se as a means of
raising productivity and facilitating adaptation to changing technology, and
this is clearly reflected in current labor market practices: trained workers
are not generally rewarded by higher salaries or more rapid advancement on the
job. Indeed, training has sometimes served as a deterrent to getting a job,
precisely because employers fear pressures for higher salaries. Promotion
within firms is based on various factors, most notably longevity, and in any
case there are no widely recognized standards to use in categorizing skill
levels. There has been a similar lack of attention to managerial training,
even on the part of the largest enterprises. Not surprisingly, training has
comprised a variety of small-scale, uncoordinated and frequently duplicating,
often short-lived and under-financed programs.
3.02      Agricultural Training.  Resources devoted to agricultural training
are clearly inadequate in comparison with the importance of the sector as a
source of income and employment, and the very considerable diversity of
product, geographic and climatic conditions and language groups in Bolivia.
Within the Ministry of Agriculture (a) the extension service with 97 agents
nationwide (42 degree holders and 55 technicians) makes almost no impact;
(b) the Office of Agricultural Engineering, whose staff number 38, offers
training courses and demonstrations in the maintenance of agricultural
machinery; and (c) the Livestock Office, with 109 staff, mostly veterinarians,
offers courses in animal husbundry and technology. The main decentralized
programs include those of the National Community Development Service (SNDC),
the National Colonization Institute, the National Wheat Institute and the
Agricultural Development Bank (BAB). While these may make some useful contri-
bution, the programs are also constrained by limited resources and an absence
of communication with counterpart groups and research services in Bolivia and
in other countries, and with those responsible for making production decisions.
Improvement, particularly of public agricultural training programs, is impeded
by low salary scales and a conviction on the part of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture that it should employ mostly very highly trained professionals (e.g.
agronomist engineers for the extension service).
3.03      Although not training as such, the formal system does provide some
agricultural education. At the basic and intermediate levels, rural school
curricula include practical work in agriculture. However, very little is
actually done because of the small number of specialized teachers, lack
of interest on the part of many teachers and school directors and limited
cooperation between the schools and agricultural technicians operating in the
area. Vocational agricultural education at the secondary level is offered at



- 26 -
only two private schools. On the other hand, there has been a proliferation
of post-secondary institutions, encouraged by the Ministry of Agriculture's
aforementioned preference for "professionals". In some recent years, as many
as 50 percent of these agronomists have emigrated to neighboring countries
upon graduation.
3.04      Industrial training:  There are only two industrial training
agencies of note in Bolivia, both catering to the needs of adults: the
National Manpower Development Service (FOMO), established in 1972 as a semi-
autonomous agency of the Ministry of Labor, and the Ministry of Education's
Bolivian Apprenticeship Institute (IBA), which was started in 1968. FOMO,
which would be assisted under the proposed project, is discussed more fully
below and in Chapter IV. IBA, though poorly equipped, does manage to enroll
5,000 persons annually. Nevertheless, 80 percent of these are women studying
mainly language, mathematics, home-making and child-care, rather than courses
which would conventionally be classified as skill training.
3.05      There is no articulation between nonformal industrial programs and
the formal education system, which has traditionally over-produced and over-
qualified middle and higher-level industrial technicians with no regard to
the labor market's capacity to absorb them. Consequently, many are forced to
joint their agronomist colleagues in emigrating to Brazil and Argentina. While
statistics seem to indicate a shortage of technicians (the ratio of upper-level
technicians to engineers is 1:1.8 and middle-level technicians to engineers is
1:1.3), there is more likely an over-supply of engineers, many of whom are
performing technician functions.
3.06      Other.  The Ministry of Education also offers nonformal accelerated
primary (EBA) and secondary education (CEMA) programs for adults, which
enrolled some 8,960 and 11,035 students, respectively in 1975.
National Manpower Development Service (FOMO)
3.07      The National Manpower Development Service (FOMO) was established in
1972 as a decentralized agency of the Ministry of Labor and restructured in
1974 as a semi-autonomous institution with slightly more independence. FOMO's
functions are to establish a national vocational training system servicing
all sectors and levels of the economy so as to increase productivity and
contribute to the socio-economic develoment of the country. Within the
framework of that broad objective, FOMO's stated priorities are to attend the
needs of: (a) unemployed and underemployed adult workers, (b) workers located
in geographic areas designated by the government as "regional-development
poles", (c) small and medium-scale enterprises, (d) enterprises in sub-sectors
assigned to Bolivia under the Andean Pact, (e) the traditional agricultural
sector, and (f) women.
3.08      FOMO has a tripartite Board of Directors, including representatives
from government (the Ministries of Labor, Education and Planning), private
employers and labor. The Chairman of the Board, who is also FOMO's operational
director, is appointed by the Minister of Labor. In 1975, FOMO offered 85



- 27 -
courses in metal-mechanics, construction and woodworking, electricity, agri-
culture and services, with a total output of 1,201. About 45 percent of
these were new entrants to the labor market or persons employed in other jobs
who wished to enter a new occupation; the remainder were already employed
persons seeking to upgrade their skills. Some 50 percent of the courses were
offered in-plant, 25 percent in cooperating institutions (such as technical
secondary schools), and 25 percent in FOMO's own fixed vocational training
centers.
3.09      At present, FOMO has a small training center (60 places in La Paz/
El Alto), originally built for a predecesor organization by the U.S. Peace
Corps, rented workshop facilities in Santa Cruz; rented office space in
Cochabamba from which it administers an entirely in-plant-based training pro-
gram, and rented administrative offices in La Paz City. A training center was
recently constructed in Oruro (120 places) with local voluntary contributions,
but it remains to be equipped. Finally, FOMO administers a small training
program in Tarija from a base in the University.
3.10      FOMO's approved budget financed from local resources for 1976 was
about US$0.7 million, including about US$0.2 million for capital and US$0.5
million for recurrent expenditures.  Of this, some 80 percent comes from the
central government and 20 percent from regional governments and informal
contributions by workers and employers. This represents more than a doubling
of revenues derived from these same sources in 1975. In addition, FOMO ex-
pected to receive the equivalent of about US$0.6 million in 1976 from external
sources, mostly for equipment and the salaries of technical assistance special-
ists.
3.11      The rather impressive growth in FOMO's activities and financing
since its establishment in 1972 has been possible because of a good response
from the government, the private sector, and above all, labor to FOMO's
training services, despite the rather negative overall environment (para.
3.01) within which the agency began operations. This is partly the result of
a very substantial and competent technical assistance input by the Spanish and
other foreign governments and the International Labor Organization (ILO), and
partly the very aggressive and entrepreneurial attitude of FOMO's early
management. At the same time, there has been a growing conviction within the
government regarding the importance of the role which a strong vocational
training system could play in stimulating economic development and a concom-
itant decision to make FOMO the key institution in such a system. As evidence
of its commitment to the development of a vocational training system, the
government has recently enacted a national vocational training law which,
inter alia, guarantees FOMO a permanent source of revenue through a one
percent levy on payrolls of profit-oriented public and private enterprises.
3.12      During its early years, FOMO's main emphasis was on establishing a
national reputation and, hence, on rapid quantitative expansion. As a result,
it borrowed rather than designed most course material, which was not always
directly relevant to the needs of Bolivian enterprises or the educational and
skill levels of Bolivian workers. Variation in the level of literacy among



- 28 -
trainees, with resultant lack of group homogeneity, has caused difficulties
in the delivery of training, and there is a need for an improved selection
procedure, especially for the more formal courses offered in fixed centers.
Furthermore given the prevailing literacy levels of the work force and the
job entry requirements of most occupations, a shift to shorter and simpler
courses requiring less formal education is indicated. As yet FOMO has not
established a placement or follow-up service for its trainees and there is
need for this as well as for a system to periodically evaluate its activi-
ties. Some instructor training has been carried out by the Spanish technical
assistance team; however, considerable strengthening of this activity is
required to improve quality. As it embarks on an almost sevenfold expansion
of its activities, measures must be taken to strengthen FOMO's management
system and correct these qualitative deficiencies. The strategy for accom-
plishing this under the proposed project is discussed in Chapter IV below.



- 29 -
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The proposed project has two major components designed to support
the government in implementing priority programs in (a) formal primary and
community education and (b) nonformal managerial and vocational skill train-
ing, as set forth below.
Primary and Community Education
4.02      Content and Objectives.  This component of the proposed project,
which will be located in the Aymara-speaking altiplano region of the La Paz
Department, will assist the government at the primary (basic grades 1-5 and
intermediate grades 6-8) and associated teacher training and community
education levels by:
-    increasing access to primary education through the expansion
and improvement of basic and intermediate schools, a more
efficient use of primary facilities and teachers, and a re-
organization of primary education by merging the rural and
urban subsystems and restructuring school administration
and supervision;
-    development of new curricula, learning materials and teacher
training programs which place greater emphasis on practical
activities and experimentation in agriculture, health, home
skills and rural crafts and on the use of the vernacular in
the first three grades of basic education;
-    establishment of a community education program to inform
and motivate rural audiences to adopt new attitudes and
practices in agriculture, health, nutrition and other
selected areas.
4.03      The efficiency objectives are, perhaps, the key to the success of
the project in the sense that it will not be possible to universalize primary
education in Bolivia over the next two decades at present cost levels, given
the already high (27%) share of central government resources allocated to
education. The project will therefore aim at a systematic increase in primary
student/teacher ratios from 19/1 prevailing today in the project area to 35/1,
an improvement in average retention rates to 70% and a reduction of overaged
students from the present 40% to 20% of total enrollments by a 1985 target
date. The principal measures to accomplish these targets will include more
rational school location planning and teacher assignment, extensive use of
multigrade teaching, expansion of accelerated programs for overaged students,
a gradual increase in automatic promotion, use of bilingual education, revi-
sion of school calendars to take account of agricultural cycles and an active
campaign to encourage rural families to leave female children in school for
longer periods. It is estimated that such improvements in content and
organization could reduce recurrent costs per student by 30% (paras. 2.31,
5.10).



- 30 -
4.04      The project has been confined to a specific geographic area with a
view towards feasibility (para. 4.06) and to test the relative usefulness of
these measures before applying them more widely. However, it has also been
designed with a view towards replicability; if successful in meeting the
cost-effectiveness and qualitative objectives, the government will use the
project as a model, setting the framework for a national primary education
program which could be implemented within the limits of the country's finan-
cial resources.
4.05      The content of this component of the proposed project is summarized
below.
(a) construction, furnishing and/or equipping of:
Number of
Type of                  Schools/        Total          Boarding    Staff
Institution                Classrooms   Enrollments         Places    Housing
Basic Classrooms                955         37,818 /           -         287
- To be newly constructed       174          6,890
- To be replaced                269         10,652
- To be upgraded                283         11,207
- To be equipped and
furnished only              229         9,068
Intermediate Schools             10          4,588 /2          -
(Replacement and
expansion)
Teacher Training College          1            426 /3        362          34
(Replacement)
TOTAL                        -        42,832           362         321
/1   34,380 student places; enrollments assume 10% of classrooms will
operate on a double-shift basis.
/2   2,294 student places; enrollments assume all schools will operate
on a double-shift basis.
/3   Student place remain about the same as at present.
(b) development of curricula and learning materials for all project
institutions;
(c) in-service training for about 1,300 teachers, teacher trainers,
directors and supervisors of project institutions;
(d) introduction of bilingual education (Spanish and Aymara) in the
first three grades of all project basic schools, supported by
radio;
(e) community education and training activities, supported mainly
by radio and mobile action programs;



- 31 -
(f) a preinvestment study on the education and training needs of the
low income migrant population of La Paz City; and
(g) related technical assistance, comprising 8-1/2 man-years of
specialist services and 54-1/2 man-years of fellowships for
local staff.
4.06      Project Area.  About 55% of the primary school age population of
Bolivia resides in the densely populated highland altiplano, and one-third of
these are in rural La Paz Department. Besides being numerically significant,
the rural inhabitants of La Paz Department are a relatively homogeneous socio-
cultural linguistic group (Aymara), and they are also fairly representative
of the overall rural population in educational terms. 1/ In addition, the proj-
ect area is reasonably accessible from the capital city, an essential factor
for the purposes of continuous feedback and evaluation in a country where
internal transportation and communication are extremely difficult. Within the
altiplano area of the La Paz Department, five pilot zones were identified on
the basis of different socio-economic characteristics. One of these zones,
Ingavi, is also the location of the Bank-financed rural development project
(Loan 1211-BOL, 1976). The other zones include Los Andes and Omasuyos I and
II, where a UNDP/FAO team is preparing a third rural development project for
Bank financing, and Manco Kapac (Map). The demographic and enrollment data
for the five zones in 1976 and 1985 is set forth below.
1/   1.001 Representation Index (see footnote 1, page 11) when compared with
rural areas of all Departments only.



- 32 -
Project Area, 1976-85
Annual Growth
1976             1985          Rate 1976-85
Total Population              234,642           301,001               2.5%
-    Urban                32,940            45,339              3.2%
-    Rural              201,702            255,662              2.4%
-    6-10 years           33,197            42,586              2.5%
-    11-13 years          16,773            21,516              2.5%
Total Primary Enrollments    28,485              46,491               4.9%
-    Basic                23,861            37,818              4.6%
-    Intermediate /1       4,624             8,673              6.5%
Net Enrollment Ratios
(excluding over-age students)
-    Basic /2             43%                 71%
-    Intermediate /3       14%                27%
/1   of these, there were 2,929 students enrolled in 1976 at locations where
project intermediate schools would be constructed; total enrollments at
these same locations would be 4,588 in 1985, representing an average
annual increase of 4.6% in overall enrollments and 9.6% in enrollments
within the correct age group.
/2   Assumes 40% over-age students in 1976 and 20% in 1985.
/3   Assumes 50% over-age students in 1976, with no change in 1985 for non-
project schools and a reduction to 20% for project schools.
4.07      Basic Education.  Within the five project zones, a detailed plan has
been prepared (on the basis of agreed criteria regarding school locations and
sizes, teacher:pupil ratios and school supervision requirements) which will grad-
ually permit most children who enter the system to complete a five-year basic
education within about a 5 km walking distance, whether in multigrade schools,
full five or more classroom schools, satellite-cum-central schools, or some
combination of these three. Legislation has been adopted which provides for
the merging of the rural and urban sub-systems into a unitary restructured
nucleus system of school administration and supervision (paras. 2.23-2.26)
within the five project zones, and it is a condition of disbursement for the
primary and community education component of the project that the government
furnish to the Bank satisfactory evidence of the merger. Such evidence will
consist of detailed Ministerial regulations necessary to implement the legis-
lation. In addition, the government gave assurances that within six months of
loan signing it will submit to the Bank for comment a plan for revising school
calendars in accordance with agricultural cycles and for the expansion of the



- 33 -
existing national accelerated basic education program (EBA-para. 3.06) to
service over-aged children in the project zones, and that these plans will
begin to be put into effect in calendar year 1978.
4.08       The basic education project item will provide the 91 project central
(nucleo) schools and their 246 satellites (totalling 955 classrooms) with such
new and/or upgraded facilities as may be required so that by 1985, when all
schools reach full enrollment capacity, some 37,820 children (equivalent to
about 70% of the age group, if 20 percent of children are still overage for
their grade) can be accommodated within the project area (para. 4.06). This
represents a 4.6% absolute annual increase over present enrollments and a 7.6%
annual increase in enrollments within the correct age group. In addition,
housing will be provided for about 25% of primary teachers in rural areas
where alternative accommodations are not available.
4.09       Intermediate Education.  Ten intermediate schools will be constructed
in the five project zones, replacing and extending inadequate existing facili-
ties (Map). In selecting locations, priority was given to those areas where
the annual output from surrounding basic schools will be adequate to support
at least a two stream school without boarding facilities by 1985 and to areas
where complementary development activities are planned or underway so that
graduates of the schools and adults who recive nonformal training will have
access to the services and resources which are essential for putting the
knowledge acquired to practical use. Every intermediate school will be
provided with a general science laboratory, a multi-purpose workshop for
practical activities, a library and facilities for teaching agricultural
courses. When full enrollment capacity is reached in 1985, about 4,588
students will be accommodated in these schools, representing a 4.6% annual
increase over present enrollments at the same locations and a 9.6% average
annual increase in enrollments within the correct age group.
4.10       Warisata Rural Teacher Training College.  The majority, if not all,
future teachers of the project basic and intermediate schools will graduate
from Warisata Rural Teacher Training College, the oldest institution of its
kind in Bolivia. Through the project, Warisata will become the base for
experimentation for both pre-service and in-service training. It will acquire
new physical facilities in replacement of present dilapidated ones and also
new equipment, attached basic and intermediate schools for practice teaching,
new curricula and staff. Warisata will offer a four-year post-secondary
course for both basic and intermediate teachers. The government gave assur-
ances that for admission to Warisata preference will be given to candidates
with a working knowledge of Aymara and Spanish and efforts will be made to
increase recruitment of competent women students and staff. There will be a
two-stream entrance for basic teachers and a one-stream entrance for inter-
mediate teachers, with the latter divided into three equal subgroups special-
izing in language and social sciences, natural sciences or agriculture. All
students will receive training as well in handicrafts, health and nutrition
and community development in accordance with the new emphasis to be placed on
these activities in the primary schools, and in new teaching techniques such
as bilingual instruction and multigrade teaching. Warisata's present enroll-
ments (almost 400) are all in the basic teacher training course; hence,



- 34 -
through the project, there will be a decrease in the excessive output of basic
teachers (paras. 2.20-2.21) by introducing as well the urgently needed inter-
mediate teacher training program. Warisata will provide boarding accommoda-
tion to about 85% of the students, the rest coming from neighboring areas.
With respect to the broader problem of the oversupply of basic teachers
nationwide, the government gave assurances that it will systematically review
and adjust the output of basic teachers in line with demand on the basis of
more efficient student:teacher ratios and teacher workloads.
4.11      Development of Curricula and Learning Materials.  On the basis of
investigation and assessment of needs in 1977, new curricula will be formu-
lated during 1978 and experimentally implemented in all project institutions
(basic and intermediate schools and Warisata) during the academic years 1979-81.
These curricula are expected to place greater emphasis on practical activities
and experimentation in agriculture, health, home skills and rural crafts and
greater reliance on more modern teaching techniques, including the use of
radio in language instruction (para. 4.12) and on the use of vernacular in the
first three grades of basic schools. Learning materials and teachers' guides
supporting the new curricula will be prepared and implemented on an experi-
mental basis at the same time. The government gave assurances that it will
begin to introduce experimental curricula and learning teachers' materials
in the project institutions during the academic year 1979, after review by the
Bank. This work will be a cooperative undertaking of (a) the project unit,
which would have the primary coordinating and executing responsibility, (b)
the Ministry of Education curriculum development, planning and evaluation
units, and (c) the teacher trainers, teachers, school directors and supervisors
of the project institutions. The costs of local and foreign specialists and
of the learning materials production in their experimental and final form, as
well as essential equipment to implement the curricula, have been included
in the total project cost and will be reimbursed under the loan.
4.12      Bilingual Education.  As stated above, under the project the
Ministry will experiment with the use of bilingual education in grades 1-3, in
contrast to the present system whereby the language of instruction is Spanish
at all levels, despite the fact that children come from Aymara-speaking
families. In support of this effort, radio programs will be initiated for
project basic schools to assist in the learning of Spanish by Aymara-speaking
children. Programs will be in both Spanish and Aymara and they will be
transmitted three times weekly during school hours and repeated at the end of
the week. Children and teachers will be provided in advance, through mobile
units, with printed material related to the weekly transmissions. The pro-
grams will be prepared by a panel of educators assisted by the special tech-
nical staff of the Bolivian Radio Schools (ERBOL) and a technical assistance
specialist in bilingual education. The government gave assurances that the
the programs will be introduced in the 1978 academic year. The total project
cost includes the cost of preparation, transmission of radio programs and
learning materials, follow-up, evaluation and revision. Every project basic
school will be provided with an adequate number of radio sets.



- 35 -
4.13      In-service Staff Training.  The project would support a comprehen-
sive upgrading program for all the staff of the project educational institu-
tions, i.e. for about 1,200 basic and intermediate teachers and about 100
school directors, supervisors and teacher trainers. Every supervisor and
director will attend a one-month course on school organization, guidance
and supervision. There will also be a one-month course for supervisors,
directors and the Warisata staff on the new curricula and learning materials
as soon as these are ready. The above personnel will be used as group leaders
for one-month courses for teachers on the new curricula and learning mate-
rials, bilingualism and radio education, multigrade teaching, the use of new
equipment and community development. During the experimental implementation
of the new curricula, the in-service training of teachers will continue by
means of weekly programs provided by audio-cassettes. A tentative training
schedule was developed during project appraisal; the government gave assur-
ances that an acceptable, more fully elaborated training program and schedule
would be prepared within six months of loan signing and updated as necessary.
4.14      Community Education.  Under the proposed project the Ministry of
Education will establish a community education program relying primarily on
the formation of rural radio listening groups, supported by simple printed
materials and mobile action teams. The objective of the exercise will be to
encourage rural audiences to generate new intra and inter-community relation-
ships based on cooperation rather than subordination and dependence and to
adopt new and useful practices in agriculture, health, nutrition, etc., as
well as new attitudes on matters such as the value of education to the commu-
nity and the role of the modern woman in family and community life. Priori-
ties will be determined in consultation with other agencies (e.g. the Minis-
tries of Agriculture and Health and the executing agencies for the rural
development projects described in para. 4.06) making complementary development
investments in the project area. Community education activities will be
preceded by a three-month investigation of the characteristics of the target
population, their vocabulary and concept formation, preferences and attitudes
towards change. Teams comprising a social anthropologist, expert in group
dynamics and trained campesino and community leaders will then help to estab-
lish permanent listening groups in forty communities each year. Each group
will select one member to receive a series of short courses at four-month
intervals in organization, leadership and group dynamics at the training
institute of the Radio San Gabriel in Viacha. Rural listeners will receive
short simple pamphlets which reinforce the radio programs on selected themes,
produced in Aymara language and using simple vocabulary and extensive illus-
tration. Community groups will also have the opportunity to record features
of their own using portable tape recorders provided by the mobile teams. The
government gave assurances that the Ministry of Education will contract these
responsibilities to the Radio San Gabriel, a private religious organization
which has considerable experience in broadcasting in Aymara in the project
area and in the formation of rural radio listening groups, or to another
acceptable local radio station having the requisite experience and capacity on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The project will cover the cost
of the training of community group leaders, the radio programs, including the
supporting printed materials, and mobile units.



- 36 -
4.15      Preinvestment Study.  A preinvestment study will be financed under
the proposed project, oriented towards the social and employment problems
and related education and training needs of the low-income migrant population
to La Paz City from the surrounding altiplano. The study will be carried
out either by individuals or a local consultant firm contracted on terms and
,conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The government gave assurances that
the final report and recommendations for action programs will be made avail-
able to the Bank within eighteen months of loan signing. If the government
obtains assistance from other agencies on a more concessionary basis for the
study, the loan funds will be either cancelled or reallocated to other
project-related purposes acceptable to the Bank.
4.16      Technical Assistance.  The loan will finance 8-1/2 man-years of
specialist services and 54-1/2 man-years of fellowships (Annex IV.1) in
support of this component of the project. The specialist services are
intended to (a) assist in the elaboration of more meaningful and relevant
curricula for the project educational institutions; (b) coordinate the work
on the elaboration of learning materials, textbooks, teachers' guides and
audio-visual materials for basic and intermediate schools, the Warisata
Teacher Training College and the community and radio programs; (c) organize
the teacher training programs at Warisata and the in-service teacher train-
ing programs; (d) organize the school radio broadcasting program; (e) assist
in the elaboration of the curricula and methodology and the experimental
implementation of the bilingual program in Spanish and Aymara; (f) design
adult community development programs; (g) advise and conduct courses on
school organization and supervision; (h) evaluate and recommend readjustments
to the experimental formal education programs; and (i) evaluate and recommend
readjustments to the experimental non-formal education programs.
4.17      The fellowships to be provided will be in (a) school organization
and supervision for present and prospective school directors; (b) upgrading
courses for the Warisata teacher trainers in such areas as pedagogy, educa-
tional psychology, methodology, community development, mathematics, language,
agriculture, educational sociology, social studies, bilinguism, science and
home economics; (c) specialized training of local staff in such areas as
guidance and counselling, curriculum development, educational technology
(learning materials), teacher training, non-formal education and school eval-
uation, radio programming and production, evaluation of mass media communica-
tion and audio-visual aids; (d) upgrading courses for the strengthening of the
curricula and supervisory services in language, social studies, mathematics,
science, agriculture, handicrafts, home economics, community development,
bilinguism and women's education and in promotion of youth activities and
cooperativism; (e) educational and professional visits to other countries to
observe their radio and community education, and school-building programs.
4.18      Terms of reference for all specialists were discussed and agreed
during loan negotiations. The cost of technical assistance is estimated at
US$55,000 per man-year of specialist services and US$12,000 per man-year of
fellowship. If the government obtains technical assistance in the above
areas from other agencies on a more concessionary basis, the loan funds for
the items affected will be either cancelled or reallocated for other project



- 37 -
related purposes acceptable to the Bank. The government gave assurances that
specialists will be employed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank,
all fellowship recipients will be selected and placed in consultation with the
Bank, and suitable counterparts for the specialists will be provided by the
government.
4.19      Evaluation.  Monitoring and evaluation of its quantitative and
qualitative impact is considered an integral part of the proposed project.
The development of curricula and supporting materials, billingual education,
community education activities and in-service training and of various
measures to raise the internal efficiency of the education system in the
project area, will be preceded by an in-depth investigation and assessment
of the present situation among a representative sample of the target popula-
tion. On the results of this investigation and assessment of baseline data,
precise program content and syllabi will be formulated, software developed and
methodological and organizational approaches will be selected for experimental
implementation and evaluation in action. Evaluation methods will include
testing, observation, opinion surveys, interviews, etc., and comparisons will
be made with selected control schools beyond the project area. Full scale
implementation of the educational programs and efficiency measures beyond the
sample experimental area will proceed only on the basis of such evaluation.
The task of evaluation will be the responsibility of a group in the project
unit, strengthened by trained local personnel and assisted by evaluation
specialists, school supervisors, directors and teachers and community leaders.
The government gave assurances that evaluation reports would be prepared
annually for review with the Bank during 1977-81, and that within 3 months of
the closing date of the loan account, it would cause the Ministry of Education
to prepare and send to the Bank a report providing a preliminary assessment
of the project, its results and experience gained during implementation.
Vocational TraininR
4.20      Content and Objectives.  The proposed project will assist the
government in expanding the National Manpower Development Service (FOMO) to
meet national requirements for new workers and raise productivity levels by
upgrading the skills of those presently employed. Besides strengthening the
activities in which FOMO is now engaged, namely training for urban-based
industrial occupations, the project will also enable FOMO to develop a
capacity for training in the mining and rural sectors through mobile action
programs and for providing management consulting and training services to
small and medium-scale enterprises.
4.21      The content of this component of the proposed project is summarized
below:
(a) construction, furnishing and equipping of vocational training
centers as follows:
(i) four new vocational training centers;
(ii) expansion of one existing center;
(iii) equipping of one existing center.



- 38 -
Number                     Trainee Places
Training Centers      Equipping      Construction
Only     Extensions   New      Existing    New    Total
La Paz-City                                      1                    170     170
La Paz/El Alto                         1                    60       255      315 /1
Cochabamba                                       1                   240      240
Santa Cruz                                       1                   270 /2  270 /3
Oruro                   1                                  120        -       120
Tarija                                 _1                            80       80
1             1          4        180      1,015   1,195
/1   45 trainee places are being partially equipped with German assistance.
/2   Partially replacement of temporary rented facilities.
/3   60 trainee places are being equipped with German assistance.
(b)  two mobile training workshops for the mining trades and fifteen
sets of equipment and transport for training in agricultural
and rural artisan occupations, to provide annual training
opportunities for 2,300 persons;
(c)  preinvestment study on the socio-economic conditions in the
major highland mining areas to identify employment generation
possibilities and related training needs and recommend action
programs; and
(d)  technical assistance including 9-1/2 man-years of specialist
services and 8-1/4 man years of fellowships.
4.22      Output.  At full operation in 1981, the total direct annual output
of FOMO's expanded training system will be about 7,700 managers, supervisors
and skilled and semi-skilled workers in 38 occupations in the construction,
electrical, mechanical, services, agricultural and mining fields. About
1,900 will be new entrants to the labor force and 5,800 will be already em-
ployed persons in upgrading courses (Annex IV.2). In addition, the indirect
effect of the expanded in-plant training scheme will be the upgrading of the
skills of some 9,000 - 10,000 workers per year. The vocational training
centers will be used during daytime mainly for new entrants to the labor
force and unemployed workers and during the evening for upgrading purposes.
4.23      All training centers will serve as administrative bases for the
mobile training units, which will be provided under the project to assist FOMO



- 39 -
offer upgrading training in areas where the demand for such services does not
justify a fixed center. The duration of stay at each place will vary from two
to four months with the itinerary determined by the base center management
after consultation between the instructors and representatives of participa-
ting industries and mines, the agricultural extension service and community
officials as appropriate. The preparation and submission to the Bank of an
acceptable detailed training program for the mining and rural sectors will be
a condition of loan disbursement for all equipment and vehicles for the mobile
training program. FOMO will receive technical assistance under the proposed
loan (para. 4.32) for this purpose.
4.24      The in-plant training courses presently offered by FOMO on an ad-hoc
basis will be expanded into a regular in-plant training service. A unit will
be established to help enterprises diagnose training needs and implement on-the-
job training programs for employees requiring skill upgrading. To create the
necessary capability within enterprises, about 1,100 supervisors and foremen
each year will be offered opportunities to attend short courses in instruc-
tional techniques, human relations, accident prevention etc., to prepare
them for participation in subsequent routine on-the-job training of workers.
Technical assistance provided under the project will help establish the
in-plant training unit. For the specific requirements of the mining industry,
additional technical assistance has been included to assist in the diagnosis
of overall needs and the establishment of a comprehensive training system
for all levels of personnel. The government gave assurances that the
in-plant training unit will be established within two years of loan signing.
4.25      The courses offered by FOMO will vary in length from 120 to 2,00
hours and will be based on occupational analysis. Technical assistanc. will
be provided under the proposed project to train the staff of FOMO in this
technique. To meet specific needs, courses will be structured on the basis
of short self-contained training modules which will permit trainees to enter
the system at the stage appropriate to their qualifications and return for
further training at later stages in their careers. To provide incentives to
improve skill levels and promote the rationalization of wage levels, a system
of certification for recognized skilled occupations will be introduced.
Trained workers will be tested against established national training standards
and certificates awarded. As these practices are new in Bolivia, FOHlO will
begin with the mining sector and expand gradually thereafter. Funds have
been included in the project to establish training standards for the mining
sector. The government gave assurances that within one year of loan signing
the aforementioned techniques will begin to be introduced.
4.26      The specializations to be offered by FOMO have been selected on the
basis of population and labor market data compiled by the Ministries of Labor
and Planning, a 1975 National Manpower Study for Bolivia commissioned by FOMO
and executed by PREALC and a training needs survey for the Santa Cruz Depart-
ment commissioned by the Santa Cruz Regional Public Works Committee and exe-
cuted by German technical assistance specialists. Further German technical
assistance has been obtained to train several of FOMO's staff and to conduct



- 40 -
a similar detailed regional training needs survey in Cochabamba and other
areas. The training programs summarized in para. 4.22 and 4.23 above will
be adjusted to reflect the survey results.
4.27      Entrance requirements for most FOMO courses include a primary school
certificate. However, even at its present small scale of operations (1,206
trainees per year), FOMO has many students who do not meet this qualification
and will therefore initiate in 1976 preparatory classes in basic literacy and
numeracy. While these classes will continue and for some trades will be
essential, looking forward to its much expanded future activities, FOMO must
begin to introduce alternative instructional techniques (primarily audiovisual)
which do not rely so heavily on reading and writing. Based on the work in
occupational analysis and modular course structures (para. 4.25), FOMO will be
able to identify particular skill areas and instructional units which do not
necessitate traditional literacy and/or numeracy, and will design and begin to
put into practice within two years of loan signing training materials which rely
on audiovisual aids. Six man-months of technical assistance have been included
in the project for this purpose.
4.28      The government gave assurances that within twelve months of loan
signing, FOMO will establish a guidance and placement service, which will
work closely with the employment service of the Ministry of Labor.
4.29      A management consulting and training unit will be established as
a separate division of FOMO, reporting to the Board through the Executive
Director. The unit will focus on raising productivity in enterprises in the
urban and rural sectors through management training, consultancy, organization
of local research, establishment of an information service and in-plant career
development schemes. About 360 middle and upper-level managers will be trained
annually. Two and one half man-years of technical assistance in industrial
engineering and general management will be included under the proposed project
and one additional man-year will be provided to finance qualified consultants
drawn from local enterprises who will be engaged to offer some of the training
seminars. The government gave assurances that the management consulting and
training unit will be established within two years of loan signing and that
the program will be evaluated annually thereafter in consultation with the
employers' associations.
4.30      Staff.  An additional 82 instructors, 8 instructor/supervisor
trainers, 5 management trainers and 4 programmer/job analysts will be required
to operate the six vocational training centers, seventeen mobile workshops, the
management training unit and the in-plant training service.  Instructor
trainees will be recruited from among graduates of the formal vocational and
agricultural secondary schools who have acquired practical experience or from
among supervisors who have sufficient skill proficiency and an adequate formal
education. They will be trained in instructional techniques in FOMO's instruc-
tor training unit which was established in 1974 with Spanish technical assist-
ance and which will be further strengthened with one man-year of technical



- 41 -
assistance financed under the proposed project. Instructor trainers will be
selected from among existing trainers and sent abroad for further training.
Personnel for management training will be recruited from higher technical and
engineering personnel with extensive industrial experience and sent abroad
for training in industrial engineering and management. On their return to
Bolivia they will work as counterparts to the technical assistance specialists,
receiving on-the-job experience in consultancy work. Besides instructor staff,
an additional 5 professional administrative staff will be required to operate
the FOMO system at full develpment.
4.31      Preinvestment Study.  A preinvestment study will be financed under
the proposed project, oriented to the problems of unemployment and underemploy-
ment in the major highland mining areas. A survey of homes and establishments
will be carried out, education and skill levels determined and categories of
employment and underemployment identified. Possibilities of employment
generation and relevant training needs will be investigated. The focus of
this study will not be on the mining industry as such, which will be dealt
with separately (paras. 4.23, 4.24 and 4.25), but rather on the needs of the
population concentrations which have developed around the major mining centers
and which cannot be absorbed by the mines. The study will be carried out
jointly by the Directorate of Social and Economic Planning for Mining and the
National Employment Service of the Ministry of Labor. The government gave
assurances that the final report and recommendations for action programs will
be made available to the Bank within 18 months of loan signing. If the
government obtains assistance from other agencies on a more concessionary
basis for this study, the loan funds will be either cancelled or reallocated
to other project-related purposes acceptable to the Bank.
4.32      Technical Assistance.  The project will supplement technical assist-
ance already being provided by other bilateral and multilateral agencies.
It comprises (a) 3-1/2 man-years of specialist services and 3 man-years of
fellowships to assist FOMO establish a management consulting and training
unit, (b) 2 man years of specialist services and 2 man-years of fellowships
to strengthen in-plant-training (c) 2 man-years of specialist services for
training organization, rural training and instructor training, (d) 3-1/4
man-years of fellowships to train the Director of FOMO, the senior staff and
regional directors, (e) 1-1/2 man-years of specialist services to assist in
the reorganization of FOMO's management system, expedite procurement and give
guidance on the design of buildings and (f) 1/2 man-year of specialist ser-
vices to help develop a capacity for the preparation of audiovisual instruc-
tional aids. Terms of reference for all specialists were discussed and agreed
during loan negotiations. The cost of technical assistance is estimated at
US$55,000 per man-year of specialist services and US$12,000 per man-year of
fellowships (Annex IV.3). If the government obtains technical assistance in
the above areas from other agencies on a more concessionary basis, the loan
funds for the items affected will be either cancelled or reallocated for other
project-related purposes acceptable to the Bank. The government gave assur-
ances that specialists will be employed on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank, all fellowship recipients will be selected and placed in consulta-
tion with the Bank, and suitable counterparts for the specialists will be
provided by the government.



- 42 -
4.33      Evaluation.  The government gave assurances that within 3 months of
the closing date of the loan account, it would cause FOMO to prepare and send
to the Bank a report providing a preliminary assessment of the project, its
results and experience gained during implementation.



Annex IV.1
1 43 -                             Page 1 of 2
BOLIVIA
FIRST EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Primary and Community Education - Technical Assistance Schedule
Man-Months
Specialists                                  Total    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Curriculum Development                        12         4       8        -       --
Educational Technology -                      12         4       8        -       -
Learning Materials
Bilinguism                                    12         -       6        6       -
Schc-1 Broadcastina g2                                   -                        -
School Organization ar:d Supoervision          6         4                -       -
Teacher Training - Pre-service and            12         4       8        -       -
In-service
School Evaluation                             12         6       -        -       -        6
Non-formal Education                          12         4       8        -       --
Evaluation of Non-formal Education            12         -       4        8       -
102                 0      20        0       6
Fellowships
School Organization and Supervision          120        20      40       20      40
(10 x 12 months)
Guidance and Counseling                       24         -       4       12       8
(1 x 24 months)
Curriculum Development (1 x 24 months)        24         4      12        8       -
Educational Technology - Learning             24         4      12        8       -
Materials (1 x 24 months)
Teacher Training (1 x 24 months)              24         4      12        8       -
In-service Training of Teachers
(1 x 24 months)                          24        4       12       8        -
Bilinguism (2 x 12 months)                    24         4       8        4       8
Radio Programming and Production              24         4      12        8       -
(2 x 12 months)
Audio-Visual Aids (2 x 12 months)             24         4      12        8       -
School Evaluation (1 x 24 months)             24         -       4      12        8
Evaluation of Mass Media Communication        24         4      12        8       -
(1 x 24 months)
Non-formal Education (1 x 24 months)          24         4      12       8        -
Pedagogy (1 x 12 months)                      12                 o       -        -
Educational Methodology (1 x 12 months)       12         -       4       8        -
Educational Psychology (1 x 12 months)        12         _-              14       8
Educational Soc'iology (7 x 12 months'        1^         -       e       -        -



Annex IV.1
- 44 -                                Paae 2 of 2
Total    1977    1978    1979    1980
Community Development (2 x 12 months)                24         4        8        4        8
Language (2 x 12 months)                             24         4        8        4        8
Social Studies (2 x 12 months)                       24         4        8        4        8
Mathematics (2 x 12 months)                          24         4        8        4        8
Science (2 x 12 months)                              24         4        8        4        8
Agriculture (1 x 12 months)                          12         4        8        -        -
Animal Husbandry (1 x 12 months)                     12          -       -        4        8
Home Economics (2 x 12 months)                       24         4        8        4        8
Handicrafts (1 x 12 months)                          12         4        8        -        -
Promotion of Youth Activities (1 x 6 months)          6         -        6        -
Co-operativism (1 x 6 months)                         6         -        -        6        _
Women's Education (1 x 12 months)                    12         4        8        -        -
Formal Radio Education (2 x 3 months +                7         7        -        -
1 x 1 month)
Non-formal Radio Education (2 x 3 months +            7         7        -        -
1 x 1 month)
Non-formal Education (1 x 1 month)                    1         1        -        -        -
School Building (1 x 3 months)                        3         3        -        -        -
TOTAL         654       118      250     158      128
Costs
Experts:  8.5 years at US$55,000 per year               US$  467,500
Fellowships:  54.5 years at US$12,000 per year          US$  654,ooo
TOTAL              US$1,121,500



BOLIVIA
FIRST EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Projected Annual Output of the FOMO System, 1981
Training     Specialization       La Pa (City and                  Santa Cruz            Cochabamba                  Oruro                  Tarija                   Total
Job      Job Entry       Job      Job Entry        Job     Job Entry      Job       Job Entry    Job           Job     -  Up          Job
_________                  J~~~~pprading  ______Tpgrajing_         .     .Uoeradine  T___            !r.adine                 Ipradin.a.   Entry  Upgrading    Entry
Construction             300         405          150         195         150         270          135         180         80          80        815         1130
In
Fixed        Electricity              165          165          90           90         90           90          60           60         40         40         445          445
Training
Center       Mechanics                 45           90         120          120        120          120                                                        285          330
Services                 345           -           90           -                                                                                 435           -
Managers                 360                        _                       _                                                                     360           -
Instructors               60                        _                       _                                                                      60           -
Agriculture              300                      150                     300                        -                     150                    900           -
Mob ile
Training     Rural Construction                                                        100                      100                     100                    300            _
Rural Electricity        100                      200                     200                      200                     110                    810           -
In Plant-   Mining                      -                        _                       _                      300                       _                    300            -
Supervisors              3002/                    250                     250                      300                       -                   1100
Total Job Upgrading            1975                     1050                    1210                     1095                     480                   5810
Total Job Entry                             660                     405                  |   480                      240                    120                    1905
1/ Total estimated indirect output from In-Plant Training =9,000 to 10,000 workers per year (upgrading).
2/   240 in La Paz City center and 60 in-Plant.
a
x
lH



- 46 -                             Annex IV.3
BOLIVIA
FIRST EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
POMO - Technical Assistance Schedule
I.  Bank Financed
Specialists                               Total      1977      1978      1979      1980
Instructor Training                        12         -         12        -
In-Plant Training                          12         -          6        6
Mining Training                            12          6          6       -
Audio-Visual Aids                            6        -          6        -
Rural Training                              6         6          -        -
Industrial Engineering                     18         -          6       12
Management Training                        12         -          6        6
Consultants:  Management                   12         -          6        6
Procurement and Design    12           6          6        -
Organization and Methods   6           6          -          
V.T. Organization            6         -          -        6         -
TOTAL                114        24          54      3-
Fellowships
Director of FOMO (I x 3 months)             3         _          3        _
Regional Directors
(4 x 1 1/2 months)                      6         -          2       2         2
In-Plant Training
(4 x 6 months)                         24         6         12        6        -
Technicians and Instructors                30         6         12       12         _
Management Training
(6 x 6 months)                         36         -        12       12        12
TOTAL                  99       12         41       32        14
Cost
Experts - 9 1/2 man-years at US$55,000/year                    US$522,500
Fellowships - 8 1/4 man-years at US$12,000/year                    99,000
US$621,500
II. Others (Scope, duration, financing not yet committed).
ILO                 - Flanning and Management.
France              - Electricity Trades.
Spain               - Agriculture, Woodworking, Construction, Hotel,
Instructor-Training and Metalmiechanics Trades.
Switzerland         - Dairying.
Peru (SENATI)       - Administration, In-Plant Training.
Colombia (SENA)    - Rural Training.
Germany             - Metal-mechanics Trades.



- 47 -
V.   COSTS AND FINANCING OF THE PROJECT
Cost Estimates
5.01      The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is estimated at US$21.4
million, as summarized below. Further details by type of expenditure and
project item are provided in Annex V-1.
First Education and Vocational Training Project
Cost Estimates by Project Item /1
(US$1.00 = Pesos 20.0)
Pesos (million)              US$ (million)
Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total
Primary and Community Education        133.6    85.4   219.1         6.68    4.27   10.95
1. Basic Education Schools            64.6    38.2   102.8        3.23    1.91    5.14
2. Intermediate Schools               13.8    10.2    24.0        0.69    0.51    1.20
3. Teacher Training College            8.8      7.6    16.4       0.44    0.38    0.82
4. Curriculum Development             14.4      2.6    17.0       0.72    0.13    0.85
5. In-service Training                 3.0      0.6     3.6       0.15    0.03    0.18
6. Community Education                10.2      1.8    12.0       0.51    0.09    0.60
7. Preinvestment Study                 1.6      0.4     2.0       0.08    0.02    0.10
8. Technical Assistance                1.2    21.2    22.4        0.06    1.06    1.12
9. Project Administration             16.0      2.8    18.8       0.80    0.14    0.94
Vocational Training                     36.8    56.6    93.4         1.84    2.83    4.67
1. La Paz City Center                  6.2      3.4     9.6       0.31    0.17    0.48
2. La Paz/El Alto Center               6.6      9.9    16.5       0.33    0.49    0.82
3. Cochabamba Center                   5.8      8.2    14.0       0.29    0.41    0.70
4. Santa Cruz Center                   6.0      5.8    11.8       0.30    0.29    0.59
5. Tarija Center                       2.0      3.4     5.4       0.10    0.17    0.27
6. Oruro Center                        0.2      1.9     2.2       0.01    0.10    0.11
7. Mobile Training Units               0.6    10.6    11.2        0.03    0.53    0.56
8. Preinvestment Study                 3.2      0.6     3.8       0.16    0.03    0.19
9. Technical Assistance                0.6    11.8    12.4        0.03    0.59    0.62
10. Project Administration              5.6      1.0     6.6       0.28    0.05    0.33
Base Costs /2               170.4   142.2   312.6        8.52    7.11   15.63
Contingencies
-  Physical (12%)            21.0    15.0    36.0        1.05    0.75    1.80
-  Price (23%)               46.4    32.8    79.2        2.32    1.64    3.96
Total Project Costs         237.6   190.2   427.8       11.88    9.51   21.39
/1   Differences due to rounding.
/2   Expressed in prices estimated as of January 1, 1977.



- 48 -
5.02      Primary and Community Education.  C!vil works costs are based on
data obtained from local public school building agencies with respect to
contracts for works recently awarded and/or executed by them and modified to
reflect a detailed unit cost analysis using prototype plans and economic norms
and standards of construction discussed end agreed during appraisal. Unit
costs of construction range from US$58/M  of gr2ss floor area (including site
development) for rural basic schools to US$81/M for urban intermediate
schools and the teacher training college. All facilities will be one-story
buildings with concrete masonry foundations, simple concrete floors, adobe
brick walls (with both faces plastered for rural schools, and face brick for
urban areas with the outer face plastered), wood or metal trusses as appro-
priate, galvanized roofing sheets, and minimal electrical and sanitary instal-
lations. Cost estimates assume that construction would be by private contrac-
tors; however, direct community participation is common in the project area
and woulq be strongly encouraged, and any resulting savings (approximately 25%
of the M cost of civil works) would be applied to construction, upgrading,
furnishing or equipping of additional schools. Capital costs per student
place (including civil and site works and professional services), averaging
US$135 for basic schools and US$305 for intermediate schools would be very
economical, with about 10% of basic and all intermediate level facilities
operating on a double shift basis. Costs of site acquisition are not included
in the project; where sites cannot be donated by the community, the cost will
be borne by the government.
5.03      Costs of upgrading existing classrooms average about 25% of the cost
of new construction, based on a preliminary survey of the physical condition
of schools in the project area and a detailed cost analysis of the most common
improvements required.
5.04      Equipment and furniture costs are based on core lists developed by
the Ministry of Education and modified to reflect recent Bank Group experience
with other primary and community education projects in Latin America. Equip-
ment costs per student average US$14 in basic schools and US$93 at the inter-
mediate level; furniture costs per student range from US$20 to US$30,
repectively, for basic and intermediate schools. As a survey of conditions in
the project area indicates that most schools have little or no furniture or
equipment (including books and related learning materials), the project in-
cludes financing of these items for both the new and existing schools.
5.05      Vocational Training.  Civil works costs, averaging US$117/M  of gross
floor area (including site development), reflect recent construction cost data
obtained from private firms in La Paz, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz. A local
cost adjustment of 10-15% has been included for project institutions outside
of La Paz to allow for domestic transportation of materials and differences in
labor costs. Economic construction norms and standards emphasizing low
maintenance costs were discussed and agreed during appraisal. All workshops,
storage areas and garages would be one-story, reinforced concrete structures
with brick or concrete block walls, wood or metallic trusses as appropriate,
asbestos-cement roofing, simple concrete flooring, and flexibly designed



- 49 -
electrical, mechanical and sanitary installations to permit future adaptation
of facilities to different training purposes. Administrative areas, class-
rooms and directors' housing would be of similar standards, but would include
two to three-story buildings. The training center headquarters in La Paz
City would be a reinforced concrete structure designed for three to four
stories, without elevators. Capital costs per trainee would be economical as
most project institutions would be used on a multi-shift basis. Costs of
site acquisition are not included in the project; where sites cannot be
donated by the community the cost will be borne by the government.
5.06      Furniture costs are estimated at 12% of the base cost of civil
works for net areas, and equipment costs are based on core lists developed by
the International Labor Organization (ILO) and modified to reflect recent
experience with similar Bank Group-financed vocational training agencies in
Latin America.
Contingency Allowances
5.07      Contingency allowances have been added to the base cost estimates
for: (a) physical factors equal to 10% of base cost estimates for civil works,
furniture, equipment, technical assistance and project administration; 15% for
professional services, preinvestment studies, community education, curriculum
development and in-service training; and 25% for site works; and (b) expected
annual price increases for civil and site works and professional services
averaging 12% in 1977-79 and 10% in 1980-81; and for furniture, equipment,
technical assistance, project administration, preinvestment studies, community
education, curriculum development and in-service training averaging 8% in
1977-79 and 7% in 1980-81. Total contingencies amount to US$5.76 million,
representing about 27% of the total project cost (Annex V-2).
Foreign Exchange Component
5.08      The foreign exchange component is estimated at about US$9.51 million,
representing some 44% of the total project cost. This has been calculated as
follows: (a) site works, professional services, project administration, pre-
investment studies, community education, curriculum development and in-service
training, 15% (b) civil works, 30%; (c) furniture, 50%; and (d) equipment and
technical assistance, 95%.
Financial Plan
5.09      Capital Costs.  The total project cost of US$21.4 million would be
financed by a Bank loan of US$15.0 million and a budgetary contribution from
the central government of US$6.4 million, as follows:



- 50 -
First Education and Vocational Training Project
Financing of Capital Costs, 1977-81
(US$'000)
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981       Total
Primary and Community
Education                     1,800   4,530   4,760   3,540       503    15,133
-  Bank Loan                  1,300   3,200   3,220   2,430       485    10,635
-  Government Contribution    500   1,330   1,540   1,110          18     4,498
Vocational Training               530   2,160   3,170       392              6,252
-  Bank Loan                    480   1,520   2,080      285       -      4,365
-  Government Contribution       50     640   1,090      107       -       1,887
Total Project Cost              2,330   6,690   7,930   3,932       503    21,385
-  Bank Loan                  1,780   4,720   5,300   2,715       485    15,000
-  Government Contribution    550   1,970   2,630   1,217          18     6,385
The government gave assurances that it will make sufficient and timely
budgetary allocations to meet the annual requirement for counterpart funds
to implement the project.
5.10      Recurrent Costs.  The recurrent costs generated by the primary and
community education component of the project will be well within the capacity
of the central government to finance, totalling US$2.6 million per year begin-
ning in 1985 when all project schools reach full enrollment capacity. These
costs (expressed in 1976 prices) are equivalent to only a 7% increase in th.-
Ministry's 1976 expenditures in the same project area for basic education and
a 10% decrease in recurrent expenditures for intermediate education (project
school locations only), and to a low 0.2% of the Ministry's total 1976 recur-
rent budget. Estimates assume a reduction in student unit costs during
1976-85 from US$87 to US$60 for basic schools and from US$143 to US$84 for
intermediate schools, due to the various internal efficiency measures to be
introduced under the project.
5.11      FOMO's recurrent costs per trainee-hour for the vocational training
component presently average US$0.53, ranging from about US$0.37 to US$0.70
among the various regional centers. For 1975 total recurrent costs were
US$219,000, financed mainly by a central government budgetary transfer and
external assistance, and supplemented by support from regional government
authorities, and informal workers' and employers' contributions. In 1981,
when project institutions are fully operational, FOMO's total recurrent costs



- 51 -
will rise to US$1,026,000 (equivalent in 1975 prices). Although this repre-
sents almost a fivefold increase, it is based on a projected reduction in
costs per trainee-hour to an average US$0.45 as a result of the improved
management efficiency and greater emphasis on in-plant and mobile training
which will be fostered through the project. Legislation has been adopted in
March 1977 to establish a one percent payroll levy on profit-oriented public
and private enterprises to secure a regular flow of revenue to finance FOMO's
recurrent costs. Furnishing to the Bank of satisfactory evidence to this
effect will be a condition of disbursement for loan funds for the vocational
training component of the project. The government gave assurances that within
nine months of enactment of the legislation it will establish an effective
system and begin collection of the levy. Finally, the government gave assur-
ances that it will take the necessary steps to make funds available in the
event of any shortfall in revenues needed to cover FOMO's operating expendi-
tures.



BOLIVIA
FIRST EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Project Coat Estimates
(US$1.00 = Sb 20.00)
Students Places                        Co1st-uction                           Pro-e-i.o.al                            Mobile  Commonity  Cucti-uice   Ic-Service  Pre-it.   TeLbtital Assietaste   Profect                  Total Cost
New  Etiotico' Acad-sic   Boardi o   Staff Hs.   Site Wilt.            Total      Pee.     Furoiture  EOutI,eP t   Units   Education  D-Beoipo-nt    to               Studies  Eieprts  Fela1-shipe         Adin..      b  BOB   USN00O
PRIMARY . CUOMENITY EDUCATION         18.792    18,432    62,827          2,625     22_662        11,115       99,220    6.542        18.051      19,460          -     12,000        16,933         3,645       2,000    9,350         13,080       18.798    219,088   19,954.4
Basic Schools                         15.948    18.432    47_82                      20.377        6,138       74.343    4_456        14.081       9,900                - -                                                                             -       102.780    5.139.0
Onuasuyoe             Zone 1           3,708      6,156    12,445           -         6,887        1,674       21,006     1,256        4,034       2,920          -         -                                                                                    29,216    1,460.8
Otnoacyot             Zone 2           1,980      1,476      5,365          -         2,414          741        8,520       511        1,425          980         -        -             -             -            -         -            -            -        11,436       571.8
nco Kapac             Zooe 3           2,340      3,024      7,489          -         2.556          968       11,013       661        2,212       1,560          -         -            -              -           -         -            -            -        15,446        772.3
LOs Aedoa             boo 4            3,276      5,256    10,697           -        5,609         1,343       17,649    1,059         3,480       2,380          -        -             -              -           -         -            -            -        24,568    1,228.4
Vi-uhs                Zone 5           4,644      2,520    11,832           -         2,911        1,412       16,155       969        2,030       2,060                    -                           -                                                        22,114    1,105.7
Intermediate _Shoola                   2.844                12_545              -       -          3.13        15 t681                 1.807      15.260          -                                          _                                                   24,055      1.202.7
Ua-iDet.                                  180        -        811           -           _            203        1,014        R5          109          335         -         -            -              -                     _ -                       -         1,543         77.1
San Pablo/So. Pedro Tt5otn-               180        -        811           -           -            203        1,014        85          109          335         -        -             -             -            -         _            _            -         1,543         77.1
Hlustajet                                 180        -        794           -           -            198          992        89          109         335          -        -             -             -            -         -            -            -         1,525         76.2
KRr-hiea                                  180        -         794          -           -            198          992        89          109          335         -        -             -              -           _         -            -            -          1,525        76.2
MilliUscs                                 216        -         982          -           -            245        1,227       102           141        455          -         -            - 5                        -         _            -            -         1,925         96.2
Ahc-cachi                                 288        -       1. 351         -                        338        1,689       142           194         570                                                                                                          2,5995      129.7
psarlai                                  288         -      1,351           _           _            338        1,689       142          194         570          -        -             -             -            -         -            -            _         2,595        129.7
Copacaba.a                                396        -      1,712           -           -            428        2,14D       179          257          715         -         -            -             -            -         -            _                       3,291       164.6
Viatha                                    648        -      2,588                       -            647        3,235       252          301        1,040         -         -            -              -           -         -            -             -         4,918       245.9
Warissts Terhbers  Colleg                426        -      2_454         2.625       2,285        1,841        9,205       779        2.163       4,30           -         -            __-                                  __                                  16.447       822.3
Curriculum De-oeet                                                                                                                                                -        _          16933                                                                       16.933       846.6
-Saresc  Tsooc                                                                                                                                                    - __i_                             3.645,___-                                                   3,645        182.3
Ca    iteutEd .dutati                                                                                                                                                   12,000                                                           _               - _      12,000       600.0
TecbhoiSl AesetaRe-                                                                                                                                                                                                         9,350       13,080 -                 22,430    1.121.5
Pro-ect Admioistration                    -          -        _             _           -            -            _         _             -           -           -        _             -              -           _         -            -         18.798       18.798       939.9
P-einoest-eot Stodyo                                                                                                                                             -                                     -         ,022        -                         -         2.000       188.8
P8993 - Vocational Traicina            1,015        180   25056                      1.272         4,876       31,204    2_252         2,462      23,600      11.140       -                                     3.840   10,450          1.90         6,555       93.483    4.674.1
La P..  tity center                      170        -       6 438                       -            966        7,404       533          655        1,000         -         _            -              -           _         -            _             -         9,592       479.6
La Paz -  El Alto centsr                  255         60    6,028           -           300        1,202        7 533       519          623       7,290          -         -            -              -           -         -            -             -        16,462       823.1
Cocbabsoba -tcenser                      240         -      5,320           -           300        1,120        6,740       485          500       6,200          -                                                                                               13,925       696.2
Sents Cru  - cet-r                       270        -       5,599           -           372        1,194        7,165       516          537       3,670          -         -            -              -           -         -            -             .        11,888       594.4
Tarija - cenet-                            60        -      1,671           -           300          394        2,365       199           147      2,680          -                                                                                                5,391       269.5
Orcro  cs ter                             -          120       -                        -            -                                    -         2,260         -         -            -              -           -         -            -             -         2,260       113.0
Mobile Ulits ./a                                     -         .            _           -            -            _         -             -           -        11.140       -            _              -           _         -            -             -        11.140       557.0
Pre-ioeotme-t Study_                                                                                                                                              -                                               3_.4S                                            3.840       192.0
Teehsical Asesietoc 2/                                                                                                   _                                                                                                 10,450        1.980           -        12.430       621.5
Project Admtniitrstioe                   -          -         -             -           -            -            _         _            -            -           -         -            _              -           _         _ --                     6.555       6,555       327.8
Base Costs                                                                                           -        130433 f     .794       20.513      43,060       11.140   12,000        16,933         3,645 52840   19,800               15,060        25.353    312.571   15.628.5
CEntioganciee - phybics lDceUec-                    -         -            _           -            -         15 442    1,317         2,2         4,3061,954 1 114                    3 636                        876 43        5,327                5 7 1068 1
price incresoe                                                       ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~           ~~~~~~           ~~        ~~~~41:728    2,141  4,63  11042707  3,636  It    483            .2                    5 8       :P ~ IQ
TOTAL COST, INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                                           187 6B3   12.252        27.237             71.574         16.507        237109 7..92                                L                                       LI  AL
FA-eignn n e  total coecn2n*7)                                                                                               (15)           0)               (92)           (15)         (13)           (15)        ((5)             (90)                1155        j44) (44)
1/  -nclodee faclitite  to be upgraded sod tbcee to be equipped end futnlsbed oyl. 
2/  Inclodes US$20,000 for the esabIlifsbenr of a coctlfiutfone and renting s-tten.
Pri-e e-tis,tod as of Janu--y 1, 1977



BOLIVIA
FIRST EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Contingency Allowances
(US$ '000)
Site                        Professionel                                   Curricslum       In-Service    Community    Pre-investment   Technical             Project
Works    Construction    Services             Furniture    Eo.ip.ent    Development    Training             Education      Studies            Assistance    Administration            TOTAL
Base Costs                     799          5.72                44o           1,025          2.710            847             182              600            292              1.743            1,268              15,628
Physical Contingencies         200            572                66              103           271            127              27               90             44                174              127               1,S01
(Percentage)                 (25)         (10)              (15)             (10)           (10)           (15)           (15)             (15)            (15)              (10)             (10)                 (12)
Base Costs Plus Physical    999            6,294                506           1,128          2,981            974             210              690             336             1,917            1,394              17,429
Contingencies
Price Contingencies             279         1,803               107              234           598            182              49              135              24               266              275               3,957
(Percentage)                 (28)         (29)              (21)             (21)           (20)           (19)           (23)             (20)             (7)              (14)              (20)                (23)
Total Contingencies             479         2,380               173              337          969             309              76              225              68               441              402               5,758
Total Proiect Cost            1.278        8,102                613           1 362          3 579          1 155             258             825             360             2_,84             1.670              21,386
Prices estimated as of January 1977



- 54 -
VI.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
6.01      The two main components of the project will be administered sepa-
rately by the respective executing agencies each reporting directly to the
Bank. Efforts will be made to foster informal coordination, as appropriate,
between the two entities during the course of project implementation.
Primary and Community Education
6.02      Project Administration.  This component will be administered by a
special project unit which has already been established within the Ministry of
Education, reporting through the Sub-secretary to the Minister. If a proposed
reorganization of the Ministry, presently under review, is adopted, the proj-
ect unit would be transferred to a new Directorate of Educational Planning,
along with all other units responsible for implementing externally financed
education programs (Annex II.3). Such an arrangement would improve the flow
of information among these programs and would be acceptable to the Bank.
The project unit includes separate divisions for administration, infrastruc-
ture and educational activities, with a total full-time permanent staff of
23 persons. A suitable director and two division chiefs have already been
appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank; the government
gave assurances that the Bank will be consulted on the appointment of the
third division chief and on any future replacement of these key project unit
staff and on the appointment of the director of the Warisata teacher training
college. The salaries of the full-time project unit staff and related opera-
tional expenses - estimated at US$939,900 net of contingencies - have been in-
cluded in the total project cost and will be reimbursed under the loan. The
costs of other staff or consultant firms contracted for fixed terms in relation
to the various educational activities (including community education, curriculum
development, in-service training and preinvestment studies) have been included
under the corresponding categories in the total project cost and will also be
reimbursed under the loan.
6.03      Professional and Technical Services.  Prototype designs for basic
school classrooms, teachers' housing and administration and storage units were
discussed and agreed during appraisal. Design of one urban intermediate school
and the teacher training college will be executed by a consultant firm already
approved by the appraisal mission, to be contracted on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. Five other intermediate schools will be designed by
consultant firm(s) to be selected in accordance with criteria agreed during
appraisal and contracted on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Design of the remaining four intermediate schools and the basic schools will
be done by professional staff of the project unit, whose costs will be reim-
bursed under the loan as professional services. With regard to furniture and
equipment, the project unit will be responsible for preparing lists and spe-
cifications and supervising international procurement in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines.
6.04      The government gave assurances that the Ministry of Education will
establish special technical committees to review all architectural designs



- 55 -
and equipment and furniture lists and specifications before submitting them
to the Bank, to certify that they meet economic and functional standards and
the costs and educational objectives of each project institution. The member-
ship of these committees and their staffing composition will be acceptable to
the Bank and they will be established within six months of loan signing and
remain in effect for the duration of project implementation.
6.05      Construction.  The basic and intermediate schools and teachers'
housing located in rural areas will be constructed by the National Community
Development Service (SNDC), with participation of local communities and super-
vised by the Ministry of Education project unit. SNDC is a semi-autonomous
agency of the Ministry of Agriculture, with broad experience in managing rural
self-help construction projects (e.g. schools, health centers, irrigation
projects, roads, bridges). The total value of works executed by SNDC averaged
US$765,000 annually during 1974-75, including about US$443,000 each year for
its largest program in school construction. Besides its headquarters in La
Paz, SNDC is organized at the regional and zonal levels, with a total technical
staff in mid-1976 of about 169. For the purpose of the proposed project, SNDC
will appoint a full-time general coordinator and expand its existing offices
in each of the project regions by the appointment of a full-time engineer and/
or architect, a construction foreman and supporting staff, who will be respon-
sible for planning, programming, community motivation and coordination for
construction, technical direction and execution of works. SNDC will keep
separate accounts for the project and will be reimbursed on the basis of works
completed. Although the value of the community's contribution will vary
according to circumstances, it will generally include unskilled labor (for
cleaning sites, excavation, foundations and construction of walls up to roof
level) and local materials (sand, rock and adobe brick). The government gave
assurances that the Ministry of Education will contract the services of SNDC
for the project on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank; the details of
this contract were discussed and agreed in principle by the appraisal mission.
All SNDC activities under the contract will be supervised and audited by the
project unit.
6.o6      Construction of the basic and intermediate schools located in
urban areas and the teacher training college will be by private contractor.
To bid for civil works on public sector projects in Bolivia, construction
firms must be registered with the Mlinistry of Public Works, Communications
and Transport and with the Bolivian Chamber of Construction. As of mid-1976,
114 firms were so registered in six categories according to their paid capital,
inventory of goods and equipment in relation to the paid capital, and avail-
able high-level technical staff. It was agreed during appraisal that only
the firms registered in the highest three categories (paid capital of at
least US$100,000) will be invited to bid for civil works under this component
of the project. CONES, a semi-autonomous agency of the Ministry of Education
with relevant experience, will be responsible for the bidding and construction
supervision of the project institutions in urban areas and the teacher train-
ing college. The total value of school works executed under CONES' respon-
sibility in 1975 was about US$2.7 million. The government gave assurances
that the Ministry of Education will contract the services of CONES on terms



- 56 -
and conditions acceptable to the Bank for the purposes of this project; the
details of this contract were discussed and agreed in principle by the
appraisal mission.
Vocational Training
6.07      Project Administration.  FOMO will be responsible for implementation
of the vocational training component of the project, through its Executive
Director, who will be assisted by a full-time architect and vocational train-
ing specialist working exclusively on the project (Annex VI-1). Suitable
professionals have already been appointed to these two positions on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank, and the government gave assurances
that the Bank will be consulted on any future replacements. Additional
support staff and facilities required to strengthen FOMO's existing structure,
for the purpose of implementation, will be provided under the project. The
salaries of the aforementioned architect, vocational training specialist and
support staff and related operating expenses - estimated at US$327,800 net of
contingencies - have been included in the total project cost and will be
reimbursed under the loan. Short-term consultants to assist in developing
FOMO's management system and in preparing equipment specifications have been
included under the technical assistance component of the loan.
6.08      Professional and Technical Services.  All architectural and related
engineering and construction supervision for vocational training centers under
the project will be by private local consulting firms, of which there are
adequate number, acceptable to the Bank and employed on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. The selection criteria were discussed and mutually
agreed during appraisal. Consulting firms will be contracted first for
preliminary design work and will be awarded contracts for final design and
construction supervision only upon satisfactory completion of the earlier
phase. Fees for these professional services will be in accordance with the
schedule set down by the Bolivian College of Architects and will be reimbursed
under the loan. With regard to furniture and equipment, FOMO will be respon-
sible for preparing lists and specifications and for supervising international
procurement in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
6.09      The government gave assurances that FOMO will establish special
technical committees to review all architectural designs and equipment and
furniture lists and specifications before submitting them to the Bank, to
certify that they meet economic and functional standards and the costs and
educational objectives of each project institution. The membership of these
committees and their staffing composition will be acceptable to the Bank and
they will be established within six months of loan signing and remain in effect
for the duration of project implementation. Six man-months equivalent of
technical assistance has been included in the project to permit FOMO the
flexibility of employing local consultants, as needed, on a short-term basis
to advise the technical committee in specialized aspects of their review work.



- 57 -
6.10      Construction.  Construction of vocational training centers will be
by private contractor. It was agreed during appraisal that only those firms
registered in the highest two categories (paid capital of at least US$200,000)
by the Ministry of Public Works, Communications and Transport and the Bolivian
Chamber of Construction (para. 6.06) will be invited to bid for the civil
works contracts under this component of the project.
Implementation Schedule
6.11      To assist in the effective and timely execution of the project, an
implementation schedule has been prepared (Annex VI-2). This schedule was
discussed during appraisal and mutually agreed upon as a project implementa-
tion and monitoring tool which should be updated monthly by FOMO and the
MIinistry of Education project unit staff.
Sites
6.12      The Ministry of Education already owns the majority of sites needed
for its component of the project. FOMO owns two of the five sites needed for
construction of the vocational training centers and is finalizing acquisition
of a third, all of which are acceptable to the Bank; no major problems are
anticipated in the selection and acquisition of the remaining two sites. The
government gave assurances that sites selected in accordance with criteria
acceptable to the Bank will be acquired as and when needed for both components
of the project to avoid delays in construction. These criteria were discussed
and agreed during appraisal.
Maintenance
6.13      For proper and effective maintenance and operation of the project
facilities, FOMO and the Ministry of Education project unit staff will each
prepare a maintenance handbook and establish appropriate procedures. The
government gave assurances that adequate budgetary allocations will be made
for the maintenance and repair of all buildings, furniture and equipment
provided under the project.
Procurement
6.14      Except for the rural and teacher housing construction through SNDC
(para. 6.05), all contracts for civil works will be awarded to foreign or
registered local bidders (paras. 6.06 and 6.10) on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally and in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank. Civil works are of small size (averaging US$60,000 for the inter-
mediate schools and US$280,000 for the vocational training centers) and
located throughout the country, and Bolivia has a competitive local con-
struction industry. Therefore, although foreign contractors will not be
precluded from participating in the bidding, it is unlikely that they will
do so or that any civil works contracts will be awarded to foreign construction
firms in the event that they do participate.



- 58 -
6.15      Contracts for furniture and equipment will be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
To the extent practicable, public and private industrial secondary and post-
secondary schools and FOMO will be encouraged to bid for production of furni-
ture for the basic education schools. However, since the Bolivian furniture
industry has inadequate capacity for the needs envisaged under the project, to
ensure timely project implementation, the government has agreed to permit
importation on equal terms to all bidders for the furniture included in the
project. Furniture and equipment which cannot be grouped into packages for
bulk procurement of at least US$50,000, not exceeding in the aggregate
US$750,000 (equivalent to about 15% of the estimated total cost of furniture
and equipment) will be procured in accordance with local procedures acceptable
to the Bank. Local manufacturers will receive a margin of preference in bid
evaluation of 15% of the c.i.f. price or the actual tariff, whichever is
lower.
Disbursements
6.16      The proposed loan of US$15.0 million, equivalent to 70% of the total
project cost of US$21.4 million, will finance the full foreign exchange compo-
nent of US$9.5 million and US$5.5 million (46%) of local currency costs. Local
cost financing is justified in Bolivia to enable the Bank to make an adequate
contribution to meeting the country's external capital requirements.  The
loan will be disbursed over a five-year period (Annex VI-3), with the project
completed by June 30, 1981. Disbursements will finance (a) an estimated 50%
of construction expenditures for the primary and community education component
and 30% for the vocational training component; (b) 100% of foreign expendi-
tures or 85% of expenditures for locally procured equipment and furniture; and
(c) 100% of expenditures for technical assistance, project administration,
preinvestment studies, curriculum development and in-service training.
Expenditures on civil works incurred by the Ministry of Education after
November 1, 1976 and before loan signing will be financed retroactively under
the proposed loan, up to a total of US$150,000 equivalent. Any surplus loan
funds will be used to finance priority items closely related to the original
project, subject to the Bank's approval, or will be cancelled.
6.17      To expedite preparation of the proposed project, the Bank agreed on
May 2, 1976, to an advance under the Project Preparation Facility (P-002 of
US$366,750) to finance mainly the establishment of a project unit, preliminary
architectural design work, elaboration of core equipment and furniture lists,
and recruitment of technical assistance. The costs of these activities have
been included in the estimated total project cost of US$21.4 million; all
expenditures under the Project Preparation Facility will be deducted from the
loan account once the loan becomes effective.



BOLIVIA
FIRST EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Administrative Structure of FOMO. 1976
I   Superior Council
I                                     rojec
Management Consulting  -_._|_Architect
I                   . ~~~Exct~i ve                           n  Vocation-
and Training Unit *                             E                                         al Training
Counselling and                              Secretariat and
Advisory Services                          Public Relations
DEPARTMENTS
~~~~~o n ~~~~~~~~~~Study anEvlainU
Administrto                                                                                          Technical
DIVISION
Personnel          Fiac                evcsMtrasEa1                                                    7 1Instrco                     Selection and
IAIirainin                                                                       Training
REGIONAL OFFICES
La Paznta Cruz                            ITarijaltohk'l
Or 
C3                  LJ    |Laia1    LzJ
* To be established
World Bank-16709



- 60 -                                                                     A-nex V1.2
FiRST IDUCATION ARID VOCAICIIOM   TA3hII  PROJECT
Iiena-etaglaa Sch^ede
Accivirles                                             1976               1977               197d               1979              1980               1981       /1
1 Seting up   pl-es.enc.t.lot Teams
A.  FOM0 O                                                                      X
R    Pn-eoy &bCosunicy0dcoion                                                  n        0 d-s
2.  Site Selection,  orSneylig, Soil Tests, Acqisitioi
A.  FOII                                      u                                 a        n  n
d   Pri-ary & C-osoniny Educonion
(L)  Ots.c Schools                                                                o         s        s         s        n         o
(ii)  Intsesedlote Schools                                                            o  o  e            x  0                  
(i)   ischect  college                                                     x        x 
3.  Edcotlonio i ond Aechi-tectoes IlcieA
A.  FOl                                                                     x  x 
d.  Orlscy & Coanonity Edocaco
(i)   stic Schoo                                                      snI
(il)  inteceediono Schnolt                                             x              x0                       
( ilii)  Teanbeor' Col lege
4.  Dligo
A.  FOMOx
S.  Pr-ocy & C ieyounc Editdosion
(i)  Bloio  Schoois                                                                         I x
il   Intetsediate  Acnb                                                           n  Y              Y
(iLi)  TeaceT t    College                                                          .  . 
S.  Civil W-gko T-odeelg
A.  FOMO                                                                                       x  x        0 
b.  Primacy & Connir   Eddcotion
(i)  Basic  &  ,on erdian-  Schools in Rgoa iArl.
Conroc nIegotisniotnith SNDC                                        0 
(ii)  'osi    & It,en.ediano Sch          I   Ura  Ae
(iii)  Teanhees' College 
6.  C-n-tectioo
A.  POW0                                                                                                   .  .  .                     
B.  Priac.iy & Cscoicy Educ1i-on
ii    ai  I--dpiedloSeAh-nisoR-eo   Areas.                                   00                 on n                 oot
(ii)   ;Bo   h Ioneoseditt Sch ools in OrSuon leas                                                   n  o  n  o         a       xx
(iii)  Teache-s' Collego                                                                                  n r
7.  Frninre Listing, Spec-ifittio..  & Teode-ing
A.  F08O                                                                                .  .  .  .
S.  Primary & C-ossnity Educotior
Ii)  dAoio   & loreo,sdiocr Schoolo in Rural A-es                        0        0
(ii)   Yais    & In-tenedioti Sohoolt in Arhgn Ares                                                  n  n
(iii)  Teachers' College                                                            i     i
a. Furniture 00entact00c, DeliveTy A Ineta ialoio
A.  Fo0lO                                                                                     .Y0              .0             .  .  I  I
S.  Priary & Cnn-unity Edacacn-
1i)  Basic    & Interediate Snbnola In Aural Arai                                                                                                  
(ii)  logic    &  nermediote Schos in Ub   Area                                                                n               n  o.
iiii)  Teah-ers  Colleie                                                                                  . oo  B
9.  EOqpiant Linnic.g  Speci-ica.iots & T.ederiog
A. FOH0
(i)  Vocanionol Cenatcs & Heodq-artern
(ii)   nSbile Unins
o.  Primary & C-osonity Education
(ii  Boolo   A Intermediate Schools in Rucel Arros                       n         c      u            m                     s
(ii)  BasIc   & Inoestdiene Shl sIt Urb   Areas                                                      g  I  .
(iii)  Teachers' College
10.  Eqoipeeno tOoufanrure   Delinary &   snallanhon
A. FOhO
li)  O carions1 Ceetec  A iisdqu-re-.                                                        
111)  Mobile Uoit                                                                                    5 h
E   Primary & Cunity Edic.ono-
(i)  losic   & Ilntes-diant Sihonia it l-cal Arras
(ii)  Oa5ic   & Iotensedins. Schools ie Urban Arrs- -                                                         x
(iii)  Teanbern' Collegexxxx                                                                                             xx        x
11. Technical Ae-isto-ce
B.  Prlrory & C-eoity Ed-cation                                                x            n x   n        e  o x    n x         o  o  o         n
12. Other Co.sponento
A.010
(i)  Preu--ss nt St.dias                                                         .  .  I  .         s
B.  Primary & Co-snt, Ed-oarion
(i)  C-rrious | Daleelop-et
(ii)  StEff Traiting                                                                     n  e        o  o  o  s         s  s  A  s           x s  s  a        n
(iii)  C=oamity Ednratio-                                                           o  n      a           x  x  x 0      0  0  0            x 0  a  a  a       0
(io)  Prey- enerent gtudies                                                        t  o  o  a         5  t  C  K
i/ Calendar yrors.t



- 61 -
BOLIVIA                               Annex VI.3
FIRST EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$'000)
Accumulated          Undisbursed
Fiscal Year    Semester           Disbursements          Disbursements         Balance 1/
1977             1                     -                      -                 15,000
2                   440                    440                 14,560
1978             1                 1,340                  1,780                 13,220
2                 2,100                  3,880                 11,120
1979             1                 2,620                  6,500                  8,500
2                 2,800                  9,300                  5,700
1980             1                 2,500                 11,800                  3,200
2                 1,400                 13,200                  1,800
1981             1                 1,315                 14,515                    485
2                   400                 14,915                     85
1982             1                     85                15,000
1   At end of each semester.



- 62 -
VII. BENEFITS, RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES, EVALUATION
Benefits
7.01      The proposed project will assist the Government in developing a
cost effective primary and related teacher training and community education
project, which will incorporate various innovative features (from both the
qualitative/educational and organizational/efficiency standpoints) which,
if successful, will later be expanded on a national scale. These include
inter alia bilingual education, the use of radio in support of language in-
struction and in-service teacher training, expansion of accelerated programs
for over-age students, shifting of school calendars in accordance with agri-
cultural cycles, and extensive use of multigrade teaching techniques. The
project will also help to redress imbalances in educational opportunities in
the altiplano area of the La Paz Department by providing new basic school
places for 6,900 students, replacing, extending and upgrading places for an
additional 21,850 students, and furnishing and equipping school places for
all 37,820 children in the project area. In addition, 4,588 intermediate
and 426 teacher training students would be accommodated in facilities to be
replaced and extended under the project. A new pre-service teacher training
program would be developed at the Warisata Teacher Training College, and in-
service training would be provided to all 1,200 teachers and 100 school super-
visors and directors of project institutions. Finally, the project will aim
by 1985 to increase primary student:teacher ratios to 35/1 from the 19/1 now
prevailing in the project area, increase retention rates to 70% and reduce
overage students from 40% to 20% of total enrollments. It is estimated that
these improvements could reduce recurrent costs per student by as much as
30%.
7.02      With regard to the vocational training component of the project, the
capacity of FOMO would be extended seven-fold to meet urgent requirements for
training manpower at the managerial, skilled, and semi-skilled levels, besides
expanding the urban-based industrial training programs of FOMO, new activities
in the rural and mining sectors would be developed. In addition, the quality
of FOMO's training would be upgraded through the modernization of its course
design, instructional techniques and learning materials production. The in-
troduction of trade tests and the certification system would lay the basis
for creating wage differentials among skilled workers and thereby leading to
a better earnings profile over time. In the absence of reliable wage data, no
attempt has been made to assess the rate of return for the project.
Risks, Uncertainties and Evaluation
7.03      There are no major risks of a technical nature for the proposed
project. With respect to the primary and community education program, various
of the educational and organizational measures are by definition experimental
and therefore the extent to which they will meet stated objectives can only
be evaluated as they are implemented within the project area. With this in



- 63 -
mind, a strong evaluation team and adequate financing have been built into
the project unit and assurances have been obtained that evaluation reports
would be prepared annually for review with the Bank during 1977-81 (para 4.19).
Assurances were also obtained from the Government that it would cause both the
Ministry of Education and FOMO to send to the Bank for review within three
months of the closing of the loan account a report providing a preliminary
assessment of the project, its results and experience gained during implemen-
tation (paras 4.19 and 4.33).



- 64 -
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMIM1ENDATION
8.01      During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it will:
(i) submit to the Bank for comment within six months of
loan signing plans for revising school calendars in
accordance with agricultural cycles prevailing in the
project area and for the expansion of the existing
national accelerated basic education program to ser-
vice over-age children in the project area; and begin
to implement these two plans in calendar year 1978
(para. 4.07);
(ii) give preference in admission to the Warisata Rural
Teacher Training College to candidates with a working
knowledge of both Aymara and Spanish; and make
efforts to increase recruitment of competent women
students and staff to Warisata (para. 4.10);
(iii) systematically review and adjust the output of the
national basic teacher training system to reflect
demand for teachers on the basis of more efficient
student:teacher ratios and teacher workloads (para
4.10);
(iv) begin to introduce the experimental curricula and
learning/teaching materials in a sample group of project
institutions (including the basic and intermediate schools
and Warisata Rural Teacher Training College) during
the academic year 1979, after review with the Bank
(para. 4.11);
(v) introduce the bilingual radio education programs in
the 1978 academic year (para. 4.12);
(vi) prepare within six months of loan signing a satis-
factory program for in-service staff training and update
it as needed (para. 4.13);
(vii)  use its best efforts to contract the community radio
education program to a satisfactory local radio station
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 4.14);
(viii)  make available to the Bank within eighteen months of loan
signing the report and recommendations of the preinvest-
ment study on the education and training needs of the
migrant population of La Paz City (para. 4.15);



- 65 -
(ix) make sufficient and timely budgetary allocations to
meet the annual requirements for counterpart funds to
implement the project (para. 5.09);
(x) take the necessary steps to make funds available in
the event of any shortfall in revenues needed by
FOMO to cover its recurrent costs (para. 5.11);
(xi) consult the Bank on any replacement of the project
director or the project division chiefs for adminis-
tration, infrastructure and educational activities;
and on the appointment of the director of the
Warisata Rural Teacher Training College (para. 6.02);
(xii)  contract the services of the National Community
Development Service (SNDC) for construction of the
project institutions in rural areas on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 6.05);
(xiii) contract the services of the National School Building
Council (CONES) to supervise the bidding and construc-
tion supervision of project institutions in urban
areas and the Warisata Rural Teacher Training College
(para. 6.06);
(xiv)  issue import permits on equal terms to all bidders for
the furniture included in the project (para. 6.14); and
(xv) establish within nine months of enactment of the pay-
roll levy an effective system and begin collection
of the payroll levy (para. 5.11).
8.02      During negotiations the National Manpower Development Service (FOMO)
gave assurances that it will:
(xvi)  establish an in-plant training unit within two years
of loan signing (para. 4.24);
(xvii) introduce the use of occupational analysis, trade
testing and certification, and modular instruction
techniques in courses for the mining sector, within
one year of loan signing (para. 4.25);
(xviii) introduce the use of training materials designed pri-
marily for illiterate workers within two years of
loan signing (para. 4.27);
(xix)  establish a guidance and placement service within one
year of loan signing (para. 4.28);



- 66 -
(xx) establish a management consulting and training unit
within two years of loan signing (para. 4.29);
(xxi) make available to the Bank within eighteen months of
loan signing the results of the preinvestment study
on employment possibilities and education and training
needs in the highland mining areas (para. 4.31); and
(xxii) consult the Bank on any replacement of FOMO's Executive
Director, project architect and vocational training
specialist (para. 6.07).
8.03      During negotiations the Government and FOMO gave assurances that
they will:
(xxiii)  employ specialists on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank, provide suitable counterparts for the special-
ists, and select and place fellowship recipients in con-
sultation with the Bank (paras. 4.18 and 4.32);
(xxiv)  prepare annual evaluation reports, monitoring and
assessing the qualitative and quantitative impact of
the project, for review with the Bank during 1977-81
(para. 4.19);
(xxv) establish special technical committees to review all
architectural designs and equipment and furniture
lists and specifications before submitting them to
the Bank and certify that they meet economic and
functional standards and the costs and educational
objectives of each project institution (paras. 6.04
and 6.09);
(xxvi)  provide adequate budgetary allocations for the main-
tenance and repair of all buildings, furniture and
equipment provided under the project (para. 6.13);
(xxvii)  select sites in accordance with criteria agreed with
the Bank and acquire them as and when necessary to
avoid delays in construction (para. 6.12); and
(xxviii)  prepare and send to the Bank a report providing a
preliminary assessment of the project, its results
and experience gained during implementation within
three months of the closing date of the loan
account (paras. 4.19 and 4.33).
8.04      There will be no special conditions of effectiveness of the loan.
However, the following will be conditions of disbursement: (a) for the
primary and community education component of the project, furnishing to the Bank



- 67 -
satisfactory legal evidence of the merger of the rural and urban education
subsystems within the five project zones (para. 4.07); (b) for the vocational
training component of the project, furnishing to the Bank of satisfactory
legal evidence of the enactment of the one percent levy (para. 5.11); and (c)
for procurement of the equipment and vehicles for FOMO's mobile training
program, submission to the Bank of an acceptable training program for the
mining and rural sectors (para. 4.23).
8.05      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the project consti-
tutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$15.0 million to the Republic of
Bolivia for a term of 20 years including a 4.5 year period of grace.



- 68 -
IX.   RELATED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
A.   Education and Vocational Training - Background Papers
1.   Ministerio de Educacion y Cultura, Diagnostico Integral de la
Educacion Boliviana, July 1973.
2.   Ministerio de Educacion y Cultura, Diagnostico Global de la
Educacion Boliviana, April 1974.
3.   Ministerio de Educacion y Cultura, Diagnostico de la Educacion
Boliviana, July 1975.
4.   Ministerio de Coordinacion y Planificacion, Plan Quinguenal de
Desarrollo (1976-80), "Recursos Humanos: Resumen".
5.   UNESCO, BOLIVIA - Education:  An Essential Input for Socio-Economic
Balance, November 1975 (Report No. 34).
6.   Comision Episcopal, Vision Quantitativa de la Educacion Privada
en Bolivia, 1970-74.
7.   L. Jallade, Educational Finance in Bolivia, Septemoer 1976.
8.   Ohio State University, National Plan for Human Resource
Development 1969-80, 1967.
9.   PREALC, Empleo y Recursos Humanos en Bolivia, 1975.
10.   Comite de Obras Publicas, Estudio de Mano de Obra en el Departamento
de Santa Cruz, 1975.
11.   FOMO, Un Sistema de Formacion Profesional para Bolivia, 1976.
B.   Project Preparation/Appraisal Documents
12.   Ministerio de Educacion y Cultura, Proyecto Educativo (Vol. 1 y II),
February 1976.
13.   Ministerio de Educacion y Cultura, Proyecto Educativo Integrado del
Altiplano, (Vol. I y II), September 1976.
14.   R. Burke, Radio Broadcasting in the Bolivian Educational Reform
Program, October 1976.
15.   FOMO, Proyecto de Financiamiento de FOMO (Vol. I y II), December 1976.
16.   IBRD, Bolivia - First Education and Vocational Training Project,
Working Papers, March 1977.
March 30, 1977



Pa7C Iflc   O  eon,
0S                                      1~ r   X+>y-  0    ,:  7   ,f
JO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Scr (                          S .                        K 
0 t / ', . - : '
'-  ;:- oO  ..................... - t
X7b Z g~~~~~~~
A:''t,                r4X  g,'  '"                      '     
_ _ _ _ _ _      _ _ _ _ _  _ _    _   _ __     _ ,_ '_ _._ _ _  _ _






s\                                          N~~~
Xp A  N D  ,,, .
3~~~~~~~
I  X                          ,, ----)''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /AN    '                          u~~~~~N 
X p : . R  t'I                                             D____E____-____=______
V E]v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<                                                                    Aen bea Ne
i: ,| Dr                                                                                         J ~
f-o W~' 9                   re, P. A  L       0D  E     
-   +' -    .,                                                                      ;=    :iX- < f  VOA TOALTAINGPOEC
4)~~~~~~~~~~~~4
EU
.~~~ ~~      I0 =,3 2=,                                                                                           4'5  .4 ,     /  U bQ
f3.~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~BOLIVIA 
a_                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~FIRST EDUCATION AND
)                                      ~~~~~~~~VOCATIONAL TRAINIG PROJECT
-A; S;  ;    ;: =0: fa<J   ,   ~              XYof                  PRIMARr & COMMUNITY EDUCATION COM'ONEN\TS
-          -=  0    %-= i  e- /v. L t tS<  u  (   _  S    $  ---  ProIect Are- Boundary
[-  == ===;~~~~~ ' === 0   ;~~~~= i,i    ;   WPOvt'<   /    A  ~ ~ ~~ ltr mea3e SchocI                             j
= X.:     Pelc            I                                                     /  P \ Regianal Ioner w thix Projecr Arec
3 '  -                       \3 3             -     M c,r~~~~~~~- d   R . .d ,
$= ===   ;,   i .)< gilr flo~~                            ~      ~       ~ _,/  (  Seaondarr Roads            |       - 
RoOLaGAL                                                           T--1Tai
: ' '-  - =  ==<PE3EZW -q 33  ,,                                                        Eci   * lroods                  ' 
0; r ,;p > J % /;J 2 > ~~~~~-                                          -      Frovoncial Boandaries         N
= .CHUMA                               - -                 -    -B- Deparmer     - Boandaries
39L; 9           A                       -<      .           HAnne            33<            hr ~Perna ooral Baarrdar,eo
4      i'-          CCT 0\                                                  -  -   J'' ' a 
-S 3<         ~         k ,  kEc   om / /     3  2^  40  V00  o  1o
rD  :  X;  oo n o,  sSORATA                  fCarrr300  /                          < LOC-TTERS
iV MI;UJATk4>  ACHACACHI
' 1 r :  I w; Kj  SPACAPTA Y A                                COROIC0               
1-~~~~~~~~~~~~ s                                                                                                                  o 
4   2E& ~  ~     ~    ~    )    )ad                                                             _________6___________=
Vo ~~~~~~.PUCRA                                       NILM-r 
9    9 ~~~~~~~~~~00                          LA PAZ         -                                en       -
VT;k ~ ~ ~                             -~                                                          V 
V9 X ~~OG~O0 
7                  33~~~~~~~~~~fAR5T
~~arrego   ~ ~ ~ ~ RCOROC~ -                                         0-33rN
I 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-ot  03aaU
0  R  U  R  0                                     rA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0rcoao
//  Coaboera                                                      30033333~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
68    e3e                 3 



