CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1404 BO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Education and Vocational Training Project)
betwe-7
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SERVICIO NACIONAL DE FORMACION
DE MANO DE OBRA (FOMO)
Dated May 11, 1977


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 11, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank) and
SERVICIO NACIONAL DE FORMACION DE MANO DE OBRA (hereinafter
called FOMO).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Republic of Bolivia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank,
the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to fifteen million dollars
($15,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that FOMO agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS FOMO, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part B of the Project
Section 2.01. FOMO shall carry out Part B of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and educational practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist FOMO in the execution of
Part B of the Project, FOMO shall: (i) employ education specialists
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) promptly
provide suitable staff counterparts to work with such specialists.
(b) FOMO shall establish, not later than six months after the
date of this Agreement or such later date as the Bank shall
agree, and maintain during the execution of Part B of the Project,
special technical committees to review all architectural designs
and equipment and furniture lists and specifications for Part B of
the Project before their presentation to the Bank and to certify
that such designs, lists and specifications meet economic and
functional standards and the cost and educational objectives of
each institution included in Part B of the Project.


﻿-4-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) FOMO undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the ptoceeds of the Loan made available to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by FOMO to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, FOMO shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for
Part B of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) FOMO shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
Part B of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.


﻿- 5 -
(b) FOMO: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of Part B of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan made available to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the
use thereof in Part B of the Project; (ii) shall, without
limitation upon fhe provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section,
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in Part B of the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part B
of the Project, the exp,nditure of the proceeds of the Loan so made
available to it and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) FOMO shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment
of FOMO and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. (a) FOMO shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part B
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.


﻿- 6 -
(b) FOMO shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress
of Part B of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan, or the performance by FOMO of its obligations
under this Agreement.
Sectin 2.07. FOMO shall select the recipients of the
fellowships provided under Part B.4 of the Project and
determine the place of their training in consultation with
the Bank.
Section 2.08. FOMO shall establish, not later than
twenty-four months after the date of this Agreement or such later
date as the Bank shall agree, an in-plant training unit to help
enterprises diagnose training needs and carry out on-the-job
training programs for employees requiring skill upgrading.
Section 2.09. FOMO shall begin to introduce, not later than
twelve months after the date of this Agreement, the use of
occupational analysis and modular instruction techniques in its
courses for the mining sector and of a system of trade testing
and certification in such sector.
Section 2.10. FOMO shall begin to introduce, not later than
twenty-four months after the date of this Agreement, training
materials relying on audio-visual aids designed for illiterate
workers.


﻿- 7 -
Section 2.11. FOMO shall establish, not later than twelve
months after the date of this Agreement or such later date
as the Bank shall agree, a guidance and placement service and
ensure close cooperation of such service with the employment
services of the Borrower.
Section 2.12. FOMO shall establish, not later than
twenty-four months after the date of this Agreement or such later
date as the Bank shall agree, a management consulting and training
unit for the purpose of raising productivity of enterprises
in urban and rural sectors through management training,
consultancy, organization of local research, establishment of an
information service and in-plant career development schemes.
Section 2.13. FOMO shall make available to the Bank, not
later than eighteen months after the date of this Agreement or
such later date as the Bank shall agree, the report and
recommendations of the preinvestment study to be executed under
Part B.3 of the Project.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of FOMO
Section 3.01. FOMO shall at all times maintain its corporate
existence and right to carry on its operations, and shall take
all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges, concessions and franchises which are necessary
or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 3.02. FOMO shall operate and maintain its institutions,
equipment and property, and from time to time make all necessary
renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with appropriate
engineering and educational practices.
Section 3.03. FOMO shall at all times carry on its operations,
manage its affairs, maintain its financial position, and plan the
future expansion of its educational institutions, all in accordance
with appropriate business, financial and educational practices
and under the supervision of experienced and competent management
assisted by adequate competent staff.
Section 3.04. FOMO shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿- 9 -
Section 3.05. FOMO shall afford the Bank a reasonable
opportunity for consultations before making any replacement in the
following positions: (1) Director Ejecutivo, (2) Project Architect
and (3) Project Vocational Training Specialist.
Section 3.06. FOMO shall, during the calendar years 1977
through 1981, prepare, for review with the Bank, annual evaluation
reports monitoring and assessing the qualitative and quantitative
impact of Part B of the Project.
Section 3.07. FOMO shall furnish to the Bank, not later than
three months after the Closing Date or such other later date as
the Bank shall agree, a report providing a preliminary assessment
of Part B of the Project, the results achieved by it and the
experience gained during its execution.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. FOMO shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. FOMO shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related-statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of FOMO and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of FOMO thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For FOMO:
Servicio Nacional de Formaci6n
de Mano de Obra
Casilla 288
La Paz, Bolivia


﻿- 13 -
Cable address:
FOMO
Avenida Arce 2180
La Paz
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of FOMO may be taken or executed by its
Director Ejecutivo or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing.
Section 6.03. FOMO shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of FOMO, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by FOMO pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 14 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gunter K. Wiese
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SERVICIO NACIONAL DE FORMACION
DE MANO DE OBRA (FOMO)
By /s/ Juan L. Cariaga
Authorized Representative


