Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.34820:  
Project Name 
Pernambuco Rural Poverty Reduction Project 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P050880 
Borrower(s) 
STATE OF PERNAMBUCO 
Implementing Agency 
UNITEC/State Secretariat of Social Development 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[X] S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
December 15, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
December 19, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
February 2006 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
The Original Project of US$40.0 million, with Bank financing in the amount of US$30.1 million, 
became effective in January 2002. Objectives under the Original Project are four-fold:  (1) 
improving well-being and incomes of the rural poor through greater access to basic social and 
economic infrastructure and services and support for productive activities, using proven 
community-driven development (CDD) techniques; (2) increasing the social capital of rural 
communities and capacity to  organize collectively to meet their own needs; (3) enhancing local 
governance by greater citizen participation and transparency in decision-making, through 
creation and strengthening of community associations and Municipal Councils; and (4) fostering 
closer integration of development policies, programs and projects in rural areas at the local level, 
by assisting Municipal Councils to extend their role in seeking funding from, setting priorities 
for and making decisions concerning the allocation of resources from other programs outside the 
Bank-supported project.  As confirmed through Bank supervision, the Ongoing Project has thus 
far reached 258,000 people through 1,670 community subprojects.  
The Northeast Rural 
Poverty Reduction Project (RPRP) 
–
of which the Project in Pernambuco forms part 
–
was also presented at the 2004 Shanghai Conference as a best practice experience 
in poverty reduction.
1
Reasons for the proposed Additional Financing
:
Consistent with other operations under the 
RPRP, the Federal Government approved borrowing by the State of Pernambuco and also 
indicated its willingness to support subsequent financing of a future scaling up, provided project 
performance would be satisfactory.  Pernambuco initially borrowed US$30.1 million for the 
Ongoing Project.  Recent Bank supervision confirms satisfactory performance.  Project 
implementation has accelerated since its mid-term review, all funds under the ongoing loan are 
1
The RPRP is a CDD program consisting of a set of individual state-level loans (either under supervision or in 
processing) totaling US$414 m. to all NE states.  These projects share similar characteristics in terms of design, 
participatory mechanisms and implementation arrangements.   
Page  2
fully committed and the Ongoing Project now has a large backlog of analyzed and approved 
community investments for which rural communities now await the availability of funding for 
their implementation.  As such and in order to match its demonstrated absorptive capacity, the 
State of Pernambuco has requested that the Bank proceed with the scaling up.  The Federal 
government is prepared to guarantee Additional Financing for project scaling up in an amount up 
to that of the ongoing loan of US$30.1 million. Given both the existing community investment 
demand and that expected to occur under the proposed scaling up, the State of Pernambuco 
wishes to proceed with Additional Financing of US$30.0 million.   
 
In strategic terms, this financing would continue the Bank’s assistance to the State of 
Pernambuco and contribute directly to the State’s ability to achieve its Multi-Year Investment 
Program (PPA, 2004-2007).  Indeed, the State’s PPA assumes the continuation of Bank support, 
seeks further improvement in the HDI and prioritizes economically fragile regions and 
municipalities with lowest HDI.  Under the Ongoing Project, the State has been working with the 
Bank to train the Municipal Councils in accessing the resources of other, non-project rural 
programs on behalf of their member community associations, which is having the effect of 
strengthening the coordination and effectiveness of those same programs through their exposure 
to the Councils’ participatory mechanisms for priority-setting, decision-making and targeting.  
Therefore, scaling up would involve not only the Additional Financing from the Bank but also 
the resources mobilized from other Federal and State programs, thus increasing the overall 
impact in the rural Northeast.
 
2. Proposed 
objectives 
 
Consistent with the Original Project, the proposed Additional Financing would support the 
scaling-up of the Rural Poverty Reduction Project in Pernambuco to (1) improve well-being and 
incomes of the rural poor through greater access to basic social and economic infrastructure and 
services and support for productive activities, using proven community-driven development 
(CDD) techniques; (2) increase the social capital of rural communities and capacity to  organize 
collectively to meet their own needs; (3) enhance local governance by greater citizen 
participation and transparency in decision-making, through creation and strengthening of 
community associations and Municipal Councils; and (4) foster closer integration of 
development policies, programs and projects in rural areas at the local level, by assisting 
Municipal Councils to extend their role in seeking funding from, setting priorities for and 
making decisions concerning the allocation of resources from other programs outside the Bank-
supported project. 
2.  Preliminary description for the Additional Financing 
As under the Original Project, the Additional Financing will support the following three 
components:   
(1) 
Community Subprojects 
will provide matching grants to community associations to 
finance their implementation of about 1,100 small-scale socio-economic infrastructure, 
education, health, culture, productive, environmental and other investments; 
Page  3
(2)
 Institutional Development
 will support technical assistance and training to mobilize 
and strengthen community associations in their role of identifying, preparing, operating 
and maintaining subproject investments; and  
(3) 
Project Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
 will support, 
inter alia
,
the costs (excluding salaries) of State Technical Unit (STU), the monitoring of 
project implementation and subsequent impact evaluation. 
The implementation arrangements for the proposed activities under the Additional Financing will 
be the same as those for the Ongoing Project.  Overall project management will continue to be 
the responsibility of the State Technical Unit (UNITEC) within the State Secretariat for Social 
Development and project implementation would continue to be governed by procedures defined 
in its Operational Manual.   Community associations, as under the ongoing project, will identify, 
prepare, implement, supervise, operate and maintain their subproject investments, assisted both 
by technical specialists (whom they contract directly) and by technical assistance and training 
(made available by the project Municipal Councils and the State Technical Unit). As the key 
organization for targeting benefits and allocating subproject resources, the project Municipal 
Councils provide a critical link to local government and have the potential to engage in other, 
complementary, non-project activities, as has been evolving under the Ongoing Project. 
 
3.  Safeguard policies that might apply to the proposed Additional Financing: 
The Ongoing Project is already covered by an Environmental Management Plan (under 
OP
/
BP
4.01) and an Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework (under 
OP 4.10
).  The procedures for both 
are detailed in the Project Operational Manual and have been applied systematically and 
routinely under the Ongoing Project, with satisfactory results.  The Project Operational Manual 
also details the procedures for addressing Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04), Pest Management (OP 
4.09) and Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11). 
 
4. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 9.00 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
30.00 
COMMUNITY ASSOCIATIONS 
1.00 
 Total 
40.00 
 
5. Contact point 
Contact: Luis O. Coirolo 
Title: Sector Lead Specialist, Rural Development 
Tel: (202) 473-1820 
Fax: (202) 522-3132 
Email: Lcoirolo@worldbank.org 
Location: Recife, Brazil (IBRD)
Page  4
