Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
ADDITIONAL FINANCING 
Report No.:  
34825
………. 
 
Date ISDS Updated: December 15, 2005 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Brazil 
Project ID: P050880 
Project Name:  Pernambuco Rural Poverty 
Reduction Project   
Task Team Leader: Luis O. Coirolo 
Estimated Appraisal Date for Additional 
Financing:  December 19, 2005 
Estimated Board Date: February 2006 
Managing Unit: LCSER 
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment 
Loan (SIL) 
Sector: General Ag (100%) 
Theme:  Participation and civic 
engagement; rural services and 
infrastructure; municipal governance and 
institution building. 
Safeguard Policies Specialists in the task team:   
Normando Carvalho Oliveira da Silva (Environment); 
Alberto Coelho Costa (Social)
 
Loan amount ($m.):  
IBRD:  30.0 m. 
B.  Project Objectives 
The proposed Additional Financing would support the continuation of the Rural Poverty 
Reduction Project in Pernambuco to (1) improve well-being and incomes of the rural 
poor through greater access to basic social and economic infrastructure and services and 
support for productive activities, using proven community-driven development (CDD) 
techniques; (2) increase the social capital of rural communities and capacity to  organize 
collectively to meet their own needs; (3) enhance local governance by greater citizen 
participation and transparency in decision-making, through creation and strengthening of 
community associations and municipal councils; and (4) foster closer integration of 
development policies, programs and projects in rural areas at the local level, by assisting 
the project’s participatory municipal councils to extend their role in seeking funding 
from, setting priorities for and making decisions concerning the allocation of resources 
from other programs beyond the Bank-supported project. 
Page  2
C.  Project Description 
As under the Original Project, the Additional Financing will support the following three 
components:   
(1) 
Community Subprojects 
will provide matching grants to community associations to 
finance their implementation of about 1,100 small-scale socio-economic infrastructure, 
education, health, culture, productive, environmental and other investments; 
(2)
 Institutional Development
 will support technical assistance and training to mobilize 
and strengthen community associations in their role of identifying, preparing, operating 
and maintaining subproject investments; and  
(3) 
Project Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
 will support, 
inter alia
,
the costs (excluding salaries) of State Technical Unit (STU), the monitoring of 
project implementation and subsequent impact evaluation.  
Supervision ratings for the Ongoing Project have consistently been fully satisfactory, 
both for Development Objectives and Implementation Progress.  The latest supervision 
mission (September 2005) showed the Pernambuco project reaching some 258,000 
people with 1,670 subproject investments in basic socio-economic and productive 
infrastructure. 
D.  Project location  
 
The project area remains the same as under the Original Project and will cover some 179 
municipalities throughout the state. 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies 
 
The State Technical Unit (STU) for the Ongoing Project 
–
UNITEC– has complied fully 
with Bank safeguard and project environmental rules.  The Ongoing Project operates 
under an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and an Indigenous Peoples’ Planning 
Framework (IPPF), which have worked well and will continue under the proposed 
Additional Financing.   
 
II. SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
 
Applicable?
Safeguard Policy 
If Applicable, How Might It Apply? 
[X] 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01)   
 
The ongoing Pernambuco Rural Poverty Reduction Project (classified as 
Category B)
,
applies several environmental "screens" during the technical 
assessment of subproject proposals, and is currently operating an EMP, 
which is functioning satisfactorily.  
 
Page  3
Specifically, the EMP: (a) ensures that the Project is fully compliant with 
relevant State and Federal environmental legislation and Bank Safeguards; 
(b) further consolidates the integration of environmental standards in 
subprojects financed under the Project; (c) fosters a convergence between 
rural poverty reduction and the conservation and adequate valuation of the 
environment; and (d) links environmental conservation and protection 
activities with investments that contribute to an increase in the HDI, 
consistent with 
Pernambuco’s medium-term investment program (PPA), 
2004-2007). 
 
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples
(
OP 4.10
)
For Pernambuco, The Atlas of Indigenous Lands of the Northeast 
identifies eight ethnic groupings - Atikum, Fulni-ô, Kambiuwá, Kapinawá, 
Pankararu, Truká, Tuxa e Xucuru.  Estimates by other institutions 
including the Indigenous Missionary Council (CIMI) and the Socio-
Environmental Institute (ISA) range up to 14 ethnic groupings - adding 
Pankará, Pankaru, Pipipan, Arara, Kaapor and Tumbalala. 
An Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework (IPPF) is in place for the 
Ongoing Project to promote the social inclusion of indigenous 
communities while respecting their cultural identities.  The IPPF—which 
was updated during the preparation of the proposed Additional Financing 
–
will seek to expand Project assistance to indigenous communities 
through coordinated actions with other governmental and non-
governmental agencies also working in the project area. 
 
The Project Operational Manual already defines the guidelines and 
specific procedures for engaging rural communities in project activities, 
both indigenous and non-indigenous.  Building on techniques already 
developed under the Ongoing Project, organized efforts will continue to 
bring these groups into the project through culturally appropriate 
communications and outreach campaigns developed in collaboration with 
indigenous entities/local leaders and designed to help indigenous 
groups/communities understand project objectives and procedures.  This 
will be complemented by a training and capacity-building program 
developed in collaboration with associated/relevant NGOs and institutions 
in the region. Prior to continued processing of the proposed Additional 
Financing, the IPPF would be disclosed locally (through the STU) in an 
appropriate manner, form and language for those indigenous peoples that 
would potentially participate in the project. 
 
[X]
 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
As discussed in the EMP and further detailed in the Project Operational 
Manual, n
either the St
ate, nor the Bank, through the P
roject, will approve 
Page  4
subprojects which cause degradation to essential natural habitats. 
[X]
 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
The EMP already defines a process, including screening criteria in the 
Project Operational Manual, for detecting the potential use of pesticides 
under both the Ongoing Project and the proposed Additional Financing. 
Where appropriate, the Project already promotes integrated pest 
management approaches under subproject investments.   
[X]
 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11) 
In the event of 
“chance finds”, the Project Operational Manual already 
outlines procedures to be followed in the event of such discovery of 
culturally significant materials during subproject implementation.   
Environmental Assessment Category:
 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
III. APPROVALS 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Luis O. Coirolo 
Date 
Approved by:
 
Sector Manager: 
Mark Cackler 
Date 
Comments 
